CITROEN C3 PICASSO£12,595MILES PER GALLON: 58.9CO2PER KM: 128 GRAMSGOOD FOR: FAMILY GUYSBAD FOR: FAMILY FEUDSAccording to a Dutch internet supplier of dodgy-sounding drugs, "Every man would straight away give up his brain for more bigness!" Thanks for nothing guys! When I failed to snap up their "guaranteed" offer, they tried a more direct approach: "Martin, If you'd have a larger size your life would be much happier!" Clearly, they know too much.Of course they're selling rubbish, but if they'd been pushing Citroën's new C3 Picasso they'd be bang on the money. The C3 – nicknamed the "Spacebox" – has plenty of "bigness". In fact, it is officially the biggest small car on the road as it has the highest ratio of internal-space to external-size of any vehicle in its class.Indeed, the C3 is a bit of an all-round swot. It boasts half a dozen gold awards. It has the largest boot in its segment, and one of the deepest (it can take loads of up to 2.4m in length). Its huge, three-part panoramic windscreen, tall windows and split A-pillars mean it has more glass than any of its competitors (almost 5sqm). If you then also splash out on a C3 with the full glass-roof option, you'll start to feel like a tomato at the wheel of a motorised greenhouse.Then there is its award for best "angle of vision for the driver" (86.8° apparently) and the double win of "most amount of elbow room" in both the frontandthe back. The angle of vision has clear implications for safety and road awareness, the latter means the number of backseat "Arrrrgh! He's leaning on me" spats will be halved. Yes, it is  a minor award, but it will have a major impact on your peace of mind.Citroën now makes one in every four MPVs on the road, and the giant French manufacturer claims that the popularity of its cars is due to their intimate knowledge of what MPV drivers want and need – space, ease of use, good visibility and safety. The C3, therefore, is big, uncomplicated, clear and not dangerous. Sounds so simple when it's put like that, doesn't it? Citroën's customers are also "environmentally considerate" and "not afraid to be different, but they don't want to be weird".The C3 isn't weird, but it is certainly different. From the outside it has a cube-like body, and at first I couldn't make up my mind whether it was a triumph of function over form, or a bit of a dog's dinner. However, its load-swallowing ability, nimble handling and the fact that it's as easy to park as a bicycle soon won me over. When I realised they've also added a built-in air freshener, detachable torch, non-slip storage areas and a back-seat surveillance mirror, resistance was futile…The bold bumper design and high-set lights give it an impish look, which suits its nature, and it's the first Citroën to feature the marque's new "nose". (It's not only celebrities who get new noses these days…)The C3 is available with a choice of two petrol engines, co-developed with BMW, and two diesels – both renowned for their efficiency, refinement and low emissions. The drive is engaging and the C3 has a boy scout sense of preparedness about it. It's everything a man needs to feel big about himself.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
Challenge Swound!challengeswound.comOnce, merely having a MySpace account and a couple of hundred cybermates was enough to get you noticed if you were an unsigned band; these days a more imaginative approach is required for the aspiring musician. Nottingham rock band Swound!'s idea is that you go to this site, challenge them to do something stupid and they will do it in order to promote their mini-album Hello Future, Our Name Is Swound!. Like a twee, pathetically English version of Jackass, the challenges are all rather tame: drink a pint of orange squash from five metres away, get a chip shop to deep fry some Haribo sweets, learn to knit, put up a tent blindfolded. Endearingly, though, they're a bit rubbish and are prone to failure.Legends Revealedlegendsrevealed.comDoes Time magazine deliberately situate world leaders on its covers so the "M" in their title makes it looks as if they have devil horns sprouting from their heads? The evidence would suggest they do as this unfortunate juxtaposition has befallen Bill Clinton (twice), Margaret Thatcher, Vladimir Putin, Bill Gates and Prince Charles. Here, this and many other myths and legends of popular culture are examined to be true or false. Among reams of music and movie myths are lesser-known fields of trivia such as poetry (was it an Olympic event in 1924?), toys (Play-Doh was originally a wallpaper remover) and children's literature (Where The Wild Things Are was originally called Where The Wild Horses Are but author Maurice Sendak couldn't draw horses). Anyone in need of rubbish to talk about down the pub will find an endless supply.Blog roll: EatFood Man Chanfoodmanchan.blogspot.comReviews of Chinese restaurants in the Merseyside area plus the quest for the perfect full English breakfast.Food Storieshelengraves.co.ukA trip to "ham school", a Peckham restaurant crawl and a fine recipe for plaice goujons in BrewDog Punk IPA batter.Sandwichistlondonist.com/tags/sandwichistThe sandwich reviewing wing of the Londonist empire, including the disappointment of Selfridges' salt beef on rye.Fancy Fast Foodfancyfastfood.comRegular fast food remixed to appear like expensive nouvelle cuisine.Good Old Daystiny.cc/thegoodolddaysRetro US ads (pictured) and valiant attempts to recreate recipes from the 1950s and 60s.Curd Nerdscurdnerds.comThe history of cheese, the heated debate "does cheese go bad" and other stuff for fromage geeks.What We Learned On The WebDead Fly Art• Happiness isa dozy hamstercutethingsfallingasleep.org• The bestflag in the world evertiny.cc/chopchop• A shorthistory of petrol stationstinyurl.com/yksuwcd• How tohave fun without losing your corporate credibilitycantyouseeimbusy.com• What todo with a dead flytiny.cc/deadflyart• The BBCbox is coming hometiny.cc/bbcdogfood• How toescape a farttiny.cc/stumpthetrump• Clark Griswold's finest momentstiny.cc/whenchevywasgood• Seven secretsonly two living people knowtiny.cc/shhhhhh• You've gottamake a lot of sacrifices if you want to be as big as "The Pizz"70sbig.com
Forza Motorsport 3, Xbox 360Taking the precise opposite position to the mess and knockabout fun of last month's Colin McCrae DiRT 2, the world's most clinical driving game is back for more pixel precise racing. Forza 3's dedication to simulating rubber on road is nothing short of obsessive and, with its driving aids removed, it calls to mind the unstintingly savage demands of the old Ferrari F355 Challenge. With assistance switched on, and provided you're willing to follow the clearly marked racing line, it's a very accessible game with a wonderfully weighty feel to its cars, stunning looking trackside scenery, plenty of upgrades to buy and a simple experience point system to add more meaning to all that driving around. It suffers from painfully long load times and competitors that cheat to stay ahead in the first half of the race and then cheat to let you past in the latter stages, all the while sticking to the racing line as though slotted into a Scalextric track. It's fair to say that Forza's authenticity comes at the expense  of some personality.Microsoft, £49.99Scribblenauts, Nintendo DSThe world of Scribblenauts is one where you solve puzzles by writing the name of any item you need and then watching it magically appear on screen. Want to use a helicopter to climb over a wall or a hand grenade to distract a barking dog? No problem. Naturally, with such an astoundingly broad and ambitious remit, it doesn't always work as planned, and you will find items you're convinced will nail a particular problem in a deliciously clever way are at times roundly ignored by the game. That it has the odd let-down is inevitable; what's more surprising is how often it works, recognising and rewarding your insane desire to use a steamroller to knock over some bottles, Pegasus to fly across a gap, a wall and flamethrower to dispose of a group of zombies or a Gatling gun to fend off a bee. It has a Back To The Future tribute level, understands English spelling and nouns, acknowledges and will happily supply you with "phenylethylene" and, despite its imperfections, proves endlessly and vastly entertaining.Warner Brothers Games, £29.99Games newsChristmas No 1The games industry, like music before it, is starting to inspire betting on which title will occupy the year's all important Christmas No 1. Last year saw Activision's rather pedestrian Call Of Duty: World At War pipped at the post by Electronic Arts' highly competent FIFA 09. If Paddy Power's early odds are anything to go by, that battle for first place is likely to be replayed this year with Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, facing off against the wittily entitled FIFA 10. Current odds suggest this year's victory will be Activision's, although since they did last year too, that may not be the most useful guide in the world. Other contenders this Christmas are Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed II, sequel to 2007's lacklustre bestseller and Mario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic Winter Games while potential guilt purchase Wii Fit Plus offers slightly more generous odds.
By the standard of most RPGs on the iPhone/iTouch, the hack'n'slasher Dungeon Hunter is certainly no slouch graphics-wise. The locations are atmospheric and a real pleasure to explore, and the cast of bandits, zombies, skeletons and assorted monsters you come up against all look the part. Moreover, the story is decent enough, if not that ground-breaking; you play as a recently deceased prince, resurrected by magical beings in order to reclaim your throne and bring peace and harmony to your troubled kingdom.Sadly, that's about all Dungeon Hunter has going for it. Chief among its many weaknesses is how incredibly seriously it takes itself. There's not a trace of humour to be found, and when you're dealing with snooty royalty being brought back to life by helpful fairies, a degree of levity might be appropriate. It's no great shakes in the gameplay stakes either; for all three character classes (mage, rogue and warrior) combat is extremely repetitive, amounting to little more than frantically tapping the on-screen attack and spellcasting buttons and hoping for the best. To make matters worse, these buttons are so tiny they'd make the most nimble Dickensian pickpocket feel like a fat-fingered oaf.In the item and stats menus the user interface is wholly unintuitive and ludicrously overcomplicated; there's way too much functionality crammed in and next to no explanation of what the many near-identical buttons are supposed to do. While the overall plot is, as mentioned, not bad, the missions you're presented with along the way are rather samey and largely unengaging. As is de rigueur in RPGs, there's a whole load of levelling up to plough your way through, and it's a particularly tedious slog here.And cheap though Dungeon Hunter is, a bit more care and attention could have been put into ironing out glitches and addressing the tortuously long loading times, which turn every move between rooms into an epic encounter with boredom.If you're after an RPG for the iPhone, there's far better out there – the Zelda-ish Zenonia, for instance, is well worth a look. By all means check out Dungeon Hunter for its impressive graphics, just don't be fooled into thinking there's a decent game behind them.
Your local school has been bringing up the rear when it comes to its computer installation. (Note: you don't need to have children, or children at the school, to take part in this one, so read on.)Now it's planning to re-outfit its ageing systems by getting Wi-Fi systems that will mean that more computers can be added where they're needed - for the teachers, administrators, and in some of the classrooms. Plus it makes devices that don't have Ethernet jacks usable for getting the internet. (You may be able to think of some.)But there's a fly in that ointment: a parent who says that Wi-Fi is dangerous, and especially risky for children, because it's radiation - radiation! - at the same frequency as microwaves. Microwaves!There's a meeting coming up where "interested parties" will be able to make their case. Briefly: how will you convince them that they should do... what?
Twitter has added an intriguing new feature, which it calls "lists": essentially, any person can create groups of Twitter accounts that they think are alike or useful in some way.So for example the@guardiantechaccount is already on 29 lists (at the last count) - you can see them all athttp://twitter.com/guardiantech/lists/memberships.That formula of twitter.com/$user/lists/memberships works for any account, by the way. Try it on yourself. Here'sDave Winer's; and here should beRobert Scoble's, except I got an error while trying it. [Update:you may find these fail if you (a) aren't on Twitter or (b) haven't had an invite to lists.]The question now is, how will this be used? Who and what is it good for?Winer makes aninteresting suggestion:It's a new authority system. The number of lists you appear on is a kind of page-rank. So let's hope Twitter does two things: 1. Provides an open API to crawl this data set. 2. Doesn't pollute it by artificially inflating the rank of friendly press and their industry friends. Stay out of the editorial space and let a healthy ecosystem develop. It's another chance to not screw it up.Some people have said it's somehow related to the Suggested User List but I don't see it at all. This feature is for advanced users, the SUL is for total newbies. Unless Twitter somehow data mines our lists, something they could have done right at the start, it won't have any impact on the newbies' user experience.(Winer's reference to "friendly press" there is because he believes - I use the word specifically - that publications which are on Twitter's Suggested User List, or SUL, are therefore skewed to write favourable stories about it. [Disclosure: the Guardian's Technology account is on the SUL, but it was purely a decision made by Twitter without the Guardian's knowledge.] I'vechallenged him previouslyto prove this, as there are plenty of examples of publications that are and are not on the SUL which also cover Twitter. He hasn't risen to the challenge. And we disagree with the suggestion that we are "friendly" to Twitter in our coverage.)So... what will lists tell us? Whether people have a reputation - clearly, if you're on a lot of listsbelonging to different users, then it's likely that you're viewed as having some reputation within Twitter. (If you're only on lots of lists belonging to one user, they're just a bit of a stalker.)Winer's suggestion that Twitter - or anyone, via the API - could mine lists to find people with reputation certainly sounds like a good one. The only problem then becomes: is being on many lists the key to that reputation? Or do you have to add something more, such as the number of followers that the people making those lists have, to determine their reputation?The latter question arises because you can imagine that some imaginative spammers - the sort who are always offering you pictures of Britney and her hands-free pink Thermos - will create lists from their thousands of fake accounts in which their thousands of fake accounts recommend each other.Twitter is thus going to face the same problem as Google - how to stop people from trying to game its rankings (if that's how it plans to put lists to use). In which case it might start using the number of followers that the list-maker has as its other criterion for judging "reputation".In which case the accounts on the SUL are going to be those with the most weight. Hmm, can you see a problem brewing here?
At the packed Games Media Awards ceremony in Camden's Jongleurs club last night, The Guardian won best newspaper games coverage for the third year running. We beat The Sun, the Telegraph, The Mirror, the Daily Star Sunday and the Independent to the hard-won gong, although Gamesblog lost out in the specialist blogging category to news site, VG247.com. I carried around the hefty Perspex award for most of the night until Technology production editor Stuart O'Connor successfully wrestled it from my grasp.Other winners included Edge for best games magazine, Eurogamer for best  website, Shortlist for best mainstream magazine coverage and One Life Left for best games broadcast.We're genuinely delighted to win for newspaper coverage again – I now just have to get through a day's work on two hours sleep and a head that feels as though someone has sucked my brains out with a bicycle pump and replaced them with wet cement.
Avideo of a London underground guard allegedly abusing an elderly passengerhas sparked an angry internet campaign calling for the guard's dismissal. The guard, at Holborn station in central London, is heard to say "sling him under a train".The video, filmed byblogger Jonathan MacDonald, has prompted Twitter users, including the London mayor, Boris Johnson, to express their shock and anger."Appalled by the video. Have asked TfL to investigate urgently. Abuse by passengers or staff is never acceptable," Johnson tweeted.Minutes later a TfL statement was emailed. It said: "We are appalled by the scene captured in this video and will investigate thoroughly and urgently what took place and what led to it. We do not tolerate members of the public being abusive to our staff but neither will we tolerate members of our staff abusing members of the public."At the time of writing the "TFL" incident is a top-10 trending topic on Twitter, where many have called for Ian's instant sacking. Is this virtual lynch mob fair?Blogger Terence Eden thinks not."I hope that "Ian" doesn't lose his job – I hope that he realises what an arse he has been and learns to treat customers with a bit more respect."This video is presented out of context and – although I trust Jonathan's reporting of events – we do only have his word for it.  He may very well have chopped off the footage which completely exonerates Ian. Although I can't quite conceive what that would be."The RMT, the union believed to be representing Ian, has yet to comment.What do you think?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Well I have to say smartphone – I have an iPhone and I have to admit I can't believe how I ever existed without it – I'm not connected 24/7 – which may or may not be a good thing. I'm not sure that being connected 24/7 is a good thing for the human race.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About 45 seconds ago – I text-messaged a friend in Los Angeles.What additional features would you add if you could?Well for me it's always about speed so I would like to multitask a little bit more – I also have the Palm Pre, which allows you to multitask, it's a very easy system to work with.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?At the rate things are changing, the current version will be obsolete in a year. When you realise it was only two years ago that this thing came out, it's hard to believe how quickly we've all got used to it and how fast things have changed.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The truth is that I'm not very good at it. I am not a technology native unlike the people I am surrounded with at work, young people who seem to be so much more adept. I still have to have people show me how to do things all the time. In LA, mobile phone coverage is still not as good as it is over here in Europe, so it's very frustrating to drop a call in the middle of Hollywood – out in the middle of the country I could understand!Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My first computer I really hated. Believe it or not, it was called a Kaypro and had two floppy drives in it. It weighed about 60 pounds and was supposed to be mobile. It was the bane of my existence – it kept breaking.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?You have to stay current. You can't fall behind because it will move past you and you will never be able to catch up.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think i'm still a bit more of a luddite – to be honest, I sort of bridge them. To the people I work with I appear like a luddite, but to my wife – who is a true luddite – I'm the household nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?You know, I have several Macs – I have a big desktop one and then one in the office and a laptop, so I guess my computer equipment. That and I have a home cinema – I guess that counts as well.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – I never learned how to use a PC. And to this day, if I was ever stuck on a desert island with a PC, I'm not sure I'd know how to use it. I've been a Mac owner since probably 1987, and I just never went back.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I just download, and in terms of music I almost only download now. My 12-year-old daughter is a big music fan so  she usually turns me on to different bands. Justy in the last few days I bought the latest album from Muse.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I wold like a robot butler, yes. Anything that helps get my coffee in the morning would be great.What piece of technology would you most like to own?To be really honest, I think I have everything I really want – I don't want to complicate my life any more than it already is.• Heroes season 3 is out on DVD this week
Planning on buying a new release this weekend? If so which one? For PS3 owners it's a no-brainer.Uncharted 2is out and is easily the finest exclusive title yet for the format. Buy it and wonder why all PS3 games can't look this good.Another big release this weekend isBrutal Legend. I've been playing the 360 version this week and while it isn't a gaming classic it is does gain immense credit by being the first game in years where I actually looked forward to the cut-scenes. Humorous and well acted they put 99.9% of gaming cut-scenes to shame.Anyway. Uncharted 2? Brutal Legend? Sonic &amp; Mario at the Winter Olympics? What are you buying this weekend?
After two years, vast sums of money and lots of noise, Microsoft is finallydrawing closeto an agreement with European regulators over theanti-competitive push to get people using Internet Explorer.That final stage, if you remember, involvesgiving every Windows user a ballot screenthat gives them an option of which web browser to download. And right now, Microsoft's locked in negotiations with European regulators over what that ballot screen will actually look like.The first option the company put forward - to list browsers by market share - was rejected by the EU because it simply reinforces the problem it's meant to fix. If Internet Explorer has been unfairly pushed into its market-leading position, as they say, then putting it first in the list will only serve to reinforce that position.With that rejected, the latest option is a screen that lists the different options in alphabetical order by company name: Apple, Google, Microsoft, Mozilla, Opera. Good enough?Maybe for some, but not for everyone. In a personal post on her blog, Firefox designer Jennifer Boriss sayswhy she doesn't think that's a good idea: essentially because it gives unfair weight to Apple (as first on the list) and well, Safari's not very good ("it's just not their [Apple's] priority") or popular ("past consumer choice has shown that Safari does not provide an ideal browsing experience on Windows").Instead, she suggests a few options, including one - "Order of market share, excluding Internet Explorer" - that would give Firefox the privilege of first place.If all this seems a little like unfair griping with an agenda, then I can certainly see where you're coming from. There's a certain logic in thinking along these lines - after all, the assumption that the non-Explorer market is free of bias mightfeellogical - but the idea that Firefox should come first because it's the second-biggest browser is a remarkable piece of doublethink.First, it's impossible to know what the market would look like if Internet Explorer didn't exist. Secondly, you can't completely ignore how long browsers have existed in the market: Internet Explorer's 14 years old, while Firefox is five years old. By contrast, Safari has been around for two years, Chrome for one. Only Opera bucks the trend.And then there's the philosophical argument: perhaps anybody who is fundamentally opposed to what Internet Explorer stands for - closed source, big corporate software - would be more likely to go with the non-corporate, open source rival. Does ticking certain political or philosophical boxes mean it's a better product?Indeed, for me, it's been a while since Firefox was the clear leader in the market: IE8 is a very good piece of software, Chrome has a lot of great points, and Opera is good for those who enjoy its array of features. Safari? I haven't used it enough on PC to know.This train of thought inevitably leads to the question of which piece of software best - and who is to judge that?I'm not sure, but I can tell you two groups I wouldn't want to decide which product was better than the rest: a gang of government regulators or a group of competitors.So what are the other options?You could have alphabetical by product name, rather than company of course (which would deliver Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera) but then you would potentially end up with the Yellow Pages disease, where products are named things like "AAA+++ SUPER BROWSER!!!!" just to ensure they get near the front of the queue.Boriss suggests another market share-based ballot screen (weighted by market share). That's not much better than simply organising by market share in the first place.She does suggest another option that seems sensible: randomised offerings.Why not? It would even out the bias towards picking the first candidate. It would be an interesting scientific study, and it would certainly boost the market share for lower order browsers like Opera, Chrome and Safari.In this case, assuming for now that a user will click the first option, each browser would end up with one in five installations. That would hurt Microsoft massively, but it wouldn't increase Firefox's market share a jot.And there's the rub, for Boriss at least. Underneath her carefully worded post, the basic thrust seems to be that correcting Microsoft's bad behaviour should involve giving Firefox a leg up. I'm not surprised she thinks that the product she works on is the best in the market, but that doesn't mean she's right.And, crucially, helping Mozilla, Google, Apple or Opera is not actually what this is about. It's a subtle distinction, but the EU is attempting to correct Microsoft's undue influence on people's decisions. And to achieve that, it's probably better to remove that influence altogether than replace one set of assumptions with another.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Lots ofGooglenews overnight, includinga surprise 27% increase in profits, despite the recession, and the emergence of more detail on the company'splan to launch a book download store.&bull; In what could turn into a very bizarre court case,a husband and wife team in America have been arrested on suspicion of fraudafter getting the technology giantCiscoto ship replacement parts to fake businesses across the US. How much do investigators claim they bagged?$23m, says IDG.&bull; Remember thatanti-venture capital screedby Jason Fried of37 Signals? Turns out another one of his jokes - that hiscompany was worth $100bnbecause somebody paid a dollar for 1/100bn of it - fooled at least one venture capitalist. He told Forbes that one unnamed VC"seemed to think the document was genuine and "wanted to get in" on the made-up deal".Enjoy your weekend.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google, the internet giant, provided further signs of economic recovery today as it delivered a forecast-beating set of quarterly results and signalled plans to resume its policy of taking on staff.Beating earlier Wall Street predictions, the California-based company reported revenues of $5.94bn for the last three months, an increase of 7% on the same period twelve months ago. Profits for the quarter rose by 27% to $1.64bn, from the $1.29bn reported this time last year.  Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said he thought the company's growth was a sign that a wider economic recovery was underway."While there is a lot of uncertainty about the pace of economic recovery, we believe the worst of the recession is behind us and now feel confident about investing heavily in our future," he said.The results maintain the trend seen in the previous quarter, when Google bucked the market by posting increased year-on-year profits.Much of the surprise growth has been the result of massive savings achieved by the company during the recession, largely through scaling back some of its less important programmes and curbing a notoriously free-spending culture.The 12-year-old company, which now has around 20,000 employees, curtailed its aggressive hiring policy, closed down some fringe projects and shut some offices deemed superfluous to requirements.It even cut back on its famous cafeterias, staffed by professional chefs and offering employees a wide choice of meals at any time of the day, after it was discovered that around a third of all the food cooked was not eaten.Schmidt said Google would step up its hiring again and push forward with projects in internet search, mobile phones and other areas."We now have the confidence to be optimistic in our future and we're going to invest as a result of that," he said.Despite the positive results for the group as a whole, the news was not quite as rosy for Google's British operation. Executives have struggled to cope with currency fluctuations over the past year, as well as what Google chief financial officer Patrick Pichette said was a result of "ongoing macro-economic weakness".The company, which dominates the internet advertising market in the UK, brought in $765m (£470m) of British business for the three months ending on September 30 - down 1.5% on last year's figure of $776m (£477m).Despite the stagnant UK market, however, many observers see Google's overall rude health as positive news not only for the technology industry, but for the wider economy.The company's heavy reliance on advertising, which accounts for almost all of its revenue, suggests that the deepest period of recession for the advertising industry could be over. That, in turn, will be seen as a positive sign for other advertising-reliant businesses as well as those firms which spend heavily on ad campaigns to help promote their products."Advertisers want to stay in front of people who are spending," said JMP Securities analyst Sameet Sinha. "They are willing to pay up for it." Wall Street reacted positively to Google's news, with shares in the company up around 2% to $540 in after-hours trading.
It already dominates the world of internet search and has plans to open the biggest digital library ever seen - but Google today took another step towards becoming the planet's most powerful information provider by announcing its plan to sell books online.At the Frankfurt Book Fair, the publishing world's biggest gathering of the year, the Californian company said it was preparing to launch Google Editions - a new scheme that will allow it to sell electronic copies of books over the web.Editions is set to launch in the first half of 2010, potentially giving readers in America and Europe access to around half a million titles including best-sellers and back catalogue books. Crucially, the store will be compatible with a number of devices - including mobile phones, computers and ebook readers - that could allow it to market services to millions of people worldwide.Under Google's plans, readers will be able to download texts straight from Google Books website, or from the websites of book retailers or directly from publishers who choose to work with the Silicon Valley company. Executives said they are targeting partnerships with major retailers such as WH Smith and Blackwell - many of which already have existing partnerships with the site.Amanda Edmonds, Google's director of strategic partnerships, said that the internet shop would be compatible with most devices, and that - and that buyers would also store a copy locally for access on the move."As long as you can get onto the library, you can access it," she told an audience in Frankfurt. "All the books will live in the same library, so it doesn't matter where you buy it or where you read it."Some detail on Editions hadpreviously been trailed by the company, which had initially planned to launch the service this year. But the move is being seen as a direct challenge to Amazon, which has its own ebook store that sells copies of titles to users of its Kindle electronic book reader and to owners of devices such as the iPhone."Certainly it presents collective competition to Amazon, but for many consumers the word 'e-reader' is synonymous with the Kindle," said Sarah Rottman Epps, an analyst with Forrester.It is not the first foray into the book world for Google, however, with many of its previous schemes proving highly controversial.Most recently, the company's project to digitise millions of in-copyright books has been making headlines, after a wide range of companies, organisations and governments objected to its $125m deal with American publishers and authors' groups.After a host of complaints about the agreement were posted, a New York judge admitted that there were "significant issues" with the deal, andsent it back to the drawing board.Serious questions over Google Editions, however, are likely to focus on the amount of money that the search company stands to make for simply acting as a whole distributor of electronic books.Google executives confirmed that it plans take 37% of the money made through direct sales on its own website, while if Editions is used to power other retailer's online shops then they would split 55% of the price. In both cases, the remainder would go to the book's publishers.Electronic books are asmall but growing market, with products such as Sony Reader and Amazon's Kindle - which goes on sale internationally next week - proving more popular than some critics expected.Google said it had no plans to launch its own electronic book reader to compete with other companies - instead following the model it has used in its mobile phone business, where it has built software to run handsets but does not manufacture the hardware itself."We're not focused on a dedicated e-reader or device of any kind," said Tom Turvey, the company's director of strategic partnerships.
Roll up! Roll up! IF you're over 18 and can get to BAFTA in London next Wednesday and want to hear Peter Molyneux - and let's face it, who doesn't? - then you shouldenter our just-launched competition.The lecture is in association with Game and supported by The Guardian and ELSPA.Get in quick.
Labour MP Tom Watsonhas filed an early day motion with the support of 20 other MPs saying that he believes "that disconnecting alleged offenders will be futile given that it is relatively easy for determined file-sharers to mask their identity or their activity to avoid detection". The motion calls on the governmentto "ensure that any citizen accused of illicit file-sharing is given the right to legal redress in a court of law before sanctions are imposed". You can read thefull text of the motion on Parliament's websiteand see the supporting MPs.Watson, an early adopter of blogging and Twitter in parliament, worked in the Cabinet Office for 18 months and established thePower of Information Task Force. He is aLabour loyalist, consistently voting with his party, according to parliamentary transparency site They Work for You, but he has been outspoken in his opposition to the government's plansto cut off the connections of persistent file-sharers. Business secretary Lord Mandelson announced the plans in late August in a surprise move considering that the government'sDigital Britainreport released in June ruled out pulling the plug on pirates.After the announcement by Mandelson,Watson wrote on his blog:I hope that the officials and special advisers to Lord Mandelson, who may be reading this blog and briefing him, might remember that the music industry has got past form at trying to pretend that technological advance isn't happening.They might also consider the what the BPI said at the invention of the CD ROM and recordable DVD. The bottom line is that they want the government to enforce scarcity on the Internet where it simply can't be enforced.He hadpreviously written on his blog: "Not only do the sanctions ultimately risk criminalising a large proportion of UK citizens, they also attach an unbearable regulatory burden on an emerging technology that has the power to transform society, with no guarantees at the end that our artists and our culture will get any richer."Watson's early day motion takes his objections to parliament, but such motions don't often result in action. They giveMPs the opportunity to express a view and demonstrate support for that view.That's not the only digitally-focused early day motion Watson filed this week. He also filed a motion calling on the government toensure the postcode database is available for non-profit use. This comes after the Royal Mail threatend a two-man web operation, ernestmarples.comwith legal actionfor piggybacking on other online sites which offer free access to its database.
The many touchscreen mobile phones that have hit the shops this year, from the Apple iPhone and Palm Pre to the HTC Hero, have continued to eat into the commanding lead once enjoyed by Nokia, with the world's largest handset manufacturer reporting its first loss for over a decade.The Finnish company admitted that it underperformed the overall mobile phone market in the three months to 30 September. The decision to slash the value of its networks joint venture with Germany's Siemens, due to the continuing economic gloom, plunged the company into an overall quarterly loss of €913m (£836m) compared with a profit last year of €1bn. It is the first loss for the company since it started reporting on a quarter-by-quarter basis in 1996.Nokia, which once made more than four out of every 10 mobile phones sold worldwide, has suffered as new entrants including Samsung, LG, Palm, HTC and Apple have barged their way into the lucrative market for so-called smartphones, devices that can access the web, send email and play music. Consumers are increasingly being offered a range of touchscreen devices, most recently the Palm Pre, Motorola Dext and BlackBerry Storm 2,which will hit Britain later this month. Nokia has been slow to react; as a result its average selling price has slipped as it has sold more so-called mid-range phones and its smartphone pricing has come under intense pressure.The market as a whole, meanwhile, has been suffering as consumers have been holding off getting a new phone, instead switching to cheaper Sim-only deals because of worries about their own finances in the economic downturn. Nokia signalled in its third quarter results that this trend may be coming to an end, helped in part by the slew of attractive new touchscreen devices which operators are using to lure consumers on to long-term contracts. This year, Nokia expects industry mobile device volumes to be approximately 1.12bn units, down 7% from 1.21 bn units in 2008. That is a better performance than Nokia's previous forecast of a 10% decline this year.But Nokia itself does not appear to be capitalising on the pick-up, with its sales lagging the overall market in the third quarter.Nokia said it reckons the entire mobile phone industry shipped 288m units in the quarter, down 7% on the same period a year ago, but up 7% on the second quarter. Nokia, however, shipped 108.5m units in the third quarter, which is down 8% on the same period last year and only up 5% on the previous quarter.Nokia blamed a shortage of components for its poor third quarter performance compared with the wider market. Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, its chief executive, said "We would have sold more devices and smartphones in the third quarter without the capacity constraints. The constraints did in fact hit the smartphone part of the business more than the rest of the devices."Nokia's average selling price in the quarter was €62, at the same level as in the second quarter, but well down on last year's €72.Analysts believe Nokia has yet to come up with a real competitor to the iPhone. In a note issued after the results, Standard &amp; Poor's equity research team said Nokia's overall market share actually fell in the third quarter, to 37.7% from 38.5% in the previous quarter and its share of the high-end smartphone market was also down. Nokia had originally forecast that it would grow its market share this year but was forced to ditch that forecast in July."While commentary that the demand environment for handsets improved during Q3 is encouraging, as is the improved industry outlooks for both handsets and infrastructure, we believe competitive pressures are intensifying and we see nothing from our preliminary read of results to change our view that Q4 will be challenging from both a market share and profitability standpoint," the S&amp;P team added.Carolina Milanesi, research director for mobile devices at industry specialist Gartner, said sales of Nokia's flagship N97 smartphone do not appear to have been exactly stellar. "Despite their positive comments on the N97 I am reluctant to say that sales of 1.8m for a flagship product are good enough. Moreover, as Nokia stated at the beginning of September that N97 shipped 1.5m devices since the launch we can see that sales are actually not accelerating."Nokia plans to launch four new touchscreen phones in the fourth quarter including the 5230 and 5530. Milanesi said she expects them to do well but "they will help drive volume, not necessarily value" because they are likely to be relatively cheaply priced.Nokia stripped out smartphone sales for the third quarter, saying 47m "converged mobile devices" were shipped in the three months, compared with an estimated 44.2m units in the third quarter 2008 and 41m units in the second quarter 2009. Of that total figure, Nokia sold 16.4m units in the third quarter 2009, compared with 15.5m units in the third quarter 2008 and 16.9m units in the second quarter 2009.Nokia's share of the converged mobile device market was an estimated 35% in the third quarter 2009 down from 41% in the second quarter 2009, suggesting that consumers who were on Sim-only deals in the summer and have recently decided to take a phone on a long-term contract have not been rushing to grab a Nokia device, but instead plumped for rivals such as the iPhone.In a note on Apple, American investment house Northeast Securities said it has run supply chain checks which indicate that shipments of the iPhone in September "exceeded [Wall] Street estimates of 7m by 25%-30%. Wider distribution and share gains were contributing factors".
T-Mobile in the US says it has now recovered "most" of the data thathad been thought lost in the Sidekick/Danger/Microsoft"I thoughtyoubacked it up!" calamity of the past few days.In a posting on T-Mobile's company forums, Roz Ho, Microsoft's head of its Sidekick/Danger division, says that they havenow recovered most, though not all, of the dataand that anyway it only affected a minority of them.Quote Ho:If your Sidekick account was among those affected, please continue to log into these forums for the latest updates about when data restoration will begin, and any steps you may need to take. We will work with T-Mobile to post the next update on data restoration timing no later than Saturday.We have determined that the outage was caused by a system failure that created data loss in the core database and the back-up. We rebuilt the system component by component, recovering data along the way.  This careful process has taken a significant amount of time, but was necessary to preserve the integrity of the data.We should point out that Ms Ho's correct title is "Corporate Vice President,Premium Mobile Experiences, Microsoft Corporation".The reappearance of the data does at least suggest that the scenario that was being painted by some sources, notablyAppleInsider, of a carefully-planned act of sabotage:Instead, the fact that no data could be recovered after the problem erupted at the beginning of October suggests that the outage and the inability to recover any backups were the result of intentional sabotage by a disgruntled employee. In any other circumstance, Microsoft or T-Mobile would likely have come forward with an explanation of the mitigating circumstances, blaming bad hardware, a power failure, or some freak accident.An act of sabotage "would explain why neither party is releasing any more details: for legal reasons dealing with the ongoing investigation to find the culprit(s)," one of the sources said. Due to the way Sidekick clients interact with the service, any normal failure should have resulted in only a brief outage until a replacement server could be brought up.Possibly we'll never know. Schofield's First Law remains in place: if you only have one copy of your data, it isn't safe.
PepsiCo has apologised after it was accused of stereotyping women with an iPhone application for its Amp Energy drink helping users "score" on a date.The app featured 24 types of women, including "nerd", "foreign exchange student" and "treehugger", and offered possible pickup lines including "Wasn't I in Space Academy with you?" and "You know the Mona Lisa has no eyebrows. I wonder what else she shaves?"Pepsi's "Amp Up Before You Score" app prompted a storm of protest on Twitter, with commenters suggesting people drink Coke instead.The US drinks giant responded with a tweet apologising for any offence caused. "Our app tried 2 show the humorous lengths guys go 2 pick up women," Pepsi said. "We apologise if it's in bad taste &amp; appreciate your feedback."Other categories of women featured in the app included "sorority girl", "cougar" and "punk girl", and offered suggested pick-up lines for each one. For "rebound girl" it offered a map of local ice-cream shops.The app, which was launched last Friday, also encouraged users who were successful with one of its chat-up lines to record it via email, Facebook or Twitter."Let's say you meet a girl who is way into being green, and you need a vegan restaurant – we've got you covered,"says an online promo for the app."Or say you need a quick primer on punk rock because she is staring holes in you and you are a little scared – we have got your back. If you are anticipating a successful night the Before You Score app gives you up to the minute info, feeds, lines and much more to help you Amp up and talk to 24 different types of ladies."Under the headline"Alienate your customers? PepsiCo has an app for that", social media website Mashable said it was "certainly bold and controversial, but does it go too far?".Twitter users certainly appeared to think so. "So is there only 1 type of man? A neanderthal who needs a cellphone app to talk to women? Here's a hint: put down the cellphone," said one.Another said: "Enough with the sexist apps – at least make it equally sexist and make a version that women can play."When asked if PepsiCo would withdraw the app, a spokesmantold the Wall Street Journalit was evaluating its options."The application was designed to entertain and appeal to Amp's target market," said the spokesman. "We'll continue to monitor the feedback from all parties and act accordingly."But not all Twitter users thought the app controversial. Another said: "Calm down PC pansies. Go read a Cosmo and get a sense of humour. You all make me sick with your sheltered approach to life."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have had a long and, for the most part, fruitful relationship with the world of videogames. As cartoon characters go, they are after all particularly suited to the medium - they run, they jump, they hit baddies with pointy things and sticks. All good fun.Most important of all, they have a huge existing fanbase, from hero-in-a-half-shell loving twentysomethings (ahem) right up to today's youngsters who have their own (far inferior) version of the classic series.It's a shame then that Ubisoft haven't made more of the license with this half-baked Super Smash Bros clone. It's not suprising that there are similarities between the two games: TMNT Smash-Up it's made by the same team responsible for the popular Nintendo beat-em-up series.And you can see the logic - spend most of your production budget on acquiring a popular license, then tweak an existing engine that's already proved popular with gamers. Sadly, this all-too-common laziness presents a few problems.First off, there's something inherently 'wrong'-feeling about the floaty, double jump mechanics employed by characters in this context. Link and Mario fighting Peach on a cloud, hitting each other with hammers is a silly, fun premise so you take the feel of Smash Bros game at face value.With TMNT Smash-Up however you're already familiar with the characters and the world they inhabit. So April O'Neil being able to jump 30ft in the air just doesn't seem right.Meanwhile, the attempts to make this game different to its predecessor are largely cursory. Ok, so the power-ups are pizzas and one of the levels is a sewer, but still the game doesn't have much of a Turtles-like feel about it. There's a wild west level, a level on a train - I don't remember those from the cartoon.Cursory too are the game's attempts to incorporate the Wii remote into gameplay - this is essentially a GameCube game and you're best off using a GameCube controller if you can find one.The worst thing of all about TMNT is that you get the feeling that it doesn't really know what it's supposed to be. There are times where you can play it as a side-scrolling Streets of Rage-esque beaten up - but in small, Street Fighter like stages. On the other hand, you can play one-on-one Street Fighter-esque bouts, but with simplistic, button-bashing Streets of Rage-like controls. It's the worst of both worlds.The most fun I had was with one of the mini-games - but these again smack of a lazy attempt to add a small amount of value to a repetitive game. There's one in particular where you can shoot at a fairground style shooting gallery with the Wii remote which is particularly fun, but then on the otherhand there are stages where you simply have to see how many platforms you can jump up in 90 seconds. So dull were these sorts of challenges that I often chose to kill my character rather than plough through them - you couldn't skip them.An attempt is made at some kind of narrative in the single-player Arcade mode, but the cutscenes are horrendously ugly - black and white stylised line drawings that bear no relation to a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle I ever saw.The only saving grace is a well thought-out reward system where you can obtain objects, cutscenes and extra characters for certain achievements in the game. The objects can then be traded online - whether or not this will appeal to people playing the game I'm not sure, but the idea is commendable.In fairness TMNT Smash-Up isn't awful, or unplayable. It's just a worse version of Smash Bros, with a poorly used license. So why bother?
Calculators might be a forgotten in this day of powerful phones and laptop computers, but - just like many other technologies - there's a thriving community of hackers who spend their time getting their machines to do all kinds of weird and wonderful things.Communities like those atTICalc.orgare aimed at helping you mess around with powerful scientific calculators and get them to do things they're not supposed to: run faster, play games, work with all kinds of strange add-ons like lights and temperature sensors.Like most hobbyist hacking, doing this sort of thing is fun for those who take part. Like any other maker activity, it's partly about testing yourself, partly about expanding your knowledge and partly about finding out what the limits of a technology really are.Not everybody agrees, though. The big name in calculators,Texas Instruments, has decided recently that hacking any of its machines - even if for personal amusement - is an egregious breach of its rights. For a few weeks now, it's been sending outlegal threats to hackersbecause they reverse-engineered the codes used to open up the calculators.Strikes me as a stupid move. Never mind that the guys likeBrandon Wilsonare among Texas Instruments' biggest supporters (after all, he's been coding their gadgets for more than 10 years) but some of the machines which were affected are basically redundant now and haven't had software updates for years.It seems plenty of people also think it's a silly thing for Texas Instruments to do: this week the Electronic Frontier Foundationsaid it was taking up the caseof those who had been sent legal notices by Texas."This is not about copyright infringement. This is about running your own software on your own device - a calculator you legally bought," said EFF Civil Liberties Director Jennifer Granick. "Yet TI still issued empty legal threats in an attempt to shut down discussion of this legitimate tinkering. Hobbyists are taking their own tools and making them better, in the best tradition of American innovation."Let's not forget too that calculators have a long and glorious history in the world of hacking: Steve Wozniak, the engineer who really spawned the home computer revolution with Apple, started out working on early scientific calculators with Hewlett Packard.Just sad.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
When I wrote myPES 2010 impressions pieceI hadn't had a chance to play the game online. Everyone knows how important online play is to PES especially after the laggy and unintuitive mess of 2009. Well, after 3 days play on the test environment it seems that things are much better for PES 2010. The action felt pretty much lag-free throughout with only one tiny delay in one game. It is also much easier to set up games now, especially - hurrah - 2v2 games. On PES 2009 it was incredibly convoluted and time-consuming to team up with a friend and play together against two other players. Not any more as PES 2010 has obvious player (choose who you play) and ranked options for both 1vs1 and 2vs2.Of course compared to the 10v10 action and leagues in FIFA the online options in PES are still limited. But ask most PES players and the ability to have a lag-free game - ideally with some penalty for disconnecting players - is all they really want.  The true test will come on launch day next Friday, but from what I've seen so far PES 2010 certainly plays well online.
&bull; The attempt to jumpstartMySpacecontinues, with the announcement of a number of changes to the company's executive team. Along with news head of revenue and HR, brothers Ali and Hadi Partovi - who joined the social network with theacquisition of their company iLike- will head up business development and technology respectively. The Wall Street Journal takes a look athow the site is trying to recover its cool.&bull; Sales ofvirtual goodsin America alone areabout to hit $1bn, according to a new report from Inside Network (story from VentureBeat). That's a drop in the water compared to virtual currency, however, which - as a feature in this week's Technology Guardian points outare very big money indeed.&bull; Talking of which, this week'sTechnology Guardiansupplement has hit the streets - featuring our full interview withMartha Lane Fox, a look atTaiwan's trials of smart electricity gridand a bit of musing overthe role of camera phones in our lives. All that and much more for £1 from your newsagent, oronline here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Vodafone will only have the forthcoming BlackBerry Storm 2 to itself for a few weeks, after its success in grabbing the Apple iPhone is understood to have brought its exclusive collaboration with the email device's manufacturer Research In Motion (RIM) to an end in the UK.The mobile phone operator will offer BlackBerry's second attempt to break into the touchscreen smartphone market free to any customer willing to sign up to a contract worth £35 a month for two years (not £30 aswe originally reported) when it hits stores on 26 October.Vodafone will have the handset as an exclusive in the UK, but only for a few weeks. RIM is understood to have demanded that the device be available to other operators after Vodafone joined Orange in successfully ending O2'sexclusive two-year deal with Apple for the iPhone in the UK.It is unclear whether any of the other UK operators will be stocking the Storm 2 in time for Christmas, but by the start of next year - when Vodafone will finally be able to start shipping the iPhone - it is expected to be available on at least one other network, most probably Orange, which will also start selling the iPhone within the next few weeks.The Storm 2 will be launched by Vodafone in Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, the UK, France, Italy and South Africa, and Canadian handset maker RIM is hoping that it will get a more positive critical reaction than the first version, which went on sale last November.The original BlackBerry Storm was famously blasted by technophile Stephen Fry – a diehard Apple fan – who told hisfollowers on Twitterthat the device was "shockingly bad. I mean embarrassingly awful."RIM is believed to have tried in vain to get a test version of the handset to the actor and writer to see whether he reckons it is an improvement.In fact, despite its critical panning, the phone went on to become one of the best-selling handsets in the US market, greatly aiding RIM's drive to expand its reach well beyond its traditional market of business people who want to be able to send emails while on the move.The new phone, seen by the Guardian, has a better touchscreen than the original version but BlackBerry has retained the Storm's controversial SurePress technology - which requires the user to physically press down the screen, rather than just touching it - to execute certain tasks. While the original Storm had just one SurePress sensor, however, the new device has four - one at each corner of the screen - meaning that pressing the device is a far smoother experience and typing takes far less effort.RIM has also turned the individual physical buttons from the first version - which included call pick-up, end, menu and back buttons - into part of the touchscreen. The keys on the side of the device, meanwhile, which had a tendency to fall off the first phone, have been replaced by more durable rubber keys.The Storm 2 has a 3.2 megapixel camera with autofocus, flash and video recording but only 2GB of storage - though it can take microSD cards, which would raise this by as much as 16GB. BlackBerry has also improved the 3.5mm stereo headset jack, which was also a problem on the earlier device. Crucially the Storm 2 has Wi-Fi capability, something that was sadly lacking from the original device.
I'm looking for a decent recorder for my classes – one that records voices and is clear when played back. There are so many to choose from that I am totally confused. I want to spend $50 to $125.Peggy PelrineIf you decide on the features you want, you will find that many of the choices disappear. The key things to consider include the recording format, the amount of storage, whether you need an external microphone, and how the recorder is powered.For voice recording, rather than simply dictation, the main options are MP3 and Microsoft's WMA (Windows Media Audio) format at bit rates up to about 192kbps, which is "super high quality" (SHQ) in this market. Recording at that level uses about 84MB of storage an hour, so a 1GB machine will capture about 12 hours of classes. If you need more, you can record at a lower bit rate (128kbps is good enough for voice) or buy a recorder that takes SD expansion cards.If you need to use an external microphone, make sure it has the correct socket. Also check the recording time. Small digital recorders typically use AAA batteries, so you can easily carry spares.Voice recorders that should meet your needs include the Sony ICD-UX71 ($99.95, or $82.01 at Amazon.com) and the Olympus WS-400S ($79.99, or $55.48 at Amazon.com). Both have a built-in USB port for transferring files to a PC without using a cable. However, the WS-400S records to WMA while the Sony has MP3. Also, the ICD-UX71 is available in red, pink, black or silver (in some countries).The next step up is to more expensive music recorders such as the Edirol R-09H, Olympus LS-10 and Zoom H4. TheZoom H2is just beyond your price range.Backchat: Malcolm Stewart says; "In May I purchased an Olympus WS-110 digital recorder from John Lewis (£45) to do a series of interviews for a dissertation. It's light, internal or external mic, one AAA battery lasts for 17 hours, and has the USB port. Playback can be set to slow to enable typing, and you can jump around at will. It's so much better than any other recorder I've used, even dealing with conversations taking place in a busy café. Now I wished I'd purchased a stereo one."
Whenever I use Internet Explorer, the Windows Task Manager tells me that I'm running two iexplore.exe files. Whenever I try to stop the other one, it returns almost immediately. It looks like someone's hijacking my browser. I've just wasted nearly two hours of my life (most of it waiting in a queue) to no good result trying to get some sense out of an analyst at Norton, which doesn't find anything in my system.Iain NobleIt's quite common for Trojans and adware (possibly Lop) to pretend to be Internet Explorer, so you may well have a problem. Since Norton hasn't found it, turn it off and try running Kaspersky's freeVirus Removal Tool,MalwarebytesandSuperAntiSpyware. If these don't find anything in "normal" mode, reboot into safe mode and run them again.You may also be able to find whatever is hooking into your system by usingSysinternals' Autoruns, from Microsoft. This tells you what your PC is loading, but in great detail, so it needs to be used with extreme care.If all else fails, post a Hi-Jack This log in an online forum such asBleeping ComputerorTech Support Guy.I'm assuming that you are not running Internet Explorer 8. This uses different processes to open different tabs, so if you have a dozen windows open in IE8, this will usually result in five or six instances of iexplore.exe, depending on how much memory you have. (The more tabs you open, the more often IE8 will re-use the same processes, so as to avoid consuming all your PC's resources.)
My wife's computer roars with laughter for a second or so every so often when she is not using it. Any ideas?Joe MundySince you have written from an AOL email address, I suspect the laughter comes from an instant messaging program. Go to the Buddy List and click Setup, then IM Settings. Go to the Expressions tab and pick the option that says "Do Not Play Sounds".
The Greater London Authority is holding an event this month to ask developers how it can best make its data available for reuse – a plan that resembles San Francisco's efforts to stimulate widespread use of local government information.An event called "Help us free London's Data", which is an encouraging echo of the Guardian's campaign name, will be held on Saturday 24 October at London's Living Room in City Hall. (Full details atfreelondonsdata.eventbrite.com.)The organisers say that the GLA "is currently in the process of scoping London's DataStore. Initially we propose to release as much GLA data as possible and to encourage other public agencies in London to do the same and we'd like your help."That means getting developer input before deciding formats or platforms, to make it simpler for them to produce mashups and applications using it.Among the dozens of people who have already signed up to  attend are Matt McAlister, the head of the Guardian's developer network; Richard Pope, the co-developer of sites such as PlanningAlerts and Job Centre Pro Plus; and Rufus Pollock, a Cambridge academic who co-wrote the analysis that showed that making UK trading fund data free would bring substantial economic benefits.• A petition at the No 10 website to get the Royal Mail to offer postcodes free to non-profit and community websites, following the legal threats against ernestmarples.com, has so far got 1,200 signatures in two weeks (petitions.number10.gov.uk/nfppostcodes). The petition, which has a deadline for signatures of 6 January 2010, follows the effective closure of the site – which was piggybacking on other online sources of postcode-to-location data. As the Guardiancalculated last week, the closure has almost certainly had a negative overall effect, costing the economy more than any loss to the Royal Mail.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog freeourdata.org.uk/blog
A few years ago, a company began to sell a liquid with identification codes suspended in it. The idea was that you would paint it on your stuff as proof of ownership. Icommentedthat I would paint it on someone else's stuff, then call the police.I was reminded of this recently when a group of Israeli scientistsdemonstratedthat it's possible to fabricate DNA evidence. So now, instead of leaving your own DNA at a crime scene, you can leave fabricated DNA. And it isn't even necessary to fabricate. In Charlie Stross's novel Halting State, the bad guys foul a crime scene by blowing around the contents of a vacuum cleaner bag, containing the DNA of dozens, if not hundreds, of people.This kind of has been going on for ever. It's an arms race, and when technology changes, the balance between attacker and defender changes. But when automated systems do the detecting, the results are different. Face recognition softwarecan be fooled by cosmetic surgery, or sometimes evenjust a photograph. And when fooling them becomes harder, the bad guys fool them on a different level. Computer-based detection gives the defender economies of scale, but the attacker can use those same economies of scale to defeat the detection system.Google, for example, has anti-fraud systems that detect – and shut down – advertisers who try to inflate their revenue byrepeatedly clickingon their own AdSense ads. So people built bots to repeatedly click on the AdSense ads of their competitors, trying to convince Google to kick them out of the system.Similarly, when Google started penalising a site's search engine rankings for having "bad neighbours" – backlinks from link farms, or from adult or gambling sites or for links from blog spam – people engaged in sabotage: they built link farms and left blog comment spam to their competitors' sites.The same sort of thing is happening on Yahoo Answers. Initially, companies would leave answers pushing their products, but Yahoo started policing this. So people have written bots to report abuse on all their competitors. There are Facebook bots doing the same sort of thing.Last month, GoogleintroducedSidewiki, a browser feature that lets you read and post comments on virtually any webpage. People and industries areworriedabout the effects unrestrained commentary might have on their businesses, and how they might control the comments. I'm sure Google has sophisticated systems ready to detect commercial interests that try to take advantage of the system, but are they ready to deal with commercial interests that try to frame their competitors? And do we want togive one company the powerto decide which comments should rise to the top and which get deleted?Whenever you build a security system that relies on detection and identification, you invite the bad guys to subvert the system so it detects and identifies someone else. Sometimes this is hard – leaving someone else's fingerprints on a crime scene is hard, as is using a mask of someone else's face to fool a guard watching a security camera – and sometimes it's easy. But when automated systems are involved, it's often very easy. It's not just hardened criminals that try to frame each other, it's mainstream commercial interests.With systems that police internet comments and links, there's money involved in commercial messages – so you can be sure some will take advantage of it. This is the arms race. Build a detection system, and the bad guys try to frame someone else. Build a detection system to detect framing, and the bad guys try to frame someone else framing someone else. Build a detection system to detect framing of framing, and well, there's no end, really. Commercial speech is on the internet to stay; we can only hope that they don't pollute the social systems we use so badly that they're no longer useful.Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
Choosing a voice recorderI'm looking for a decent recorder for my classes – one that records voices and is clear when played back. There are so many to choose from that I am totally confused. I want to spend $50 to $125.Peggy PelrineJS:If you decide on the features you want, you will find that many of the choices disappear. The key things to consider include the recording format, the amount of storage, whether you need an external microphone, and how the recorder is powered.For voice recording, rather than simply dictation, the main options are MP3 and Microsoft's WMA (Windows Media Audio) format at bit rates up to about 192kbps, which is "super high quality" (SHQ) in this market. Recording at that level uses about 84MB of storage an hour, so a 1GB machine will capture about 12 hours of classes. If you need more, you can record at a lower bit rate (128kbps is good enough for voice) or buy a recorder that takes SD expansion cards.If you need to use an external microphone, make sure it has the correct socket. Also check the recording time. Small digital recorders typically use AAA batteries, so you can easily carry spares.Voice recorders that should meet your needs include the Sony ICD-UX71 ($99.95, or $82.01 at Amazon.com) and the Olympus WS-400S ($79.99, or $55.48 at Amazon.com). Both have a built-in USB port for transferring files to&nbsp;a PC without using a cable. However, the WS-400S records to WMA while the Sony has MP3. Also, the ICD-UX71 is available in red, pink, black or silver (in some countries).The next step up is to more expensive music recorders such as the Edirol R-09H, Olympus LS-10 and Zoom H4. TheZoom H2is just beyond your price range.Too many ExplorersWhenever I use Internet Explorer, the Windows Task Manager tells me that I'm running two iexplore.exe files. Whenever I try to stop the other one, it returns almost immediately. It looks like someone's hijacking my browser. I've just wasted nearly two hours of my life (most of it waiting in a queue) to no good result trying to get some sense out of an analyst at Norton, which doesn't find anything in my system.Iain NobleJS:It's quite common for Trojans and adware (possibly Lop) to pretend to be Internet Explorer, so you may well have a problem. Since Norton hasn't found it, turn it off and try runningKaspersky's free Virus Removal Tool, Malwarebytes and Super-AntiSpyware.If these don't find anything in "normal" mode, reboot into safe mode and run them again. You may also be able to find whatever is hooking into your system by usingSysinternals' Autoruns, from Microsoft. This tells you what your PC is loading, but in great detail, so it needs to be used with extreme care.If all else fails, post a Hi-Jack This log in an online forum such asBleeping ComputerorTech Support Guy.I'm assuming that you are not running Internet Explorer 8. This uses different processes to open different tabs, so if you have a dozen windows open in IE8, this will usually result in five or six instances of iexplore.exe, depending on how much memory you have. (The more tabs you open, the more often IE8 will re-use the same processes, so as to avoid consuming all your PC's resources.)Funny!My wife's computer roars with laughter for a second or so every so often when she is not using it. Any ideas?Joe MundyJS:Since you have written from an AOL email address, I suspect the laughter comes from an instant messaging program. Go to the Buddy List and click Setup, then IM Settings. Go to the Expressions tab and pick the option that says "Do Not Play Sounds".Backchat• Louis Auty wanted some free software for drawing tables, graphs and flowcharts for use in Microsoft Office. Tony Meacock suggests Serif DrawPlus, where older versions are cheap or free, while Neil Hollow suggests trying OpenOffice Draw.
The Finnish government has become the first in the world to make broadband internet access a legal right.According to local reports, the Ministry of Transport and Communications in Helsinki has pushed through a law that will force telecommunications providers to offer high speed internet connections to all of the country's 5.3 million citizens.The agreement means that by July next year, telecommunications companies will be obliged to provide all Finnish residents with broadband lines that can run at speeds of at least 1 megabit per second.Finland is already one of the world's most connected countries, with 96% of citizens online - but the communications minister, Suvi Linden, said that the mandate was necessary in order to improve the availability of internet in Finland's remote rural areas.Bringing high speed access to all would improve the quality of life in some of the country's most sparsely-populated regions, as well as boosting business and encouraging online banking, she added.The Finnish government committed to provide universal service last year, but this week's move is the latest part of an ambitious project to upgrade the country's broadband infrastructure.In an announcement in September, Ms Linden committed to making 100Mb internet access - one hundred times faster than the connections mandated under the current law - available to all Finnish residents by 2015.In Britain, efforts to make internet access more widely available are largely focused on bridging the "digital divide"; the gap between those who are regular web users and those who have never gone online.According to the government's digital inclusion adviser, Martha Lane Fox - famous for founding travel website Lastminute.com in the 1990s - there are around 10 million Britons who have never used the web.In aninterview with the Guardian, Lane Fox said that there was an economic imperative to widening broadband access because people can use the web to save money, find new employment opportunities and give themselves other benefits."To an individual who's earning not very much in a year, every pound extra is extremely important, and therefore it's important that we fight for the right to get that," she said.However, instead of mandating broadband access for all, Britain is currently considering a "three strikes" rule that would strip some people of their internet access if they are accused of illegally sharing files on the internet. Undercontroversialproposalsbacked by Lord Mandelson, those accused of infringing copyright online would have their broadband connections suspended or removed.
A guide to identityThis week is National Identity Fraud Prevention week, and the Stop ID Fraud site is providing a practical guide.Return of an instant classicA Hong Kong company is bringing back Polaroid instant photography in both traditional and digital formats.Ultra-thin inspirationDell has debuted the Inspiron 11z, its first ultra-thin CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) notebook; prices from £349.Mobile for the matureBurnside's P230 EasyAnswer looks like an old-fashioned desktop phone, but is actually a mobile for the elderly.Search for knowledgeYebol is now beta testing its new AI-based "semantic search engine" that uses a neural network to cluster results.Lego to schoolStockley Academy in Uxbridge is the UK's first school to feature a Lego Education Centre.Rentokil deploys GoogleRentokil Initial says it is starting the largest deployment of Google apps, for up to 35,000 staff in 50+ countries.Cultural advanceCulture24, the not-for-profit guide to UK museums and galleries, has a new site.Gridrunner goes PCA new version of 1980s 8-bit classic Gridrunner Revolution has arrived for the PC.
If the digital revolution had produced nothing except the camera phone, it would still have had a transformative effect on most people's lives. It is not only in the throes of destroying whole industries – such as film processing and standard cameras – but it has also changed these devices from being a passive recorder of life into an active, constant participant. You can take photos or videos and send them directly to friends, newspapers or to websites such as YouTube, Facebook, Flickr, geograph or qik, which store billions of experiences and enable like-minded people throughout the world to form communities.As a result there is an unprecedented record of what is going on in the world being stored for posterity in a digital museum. If, 100 years hence, researchers could call up archives for a single hour of what was being recorded today, they would have an extraordinary chronicle of what we were like. But that depends on the shelf life of the archives. Many companies storing our photos for nothing won't be around in 100 years' time. I was reminded of this watching the riveting BBC4 film Micro Men last week, based on the fierce rivalry between (Sir) Clive Sinclair and Chris Curry, co-producer of the wonderful BBC computer in the 1980s. Not a single bit of my output from then is readily accessible today. Will it be the same for today's digital photographs?The past week has not only witnessed aNobel Prize for physics for the inventors of the CCD(charge-coupled device) sensor that was a midwife to the era of camera phones, but also the release of a 12MP camera phone to Europe – the Sony Ericsson Satio.Pixels alone don't make a good camera, but the arrival of a 12MP device, with its claimed ability to be enlargeable to near poster size, is regarded as a landmark in the ongoing progress of the camera phone (even though 20MP phones may be here next year). Sony Ericsson has always been strong on technology and the Satio is further proof. It has a good touchscreen – though not as good as the iPhone.The quality – and certainly the enlargeability – of its photos is betterthan the dozens of other shots I have taken with other camera phones of the same scene. The video is also impressive, rivalling that of the 5MP Nokia N97, which has fewer pixels but a Carl Zeiss lens. Although it is the camera that sets it apart – until the others catch up – the Satio is also a fine, sleek-looking Symbian model packed with features such as music recognition, podcasts, location, radio, Google maps, voice recorder and so on.Camera phones are acquiring an intelligence of their own, being able to "read" not just barcodes but also buildings to layer the photo with relevant information. Recently, at the Tuttle Club in London, I sawan upcoming iPhone appusing augmented reality enabling you to turn around through 360 degrees with your camera phone to pick up all the public Wi-Fi spots from nearby to miles away. The idea is to create a community of public space workers. As the technology shrinks further, cameras will become even more pervasive – and  invasive – possibly ending up attached to our bodies.Most future growth will be in developing countries. More than 60% of the world's population already has a mobile and more than half have a camera phone. This yearalmost 90% of all phones shipped will have cameras. Mobile phones are already giving people in developing countries their first taste of banking and radio. Their eventual universality will boost productivity by linking to education, remote diagnosis for health and remote monitoring of projects – not to mention film-making.It is barely six years since many companies tried to ban the use of camera phones in offices for security reasons. Imagine what would happen if they tried that now that a camera phone has become an extension of a person.
A dystopian future world, ravaged by nuclear fallout and pollution. A tyrannical and oppressive government. A hero named Robert Foster, with a trusty robot sidekick. Starting to sound familiar?For adventure fans, Beneath a Steel Sky remains a standout title of the genre – and remains one of the most played point and click games ever. Despite being released over 15 years ago, it still has an ardent following, thanks to it's mix of humour, well thought-out puzzles, and the iconic artwork of Watchmen co-creator Dave Gibbons.Revolution software last Friday released a special edition of this gaming classic for the iPhone and iPod touch, featuring improved comic cut-scenes, a new hint system, and Apple's touchscreen functionality – something the makers hope will be particularly compatible with point and click gaming.Speaking at a Q&amp;A held at Bafta early last week, creator Charles Cecil and artist Dave Gibbons mused on the challenges presenter in bringing Steel Sky to a new generation of gamers.Aside from aesthetic augmentations - with Gibbons carrying on his work updating the comics medium that he undertook with his recent Apple Watchmen project - the gameplay has been left relatively untouched. One of the themes of the evening was a discussion of core 'gameplay' values.In Cecil's opinion, 3D graphics and "visceral", immersive gaming experiences don't always mean more fun. Broken Sword, for example, was not made any better a game by being brought into the third dimension for its last two instalments.Cecil's also explained the decision to include a hint system not present in the original version of the game, stating "conventional wisdom" now dictates that gamers (particularly casual gamers) aren't as willing to be frustrated by a game as they once were. It's interesting that of all of the aspects of the original game, its difficulty is the only one to have 'dated'.Gibbons, meanwhile, will no doubt be delighted that another of his old projects has been brought back into the spotlight. He spoke of his enjoyment of "creating worlds" in illustrating Beneath A Steel Sky, and also his enthusiasm for other projects for the iPhone - noting that touchscreen is roughly the same size as a comicbook panel.The legendary Watchmen artist hinted that another collaboration with Cecil may well be in the offing.Revolution will be banking on fans of the original, and new users looking for an involving puzzler experience, falling under the game's retro charms. If it's successful, expect more classic releases to come to a small screen to you shortly.  The point and click adventure could well be making a comeback.
Yes, and if you are a Sidekick user, you may have just lost everything. That includes contact numbers, addresses, messages, photos, calendar entries and other personal details.The T-Mobile Sidekick started as the Danger Hiptop, a nifty handheld that appealed to people who wanted to do instant messaging on the move: AOL's AIM was built in. It was practical and fashionable enough for Paris Hilton to have her Sidekick hacked. And although it was surpassed by RIM's BlackBerry and Apple's iPhone, Microsoft was sufficiently impressed to buy Danger Inc with the idea of developing some even more sophisticated services.Now Sidekick has achieved greater fame, after having to tell many users it had "almost certainly" lost their data.It seems the "major outage" started when the service's SAN (storage area network) was being upgraded by a third party. Something went wrong enough to destroy both the current data and the backup, though at this point, no one is saying what. Indeed, things seem to have gone so wrong that another suggestion is that the database might have been time-bombed by a disgruntled Danger employee.Sidekick offered a "cloud based" service where the assumption was that the online data would always be available to update the user's phone when required. It didn't take the obvious step of providing a simple way for users to synchronise data with their own PCs.Under those circumstances, losing user data is unforgivable. Indeed, even if the online data and the online backup were deliberately destroyed, there should be an older backup stored safely somewhere off-site. Plenty of senior Microsoft engineers would surely regard this as essential. We don't know if that was done, thoughat least a few users have reported that their data has been restored, and the companynow says it is "hopeful" of recovering data for "the majority of our customers".But while the Sidekick affair has damaged the Sidekick business, Microsoft's image, and the prospects of its secret Pink phone project, it will also have reminded people that they have to take responsibility for backing up their data.It also provides a further reminder that there is no guarantee that a cloud-based service will always be available. There is a growing list of "outages" that also includes failures for Google's Gmail and Amazon's Web Services, eBay's PayPal, Salesforce.com, Twitter and others going back as far as AOL. Online services can be affected by human error, equipment failures and attacks.T-Mobile is offering compensation in the form of a $100 gift card and a month's free data service, which doesn't seem likely to excite even casual Sidekick users. But if it had been a service on which businesses depended, the effects could have been a lot worse.Jack Schofield
Q:Martha Lane Fox, very good to meet you. Congratulations on your role as the head of the Digital Inclusion project. Just explain to us what that's about...Martha Lane Fox:Well, I've been asked to do something quite specific, and the first product of that is the work we've asked PWC to do, published today, the CLG team a while ago was looking at how can technology help some of the most difficult problems in the most deprived areas, and they thought that there is a whole stream of quite progressive thought about how could technology solve social exclusion, economic disadvantage. So rather than assuming that the web was the default option, they were looking at how could technology improve the chances of some the most disadvantaged people.Q:How is social exclusion defined?MLF:There's a national index of something indicators, health, education, housing, something – the national index for something, I can never remember the exact term for it, but it's completely, um, (turns pages), we can come back to that – the national index of something indicators, not economic. If you fall into two or more of the categories, so if your health is X, your employment is Y, your education is Z, if your housing is something, then you're determined as being socially or economically disadvantaged.Q:And about 10 million adults fall into this category?MLF:No, not at all – one of the first pieces of work we had to do was work out who we were trying to reach, and the numbers are changing all the time, which makes it complex, but also there's a judgment call to be made. Are you digitally enabled if you use the internet once? Maybe not. Are you digitally enabled if you use the internet every day? Probably. Are you digitally enabled if you're using the internet every day to do just one thing? Who knows? So we've just made a judgment call but we felt we should pin down our work somehow. Ten million people have never used the internet. Ever. Never at all. Of which 4 million are also the most economically disadvantaged people, and it's those people that we are working on, trying to reach.Q:What's the breakdown between adults and children in that 4 million?MLF:There are... 1.6 million children in digitally excluded families [reading] and there are 19% of our mark... our target group are in families with children and there are therefore about 400,000... 700,000 children in our group, the most socialy disadvantaged.Q:PWC have come up with a very large number for the economic benefits of getting all these peope using the internet – their headline figure is £22bn, which is a large number in its own right, but it seems to be taken over very long periods of time. It talks about 1.6 million children who would generate a benefit of £10.8bn – which is £6,750 each, and if that's over a 50-year working lifespan, that's only £135 per year, which doesn't sound very much.MLF:The work that they've done is looking at some of the known benefits of what happens when you go online, how much you're likely to be able to increase your wage, the chances of getting a job being increased by 25%. one of the most compelling things is about as you say kids in families that do and don't have computers, because the chain of events that happens is quite dramatic, so you get better qualifications if you're online as a child, therefore you're likely to get a better job, and therefore in that job you're likely to earn more of a wage...Q:Is that not something that comes because families that have computers tend to be more affluent?MLF:No, this is based on a lot of work that's been done out of the government's Home Access programme, which is giving the most vulnerable families computers. It's not just about the middle class families having access to computers, it's actually taken from numbers where kids in deprived areas are given computers as well, and the relative numbers might be slightly different but it's still kids with or without a big gap. And I think now more than ever you could argue that perhaps one of the side-effects of this recession and some of the surprising things that have happened in terms of the dip being not as bad as people were expecting are because of how the web has changed particularly the jobs market. I heard a story on the weekend about a guy, a casual manual labourer who told me that he searches for work online  every morning, and if he got to the Job Centre all the jobs would be gone, but being online he has been in and out of work for six months since he lost his job. And there are hundreds of stories like that, from people as far apart as Birmingham to London to Manchester to Edinburgh or wherever, all increasing the choices that they have in their lives by having access to technology. And that's why we believe really strongly - and you raised the children point - if you're giving children, off the starting blocks you're giving them as fair a chance as possible.Q:I just would have expected this headline number for the children for example to be much, much bigger.MLF:Well £10.6bn from 1.6 million children is a pretty big number...Q:Except that when you do the sums it turns out...MLF:If you think that's conservative – well, then, great. I think we're being realistic that in our group of the 4 million. They're not people that are going to be earning 40 grand a year, they're going to be earning 12-16 grand a year, so over their lifetime you're more likely to be able to earn £8,000 if you're taking the most conservative estimate of the 3% uplift to your salary, so we're not trying to pick wild numbers that will seem insane and get headlines with them, these are based on pretty conservative, logical trains of thought. And I think the important thing is that to an individual who's earning not very much in a year, every pound extra is extremely important and therefore it's important that we fight for the right to get that.Q:What tends to be the thing then that gets people into computing? There must be low-income families where some do have a computer and some don't, what tends to be the barrier between those that do and those that don't?MLF:Again I wish that there was one big homogenous answer or group of people that I could refer to. It isn't like that, and I think that one of the things I've learnt in the three months that we've been doing this is that this is really difficult, the 4 million people that I've been asked to look at are really hard to reach anyway, and it's a complex and tricky set of circumstances that some will face, and some won't look like another group, so there isn't one single answer and I think you wouldn't believe me if I said there is. But I do think there are some characteristics across the groups, and the two things that I come back to again and again are: it works when someone who's like you shows you that there's something in the technology for you. My blonde white middle-class voice isn't going to be resonant at all with this end group of users, but if your next door neighbour has had a great impact with technology, or if someone at the school gate says I saved all this money by being online, then that's when it's powerful, so it's going to be building up these peer-to-peer networks – that's very important.Q:Do things like soap operas help, for example Coronation Street has long had the internet...MLF:You need to write this in your article, I've been lobbying both the BBC and ITV to say one of the most dramatic things that I think we could do would be to have a proper storyline about technology in public consciousness in that way, because clearly this is exactly that point, it's got to be from people that the group that I'm trying to reach either aspire to or listen to or trust or know, so there's going to be a whole bunch of different people quite apart from someone at the school gate, on TV, reading about in a magazine, that's why I wanted to underpin all this stuff with the proper economic case, because I'm really a small office, got limited budgets, it's not our role to do stuff, I hope our role is to raise the interesting arguments, keep the pressure up on both governments and private sector and public sector and charities and anybody else that can have a role in the cause, and show that we're thinking about it from the end-user's point of view as opposed to what all of us think is the right answer. So... of course you're right it's going to be many many different  voices, and yes please we'd love a storyline on EastEnders or Coronation Street.Q:Because it's already a sort of background hum on Coronation Street...MLF:I haven't watched Coronation Street, I should know better, but coming at this from as many innovative angles as possible is something I hope we'll be able to do, thinking of innovative creative ways to reach people, of the 4 million numbers that we're trying to reach, 40% are over 65 and 40% are unemployed, so we're clearly not going to talk to those groups in the same voice, or with the same tools, you've got to break it down into much more niche bunches of users, and see how we can encourage each of them online, that's why I say it's a complex answer.Q:One of the other things that you say is that it's an economic study, but it doesn't look at costs, at how you would get it in there. Early in the Labour administration in 1997 or so I do recall Gordon Brown announcing a home computer scheme. Is that the home scheme you're talking about (yes Home Access programme, that's still going on) - how many computers have been distributed through that?MLF:Another scheme that's been very effective that I think could do with more support is the UKOnline centres. The government in 2000 announced half a billion of capital into these online centres; they are based in libraries, community centres, charities and they're administrered centrally and you can get the capital cost of a bank of computers plus a trainer covered by planning for advance from a central fund, and they've been extraorinarily successful in training lots of people particularly in the group I'm trying to reach because they're out there inthe places where people are. They're not saying come in and learn about computers – they're in old age pensioners' charities or CABs or libraries, so they're catching people when they're doing something else and then there's interesting stuff going on with computers in the corner and it's a really effective way... Immigration centres where people crowd into basements smaller than this and they're packed with computers, everybody wanting to learn, so there are a couple of government initiatives that have been effective and I think that they need continued support.Q:I would imagine that children are very keen to get on computers, any child who's at school would want to use them, engage with them - do you have a map of where these people who are not online are?MLF:Yup, we know where they are, that's one of the things that guided this work, that we wanted to pin down - there are lots of different ways of cutting it, it's much easier to tell people who've never got a computer, never been online and never got accss than it is anything else, and that's what we're going to focus on and we do know where they are, their geographical breakdown and we know them.Q:Where are they?MLF:We've got some of the numbers here.. over 65..Q:Regionally?MLF:Regionally I can't tell you off the top of my head, but we can get you some breakdown between urban and rural areas, it's still predominantly an urban problem, even though there are rural areas that are far from being able to be connected, even though there's a lot of people working there. Even Prince Charles came out recently saying that was an important bit of the puzzle, but I think that the harder bit atually is not just the people who've never used the web but the people who may have used it once or twice and fallen off the radar screen and it's an important – getting the technology skills embodied, and then that's it.Q:Could it be that they're not seeing a great advantage? According to the PWC study, the greatest savings it could see would be energy, insurance, clothing and package holidays. Now if we're talking about people who are socially excluded they're probably going to be living on a prepay meter. Your insurance – you're not going to have it. Your clothing you might be buying mail-order or from the supermarket and for package holidays – would you really be doing that? I'm not sure where the reality is for these savings.MLF:Well the average savings across all of the different socio-economic groups is 560 pounds, actually the average saving in the lowest SE group is around 270 pounds, and that comes across lots of different things. People are still able to save money by comparing prices by having better informed choices – a whole host of things – and what's interesting is that when you talk to UKOnline centres even in really deprived communities they've done some research that shows that over 70% of people then go on to buy a computer. So they can see that the net benefit is going to be worth the outlay on that computer. So sure, for one chunk of our target group who are the most economically disadvantaged people, there won't be all these savings in play, but there's still a large group of people who are absolutely going to be in a low income bracket but able to make significant savings by being a bit savvier online, so it's all about the different gradations, and you're right, but that's probably not the entire bunch of people we're trying to reach. There's a whole other group of people: and lots of people that we're working with are holding down two jobs, 29% are employed and within that 30% have two jobs, they're working furiously hard and may well be able to make savings that they didn't realise they could be comparing prices across energy, car insurance, cheap flights, whatever it might be.Q:You've called thisraceonline2012– the target is to get all these people online by 2012.MLF:Yup. I think digital inclusion doesn't really mean anything to anybody, and people start to glaze over when I talk about digital inclusion, but 2012 is such a moment in British consciousness when the whole world is going to be looking at the country. Let's try, as well as being very good in lots of other areas, to try and be the most digitaly enabled society we can; really improve the choices that all of us face and give everybody their best shot at getting the best education they can, the best work they can by providing that fundamental bedrock of support that technology gives. It's ambitious but – why not?Q:I get the impression that you're not looking for the government to push this out – grassroots, peer to peer networks is what you keep saying...MLF:Absolutely, I don't think it's any one thing. I think private enterprise has lots to do in this and lots of companies are already doing stuff and I hope to do some more creative partnerships – Intel's doing a lot, Microsoft's doing a lot, we're doing some stuff with retailers, small thing as an example with Comet where for older customers who come in store they'll have a special training programme and advisers for old people because they find it terrifying trying to pick a computer. So that's the kind of project we like to be able to amplify. I think the charitable sector is a huge key to unlocking all of this, I have a small foundation, Antigone, and we give small amounts of cash to charities, but more valuable than the cash sometimes is sitting down and talking, do they need a website, how could they use technology in their organisation, so by enabling - the charities with the end user groups you get a trickle-through effect and it becomes a virtuous circle, so private enterprise, charitable sectorandobviously government I still think has a role, whether it's supporting existing initiatives like the UKOnline centres, the Home Access programme, or really thinking about if the savings are a billion a year on the most conservative estimates that the government could make by engaging with all this I can quite quickly could see an argument for saying why don't we just invest to help these people get online, because we're going to save the cost along the chain, I know it's quite easy for me to sit here and say that and it's much more complicated than that, but I think it's important to keep up the pressure on government to digitise itself, and investing in projects to help people, because it all becomes part of the change, the package that will create change.Q:So when you're talking to government, who are you talking to?MLF:Everybody that will listen to me.Q:Who is that?MLF:This now falls under broadly the Digital Britain stuff which Stephen Timms has taken responsibility for, it also falls under CLG [Communities and Local Government], that's where it first originated, I've met people from DWP [Work and Pensions], Home Office, Mayor's Office. I've been all over the place, because this is an issue that doesn't just affect one department, it's everybody's issue, and I think that if I, Martha, can add anything to this, it's just battering people at every level who will listen, and trying to keep the focus on it. Because I think - certainly when I talk to people I don't think it's in their consciousness that this is something we should be worrying about and something that makes so much logical sense for us, in terms of where we are economically right now as a country. So I hope those are the type of arguments that I can get out there.Q:There's a certain proportion though who are digital refuseniks, who don't want to go online, they're retired, they want to do some gardening, to meet their friends, they're entirely satisfiedMLF:Not saying those people aren't satisfied but they might not realise what they're missing out on, sometimes. Because I think it does come down to finding one passion or interest for you as an individual - you love gardening, well did you know you can probably find plants from all over the world by ordering them online, did you know that you can talk to people in other parts of the country about how they're growing particular plants? I think that you just have to find – I'm not suggesting that the whole of your life should be conducted online, but I do passionately believe that we are, this is not something that is stopping, it's getting faster and faster – I saw some statistics on the web the other day about how long it takes different technologies to reach 50 million people, this little video clip: TV took 10 years, the iPod took two years. It's just staggering and it isn't a tide that we can stop, so you can sit there and say there's nothing in it for me, but what concerns me is both people not being able to engage with the government in the same way as other people, or with commercial organisations or with each other, you're going to become more and more disenfranchised, and I care passionately about people who are alreadythe most disadvantaged not being given those opportunities. Of course there are probably always going to be a few people who will say it's not for me in the same way as some people said it's not for me...[interruption][resumes]MLF:...as long as you're encouraging people who are probably frightened and get more fearful as technology gets more entrenched...Q:Yet we have nearly 100% penetration of mobile phones which at one stage people found a bit threatening, a bit confusing. But pretty much everyone has those – isn't there a feeling rather as with mobile phones that permeated the whole population, that with computers as the children of today grow up that that will start to permeate? They'll see their friends using them, they'll find a way to use them if it's in the community centres or the libraries or wherever and get to them like that?MLF:Possibly - but I think there's also, as we say, 1.6 million children in digitally excluded families, so they're not learning from computers, and learning a mobile phone is a pretty different thing to being able to use the web, so - I'm an optimist, I think you're right, I think that the wave of technology will continue and will grow, but there's still some - um - backstops needed to be put in place to make sure there isn't a bunch of people that are always excluded and to make sure that become excluded not only from our society in other ways but also from the technological developments that might not be carried along with it.Q:What about the other problem that people in these socially excluded groups tend to face, which is that if you have a computer it becomes a target rather as you here [at DITF] came along one morning and found all your computers stolen?MLF:It was two of them - last time I ever Twitter anything, there was I thinking it's a collaborative community, it's come back to bite me. Possibly, but again, I can't believe the crime stats, I don't think that having your computer stolen is something that means you should be prevented from having access to that computer, I mean...Q:It does tend to cramp your style a bitMLF:It does tend to, but that seems a funny way to look at it – don't get a computer because it might get stolen.Q:It's more that the risk that your house would get targeted might go up...MLF:I don't believe poor people are criminals trying to steal each other's computers.Q:No, I'm not saying that, I'm saying that you become a target for the people who'd know that you're the one person in the street who has a computer... the word will get around to whoever it might be...MLF:Well, I think that's the extreme case, I don't think that's fundamentally how people operate. In all the communities that I've been into they're full of people who want to improve the chances for themselves and their families, and everything I've ever seen suggests that computers can help do that, and sure, you get some cases where people get stuff nicked, happens here, happens everywhere, but I don't think that in the communities that we're talking about that just because you get a computer you're going to be suddenly the extreme victim of crime. I think that's the wrong way of looking at the problem.Q:What do you think would be the best way of presenting this to the government? The cost of getting these families online, if you have 5m adults, buy a £500 computer, that's £2.5bn, you could make the case to the Treasury that the advantages far outweigh the cost...MLF:Yes, that's why one of the first pieces of work we wanted to do is about the economic case, for exactly that reason, because you may agree or disagree about the moral imperative in all of this but exactly as you point out the Treasury will need to be convinced of all this stuff and that's why ... this is the first time as far as I know all the economic arguments have been brought into one place, and I have to package that into a compelling case to government that there may be a case for more dramatic interventions, or just more consistent supporting of the projects that are already out there. So I believe that if our conservative estimates of £900m savings every year just by one contact being brought online by our target group – if it costs £1,000 to get someone online. Don't think it does cost that much – it's more complicated than that..Q:So do you have the lobbying position at the Treasury?MLF:I'll talk to anybody that will meet me.Q:Tends to be will they meet you?MLF:Well, they seem to be pretty open, the good news is that whichever party you're in, wherever you sit on the political spectrum, everybody is looking for ways to save money, and the transformation of government could help in plugging away at some of the enormous challenges we face in public finances, so it's a good time to be making these arguments, and I can't say I've had much resistance in getting people to listen, whether or not they'll act on them, I'll just need to keep making the arguments cohesively and coherently.Q:So who are you lobbying in the private sector and charity sector?MLF:We've got a taskforce that are helping – Intel, BT – we're working with others I've mentioned, Comet, Microsoft are doing a lot of stuff in this area, there's lots happening and we've got lots of partnerships, and when we've got our very basic website up that gives you information about the things we're doing ... then what I hope we can do is bring together people to think about things that are going well, how can they be replicated nationally, matching organisations that hadn't talked to each other before, and on top of that encouraging anybody that's got technical skills to pass them on to someone that hasn't. I'm sure all of us know someone that doesn't know how to use the web and taken that time to sit down and work with them to bring them up the hill.Q:Back to the political question - you were appointed by Gordon Brown...MLF:Um, I was appointed by Communities and Local Government, this came out of the 13 ... for a long time they'd been looking at how technology can help deprivation, Paul Murphy, secretary of state for Wales was also minister for digital inclusion, he left in a blaze of glory, and it's kind of moved around, and now it's Stephen Timms.Q:Is it an open-ended contract, if there were a change of government would you expect to remain in the role?MLF:The role is ring-fenced for two years, as you'd imagine I've been talking to the Tories a lot, I didn't take it as a party political statement, it's pretty uncontroversial I think, how to help deprivation by using technology, how to make sure we all get carried along by the digital divide, I think, er, the next government whoever it is needs to take seriously both the social moral and economic imperatives for doing all of this stuff, and I hope that what we're releasing today will continue to show people that it's worth looking at and investing in, and I can only do the best I can to get those messages out there.Q:And finally – people often criticise targets like carbon reduction for 2020, that they're set a long way off and have no intermediate targets. Have you set yourself annual targets for how you're going to get more and more people online?MLF:Yes – we are doing a... business plan sounds too crass when you're talking about the groups we're trying to reach, but we'll be mapping out exactly what we hope to achieve by the end of the year, and then the year and what we've done...Q:And that's going to be public?MLF:I will publish them online, yes, we'll have our detailed action plan published online, again, just to go back to. I'm being very realistic about what this office can achieve. There are many companies working in this space already, many charities, many public sector initiatives – what I see our role as doing is coordinating them where necessary, acting as a sort of intelligent hub, that's what I hope to do. Some of the visits I've been on to in local councils or when I've been visiting projects, people have come together that haven't even talked to each other in a relatively small area, whether it's councils talking to charities talking to other organisations, so just being able to be a catalyst for all that stuff I think is pretty important. But of course the bottom line here is are we getting more people online or not. So it's pretty easy to judge those numbers, so that's what I'll be judging our success on.Q:Martha Lane Fox, thank you very much.
It is one of the most eagerly awaited mobile phones of the year, the closest anyone has come to rivalling – perhaps besting – the iPhone, and for its creator it is a last throw of the dice, a make or break handset, an attempt by the company that sold many of us our first personal digital assistant (PDA) to recapture the glory days.So with all that in mind, the question is: why did Palm choose to make the Pre available exclusively on O2 in the UK?Most (though not quite all) of the problems with the Palm Pre are to do with a network that seems to have slowed down dramatically in the past few weeks, and I speak as an O2 customer who – despite living and working at different ends of central London – cannot get decent reception at home or in the office. I don't think in the week or so that I used the Pre it ever got five bars of wireless coverage.But switch on the Wi-Fi and suddenly one of the Pre's big selling points – multitasking – leaps into life. Applications, from browser pages and downloadable apps such as the Twitter client Tweed to email and the camera, appear as individual "cards" on the phone's screen. You no longer have to stare at a blank screen while waiting for your email to update or a webpage to load: you can go and do something else. The processor only seemed to suffer significant lag when scrolling through photos and playing music at the same time.Sticking music on the device involves plugging in a USB cable and dragging files over, given that Apple regularly cuts it out of iTunes. Migrating contacts was a doddle and it seamlessly merged phone contacts with Facebook.The touchscreen is as good as the iPhone's – though it is smaller, so webpages can be hard to read unless you switch to landscape mode – and ripples when an icon is touched help navigation.Palm has obviously taken some touch staples from Apple, such as zooming in by placing two fingers on the screen and moving them apart, but introduced some new variants such as a "gesture" zone at the bottom of the screen. This means that swiping from the small button at the bottom of the device to the left acts as a back button, while swiping the whole length in either direction moves between apps.The Palm store, by the way, is easy to navigate but sparsely populated.For a phone with a slide-out qwerty keyboard, the Pre is still surprisingly thin and light, but despite its polished black look it feels a bit plastic when the keyboard is out. Incidentally, the bottom ridge of the keyboard is weirdly sharp for a phone that is supposed to resemble a polished pebble.I know Americans love physical keyboards, but I can't help feeling the Pre would be better without it. I have never had issues with writing emails, texts or even newspaper copy with the onscreen keyboard on the iPhone.As with so many smartphones (including the iPhone), the Pre falls down when it is actually used for its basic purpose of making calls. The sound quality is poor – the person called sounds like they are stuck in a dustbin full of duvets – and reception is patchy, though again that may be O2's fault. Perhaps they are giving all their network capacity to the iPhone. If so, that is a terrible disservice to the Pre – by far the best of all the touchscreen devices to follow Apple's lead.Pros: Multitasking; great touchscreenCons: Under-stocked app store will have you looking in envy at iTunes; it's only available on O2's network at the momento2.co.uk/palmpre
Taiwan's biggest power company, telecom operator and IT firms are designing metering and communication systems to link air conditioners and lighting systems with computers and mobile phones. Efficiency gains from the scheme could save millions of tons of carbon emissions.The technologies will enable property owners to set "energy budgets" for their buildings, send electricity price change updates to consumers via cable TV or mobile phone, and let telecoms firms start providing power optimisation services. These systems are likely to be crucial to recently announced moves in Britain, the US and China to build "smart grids", because Taiwan  develops and manufactures many of the world's electronic chips and components.Taiwan Power, the island's utility, will launch a small-scale research study of less than 100 homes that will be rapidly expanded to tens of thousands of homes in the next two or three years."Taiwan is the place to do this because we already have a strong information infrastructure and we can manufacture fast and at low cost," said a government official. She estimated that the island could save 10% of its energy simply by switching off idle devices and another 10% to 20% through better management of air conditioning."Human beings are lazy," the official said. "If you make adjustments automatically, then you can save a great deal."In trials, Taiwan Power is experimenting with wireless devices so smart meters can communicate with all the devices in a house. Ho Wu-chi of the government's Industrial Technology Research Institute said Taiwan aims to develop a two-way system of communication between electricity suppliers and users.Consumers will receive frequent updates of price fluctuations so they can trim usage at peak times. While the UK aims to do this through dedicated displays in each house, Taiwan wants to do it more cheaply by using existing devices such as cable TV, mobile phones and computers."We are putting in place a smart meter policy. If we want to go into the international market, we have to show first that we can do it ourselves," said Ho. Within five years, he predicted that more than 5m smart meters will be installed at a cost of NT$50bn (£0.98bn).In the international market, the business potential is enormous. For each of the next 30 years, Ho estimates the world will need 30m meters, each retailing for between US$50 and US$100.
The first step to saving energy is changing behaviour in the home, and Oxford University engineers think they have the answer. Malcolm McCulloch and Jim Donaldson of the university's engineering department have designed a "smart" electricity meter that can automatically tell which appliances are on and how much energy they are consuming. They hope that, by itemising a home's power use and making wasted energy visible, people could act to reduce their energy bills and carbon footprint.According to a survey by theEnergy Saving Trust(EST), eight out of 10 people in England do not know what they are paying for their gas and electricity. The trust also calculates that, if everyone in England switched to smart meters, which allow householders to see how much energy they are using, they would save £985m a year between them.Measure of the problemThe EST chief executive, Philip Sellwood, says the way people use energy in their homes at the moment seems hard to believe, especially in the context of recent rises in household fuel bills. "Most people would never sign a mobile phone contract if they didn't know how much it would cost. Similarly, you wouldn't shop every week and then get the bill three months later and just hope you could pay for it. Smart meters help householders work out how much energy they are using, how much they are paying for it as well as showing in real time which appliances are producing the most CO2."Though modern smart meters can tell people their energy consumption over a given time, the information they provide is often of little practical use."If you're faced with the task of reducing your energy bills, you can look at a graph of your energy consumption but just because it's 7kW, that doesn't mean a lot to many people," said Donaldson, the chief technology officer ofIntelligent Sustainable Energy(ISE), the spin-out company from Oxford that will bring the new meter to market."It's much better to say 'that's because you've got these lights on, the TV on, that heater' and it allows people to understand exactly where their energy is going so they can change their behaviour."The ISE meter is more sophisticated than those currently available, which tend only to give a readout of total energy use at a given time – it can analyse the patterns of electricity coming into a home and uses a software algorithm that works out exactly which appliance is using the power.McCulloch said the information from the meter would allow householders to make informed decisions about their energy use. "For instance, if the amount of electricity your washing machine uses increases considerably, this might indicate that it will be more cost-effective and carbon-efficient to replace it. If there's a spike in the amount used by the fridge, maybe the door has been left open."Donaldson says there are a number of ways the information collected by the meter could be presented to users. "You may have a login so you can see your detailed energy usage through a web portal. It could be like your phone bill."A prototype ISE smart meter has been on test in several Oxford homes for most of this year. More than 1,000 days of energy&nbsp;data have been analysed, equating to about 27,000 hours&nbsp;by the technical team.&nbsp;By using the appliance monitoring data and understanding what energy their appliances were using,&nbsp;users were able to make potential savings of up to 20% on their energy consumption.Appliance monitoring data can be displayed through an in-home display, PC/laptop, TV screen or iPhone application.&nbsp;The information could also be sent to the user's energy supplier which could provide them with itemised bills.If all goes well, the technology will be integrated into a device called the Smart Hub, which will be able track electricity, gas and water use for an entire household by plugging it into the meters already installed in a property. It will be manufactured byNavetas Energy Management, a co-investor of the ISE technology.Getting smartTrials so far have shown the software can can&nbsp;identify which appliances are consuming&nbsp;more than 85% of all the&nbsp;energy used&nbsp;in the home. "But if you plug something very small such as a phone charger in, it may say there's something drawing energy but I don't have enough information to tell you what it is," said Donaldson.It is a promising start. Navetas hopes that, once trials are completed next year, one of the major electricity suppliers might option the technology for its customers.  They have also come up with a technical solution for the UK smart gas metering market.Friends of the Earth's head of UK climate, Ed Matthew, welcomed the Oxford team's development, saying that sophisticated smart meters such as this will play a useful role in helping households to understand their carbon footprint and reduce their energy consumption. "But the key responsibility for tackling household emissions lies with government – carbon emissions and energy bills could be cut by two-thirds by a massive national programme to super insulate all our homes street by street."Sellwood adds that household energy consumption is ripe for change. "The lack of transparency surrounding energy usage is one of the biggest problems holding back the UK's fight against climate change. Without the uptake of smart metering, this situation in not going to change any time soon."
Money. The stuff that makes the world go round. Every day we earn it, spend it, exchange it and lose it. But you won't find any Linden dollars, Eve ISK or Facebook credits down the back of the couch.Virtual currencies like these are used for transactions in online worlds and social networking sites. While real-world currencies are on the slide, many virtual ones are going from strength to strength. In the second quarter of the year the equivalent of $144m (£91m) wastradedon the LindeX, theofficial currency exchange of Second Life, where residents buy and sell Linden dollars for their US counterpart – a 20% increase on the previous quarter, while the US economy shrank by 1%. Trading activity increased by 6% in the last quarter of 2008."New ideas about money are beginning to evolve," says Dave Birch, a director of Consult Hyperion, a management consultancy that specialises in electronic transactions. "You'd have a tough job convincing me that the pound is any more 'real' than World of Warcraft gold. Where is your starting point? The UK hasn't had a gold standard for the past three generations."Old money, new moneyIt's not the first time that virtual currencies have been mooted as the future of online payments. Several were launched in the late 1990s; but the likes of Beenz and Flooz were doomed to failure, suffering fraud and lack of consumer interest.Lisa Rutherford, president of Twofish, which manages virtual economies for social, gaming and entertainment services, says the online landscape has changed. "If you've going to do a large-scale universal currency, you need to have a certain level of scale, and it needs to be serving a certain purpose. That's really what the fundamental shift has been."Massively multiplayer online games have long featured complex virtual economies where players can purchase items and skills for their avatars. In Second Life, US dollars can be converted into Linden dollars and vice versa through channels in the virtual environment. Eve Online, however, operates a closed system: ISK brought by the player can only be used in the virtual environment, and conversion into real-world currency is prohibited.Users caught breaching the rules are banned, but a black market has developed nonetheless; a Google search for "Eve ISK" lists hundreds of websites selling it along with other virtual currencies.Eve Online's economy is now more or less player driven, says Eyjólfur Guðmundsson, a PhD economist who works for Eve Online's developer, CCP. "It is simply monitored by us just like any other economy in the real world is by a central bank, finance minister or national economic institute."Without careful oversight, cash can accumulate in the system, causing inflation. Linden Lab uses several controls to keep the exchange rate in Second Life relatively stable at about 265 to the US dollar. These include the pricing and promotion of various "sinks", such as the cost of uploading content or posting classified ads, which remove currency from circulation. The volume of new Linden dollars available for purchase can also be adjusted.Second Life's European residents pay VAT on some purchases in order to comply with EU tax regulations, and virtual economies could also be subject to further taxation in future."The controversy is whether taxable income is in fact created at the point when you obtain the virtual assets," says Vili Lehdonvirta, a researcher at theHelsinki Institute for Information Technology who studies virtual economies and goods.Despite careful oversight, even virtual worlds are not immune to financial chicanery. Allegations of a massive theft recently started a run on EBANK, which handled deposits in Eve Online's ISK currency. One of the bank's founders was accused of stealing about 250 billion ISK, exchanging it for £3,115. A similar incident in Second Life led Linden Lab to prohibit residents from offering interest or any direct return on an investment without proof of "an applicable government registration statement or financial institution charter".Lehdonvirta expects to see further regulation of virtual banking. "This is the direction it&nbsp;needs to go in the future if these virtual currencies are to be used as a serious platform for commerce," he says.While some entrepreneurs keep a significant balance in their virtual accounts, most people have a relatively small amount stored online. "For example, while Second Life residents hold roughly $25m in Linden dollars, this is spread across millions of accounts," says Tom Hale, chief product officer at Linden Lab.Big in ChinaBy comparison, China has taken to virtual currencies in a big way. Last year nearly $2bn of virtual money changed hands in the country, according to the China Internet Network Information Centre. Most virtual currency is spent on virtual items, but Chinese consumers also use it to purchase physical goods and services – a practice the Chinese government recently clamped down on.Social networks have also launched their own currencies. Facebook credits can be used to buy virtual gifts – such as cupcakes, toys and flowers – from the Facebook Gift Shop. Select developers may soon be able to incorporate Facebook credits into their games and applications, with Facebook getting a cut of the profits. Business Week recently reported that Zynga, creators of the Mafia Wars Facebook game, could make $100m from its virtual offerings this year, mostly from Facebook sales.Startups such as Jambool and Spare Change have launched virtual currencies that are interoperable across a range of games, applications and social networks, but Twofish's Rutherford believes only a company of Facebook's size can deliver the "brand promise" that would give a universal currency widespread appeal. Hale thinks that eventually there will be "a few dominant virtual currencies that by dint of their size become exchange currencies, just as the US dollar is to the global economy today".With faith in real-world currencies shaken by the financial crisis, perhaps virtual ones will find a more receptive mainstream audience in future.
A few months ago, the mayor of San Francisco met some of the city's leading technology entrepreneurs. On the surface, it looked like little more than a photo opportunity – a chance for the smooth and ambitious mayor, Gavin Newsom, to smile and glad-hand with Twitter and a string of other hot internet companies. But signs soon emerged that something more fundamental was taking place.A couple of months later, city officials announced the launch ofDataSF.org, a repository for thousands of pieces of information pouring out of local government. "The idea behind the site is to open up San Francisco government and tap into the creative expertise of our greatest resource – our residents," said Newsom at the launch in August. He hoped for "a torrent of innovation" such as those on the iPhone and Facebook app platforms.DataSF.org makes publicly available more than 100 data sets from local government, including from the police, the transport authority and public works."It makes sense," says Brian Purchia, Newsom's deputy communications director. "It's the public's data."Two months after it launched, the project is already reaping rewards from San Francisco's huge community of programmers. Applications using the data include Routesy, which offers directions based on real-time city transport feeds; and EcoFinder, which points you to the nearest recycling site for a given item.One company, SpatialKey, has created a visualisation tool thatlets residents checkfor drug offences taking place near schools. The local data service EveryBlock, meanwhile, is helping residents track calls to311, the number used for requests to fix broken streetlights, potholes, blocked drains and the like .For Purchia, the 311 tracker is particular proof of the value of openness. "The mayor and I had been working for nearly a year and a half to get something similar made, in government, and we couldn't do it," he says. "We want to increase transparency but we want to engage the developer community to make government work better for all of us."He says that while the city's initial attempts to reach out to residents through technology – mostly using social networks – were interesting, they quickly realised that such schemes would not really change local politics. DataSF, on the other hand, could make more informed and government more accountable.For many in the US, the opening up of official information – "government 2.0" – is an idea whose time has come. Such efforts have been pushed forward by activist groups and elevated by the election of Barack Obama, who made data transparency a part of his campaign. The subsequent launch of the White House'sdata.govand a string of other federal projects has won many admirers.Pressure from the top has been useful. While hackers had found ways to access and use municipal data, accurate and timely official information is better.One example isCrimespotting.org, a website which lets users map out crimes around a city. It originally launched in Oakland, California, with data from various sources – but with official information, as in San Francisco, it can be faster and more accurate."We're thrilled that the city of San Francisco is defying convention by pre-emptively releasing data about its operations," said Shawn Allen, a partner at the local design studio Stamen, who helped create the site.In the near term, DataSF's future involves building awareness and applications. A new showcase of projects is being put together, as well as a day-long software competition in November.But is it more important to gather further data, or to do more useful things with the information already there?"It's a combination of both," says Purchia. "From our end, we need to continue to work with departments to get as much data as we can available – that's the key for any of this. We've got 100 data sets, which is great. It's a start, but there's so much out there. It's challenging: this is a bureaucracy, it's government – but this is San Francisco, it is the tech capital of the world."Given that, it is easy to suspect that DataSF is a one-off, born from San Francisco's unique combination of strongly liberal politics and a thriving community of technologists. While it remains largely unproven, it is understandable that others may think their less technically minded area would not be able to gather support."I understand the argument a little bit, but our phones have been off the hook from cities all across the country wanting to do the same thing," says Purchia."You're not going to have the same high concentration that we have in San Francisco, but every city and town has people that want to make a difference in local government and have technology skills."Programmers don't have to live in a city to use its data, he notes, and apps can be tweaked to work in different places.In fact, those looking to follow the DataSF model may not face as many obstacles as the original  did. San Francisco's City Hall is riven by the machinations of diverse social and ethnic blocs, and the area's politics can decline into expensive posturing: one recent referendum among city residents attempted to get a sewage plant named after George W Bush. SF is also one of the largest cities in a state that has been on the brink of financial collapse for some time.Whatever the impediments to progress, Purchia points out that the most important barrier was not really expense. Most of the data exists already, he says – just not in a format that developers can use."The cost is there, but most of it is just man hours."
Some people take to becoming a fugitive like a duck to water. They lie low, go out only in disguise, even create whole new identities. Others, it would appear, do not.Take the case of Maxi Sopo, a 26-year-old criminal in hiding in Mexico who not only used his Facebook status to tell all and sundry what a good time he was having, but also made the somewhat elementary error of adding a former justice department official to his list of friends.In status updates from Cancun, where the Cameroon-born fugitive was on the run from charges of bank fraud in Seattle, he said he was "living in paradise" and "loving it".Michael Scoville, the assistant US attorney who helped find the fugitive, described how Sopo's updates described his lazy days on the beach and wild nights on the town. "He was making posts about how beautiful life is and how he was having a good time with his buddies," Scoville said. "He was definitely not living the way we wanted him to be living, given the charges he was facing."With spectacular lack of caution, and in capital letters just in case anyone should miss the sentiment, on June 21 he wrote: "LIFE IS VERY SIMPLE REALLY!!!! BUT SOME OF US HUMANS MAKE A MESS OF IT ... REMEMBER AM JUST HERE TO HAVE FUN PARTEEEEEEE."Sopo, who arrived in the US in about 2003, made a living selling roses in Seattle nightclubs until, according to prosecutors, he moved on to bank fraud. He apparently drove a rented car to Mexico in late February after learning that federal agents were investigating the fraud scheme.Investigators scoured social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace but initially could find no trace of him and were unable to pin down his location in Mexico.Several months later, a secret service agent, Seth Reeg, checked Facebook again and up popped MaxiSopo. His photo showed him partying in front of a backdrop featuring logos of BMW and Courvoisier cognac, sporting a black jacket adorned with a not-so-subtle white lion.Although Sopo's profile was set to private, his list of friends was not. Scoville started combing through it and was surprised to see that one friend listed an affiliation with the justice department. He sent a message requesting a phone call."We figured this was a person we could probably trust to keep our inquiry discreet," Scoville said.Proving the 2.0 adage that a friend on Facebook is rarely a friend indeed, the former official said he had met Sopo in Cancun's nightclubs a few times, but did not really know him and had no idea he was a fugitive. The official learned where Sopo was living and passed that information back to Scoville, who provided it to Mexican authorities. They arrested Sopo last month.He had been living in an apartment complex, working at a hotel and partying at Cancun's beaches, pools and nightclubs, Scoville said.Sopo is accused of masterminding a bank fraud scheme with Edward Asatoorians, who was convicted by a federal jury in Seattle last week. The court heard that the pair persuaded young co-conspirators to lie about their income to get loans to buy imaginary cars, and then used the money to prop up Asatoorians's business and to take an expensive trip to Las Vegas.Asatoorians is expected to be sentenced to at least five years in prison. If convicted, Sopo could face up to 30 years. Whether the US authorities will allow him to update his status should that happen remains to be seen.• This article was amended on Friday 16 October 2009.  "They lay low" has been corrected to "lie low"
Behind the desk where Martha Lane Fox works at theDigital Inclusion Task Force– in an office right next door to Private Eye in Soho, London – is a map with a handful of tags on it: blue, yellow, red. One set is labelled "Beacons"; another "Martha's visits"; the third, "Not-spots". It's a map of division, indicating how people are failing to join the computer revolution that has been sweeping through our lives for more than 20 years now – driven by characters such as Sir Clive Sinclair, whose overriding ambition was to make computers affordable for everyone, and Chris Curry, whose Acorn Computers won the BBC Micro contract in 1982.Lane Fox has a case to make: that despite all those efforts over the past 25 years there are at least 10 million adults in the UK who have never been online; that there are another 1.6 million children whose earning potential is being stunted. And that £900m every year of government customer service costs would be saved if all those 10 million were to interact just once a month via computer, rather than by phone or face to face.Appointed in June, she is the new face of "digital inclusion" – the glass-half-full approach to what has for years been called the "digital divide", between those who do and those don't use the internet. You may have thought the digital divide had somehow gone away as mobile phones achieved 100% penetration, but it simply transmuted into the target of a task force – in this case, the Digital Inclusion Task Force (DITF), to which Lane Fox was appointed "champion" on a two-year contract.Her principal target is the group of 4&nbsp;million "socially excluded" people who not only aren't online, but fall short in many other areas – health, education, income, housing. They are the ones who could be helped the most, according to this perspective, by employing computers in their lives.But is connectivity the whole story? On a per-person basis,the UK ranked 18th in the world in 2007with 661 out of every 1,000 people connected; that leaves us behind countries such as Antigua and Barbuda, Bermuda, the Faroe Islands and Iceland, and just ahead of Macau. Yet that connectivity hasn't necessarily solved their socioeconomic imbalances.However, now she has a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) that puts numbers to the cost of the digitally excluded. Non-connected households are missing out on "average savings of £560 a year" from shopping and bill-paying online; those 1.6 million unconnected children would increase their lifetime earnings by £10.8bn; unemployed people who get online could increase their lifetime earnings by more than £12,000; the government would make efficiencies of £1.77bn.Numbers breakdownThe numbers look staggering at first, but Lane Fox – who is co-founder of lastminute.com, one of the darlings of the first dotcom boom, and a non-executive director of Marks &amp; Spencer and Channel&nbsp;4 – seems oddly unfamiliar with them; if she were a government minister, you'd think she was on her second day in the job, rather than her fourth month. She can't offer a regional breakdown of where the disconnected live (though she points out that "it's primarily an urban problem") and she is a bit shaky on the calculations behind some of the figures.For instance, 1.6 million children earning £10.8bn over their lifetime only translates to £6,750 each over a 50-year working lifespan (leave school at 16, retire at 66): that's £135 a year. Is that really worth putting forward as a case? Surely the numbers ought to be much, much bigger?"If you think that's conservative, well, great – I think we're being realistic that in our group of 4 million, they're not people who are going to be earning £40,000 a year, over their lifetime, they're more likely to be able to earn £8,000, if you're taking the most conservative estimate of a 3% uplift to your salary [a figure that doesn't appear in the release provided to the press]."We're not trying to pick wild numbers that will seem insane and get headlines with them. These are based on pretty conservative, logical trains of thought. The important thing is that to an individual who's earning not very much in a year, every pound extra is extremely important, and therefore it's important that we fight for the right to get that."Certainly – but if one goes to the Treasury's mandarins, who are announcing a multibillion-pound sell-off of assets that may cover a month's budget deficit, and present a case that digital inclusion is costing people £135 a year, you may get short shrift.It's only later, when I talk to Mark Ambler of PWC, who directed the study, that he explains that the calculation doesn't assume that every child will benefit. In fact, only 4.5% are assumed to – which makes their uplift a rather more substantial £3,000 annually. It's odd that Lane Fox wasn't familiar with this.The benefits systemSimilarly, the headline number of £560 per household suggests savings will be in "energy [purchases], insurance, clothing and package holidays". I suggest to Lane Fox that while many middle class homes can make substantial benefits from internet shopping, there's little chance if your electricity goes into a prepay meter, insurance is pointless, clothes come by mail order (or discount stores) and package holidays are a dream. Aren't those realities for the 10 million?She points out that for the lowest-paid households, the estimated saving is £300 annually: "People are still able to save money by comparing prices, by having better informed choices."There's a certain impasse. It's not clear how, from the offices in London, one can really know what the lives of the people who aren't connected is like. Would giving them computers for free not be simplest? The investment would pay back rapidly."That's why one of the first pieces of work we wanted to do is about the economic case, for exactly that reason. Because you may agree or disagree about the moral imperative in all of this, but, exactly as you point out, the Treasury will need to be convinced of all this stuff. This is the first time, as far as I know, all the economic arguments have been brought into one place, and I have to package that into a compelling case to government that there may be a case for more dramatic interventions, or just more consistent supporting of the projects that are already out there."So who is she lobbying in the Treasury? "I'll talk to anybody that will meet me," she says. But that's not how lobbying works. You need to have someone's ear, surely. "Well, the good news is that whichever party you're in, everybody is looking for ways to save money … I can't say I've had much resistance in getting people to listen." But of course Whitehall is the palace of listening. It's less good at action.The DITF generally carries the air of a work barely begun – which wasn't helped bya break-in) that led to computers being stolen last month. The lofty aim is to get everyone online in time for the 2012 Olympics: "It's such a moment in British consciousness, when the whole world is going to be looking at the country; let's try, as well as being very good in lots of other areas to try to be the most digitally enabled society we can," says Lane Fox: "it's ambitious but – why not."She pledges she will publish her interim annual targets (which experience shows are necessary for such aims to succeed). The suspicion remains that these problems are not about computers; that going online is not the solution but just an effect of solving this group's wider problems.Making a connectionOne of the biggest groups not online is those over 65, making up 40% of the unconnected. Perhaps they're happy being offline, I suggest? No, she says, there's always benefit from finding other communities. She mentions how one group she visited said: "Look, we're saving you lots of money because we're not in nursing homes!" Clearly, people recognise how being online can help.Does she worry that it's a political appointment that could be swept away by a Tory election win? "The role is ringfenced for two years," she says. "As you'd imagine, I've been talking to the Tories a lot. I didn't take [the job] as a party political statement; it's pretty uncontroversial, I think, how to help deprivation by using technology."Possibly the problems in getting people online is not to do with their attitude to computers, but computers' attitude to them. Lane Fox recalls going to see a group of pensioners who were being given computer training. "The biggest obstacle, the thing they couldn't get their heads around, was that you had to click on the 'Start' button to turn the computer off. It just didn't make sense to them."Somehow it seems indicative of the problems she faces: not only is she dealing with recalcitrant non-users, but with recalcitrant interfaces. For the disconnected, Lane Fox is still searching for the right buttons to press. Whether she can find them during her two-year tenure – which will come up for renewal with her goal still at least half a year away – will be interesting to watch.
Was it really that long ago? Yes, Sega'sDreamcast consolelaunched in Europe  on October 14th 1999. The first console to include a built in modem, the Dreamcast was arguably way ahead of its time. You probably know what happened next but essentially the console was squeezed out by the impending launch of Playstation 2 - this was when Playstation was THE gaming brand remember - and subsequent lack of support from EA.  But let's have no sadness or regret here, instead let's have your finest Dreamcast memories.For me the Dreamcast will always be special. I'd only started writing about games a few months before and the Dreamcast was the first console launch I covered. I remember getting the EU console a few weeks before launch, firing up Sonic and thinking that the Dreamcast was the future of gaming. Blame youthful excitement for that one but the DC did at least get one thing right - online. For me the Dreamcast will forever be associated withPhantasy Star Online. The online RPG was, frankly, amazing for its time. YesEverquestand the like had gained an audience on the PC but PSO on the Dreamcast was playing with your friends - seeing their avatars on the TV with their speech bubbles was amazing enough - while sitting on the couch. Laughable now, but in 2000 this all felt like a huge step forward. This was back in the dialup internet access days which meant it cost a ton to play and locked up the phone while doing so. But the expense and hassle were all worth it.Dreamcast then - did you have one? What memories do you have of the console? Did you buy it on launch day ten years ago?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
I don't know if you're a fan of Seth MacFarlane, the impresario behind a succession of hit animated series like Family Guy and American Dad. (he's just launched The Cleveland Show in the US and also made an appearance inFlashForward, "the new Lost", but I digress).MacFarlane's made his name as a smart-mouthed comedian with a rather savvy business streak: a recent $100m deal with the Fox network made him the highest-paid TV producer ever. Now he's found another way to cash in on his current success.According to this report inAdvertising Age, he's signed a deal with Microsoft to sponsor a variety show featuring MacFarlane and his Family Guy pals that's going to be broadcast on Fox. The programme, due to be shown on November 8 in America, won't have any ads: instead they'll be weaving in promotions for Windows 7 along the way.And we're not just talking "brought to you in assocation with", either. Oh no, says AdAge:"You'll see us deeply integrated into the content ... you'll hear a lot about how Windows 7 can help you simplify your PC -- it's simple, fast and easy to use," said Gayle Troberman, general manager of consumer engagement and advertising at Microsoft. She went on: "Think about metaphors and examples we might use, talking about how simple things are. We'll be evoking the cast of 'Family Guy' in some interesting ways that integrate the product messages."This sort of thing couldn't happen on British TV, of course, given the rules on product placement and sponsorship. But I can't help wondering what it will look like.Followers of the blog will know I'mmore thanalittle fascinatedbyMicrosoft's marketing techniquesfor Windows 7, and this is certainly an interesting approach.McFarlane might have a certain cool factor that Microsoft wants to tap into - but how on earth are they going to stop it being anything more than an informercial?
Music blogging website MOG has become the latest to try and push its way into the crowded digital music space, by announcing plans to launch an online jukebox service.The site - which started in 2006 and boasts more than 8.5m users  - says it will launch its own streaming music service later this year for American customers, after securing deals with all four of the major record labels.The service will give customers who pay $5 (£3.14) each month the chance to access millions of tracks on demand - a scheme that will put it in direct competition with rivals like Real's Rhapsody and the re-invented Napster.com.Details of MOG's so-called All Access scheme remain relatively light, but chief executive David Hyman said that he planned to "set the music bar" with an offering that could mount a substantial challenge to existing services."We're providing access to millions of songs with a drop dead easy way to hear any song or album you like in an instant, from the convenience of your web browser," he said.It remains unclear, however, how MOG will compete against similar services which already provide on-demand music streaming for free - albeit funded in part by advertising. Major players in the field include MySpace Music and fast-growing European music service Spotify, whichplans to launch in the US in the near future.In addition, the jury is still out on subscription services, which - despite having been attempted many times - have failed to live up to their potential. Hit with consumer apathy towards monthly fees, as well as high royalty payments for on-demand music delivery online, many of them havefound it difficult to make ends meet.Even the recent success of Spotify, a startup based in London and Stockholm that has gathered more than 10 million users around Europe in less than a year, does not mean that the problem of cost has yet been cracked.Last week Spotify co-founder Daniel Ek said that the companyrequired more timeif it was to find a business model that was sustainable in the long term."The notion of overnight success is very misleading and actually rather harmful to any hope for long term and sustainable growth in this industry," he wrote in ablogpost on the Spotify website. "Yet this is unfortunately something the music industry as a whole is particularly good at, expecting business models to be proven within months of inception."With streaming services finding income hard to come by, the dominant form of profitable online music remains pay-per-track purchases offered by the likes of Apple's iTunes and, more recently, Amazon.However, MOG has significant financial backing, having so far raised more than $12m (£7.5m) in funding from a variety of investors - including major labels Sony BMG and Universal Music Group, who were part of a $2.8m cash injection last year.
&bull; Are things brightening up across the technology industry? That was certainly the message fromIntelwhichannounced surprisingly positive quarterly financialson Tuesday. Although income and profit fell around 8% from the same time last year, the figures were ahead of estimates - and chief executive Paul Otellini was bullish that would be up again over the coming three months.&bull; We mentionedCernearlier in the week after it emerged thatone engineer working on the Large Hadron Collider had links to al-Qaida. But the New York Times outlines the bizarre theory of two physicists that problems with the LHC arein fact the result of actions in the future to prevent discovery of the Higgs boson. Why? They postulate that it "might be so abhorrent to nature that its creation would ripple backward through time and stop the collider before it could make one, like a time traveler who goes back in time to kill his grandfather". Perhaps they've been watching a lot of Lost recently.&bull; Before you go, a quick plug for thelatest episodeof ourTech Weekly podcast: featuring an interview with Martha Lane Fox, a look at the popularity of the Arduino platform and - after the BBC's Micro Men drama - the thoughts of Vic Keegan on Britain's computer boom of the 1980s. Hosted by yours truly, you canlisten here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
