Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Joy stick: classic Atari. Photograph:Mr Bill, used under Creative Commons licenceSilicon Valley Insiderhas pointed outthe latest gloomy financial results from Atari. They've given up making games, and according to the insider, "all that's left at this point is a firesale of its remaining asset - its iconic brand and logo".Atari was, of course, one of the earliest names in gaming. Founder Nolan Bushnell, an arcade magnate, is perhaps still best known the creator of Pong. The company also had a part to play in Apple's genesis (Steves Wozniak and Jobsworked on Breakoutfor the company before going on to found their own business).After working its way into gamers' hearts with in the early 1980s, Atari split in half, with one side of the business focusing on games and the other making computer hardware.Both of those businesses have endured pretty tough times. Atari Corporation (the hardware business) merged and then folded in the late 90s, while Atari's gaming business has been resold a number of times. Now it's sold off nearly all its development assets, as the company's financial statements show:Beginning in 2005, because of cash constraints, we substantially reduced our involvement in development of video games, and announced plans to divest ourselves of our internal development studios.During fiscal 2006 and 2007, we sold a number of intellectual properties and development facilities in order to obtain cash to fund our operations. During fiscal 2007, we raised approximately $35.0 million through the sale of the rights to the Driver games and certain other intellectual property, and the sale of our Reflections Interactive Ltd. ("Reflections") and Shiny Entertainment ("Shiny") studios.By the end of fiscal 2007, we did not own any development studios.It's not pretty reading.Of course, Atari's not alone in all this. So many of the companies from the 1980s boom are gone, or radically altered, that they probably carry almost no meaning (I'm thinking of Sega, Commodore, Sinclair, Amstrad and even IBM, which sold off its PC division to Lenovo).Of those computer and gaming pioneers that were household names twenty five years ago, I can only think of Apple, Nintendo and Microsoft in the same sort of business as they were 25 years ago.But even though the Atari name may still hold acertain place in the heartsof some old timers, I wonder whether it actually means anything to anyone any more. Whoever buys the "iconic brand" will find it hard to revive; and that's if they even try.If Atari does disappear completely, will you shed a tear? Or is it already too late for that?
Sony's ultraportable carbon-fibre notebook PC, the Vaio TZ191N, has been reviewed in ComputerWorld (Sony's flash-based notebook -- a road warrior's dream) in a version with a solid state drive (SSD). These have been the coming thing for roughly 20 years, but the chip guys are still way behind the platter guys on price per megabyte.The review sample has a 32GB drive. With software installed, the reviewer ends up with only 10.2GB free, even after removing the spamware. That's not a lot for a $3,100 (discount) machine. Of course, you can get a 48GB or 64GB SSD, but the latter pushes the price up to $4,000 (list). This version is actually ranked "most popular" on theSony Stylesite, but I'd bet they don't sell all that many. The people who'd really like one (eg journalists) can't afford one.In the US, the TZ ultraportable range now includes nine models, and they come in Champagne Gold and Bordeaux Red, as well as boring old black or white.
Companies could be infringing privacy if they dig up information about job applicants from social networking websites, an internet expert has warned.John Carr, chairman of the UK Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety, believes that employers and education officials could be crossing the line when they look up information about applicants on the web."There are lots of rumours about young job applicants being screened on Google or even university tutors looking at people applying for further education," he said."If that really is happening, then it could be illegal - when the kids are posting a picture of a party, they are only doing it to let their mates look. They are not doing it for an application form."Britain's data protection laws are intended to prevent private information about individuals from being used without their knowledge or control. Regulators say that accessing publicly available information over the internet would not necessarily breach the law, and that it remains the duty of the individual to protect information they put online."Essentially if an individual - a potential employer or university tutor - looked at someone else's profile on a social networking site, it would not be a breach of data protection," said a spokeswoman for the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), Britain's privacy watchdog.However, it remains unclear whether organisations covertly accessing people's private web pages or email accounts would constitute a breach of the law. Last week the ICO issued guidance to users of social networking sites such as Facebook and Bebo, urging them to take their privacy more seriously. A survey found that although 71% of 14- to 21-year-olds did not want their future employers to look at their profiles on social networking sites, only 40% realised that their online activities could be traced indefinitely.The trend for potential employers to look to the web to find out more about applicants is growing, while officials are cracking down more heavily on social networking activities. More than 1,700 public sector employees have been sacked or disciplined for their use of the internet or email in the past three years.Earlier this year the owner of data search company Infofind was found guilty of impersonating officials from the Department for Work and Pensions to gather information about 250 people. The data was sold to debt collection agencies for as much as &pound;1,000 a time. The company was fined &pound;3,200 and ordered to pay &pound;5,000 in costs.
A message from Johnny Chatterton, one of the UK organisers of the campaign to support therecent protestsfor democracy in Burma, points out a new(ish) website dedicated to keeping up the public pressure.We set the site up so that people could show that even though the press has moved on they haven't forgotten Burma. People have been submitting images from all over the world to the site... it's in the same vein as sorryeverybody.comAs he says,Don't Forget Burmais very similar to Sorry Everbody, thejokey websiteset up after George Bush won the 2004 US election.It's not clear how much impact these acts of online solidarity have, but it's worth it just to keep these things on your radar.
On this blog and in the Technology section of the paper, we haveoftenpontificated about the underlying dogmas which innocent computer games promote. Some, likeLeft BehindorSpecial Force, are not so subtle. Even consumerist simulation Sim City (or any one of The Sims franchises) doesn't disguise itself from what it truly is: a digital propaganda machine dressed up in entertainment clothing. Last week we wrote about thehidden religious messagesin innocent titles like Pikmin and Halo; previously we have discussed the emergence ofracial and gender stereotypesin World of Warcraft. But never has there been a list as conclusive asthis, fromGamerHelp. Among the sheep in electronic clothing:Pac-Man The premise: As the disc shaped Pac-Man, you have to clear various mazes of pellets while avoiding contact with four enemy ghosts. The Hidden Truth: Consume or die.Super Mario Bros. The premise: A chubby, moustachioed plumber named Mario must save Princess Peach from King Bowser. The Hidden Truth: Guys will do pretty much anything if there's a pretty girl involved.and the most revealing:The Sims The premise: Take control of your Sim avatar and run every aspect of their life. The Hidden Truth: God allows bad things to happen because they're more interesting.Who knew?
I've been away for a few days so missed out on last week'sJeff Minternews. Minter? Older readers - in gaming terms that means the over 30s, sadly - will remember Minter from 80s hippycode classicsSheep in SpaceandAttack of the Mutant Camels. Younger readers experiencing Minter for the first time through his latest game -Space Giraffeon Xbox Live Arcade - may be wondering what the fuss was all about. Giraffe, aTempestinfluenced shooter, haspolarised opinionwith sales suffering accordingly. The veteran coder wrote anangry post on his blogcomplaining that ancient arcade title Frogger had outsold Space Giraffe by over "ten to one".He continued, "OK, we get the message. All you want on that channel is remakes of old, shite arcade games and crap you vaguely remember playing on your Amiga. ... We'll shut up trying to do anything new then."The latest post cools down a little but clearly Minter is aggrieved by users desire to, " buy stuff they remember rather than stuff that's new." Now I've no idea on official sales figures - I'll try and get something out of Microsoft - but Space Giraffe's underperformance is hardly a surprise. The demo didn't do the game any favours - Giraffe's action isn't an instant pick up and play - and you can imagine those who decided to buy doing so because of Minter's reputation as much as anything.There are other issues too. Live Arcade's cumbersome navigation - this is one of the few areas that the Playstation store does better - makes it difficult to find games when they have moved from the "what's new" section. And a quick look today shows Pac Man, which was released months ago on Live, at the top of that page. So maybe Minter does have a point. But elsewhere, when he fends off criticism of Space Giraffe's difficulty bybemoaningthat, "players expect every little detail spoon-fed to them in excruciating detail by enormous great handholding tutorial modes", he sounds less like a gaming visionary and more like someone still hankering after the days of 3 lives and hi-score tables. Xbox Live Arcade then - what do you want from it? Retro or revolution?
As gamesindustry.bizreports, the Manhunt 2 hearing kicked off today with Rockstar seeking a reversal of the BBFC's decision not to grant the game a certificate. The Video Appeals Committee heard from two expert witnesses in defence of the game,Tigapresident Fred Hasson and psychologist Guy Cumberbatch. Hasson, having played four levels, revealed that he was surprised how tame the experience was: "I expected it to be a lot worse... I can't believe that this has been singled out as something that is worth banning," he snorted incredulously. The BBFC wanted to know if he stood by an accusation made previsouly that the banning decision had been inspired by Daily Mail scare stories. He did.Cumberbatch, meanwhile, revealed the results of a survey he carried out in which 86 respondents with experience of 18-rated movies and games, played Manhunt 2 for 15 minutes:The respondents were then asked whether they thought Manhunt 2 was more, less or equally as violent as other games or films. While 68 per cent thought there were other games equally as violent, 80 per cent said there were equally violent films. According to Cumberbatch, a number of respondents spontaneously suggested "people are going to be disappointed" at the level of violence if the game is released.This will possibly not go down as one of the great art vs establishment face-offs. Not for Rockstar the epoch-shatteringLady Chatterley decision, the mocking humour of Bertolt Brecht's communism trial, the agenda-setting collision of Christian morality and confrontational modern theatre that was theRomans in Britain private prosecution. No, just a couple of blokes in a room saying 'actually, it's notthatviolent'.
In a hilarious addendum to thegamesblog's postabout the release of the videogame of the classic fairy tale film Princess Bride, Codemasters has released a video game based on the 80s coming-of-age teen fest Dirty Dancing. FromMCV:In celebration of the 20th anniversary of the classic date movie, fans can now step back to 1963 in the PC action puzzler, learn to dance with the resident dancing couple, Johnny and Penny, and work alongside the team at Kellerman's Mountain House Resort.I imagine the, er, thrust is more "this is my space, this is your space" than the abortion scene at the beginning of the movie.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Those graphs beloved of people showing how fast their sales, website users or collections of foil-wrapped biscuits are growing keep being described as "exponential". But the truth is that nothing in real life can keep growing exponentially forever - not even the universe.Instead, asTim O'Reilly points out, we ought to be saying that this growth issigmoidal. That's S-shaped to you, sir with thedyscalculia:Over Thanksgiving dinner,Saul Griffithwas complaining about the lack of mathematical literacy among people who should know better. "Take all that talk about the exponential growth of various web sites. Don't people realize that those curves are actually sigmoidal?"We've, um, borrowed Tim's graphs below, themselves borrowed from Wikipedia, which show the difference:Exponential, linear and cubic curvesA sigmoidal curve.As O'Reilly points out, in the end those curvesalwaysflatten out. They have to; there just aren't enough people, aliens, atoms, quarks to keep growing exponentially all the time. Growth always slows.Which means that the more important question to ask wehn someone proudly starts their presentation and points to their "exponential" growth is to put your hand up and ask "when do you think the inflexion will come? What factors might cause an earlier inflexion?" (In the past the answers used to be "As soon as Microsoft enters the market" and "I think I just answered that", but now it's become "As soon as Google enters the market.")O'Reilly also notes that the importance of correct modelling to making accurate predictions about pretty much everything:"...as Saul noted a few moments later, most of these curves aren't even sigmoidal, they are sinusoidal. (This is, incidentally, why Ray Kurzweil is most likely wrong aboutthe singularity.)"The "singularity" being the point when, Kurzweil says,Within a few decades, machine intelligence will surpass human intelligence, leading to The Singularity -- technological change so rapid and profound it represents a rupture in the fabric of human history.And that certainly sounds bad, especially if you imagine Doctor Who saying it. It would take more than a sonic screwdriver and Kylie Minogue to fix that, you know.
However you look at it, Nicholas Negroponte's One Laptop Per Child project has failed to live up to sales projections. The idea was to start making them by the million, to benefit from economies of scale. But instead of a million per month, the initial order was for 300,000, and a lot of those are going to rich Americans under a $399 buy one/donate one deal.It sounded like a great idea 2005: the OLPC project was talking about a $100 laptop when western buyers had $1,000 laptops in mind. The world's press provided masses of free publicity and more or less unstinting support. But the reality has turned out a bit different. The $100 laptop costs more like $188, and there are now competing machines in the $199 to $250 range, such as the Aus Eee PC.In a story headlined,A Little Laptop With Big Ambitions, The Wall Street Journal tells the sob story of "How a Computer for the Poor Got Stomped by Tech Giants".As recorded onthis very blog, Intel responded to the challenge of an AMD-based OLPC by launching its own Classmate project (which supports both Linux and Windows), and Microsoft came up with a deal to provide a Windows-based suite for $3, for educational use. How dastardly of commercial companies to compete!Of course, Intel has now joined the OLPC board, with the expectation of some laptops having Intel processors. And as the Journal says: "The agreement included a 'nondisparagement' clause, under which Intel and One Laptop promised not to criticize each other, according to Mr. Negroponte."John Davies, who oversees Classmate sales at Intel, says that after the broadcast, Intel decided to "purge" any marketing material that directly compares the competing laptops.Well, so much for the principles of capitalist competition....Posting from Brazil, Colin Brayton has a good rundown of the situation in"Wintel Killed the $100 Laptop"with links to numerous stories about OLPC's progress.Update: BBC News now has a story,Politics 'stifling $100 laptop', based on interviews with MIT professor Walter Bender of One Laptop per Child and Nigeria's education minister, Dr Igwe Aja-Nwachuku.
"I want to meet the guy who designed this thing, and beat the crap out of him," says geek bloggerRobert Scoble. "Whoever designed this device should be fired, and fired now."He also calls Amazon a "cheap-assed company" for using cheap plastic in the contstruction.Scoble bought a Kindle and says he has read two books on it.The text is short but most of the fun is in the14-minute video.He also has a few nice things to say about it.....
Facebook's new advertising systems have come in for plenty of criticism - not least this weekend, whenwe wrote that it was spoiling Christmasthanks to its new "Beacon" feature. Beacon interacts with third party websites in order to add your commercial purchases into your news feed: think "Bobbie just bought MIA's album from Amazon", or whatever.Opinion seems divided on whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, although nobody seems particularly keen on the way it operates (if you don't opt out from a Beacon alert, it tells the world what you've been buying).It all comes back to the age old argument. Do users care about privacy - and should they?Duncan Riley at Techcrunch suggests that thecompetition argument is strong- "if users don't like Facebook's current privacy and data practices they can always take their social networking time elsewhere". Doc Searls, meanwhile, thinks that users need to actrather than wait for companies to change their mind. Privacy is a beast that gets a lot of coverage - there's a lot of moaning from pundits, experts and the media, including us at the Guardian - but millions of people seem to plough ahead regardless.Former BBC developer Ben Metcalfe, who is now consulting for MySpace, articulates the essential problem that the "Facebook's doing bad things" argument faces: thatwe've heard this all beforewhen Facebook launched the news feed... and that users didn't care then.He says, rightly, that "News Feed was also hated to begin with too". These days, he points out, it is now the cornerstone of Facebook's value to people: it tells them what their friends are up to. People are happy to give up privacy when they get something back.That's true enough, but it's a leap of logic to imply that any feature which is hated by its users eventually becomes incredibly valuable to them. And it forgets that Facebook's news feed was tweaked in order to help people manage their privacy, through the complaints of hundreds of thousands of users.But things are changing in this sphere, and rapidly. We are in a new age of "open privacy", where many of us live our lives openly through the network and yet we want to control how much of us is out there. As a result, our approach to privacy is shifting. Hey, I useFacebook,Flickr,Twitter- all tools of openness - but I also want tools of control (my control).In a meeting inOxford last week, LinkedIn founderReid Hoffmansaid that "privacy is an old man's game". In many senses he's right - but in another, fundamentally important way, it is vitally important that independent critics such as the press continue to question the tampering of our rights. Especially where there is commercial value in doing so.Just because millions of people throw their privacy away, should we stop being concerned? I don't think so. Arguing about privacy is not like the proverbial tree falling in a forest: this stuff doesn't stop being important even if nobody is listening. But, unfortunately, arguments carry little weight unless people take notice of them.
In Japan, Eizo plans to market a 24inch LCD "with a Colorblind system which allows people who are suffering from this problem to be able to 'see' most of the graphic display," saysAkihabara News. There is already an 18in version.The story links to theColor Universal Designwebsite which says this is "a user-oriented design system, which has been developed in consideration of people with various types of color vision, to allow information to be accurately conveyed to as many individuals as possible."It points out that "both Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act in the US, enacted in 1998, and Phase III of the Disability Discrimination Act in the UK, started from 2004, explicitly call for the consideration to people with disabilities including the colorblind among others." However, as with other examples of usability-oriented design, it benefits everyone.In this context, there's an interesting DigInfo video atYouTubewhich demonstrates glasses used to simulate some of the problems of colour presentation. They seem to take CUD much more seriously in Japan.....Thanks toEngadgetfor the link.
You might not think a geek working from home in a village near Bristol in the UK would matter to Hollywood, but Col (Colin) Needham runs what is probably the industry's most important website.The Internet Movie Databaseis not just an important source of movie information and cast lists, it is also the place where more than 65,000 actors and crew members post their résumés and photos, in IMDb Pro.In the early days, IMDb was also a beacon for web pioneers and regularly featured on lists of top sites. Before Netscape came out, IMDb was a towering example of what was possible.That was because IMDb started before the web was invented. It grew out of a Usenet newsgroup called rec.arts.movies, where ordinary fans compiled biographies of dead film stars and directors. Over the years it added cast lists, plot summaries, photos, trailers, reviews, quotes, trivia points, awards info, user ratings, bulletin boards, show times and even movie-related games.The data runs deep. For example, Robert Jackson was boom operator on Beowulf, Roisin Carty was the dialect coach, and the uncredited recruiter was Karen N. Sickles. How much detail do you need?The site also allows you to shop at Amazon, which is basically what pays for it.IMDb first went live on a server at Cardiff University in the UK, but as it became bigger and more popular, it was a struggle to keep it going as a free resource. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos solved that problem by buying the company.He wanted to expand into selling videotapes and DVDs, and all IMDb had to do was carry on doing what they were doing: serving users.The design now looks somewhat old fashioned, especially compared with graphics-laden movie sites. However, it's fast and it does the job. That's what matters.IMDb attracts a lot of casual visitors, partly because Google adores it. The site is almost always one of the top results for movie-related searches. However, to get the full value of the site you need to register by providing a working email address.Registration lets you use the message boards, rate movies, take part in polls, create movie lists, catalogue your DVD collection, vote in polls and contribute information.The voting system lets users give each movie a score from 1 to 10, which adds up to a quality rating. Is Beowulf a better movie than X-Men: The Last Stand? It's close. X-Men TLS has a rating of 7.1 based on 65,491 votes, whereas Beowulf is rated 7.0 based on 6,258 votes.But you can also get more detailed breakdowns of the votes, which can be interesting. For example, Dirty Dancing (1987 version) scores 6.0, but it's rated 7.8 by females aged 18-29 and only 5.6 by males aged 30-44.The best movie? The Godfather scores 9.1 on 245,531 votes, with The Shawshank Redemption - in which Col Needham played himself - on the same score. The worst is Who's Your Caddy? which scores 1.3 on 6,664 votes. You decide.
Hyundai I30From &pound;10,995Miles per gallon: 60.1Seats: 5Good for: HeroesBad for: VillainsIn the days when I used to be an occasional reader of Viz, that organ of all things puerile, I loved the readers' letters pages which dealt with the usual Viz-reader concerns of haemorrhoids and useless money-saving schemes. None of them were real (I hope), but they hinted at a plausible alternative reality. One classic went as follows: Dear Viz, Last week I spent four hours looking for my car in the local Asda car park. Imagine my surprise when I realised I'd forgotten what it looked like, yours sincerely, Ivor Bigone, Dorking...For the owner of a Hyundai, this could so easily become reality. The Korean giant has cornered the market in totally forgettable, dull-as-ditchwater vehicles. The Hyundai line-up is the Mogadon of motoring. It actually makes 10 different models, more than almost every other manufacturer, but could you name any of them? There's the Getz, the Amica, the Tucson and the Matrix ... they sound more like computer viruses than cars. Cheap they may be, but surely there comes a point when a bargain is just a constant reminder of your lack of imagination.But then, just as you thought it was safe to dismiss the Korean motor company, along comes the i30 - the first car that it has specifically designed for the European market. Hyundai certainly believes it's on to a good thing. The press release accompanying the car, from the UK's managing director Tony Whitehorn, claims: 'The i30 is the most important car Hyundai has ever launched in Britain and it will change the face of Hyundai in Europe ...' A massive claim - the Bride of Wildenstein's face would be easier to change.So, take a deep breath, and have another look. You'll find this Hyundai can't claim to be the Hatchback of Notredame. From the outside the i30 looks like a Clio, or an Astra, or a Seat. It has shape, curves, lines. It has been designed, as opposed to simply falling, unloved, from a production line. And if the outside is a surprise, the inside is a total miracle. The finish is solid, understated and tasteful. You could easily imagine you were sitting at the wheel of a Volkswagen. The car comes with a range of engines - the 2-litre diesel I tested was perky, responsive and handled as well as any I've driven this year. On top of that it produced a planet-soothing 60 miles to the gallon.Up until now, the only way Hyundai has managed to persuade anyone to buy their cars is by sprinkling their vehicles with extras with the same gusto as an Italian waiter with a pepper grinder in his hands. The good news with the i30 is that Hyundai has kept that up. For just under &pound;11,000 you get alloy wheels, air conditioning, electronic stability, active headrests, front and rear electric windows, a glove compartment with a cooling function, heated seats, heated electric door mirrors (not available on Aston Martin's Vantage), an iPod connection and on and on. If you still need persuading, they also offer a five-year warranty ... I think Ivor Bigone would have remembered what he'd been driving if it had been an i30martin.love@observer.co.uk
We don't have room for all your letters and blog pingbacks in print, but do online. So here are those we chose from.. in which dialup vs broadband, and whether DAB is good or bad, figured heavily. Click through ...CHEAPER DIALUPRod Bloor should trymyinternetpass.com[note: BT customers only - Tech. Ed]. You get 2000 minutes for £10 or unlimited use for 30 days for £10. I have been using it now for several months without problems but keep Virgin dialup just in case. Brian Holmans, BingleyI was with Freeserve/Wanadoo/Orange and had to use dialup when the broadband failed. onetel used to be a flat 1p per minute rate and was reliable, the only problem was you could receive but not send emails via the Freeserve/Wanadoo/Orange pop server. One problem to watch out for with dialup is that the check box on the connection to automatically disconnect after so many minutes of inactivity is largely useless these days since many software products are accessing the internet in the background. Just this year, with two weeks of broadband failure we racked up £70 in dialup charges (compared to the monthly fee of 17.99). I am now with Zen broadband. Pete Champ, PinnerDAB?I'm sure that Jack Schofield has a point about the quality of DAB radio transmissions. I'm less sure when he rubbishes the stations that you can get on DAB. For example, no Radio 6, no weekly Bob Dylan's Theme Time Radio Hour. What was Jack thinking of? Keith Flett, LondonI think that Jack Schofield has got the wrong end of the stick with DAB radio (DAB radio leaves us with the worst of all worlds - Guardian IT 15/11/07). Yes, there is no way that current DAB will ever match FM for sound quality - despite many advertising claims - as DAB signals are effectively compressed - some stations more than others! However, the value of DAB to many people IS the content i.e. the extra stations that can be received. I know the FM waveband in London is crammed with stations, but elsewhere, especially away from big cities, the situation is quite different. Many people are limited to Radios 1,2,3,4, Classic FM, a worthy but dull BBC Local station and one or two lowest-common-denominator commercial stations on FM - and that's it! For me, DAB is a boon, as I can receive many more stations than I could before. I am fortunate that there are several that match my personal tastes e.g. The Arrow, Planet Rock, XFM and Kerrang Radio, all of which are unobtainable (except via Cable, Satellite or Freeview) on FM. There are plenty other stations to match other tastes, all otherwise unavailable on FM. So for me, it's a case of never mind the quality, listen to the content! Tim Bounds, Ingleby BarwickYour article in last Thursday's Technology Guardian (Nov 15, p6, DAB Radio leaves us with the worst of all worlds) really struck a chord with me. I persuaded my wife to buy me an expensive DAB Pure Evoke two speaker (i.e. stereo) radio for my birthday this year because I am a jazz fan and wanted to hear theJazz [digital radio station] on DAB as opposed to on the tinny speakers on my PC. Imagine my annoyance when I discovered after tuning in to theJazz that the station broadcasts in mono on DAB. I also discovered that LBC Talk Radio sound quality is not as good on DAB as it is on FM. I am beginning to think DAB is a big con on the part of DAB radio manufacturers! I expect they'll be announcing that the software upgrade to DAB Plus when it emerges will only be available on 'certain models' thus allowing us to scrap our useless DAB radios and buy new ones. Roger Farbey, Beckenham&gt;&gt; To be honest I don't know whether to laugh or despair about Jack's rants. He's more than entitled to his opinion and he doesn't have to listen to DAB if he doesn't want to. What he refuses to understand is that a massive number of people truly love their digital radio and that of all the different ways of executing digital radio, the UK leads the world in its successful implementation. Perhaps he also believes that he can 'turn' the UK away from this medium if they only listened to what he has to say. Unfortunately they don't because they're too happy listening to their DAB Digital Radio.http://www.mattdeegan.com/&gt;&gt; Jack encourages people to buy a WiFi radio or a Freeview box, because that's a better investment than DAB. Well, don't expect to pick your Freeview box and move it around the house, or have it on the kitchen windowsill, as it's going to need one of those big "aerial" things on top of your house to work properly. So if you are going to use Freeview for radio, be sure to carry a length of RG75 coaxial cable round with you, a 8mm drill bit, some cable clips and a tube of waterproof filler for all the holes you're going to drill in your window frames. And don't be disappointed if radio is dropped from the Freeview platform to make way for more TV.http://www.nick.piggott.name/blog/&gt;&gt; Jack does make some valid points. He says that the UK should investigate DAB+ sooner rather than later - it'll be the format of choice in Australia and other countries, and though it won't necessarily lead to better audio quality, it does have its advantages and I'd agree that we should be looking at whether a migration (perhaps quite slow and partial) might make sense. He correctly points out that satellite or Freeview also gets you a good choice of stations at similar-or-better audio quality, though not so handy if you're in a car. And he also correctly points out that broadcasters don't particularly win if they segment their audiences into ever-smaller blocks; satellite television shows this too clearly, with a seemingly greater amount of crap and low-quality programming.http://james.cridland.net/blog/&gt;&gt; DAB has missed the boat, and it's time to cut its throat.http://tygerland.net/RUSSIAN BUSINESS NETWORK: BEWARE&gt;&gt; After reading [the article] about Russian cyber criminals I found a list of fake spyware tools. Now, I know that there are dozens and dozens of schools who are part of these botnets—I get spammed from them. .. I've seen may popup ads for spyware, but I immediately become suspicious. I wonder if any children, or even teachers aren't so suspicious? If you've downloaded any of these, get yourself some real anti-spyware!http://www.educatr.com/WHEN IN CHINA...&gt;&gt; "With American corporate help, China remains the world's biggest prison." And as programmer Seth Finkelstein writes in The Guardian, the case shows that corporations like Yahoo and Google have enormous blind spots.http://www.soxfirst.com/"THERE'S THE RUB…" (LETTERS)A hands on approach to communication? Martin Shore, LeatherheadTHE MEDIUM IS...This came my way about 20 years back, and stuck. "The purpose is the function, and the function is the purpose, and the mission is the message, and the medium is the mouse." S Westwood, Wellington
I was mean to the Philips Streamium Player the other week. Some of you might have thought, "Well, that was a PC product and Fry is a Mac man to his boots, so what can we expect?" I can hardly express therefore the pleasure with which I am able to rave about another, in many ways, similar device, and one that is even more emphatically PC-oriented.Trevor Baylis leapt to fame 10 years ago with his wind-up radio. Now comes his Eco Media Player (around &pound;170). There is something about this adorable device that makes me smile, and keep smiling. The difference between it and the Streamium says a lot about the crucial emotional reciprocity between manufacturer and consumer of which one is aware the moment one opens the packaging. One product gives off an air of corporate indifference and separation from the human world, the other a sense of wanting to please, of wanting to love and be loved.Chunky, rubber-skinned and round-cornered, the Eco Player's dimensions make it thicker than the mainstream generation of players, but then it has to house the famous Baylis crank. For all that, it feels lighter than a packet of cigarettes. My version has 2GB of internal flash memory, but models up to 8GB are (or will be) available. All that you'd hope to find is present and correct: mini USB connector with which it can be charged via your PC or Mac's USB (2.0) port, slot for a mini-SD memory card and sockets for headphones and line-in. Plus FM radio (great quality), a music player in all the usual formats (if you like volume, this blasts the iPod out of the water), video (using the asv codec: boo), a voice recorder, a self-styled ebook reader and a startlingly bright torch. Yes, torch.Granted, the video is no better than on the Philips and the resolution and icon design on its 1.8-inch screen is never going to make Apple quake in their boots, but this device has got that thing, you know?Its most obviously innovative feature is that whatever you have eaten that morning will power it - calorie-fuelled charge of one minute via the wind-up handle provides 40 minutes of audio play.The details are so right, too. Both the mobile phone and the PC-to-device mini-USB cables come in sprung recoil housing. Good - really good - bud earphones. The torch simply makes one grin. And there's more under the bonnet. A kind of cheerful openness pervades the Eco. Audio recording is fine for "voice memos", whatever the hell they are, but the Eco goes one step farther with a software switch that lets you record via line-in, too. Cassettes, minidisks, DATs and vinyl are welcomed through a minijack for conversion into MP3. There are plenty of dedicated little boxes that do this, but Baylis has thrown this into an already function-rich object that has already more than justified its asking price.There is also a switch that allows the crank to discharge its power not internally to the device's own Lithium Ion battery but out through the mini-USB into a mobile phone, charging it with up to two minutes of talk time. A selection of popular phone connections is included. Very handy in an emergency, though I found it couldn't deliver enough kick to start up a phone whose battery was drained. Still, it's yet another pleasing extra. And did I mention that there's a speaker so you can listen, in mono admittedly, without earphones? Eat Trevor's dust, Apple. Only the iPhone can match that. No iPod can.But yes, this is truly a PC-only device. The asv video codec is not available on the Mac. So far as I am aware, there isn't any Mac software to allow you to convert into it. The Eco's utility CD can't even play on a Windows Virtualised or Bootcamped Mac, for it is a tiny disk and the slot-loading Mac accepts only the standard CD size. Well, that's Apple's fault, not Baylis's, though the device works well enough with a Mac, mounting itself as a disc when connected.For all its quirkiness, perhaps because of it, I love this little thing. It could have just traded on the "eco" aspect of its power generation and Baylis's name. But it offers more than that. It is robust, clever without being pleased with itself, useful and appealing. And, as with people, I like it because it likes me.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
French officials are proposing to cut off the broadband connections of people who illegally download films or music over the internet.In the country's hardest crackdown yet on online filesharing, President Nicolas Sarkozy said that he was backing a "three strikes" policy against internet pirates, while simultaneously announcing a new deal with film and music companies which would see access to cultural offerings boosted on the web.The scheme - which was drawn up following an independent review by Denis Olivennes, the head of a French entertainment retailer - involves plans to clamp down on piracy by sending offenders a series of email warnings. If ignored, the culprit could face having their broadband account suspended or even closed.The new rules will also see entertainment companies drop all copyright protection on French material, meaning that any music or videos bought online can be played on any sort of computer or digital player, although it would also make the files easier to copy.The move was hailed as a ground-breaking development, and in a speech yesterday, the French president welcomed the news: "Everywhere in the United States, in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, professionals and governments have tried for years to find the 'grail' to fight the problem of internet piracy," he said."We are the first, in France, to form a big national alliance around concrete and effective proposals."The deal was backed by more than 40 signatories, including France's finance, justice and culture ministers, internet service providers and the entertainment industry.As part of the plans, the French film industry has also agreed to release DVDs more swiftly, moving the release date of DVDs from seven and a half months after their cinema screening to six months.Some groups in France said the new scheme was unnecessary, since illegal downloading is already punishable by up to three years in prison. Opponents, including consumer groups and some politicians, fear the deal is too repressive and poses a threat to civil liberties.Record labels and film studios, however, welcomed the proposals as the latest victory in their ongoing war with filesharers, who they blame for the decline of CD sales and cinema attendance. Many internet service providers, including those in the UK, already employ so-called "traffic shaping" techniques to reduce the activity of heavy downloaders.Data for 2005 showed that as broadband penetration rose sharply in France to well above 20% of households, so did filesharing, while music sales fell dramatically by more than a quarter in the 2002-04 period, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).John Kennedy, who heads the IFPI, the organisation representing the recording industry worldwide, said: "This is the single most important initiative to help win the war on online piracy that we have seen so far."He said Sarkozy had "recognised the importance that the creative industries play in contemporary western economies. The winners will be French music, French employees and French music fans ."
It is one thing to be poked, high-fived or hugged by your Facebook friends but finding out what they have got you for Christmas is a different matter.The site's use of Beacon, an advertising system which taps into "word of mouth" marketing, has angered some users by spoiling potential Christmas surprises.Thousands of Facebook users are protesting against the social networking site's decision to publicise details of their online shopping habits without their permission. The group Facebook: Stop Invading my Privacy is growing by 1,000 members every few minutes, according to users. Its petition reads: "Facebook must respect my privacy. They should not tell my friends what I buy on other sites - or let companies use my name to endorse their products - without my explicit permission."Facebook users can opt out of having their purchases on sites such as Fandango.com reported to their friends, but critics argue the option is easily missed and must be repeated for every retail site used.When Facebook launched the service, senior executives said the company would listen closely to what surfers had to say about it."Users on Facebook are constantly in there consuming massive amounts of information every day," Owen Van Natta, Facebook's chief revenue officer, said. "We will find out very quickly what people think about things - one of the things about being a technology company, and as an innovator you have to be able to do, is be able to respond very quickly to how people react."It is not the first time a Facebook feature has been accused of invading privacy. A year ago, a service that let users see what their friends were doing online also faced drew protests.But after a few controls were added, surfers became used to the idea. The so-called "news feed" feature has now become a central part of Facebook's appeal and has helped propel the site to the point where it has more than 40 million users around the world."The thing that we took away from that was that we're a technology company and we build innovation," said Van Natta. "The socialisation of the web is happening at such a rapid pace ... that means a lot of trial and error. We have to do a really good job of communicating with people."
Video sharing website YouTube is refusing to filter out threatening material, despite calls for more restrictions in the wake of the school shooting in Finland.Pekka-Eric Auvinen, 18, used YouTube to publicise his plans to attack his high school in Tuusula, hours before he killed eight people then shot himself. But Peter Fleischer, privacy counsel at Google, which bought YouTube last year, said the website was not considering passing more information to the police to avert such events. "Logistically we couldn't do pre-screening," he said. "We don't want to become censors of the web."Vetting every video on the site would prove a technical challenge, with more than seven hours of footage uploaded to YouTube every minute.Auvinen's YouTube videos, posted using a pseudonym, featured specific details of his plans and images of him posing with a gun. They were removed from YouTube several hours after the killings.Mr Fleischer said privacy was of paramount importance but admitted there was no blanket ban on passing on information. "If it were child pornography then we would inform the authorities immediately. In the case of somebody doing a video that looks something like hate speech, however, we would remove the account. In most of these cases we don't report it."YouTube users can flag up anything of concern, particularly pornography, bullying and violence. Moderators then decide whether the material breaks YouTube's rules and often remove offending video in minutes. YouTube also employs filtering tools, mainly focused around child abuse and preventing copyright infringement.
If Kohei Nishiyama's wishes are granted, he will be financially independent by the age of 40, living as an inventor and being woken each morning by his robot dog. But the 37-year-old Tokyo-based designer and founder of Elephant Design has a more ambitious dream, one he hopes will change the face of British shopping.He wants to empty the shelves of dreary, mass-marketed and mass-produced objects and replace them with products that we - the people - have helped to develop. Nishiyama calls his idea Design to Order and the principle is simple. Anyone with a unique idea, for anything from a robotic web camera to a magnetic bathroom mirror, posts an image and description on his website. There, people can log on to suggest alterations and improvements to the design. If enough people then vote for the product, he makes a deal with a manufacturer and the product is made."There are so many mass-produced products making it on to the shelves because that's how large companies do things. Our idea is to give people what they want by involving anyone of any age or nationality who has a good idea, early on in the process," says Nishiyama. "There are a lot of people who have great ideas but they're not working in the business. Our society is an under-utilised talent."The scheme has been running in Japan for a few years, and has taken off among fellow designers who use it to float their ideas instead of committing to something that may flop. The company has recently set up a test site with retailer Muji to help develop products for its stores. One idea, for transparent sticky memos, was suggested by a 21-year-old student and will be marketed next month. She stands to get royalties from every pack sold.Earlier this year, Nishiyama appointed London-based designers The Division as its first British consultancy to feed into the project, ahead of a formal UK launch next year. The company has submitted three designs to Nishiyama's test site atwww.cuusoo.jp/muji, including a clock that is vague about the time, a set of solar-powered, glowing garden furniture, and a wastepaper bin that tidies ugly cables around work desks.David Tonge, founder of The Division, said: "By getting involved we're able to float ideas we really believe in, things we think people will get excited about. Those things will often be different to what a company might come to us with. If you're developing a product for a company, you're limited by their imagination and their market."Our thinking with the clock was that mostly these are at work to measure people's efficiency and people are watched clocking in and clocking out. We wanted something more relaxed for the home, so the hour hand is on the outside, and like a sundial it's fairly vague. But in the centre, it displays minutes in a digital form so you can use it if you're doing something like cooking pasta for 13 minutes."The idea for the garden furniture came after Tonge was exasperated at the over-designed options he found in shops, while the cable tidier is a standard paper bin fitted with a powerblock and cable storage compartments.As of yesterday, Tonge's clock had received 39 votes, the cable tidier 22 votes and the garden furniture nine. The leading product on the site, with 235 votes, is a bathroom mirror that doubles as a whiteboard. The designers pitch it at the busy professional, who can write appointments and thoughts on it, attach memos like fridge magnets, and glimpse them as they brush their teeth in the morning. Any item that achieves 1,000 votes is put forward for manufacture, although some are not made if they infringe copyright or carry liability risks.Tonge says an interesting aspect of the process is watching comments and suggestions come in. People have already suggested that his clock should display hours in the centre with a large, sweeping minute hand.For now the test site is free to designers, but Nishiyama says he will take ideas from other people if there are at least 10 of them who support an idea. His company will even produce images for the site if needed."Because it's a new thing and it's experimental, a lot of people are posting ideas and, it has to be said, some of them are utterly rubbish," says Tonge. "But it can be surprising. There are definitely regular people out there, who are not designers, who have some good, interesting ideas, and some of those may well end up on the shelves."Other contendersDrawing-pin sea urchinSave your fingers from a pricking by sticking your drawing pins into this spherical holder.Votes: 50Shoe slippersJust like normal slippers, except you don't take your shoes off before putting them on.Votes: 7Calendar mouse matNext year at your fingertips.Votes: 4Perforated blanketKeep warm while watching TV in bed. Has a slit to poke your arm and the TV remote through.Votes: 3Aluminium clingfilm holder:Give your clingfilm box a look of shiny, metallic laptop cool.Votes: 2Hang-anywhere towelBath towel with a difference: a slit in the middle so it can be dried on a coathangerVotes: 0
Under a new a new anti-piracy system unveiled today (but not yet law), French file downloaders will get a warning from their ISP ... and if they ignore it, their internet access could be cut off, saysReuters. It quotes French president Nicolas Sarkozy saying:"The Internet must not become a high-tech Far West, a lawless zone where outlaws can pillage works with abandon or, worse, trade in them in total impunity. And on whose backs? On artists' backs."The international recording industry welcomed the idea:"This is the single most important initiative to help win the war on online piracy that we have seen so far," John Kennedy, head of the industry's trade body IFPI, said.According to the Financial Times, there is more to the deal:In exchange for the clampdown on illegal downloading, the music industry has agreed to make individual downloads of archive French material available on all types of players by dropping digital rights management protection.Whether this will ever be enacted is another matter, but does anybody think it's (a) workable or (b) a good idea?Update: The Guardian covered the story onSaturday, with Pirates face crackdown over movie downloads, by Bobbie Johnson and Emilie Boyer King in Paris.
MondayMass Effect 13 hours inTuesdayMisguided Christian gamesWednesdayCharitable gameHaze and Splinter Cell delayedMario Galaxy sales less than superThursdayGames teach aggression?England's woe, gaming's win?Fridaymass Effect best of a mixed bunchGaming for philosphers
Friday's "Mass Effect is here" edition of chatterbox
There's a certain amount of crowing associated with hacking the blog of a security team - which might be why a hacker, apparently Russian, broke into the blog of the Cambridge University security team at theLight Blue Touchpaper blog.He did it via someweaknesses in their Wordpress installation, upgrading himself from a plain "can post" user to an admnistrator of the blog using a zero-day (that is, previously unnoted) vulnerability, viaSQL injection.But the interesting part came later,when the team was clearing up. They could see the user, but what password had he used? All they had was the entry in the MySQL database for the password; but that had been loosely encoded (encrypted is too strong a word) using theMD5 hash.You shouldn't, in theory, be able to extract the original text from an MD5 hash. That would take millions, or at least thousands, of computers running all the time.But Steven Murdoch began thinking. Who is there out there who has thousands of computers running all the time? Um, everyone. And some might be generating MD5 hashes and putting them on the web...He took the hash -20f1aeb7819d7858684c898d1e98c1bb- from the database andstuck it into Google. Lo and behold, it turned out to be "Anthony".So far, so trivial. Except this: if someone does the same trick on a site that you use, they might be able to get read access to the database. They'll be able to see the username and email associated with the MD5 hash. And, on the assumption that you use that password repeatedly, such a hacker could trawl the web looking for places you log in.So: want to check the security of your favourite password(s)? First, use the MD5 hashing pagehere(it's a Javascript function; there's nobody grabbing your password, I'd wager, though if you want to feel safe and have OSX, go to the terminal and typemd5 -s mypassword- though use your password, notmypassword.Second, paste that code into your favourite search engine. If it returns no results - well done! You've evaded that hack, for now.So, how did you do? (I passed. Phew.)Hints if you failed: change that password to one which includes both letters and numbers.And no, we don't know if thejunior official at HMRCused MD5.
Ren Reynolds, resident philosopher atTerra Nova, takes over the mantle on one of my favourite topics: what, he asks, is a game? His definition:A computer game is a game where at least some of the bounds of game-acts are essentially controlled by information technology.I appreciate Ren's extensive analysis (documented in fullhere), but why is the word being defined in the definition? Confusing. Also, without reading the thought processes which led him there, the definition is vague. What, for example, is a "game-act"?If you'd like to contribute to the debate, and to wrestle with the roles of Displays of Action, Decision Making, Boundaries and Negotiations in computerised entertainment, please, by all means, do.Alternatively, if you want to talk narratology (story) versus ludology (play), head toPJ's Attic(.pdf) for a white paper outlining the ongoing conversation.
Blogger Paul Francis has analysed Facebook's user data and found that more members are women. In hiscorrected results, there are 42,966,780 members, with 36% male and 42% female. Another 22% have left their sex unspecified.Initially, Francis overlooked this element, and concluded that almost two thirds of Facebook users were women.In a few countries, there are apparently more male members than females. These include Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Lebanon and Pakistan -- all Muslim countries. However, there may be more women members who leave their sex unspecified, for obvious reasons. Turkey, for example, which scores only 20% female, has 50% unspecified.Not surprisingly, the US is the top nation with 18m members. The UK (6.8m) and Canada (6.7m) come next, followed by Australia (1.9m) and Turkey (1.6m). The numbers for Canada and Australia are particularly impressive, given the relatively small size of their populations.The numbers for Germany (366,000), Spain (223,380) and Italy (161,800) are mediocre, but these are still early days for social networking.....Bear in mind that these are unofficial numbers and based on search not real membership data, but they are probably not too far out.
Official guidance for millions of people who use networking sites will be published today by the information commissioner amid growing concerns that young people are being naive about the personal details they put online.The watchdog fears that most youngsters do not realise that the information they place on websites such as MySpace and Bebo leaves an electronic footprint which could be traceable to them in the future. In a survey by the Information Commissioner's Office almost 60% of young people aged 14-21 said they did not realise the information they placed online could be permanently linked to them.David Smith, ICO deputy commissioner, said: "The cost to a person's future can be very high if something undesirable is found by the increasing number of education institutions and employers using the internet as a tool to vet potential students or employees."Despite the lack of awareness about how long information can remain online, most youngsters said they were keen to retain their privacy: seven in 10 surveyed said they did not want any potential employers looking at their profiles on social networking sites.The popularity of networking websites has led to a mountain of information being added to the internet each day. Many of the sites are intensely personal but often available for the entire world - including criminals -  to look at through search engines such as Google. Advice for users includes protecting passwords and keeping geographical locations secret.Owen Van Natta, an executive at Facebook, told the Guardian that his firm regarded privacy as a big issue but that not everyone would be able to keep up with the pace of change. "We've learned some really valuable lessons. We take security very seriously. We ... try to make sure users are educated. But we're a technology company, this socialisation of the web is happening at such a rapid pace."Peter Fleischer, the privacy counsel for Google, said: "The technology industry has done a pretty good job of building privacy settings into social networking sites, but I'm much less sanguine about whether users are aware of [them] and using them. There is a generational shift in how people think about privacy. Teens and 20-somethings think in a different way to people in their 40s. I struggle with that."Top sitesMySpaceWorld's biggest social network, used by more than 10m Britons, with a large following among music fans and artists, including Lily AllenBeboNetwork of choice for many teenagers, founded by Michael Birch; claims more than 11m UK usersFacebookMore than 4m users in the UK; London is site's biggest cityFacepartyDeclining popularity but at its peak had more than 6m users in world; liked by clubbers and gay menPiczoPhoto-sharing website, now registering near-1,000% growth in the UK over the past yearWindows Live SpacesMicrosoft's service; claims 2.4m British usersTaggedAmerican site focused on teenagers and younger children; has  an estimated 2.5m users in Britain
It's Friday which means yet another wallet busting release schedule. Actually, things are a little quieter thanlast week's avalanche, but Mass Effect alone is worth the effort. It isn't quite the game I'd hoped for - a grown-up sci-fi epic that mixes the exploration of Elite, the plot-twisting of Knights of the Old Republic and the music from Blade Runner - but it isn't too far off. Well, not really. The exploration aspect feels a little undercooked - maybe downloadable content will fix this? - with too many planets feeling far too alike. But the core of the game - role playing mixed with third person combat - is hugely enjoyable. Once things get going - which takes an hour or two at least - you'll get sucked into a highly addictive mix of action, conversation and inventory fiddling. Sure the enemy AI is erratic and there are framerate issues but this flawed epic deserves a wide audience.Also out today are Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympics and Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men. Two new gaming partnerships then, but nothing to get excited about. Mario &amp; Sonic is the "historic" match-up of gaming veterans and is the pick of the two. Once you've unlocked the multiplayer - the majority of which is inexplicably not available from the start - then things are ok in a family-gathered-around-the-Wii kinda way. But don't expect the new Wii Sports.Kane &amp; Lynch? Very very average. Unless, of course, you like the idea of bland graphics, tedious third person shooting, unsympathetic characters, unpredictable controls and a general lack of polish. The only reason to bother is the innovative online mode. These see you staging group heists, with the ability to turn on your buddies at any point. Two of you running to the getaway car and don't fancy sharing the loot? You know what to do. Once dead you become a policeman hunting down your former comrades. If only the imagination of the multiplayer had been transferred to the offline game.Anyway, what are you buying this weekend?
What song goes with Halo 3?From March this year, this marching band shows what half-time shows should really be like: versions of computer games such as Pong, Tetris et al. Inventive and stunning. (Thanks tomarckeefor the link!)Portable, if 22lbs is what you call portableRemember when you didn't have "portable" computers, but "luggable objects"? John Cleese does. It's got 4.1MB of memory! It runs your favourite IBM software! But you can eat the fish (whose name of course is not Wanda..)And you have to buybooksThe woes of a programmer: these "book" things you need for your job - they can't play a tune or make phone calls. Uh?
Here's an interesting fact: the junior official who burnt all that benefit data onto those two infamous CDs was born when the Data Protection Act came into force in Britain - 1984.If the Tory government then in power had had its wits about it, by the time he or she got to secondary school (in 1995, just as the internet was taking off), the computing curriculum would have been compulsory and included something about the importance of data protection and security. "Security" isn't something that Microsoft just discovered with Windows Vista. It has been at the core of the Unix operating system and its siblings for decades.Instead, schools have taught computing in the dreariest way imaginable, failing to prepare children for the electronic world as it really is. As a result, it must have seemed like the most logical thing in the world to that junior official to burn a couple of discs - you know, like you would with some music you downloaded off the original Napster (which was all the rage when s/he was 18) - and stick them in the post. Security? Data protection and responsibility? What the hell are they?We salute youYet really we should salute that junior official. Maybe raise a statue to (made of old Jiffy bags, perhaps). At a stroke, he or she has done something that those of us outside government with more than a passing acquaintance with technology have been trying to tell those in charge for quite some time: huge tracts of government simply aren't organised for the computer age - and trying to make them so by force will lead to calamity.The stories are beginning to creep out of the woodwork. NoName725 posted a comment on a Guardian technology blogdescribing how his/her company had been passed a huge amount of data by a government departmentin the most insecure manner: the data was supplied to us in a plain text format on a set of DVDs, sent via normal first class post (not recorded). We were given no notice of the data being despatched to us, nor was there any follow-up made to ensure the data had arrived safely. The information on the disk included names, addresses, telephone nos, dates of birth, even NI nos in some cases, for hundreds of thousands of people.Or read thecommentersat The Register, where one says that "if I had a pound for every senior manager who knows nothing about IT, I wouldn't have to work again". Another points out that it is common practice for local authorities to store unprotected databases of children at risk. Another suggests that those benefit discs were probably burnt with zipped files originally in .mdb format - Microsoft's Access database.Unannounced visitsAll this make it clear why the Information Commissioner hasn't previously been given the power to make unannounced visits to government offices to check for data breaches. He'd have to shut the entire country down.It gets even worse with the disc farrago, though, given thelatest allegationthat the reason why the entire content of the database was sent was that it would be too expensive to remove the personal details. EDS, which processes the data, would say that that's not part of its data processing remit. So it would charge extra to do a database dump thatremovedsome fields. Whole database dump, though? Just follow me. Got your blank discs?To anyone who knows about database principles, the idea that to remove fields costs money is laughable. It is simply a matter of typing a slightly different database query, and bingo! No personal details. Cost? There is no cost. If you were given the database with those details, you could load it, remove the fields, and dump that. Easy. But I expect that the junior official wasn't allowed to process the database - which at least might mean that some procedures are working.OutsourcingThere's a growing suspicion that this whole problem has arisen because the government has outsourced so many of its activities to consultants such as EDS. It is as helpless to get things done in the way it wants as you or I trying to get our bank to process our details via the telephone. "Oh, the system's down," they say mysteriously. Why? What sort of "down"? More computing functions have been squeezed into government but then squeezed directly out again to outside companies, meaning the computing expertise within central and local government is hollowed out, leaving those who don't know enough about computing in the middle, while those holding the data sit quoting the contract back at its owners, saying it'll cost extra to do this and that.Here's the point. There's no extra cost involved in doing things properly, and well, and efficiently, if you start from the right place. It is only if you are trying to make a patchwork of systems haul together, with people who have never been taught in schools about the principles of data protection, computer system integrity and data security, that it gets difficult. If you have people forced to rely on people outside the organisation to control the data they have to work with - as though they had to shout through a hole in the wall to get things done - it cannot work. It will fail. Badly.Which points again to the fundamental failing here: education. Our schools are turning out people whose computer experience and knowledge does not fit them for the world as it is. They aren't taught that protecting data is essential; that though the internet should be treated as hostile, it is entirely feasible to set up asecure virtual private network link(VPN) to transfer data safely. They aren't taught that computers are tools, but that their near-infinite flexibility means you have to understand them very well to use them safely: it's like a saw that can also be a knife and a drill in some circumstances, so that you have to be precise.Instead, our schools are turning out people who know what a database is in general terms, and can use clip art from Microsoft Word, and think that the world begins and ends with Microsoft's products because that's all they see.Monolithic systemsThe result? A culture of computing attitudes that ignores data protection concerns and pushes control of data outside government, even while people in charge think that bigger, more monolithic systems are the answer to every emerging problem - despite repeated protests from experts that they are wrong. Professor Ross Anderson, whom I suspect some in government would like to represent as "crying wolf", is insteadvindicatedas a Cassandra, going unheeded when he correctly forecasts danger.Of course, that's hardly comforting for him - unless it means that government starts listening to his team's recommendations more carefully in future.In Anderson's post, he notes that he had said centralising child benefit data was wrong, that the idea for the electronic patient record is wrong, and that the government was wrong to dismiss the House of Lords report about electronic crime.I wonder if they'll listen now. But more importantly, will they shake up the way that computing is taught in schools? This is the only way that our government's computing systems can avoid being the laughing stock not only of the rest of the world, but also of its own citizens.At least, we would laugh if we weren't so damn angry.
Web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee hasbloggedagain, only a little over a year since his last effort (Blogging is great). His topic is the Giant Global Graph. Whatever it is, it's the third thing after Net and Web, and the third thing was always theSemantic Web. He writes:So the Net and the Web may both be shaped as something mathematicians call a Graph, but they are at different levels. The Net links computers, the Web links documents.Now, people are making another mental move. There is realization now, "It's not the documents, it is the things they are about which are important". Obvious, really.Later, he explains:Its not the Social NetworkSitesthat are interesting -- it is the Social Network itself. The Social Graph. The way I am connected, not the way my Web pages are connected.We can use the wordGraph, now, to distinguish fromWeb.The top Google hit for "social graph" isThoughts on the Social Graphby Brad Fitzpatrick, and there's a link to it from TBL's blog post. ThenDave Winerhelpfully pointed out that this was just jargon from the mathematics of graph theory, and that "before we talked about social graphs we called them social networks, and you know what --they're exactly the same thing, and social network is a much less confusing term, so why don't we just stick with it?"So if you don't want to sound like an idiot, call a social graph a social network and stand up for your right to understand technology, and make the techies actually do some useful stuff instead of making simple stuff sound complicated.Well, Dave, Sir Tim didn't take your advice....Even with that translation in mind, however, I'd still have to agree with whatLord Byronsaid about it: [That] he who understands it would be able To add a story to the Tower of Babel.
I've been surprised today by how many news sources have missed out on the real question following England's failure to qualify for Euro 2008: how will it affect the videogame industry? Sure, the whole UK economy is set to be down by one billion pounds this summer as pot-bellied lager loutsdon'ttake over every pub, chanting xenophobic bile at foreign teams more committed, skilful and better organised than our own. But that's all beside the point. At least on this blog.Luckily, business news specialist, InStock, hasconsidered the situationfrom a gaming perspective. Naturally, the site points out that there will be no England-branded tie-in games - a relief, actually, as they're usually horrible (and therefore highly realistic). It's also likely that FIFA and PES won't sellquiteas well because few people in Britain will be buying the games to create their own virtual tournaments in order to captain England (or Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland) to victory. Will EA even bother releasing its inevitable officially licensed UEFA Euro 2008 title in the UK?On the other hand, the InStock piece makes the not outlandish argument that England's miserable failure mayhelpthe games industry. There will be a lot of young men and women with time on their hands, money in their pockets and no desire at all to watch the exploits of Croatia, Russia and the other finalists as they dominate the TV schedules. Might these disappointed footie fans be driven to non-sporting games as a refuge?
Jeff Bezos was, as usual, in ebullient form on Monday as he launched Amazon's much-rumoured "Kindle" ebook device: "we knew we would never out-book the book," he explained. "We would have to take the technology and do things the book could never do." Certainly, it may do some of those things: with a battery life of up to 30 hours and a two-hour recharge, it is designed to untether readers from the power socket, like a regular book. But the $399 (&pound;194) device will do more than traditional books ever could.The US-only mobile network connection lets users instantly receive newspapers and magazines subscribed to via Amazon, and displays documents that you send to a personal Kindle email address (for a 10-cent charge). But almost as soon as it appeared, bloggers and testers began to find wrinkles they weren't so sure about: the format is proprietary (so no reading it on your PC), you have to pay to read blogs or papers that are free online, and the 170 dot per inch screen isn't as bright as real paper. Is the Kindle an iPod for books - or just another flawed idea?Earlier trialsEbook readers already have a long and unsuccessful history. Sony's e-Reader, available only in the US, is a revamped version of an earlier version trialled in Japan, while the UK distributor for Dutch e-reader vendor Irex estimates that at most, 10,000 units of its iLiad device have been sold worldwide. But Amazon knows books, and it knows technology, and it has significant muscle in both. Could it go further?Jeff Jarvis, the Guardian columnist and journalism professor at the City University of New York, isn't excited about the Kindle; he's saving his pennies for an iPhone. "Is it the perfect thing for reading a 30,000-word book? No," he says. But he already carries a camera, an iPod, a Mac and a phone, and is gradually consolidating. He prefers a single device that can do many things adequately rather than a gaggle of bulky dedicated gadgets. "The beauty of the iPhone is that it has a browser, and I read a lot of things in browsers," he says. "I really don't want to carry around another device."Should we make space for a dedicated e-reader or make do with a generic device? While dedicated readers have come and gone, others have tried to shoehorn ebooks onto PCs and mobile phones. Jane Tappuni is one of them. Her company ICUE (i-cue.co.uk) started out publishing ebooks on tiny mobile phone screens. Words would flash on to the screen one after the other in quick succession, in a system advocates call "flash reading". As screens evolved, she began offering other formats including a screen ticker and a normal page view. But customers aren't buying as fast as she'd hoped."Convergence devices are becoming so easy to read from, and so good," says a defiant Tappuni. "I can't see that many people would spend &pound;200 on a dedicated reader." But clearly, they'll spend big bucks on an iPhone, which could finally give her business what it needs. With Apple opening the platform up to third party developers, she hopes to ship an ICUE reader for it. Don Norman, co-founder of technology design consultancy Nielsen Norman Group, thinks she's backing the wrong horse. "Will people read stuff on the iPhone? Sure. But it's not good for that," he warns. Instead, he thinks ebook readers should be dedicated because it will make them simpler to use and less expensive.They're also more enjoyable to read from, says Peter Blanchard, who runs Libresco, UK distributor for Irex's dedicated e-reader. "The size of an iPhone isn't in any way comparable to the size of a paperback book," he says. "And the difference between reading on a backlit screen and the iLiad is that [on the latter] the reading experience is as close to paper as makes no difference."But if an associate professor like Jarvis is unwilling to carry a dedicated reader around, who will? Book-laden school students, say some. Others suggest lawyers and other professionals who need access to lots of documents: the legal publisher Sweet &amp; Maxwell converted two of its titles to one of the iLiad's supported formats, and tested the device with some customers."Lawyers have to lug around huge tomes," points out publishing manager Chris Hendry. "One guy was smitten with it. He uses it all the time and didn't want to give it back." But not everyone was enamoured. One person was perfectly happy looking up reference material on his laptop computer, while another was frustrated by the startup speed and the sub-second delay when turning a page on the device, Hendry says. Another couldn't cope with keeping the battery charged, and couldn't update the software. These people should be the perfect market for dedicated e-readers, but "we have concluded that it is between two and five years away", Hendry says.Other publishers worry that the whole ebook concept is flawed. Like many, HarperCollins is currently in the throes of digitising its content. "We're partly digitising because we are saying that we're not as interested in the book as a content delivery mechanism," says group digital publisher Clive Malcher. "We want to start with the content and deliver it in the most appropriate medium."Searching for a standard"The book is a broad type of technology rather than a product, and we need to talk about product," says Matt Hunter, global practice leader for consumer experience design at international design firm IDEO. For him, products include novels, newspapers and reference titles. If those multiply and diverge, e-reader vendors could find it hard to support them all. Even publishers are not yet sure what the products will look like or how we'll consume them. How many radio pundits had thought of the podcast before the MP3 player appeared?The evolution of e-reader software and the formats used to encode the books shows us where this may go. Adobe now offers a software-based ebook reader called Digital Editions that supports ePub, an electronic publishing standard that most interested parties seem to be getting behind. ePub lets publishers add their own objects to a document, explains the general manager of Adobe's digital publishing business, Bill McCoy. The company's reader supports interactive animations and video clips in its own Flash multimedia format, and is also leaving room for features such as social networking (virtual book clubs, anyone?). It also reflows content for screens of different sizes, emphasising the drive to stay device-independent.With publishers and format developers so heavily focused on content and less interested in conventional notions of the book, developing a dedicated unit designed to replicate it begins to look either brave or foolish. Wouldn't a generic device be more adaptable?Accepting that the content will never stand still suggests that the hardware and software won't either; that the iPhone isn't the perfect e-reader, and neither is the Kindle, or any of the others. "There's always something better coming down the pipe," argues Hunter.Biggest challengeIn any case, developing the perfect reader won't be the biggest challenge for the still-tiny ebook industry. John Maxwell, an assistant professor in the master publishing program at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, points to digital rights management and content sharing as the bigger challenge."We watched the music industry slouch towards a non-DRM MP3 format," he warns. Watching the battle over music downloads, IDEO's Hunter has told clients that even though they want to make money from their digital assets, they can't. "There is no intrinsic value in the media itself. It's in the exchange," he says. "It's so hard for an industry to hear, to listen and to understand when significant disruption is happening."Book publishers may baulk at the idea that books have no value (Amazon certainly won't stop charging for them), but they should acknowledge that at least part of that value is shifting.Before we ask which electronic text reader is better, we should ask what consumers want. How easy do the devices make it to get the content in the first place, and to put it on to the device? How easy is it to lend books to each other, which for many is one of the most enjoyable aspects of reading?Failing to answer questions like these may make it even harder to wean readers away from paper. To make ebooks work, we have to take user-friendliness in the device as a given and then look for it in the business model - which is why the fortunes of Amazon's Kindle will depend on much more than the hardware alone.
Facebook is hiring and Google is "the best place to get good engineers and others," saysTechCrunch. "Facebook has already claimed Youtube CFO Gideon Yu, eCommerce Product lead Benjamin Ling and GDrive developer Justin Rosenstein."Senior VPs at Google have dubbed it "the Facebook problem" according to a number of sources. At least ten "top performers" have made the switch over the last two months.Justin Rosenstein's "exit letter" is quoted on theInfectious Greedblog, saying Facebook is "the Google of yesterday, the Microsoft of long ago. That company where large numbers of stunningly-brilliant people congregate and feed off each other's genius. That company that's doing with 60 engineers what teams of 600 can't pull off."I have drunk from the kool-aid, and it is delicious.Staff who have made millions of dollars from Google going public can now move to Facebook and hope to repeat the process. Inded, it would be interesting to know if any of the Facebbook hires from Google were Google hires from Microsoft.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday November 26 2007In the article below we said that an independent report about the trading fund model was due to be delivered to the justice minister Michael Wills the same day. In fact the report will be delivered to HM Treasury and the Department for Business Enterprise &amp; Regulatory Reform and it is due by the end of the year.To Mark Todd MP, the question of extracting value from public sector information (PSI) is one which has for too long languished in the parliamentary backwaters. The MP for South Derbyshire is a former businessman who worked at Pearson, where he set up a geographical information (GI) company before entering the House of Commons in 1997.He has found that other MPs tend to overlook both the value and importance of PSI - which, he thinks, reflects its lack of "ownership" within government.Today's reportAn independent report is due to be delivered today to the justice minister, Michael Wills, looking at the "trading fund" model, in which government agencies such as Ordnance Survey and the UK Hydrographic Office are required to cover their costs by selling their data. Because of this report, the topic of "ownership" and exploitation has, Todd thinks, become more important than ever."Very few MPs are interested [in PSI]," he told the Guardian. "But I helped set up a GI business, I know the players in this field and have some idea of how government data can be turned into information products. I'm probably a few steps ahead of my colleagues in that regard."As one of the most prolific questioners on the topic of PSI (ashis profile at theyworkforyou.comshows), he has discovered at first hand the problem with government treatment of PSI and how that is reinforced by the way that MPs organise themselves."It's something that runs across government departments, but MPs tend to mimic the organisation of government. They're interested in one department or another and its activities as they affect their constituents. [PSI] doesn't really fit into a niche."Undeterred, Todd sought an adjournment debate last week on the topic - although he noted thatit had proved difficult to find a minister who could speak for the whole of government. In the end it was fielded by Gareth Thomas, the parliamentary undersecretary for the Department for International Development - hardly known previously for its deep involvement in PSI.The debate also gave the Free Our Data campaign its first parliamentary citation, by Todd - although he made it clear that he does not support its principle of making public data, including that collected by Ordnance Survey, free and supported by Treasury funding. "Simply relying on the Treasury to bury its hand into its pocket periodically to develop data into the future is wishful thinking," he told Parliament. "That is not the path down which we should be treading."Afterwards we pointed out that precisely that model has been used by at least one big PSI organisation: the Office for National Statistics, as we have noted previously (Statistics are free, now let's work on the rest of the data, January 18).Todd agreed - but pointed to problems faced by the ONS. "There are statutory protections for the ONS and there's going to be another to make governance of statistics more independent. It's different from some of the other entities. ONS has responsibility to conduct the census, and there are certain economic statutory requirements."Don't forget, Ordnance Survey hasn't always been in such good shape," Todd notes. "It had a long period when it struggled to maintain data quality because of the constraints on it of government expenditure. It's vulnerable to that."Robust rulesBut, he adds, that points to the real failing in the government's treatment of PSI: "Ownership is weak. We don't have a minister who will look after the interests of all PSI and ensure that data is maintained to the quality that we would expect."Like Richard Susskind last week, Todd  praises the Free Our Data campaign for raising the profile of PSI within government. "I admit I could be wrong about the best way to fund data," he says."The model I prefer is one where we establish robust rules on how data can be traded. It's a case of defining a business model that will work to ensure data quality. The study that's being delivered this week is not before time - even if there is some scepticism among some of the GI community about the depth of the study."The terms of reference of the study - leaked by the Free Our Data campaign blog - show that it was limited in scope. The government has promised to publish its results in due course. We will await the outcome with interest - and keep watching Parliament for the next mention of this important campaign.&middot; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog
Go to theKindlepage and you'll find that, at the moment, it says: "Due to heavy customer demand, Kindle is temporarily sold out." It should be "in stock on December 3".We don't know how many there were, of course, but the device already has an impressive541 customer reviews, including some from beta testers. Less impressively, the average rating is about 2.5 stars, and more people have given it one star (189) than five (110).There's also plenty of discussion at Amazon's newWireless Reading Device forum.Kindle is the subject of today's GU Technology front cover story,Can Amazon wean us off paper?It has also been reviewed by David Pogue at The New York Times (An E-Book Reader That Just May Catch On).Pogue likes the fact that "All of your reading material, and even your notes, bookmarks and clippings, is automatically backed up on Amazon.com. You can delete stuff when the Kindle gets full, confident that you can download it again later." He also has criticisms, too, but says:So if the Kindle isn't a home run, it's at least an exciting triple. It gets the important things right: the reading experience, the ruggedness, the super-simple software setup. And that wireless instant download -- wow.The next version should be cheaper and better. If so, there's a chance that ebooks might finally take off.
Thursday's edition of chatterbox
The question of why - or even whether - broadband adoption has slowed as the pool of dialup users has shrunk has struck a chord with you, as evidenced by the letters (well, emails) we've received in the past couple of weeks. BT challenged the idea that adoption was slowing down, sending me a chart (sadly without the original numbers included) which it insisted showed that the broadband market was growing more quickly than the analysts Point Topic estimated.And indeed, Point Topic admitted that rather than the 470,000 new connections it was expecting, there were a total of 600,000 new broadband connections in the past quarter.That's good, but I think there's still trouble ahead for broadband providers on a number of fronts. First, there's no doubt that the pool of dialup users willing to switch is shrinking, and that the number of people with no internet aiming to leap online isn't big either. The broadband era faces a crunch period. Costs are static; revenues, being forced down. Where can growth come from?Maybe it's this which has got some of them grumbling about products such as the BBC's iPlayer. You'll recall that when this peer-to-peer service, which lets you download and watch BBC TV content, launched in the summer some of the broadband ISPs began muttering about how if the BBC was going to encourage people to use their broadband accounts so much, then maybe the BBC ought to help out with the cost of the infrastructure needed to support it.The essential daftness of this idea was rather neatly described by Andrew Wilding, managing director of the streaming media company Vividas, when I met him last week. "Wasn't it ISPs who were saying two years ago that you needed broadband so you could get access to all this wonderful content, and wasn't it Charles Dunstone [head of Carphone Warehouse and TalkTalk] who said that other ISPs had been ripping people off for years? And now that people are starting to do what two years ago they were told they should be doing, the ISPs are complaining. It's comical really: they're saying they should get paid by both ends of the transaction - the users and the providers."If the ISPs can pull it off they'll certainly be laughing, but I can't think of anyone who's ever managed to make money from people on both sides of a transaction that they're in the middle of. (Merchant bankers perhaps?) Instead the pressures on ISPs are likely to increase, and there won't be any hiding place. The European Commission said recently that it wants to legislate so that people will be able to change broadband ISPs in a single day, and there's some pressure on Ofcom to oversee the broadband speeds that we actually get at home and in business.The Ofcom consumer panel, headed by Colette Bowe, has written to the heads of the UK's six biggest ISPs asking them to define what "up to" means when they talk about line speeds.I'd have thought it was obvious: it means you might get that much, although you'll probably get less. The reasons are purely scientific: the broadband data is transmitted at a supersonic frequency, and that gets attenuated by the copper line. The further down the line it travels, the less reliable the signal, so more error-checking is needed.If BT replaced all its copper lines with fibre-optic cable, that would cease to be a problem, but that's going to be so expensive that it would be unreasonable to push the cost on non-users (who remain a significant proportion of the population).Which leaves either us paying for it, or the content providers. Somehow I think we could be waiting a while...
Burning your toast may make you jump when your smoke alarm goes off. On the other hand, if the alarm were less sensitive it might have fatal consequences. Thanks to research by Dr Tong Sun at City University London, a future generation of  detectors may be able to distinguish overdone toast from a burning hearth rug.Sun is combining her knowledge of optical fibre sensors and laser engineering in a three-year Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) project to develop an "early and specific fire detection system". Although funded by the EPSRC, Sun is being assisted by fire detection company Kidde Ltd and OpTek Systems, experts in optical fibres."Current smoke detectors have the problem of a high rate of false alarms," Sun says. Too many alarms from nuisance causes mean some people will choose to deactivate the alarm and leave important areas vulnerable.Most smoke detectors use an ionisation technique to detect the presence of smoke particles. Her research involves making a miniature mid-range infrared cavity laser - from a 125 micrometre diameter fibre optic strand - to detect combustion fumes. "We are using a microcavity laser so the scale of the laser is down to micrometres. We've made some considerable progress in the generation of the laser wavelength," Sun says.Infrared laser light shone through an air sample creates a characteristic absorption spectrum - a fingerprint of the combustion vapours present. Although fires give off carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and water vapour, Sun's interest lies in "volatile species" - invisible organic molecules - released early on by hot materials such as fire retardants.By designing the new detector to recognise these specific fumes, it offers a more timely fire alert. The ability to discriminate between distinctive fire indicators will also reduce the number of false alarms from nuisance causes. For example, the detector could tell the difference between burning electrical insulation and other materials even before any visible smoke. "We would hope that it was much faster than the smoke detectors," Sun says.Sun's project is driven by the need to protect commercial and industrial buildings rather than consumer demand for smoke detectors tolerant of burnt toast. The availability of more reliable and sensitive fire detection systems would reduce financial losses and save lives."We are more at the research stage than the development stage, but we're now moving in that direction," says Sun, whose &pound;290,000 research project ends in August 2008.
You can read the print section - but will it also be coming to an Amazon Kindle near you? (Only if you're in the US, for now.) We look at the prospects for the ebook reader, and also at Sky+ hackers, the coming crunch for broadband, gene mapping and lots more. Click through to see...This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Paperback to the futureAmazon hopes its ebook reader will do for books what the iPod did for music. Danny Bradbury assesses this novel new deviceTV innovators who think inside the boxAnna Tobin: More and more frustrated viewers are souping up their TV recorders with extra storage spaceCracking the case for a museum of computingJack Schofield: Experts want Bletchley Park, the home of the code-breaking Colossus, to become a National Museum of ComputingPay-per-kill shooters combine online gambling with gamingAlastair Harper: Videogamers are now being paid to kill. At least, virtually. Over the past 12 months a series of over-18s servers have launched that pay a player for every kill they make, while putting a price on every deathMP shows up problem of information 'ownership'Charles Arthur: Free our data Delivery of crucial report on trading funds follows Parliamentary debate on the handling of PSINext-gen smoke detectors could stop false alarmsMichael Pollitt: Thanks to research by Dr Tong Sun at City University London, a future generation of detectors may be able to distinguish overdone toast from a burning hearth rugYes, even videogame fans can go to extremesGamesblog: Reading The Guide to Psycho Fan Behaviour reminded me a lot of the culture in the games industry, says Aleks KrotoskiGoogle gives new gene mapping service a bit of spit and polishNick Carr: Just in time for Christmas, the Silicon Valley startup 23andMe - the name refers to the number of pairs of chromosomes in human DNA - has begun offering a personal genotyping serviceVanity publishing is now more attractiveVictor Keegan: Self-publishing is freeing us today from the power of publishersBroadband suppliers face a crunch time tooCharles Arthur: The question of why - or even whether - broadband adoption has slowed as the pool of dialup users has shrunk has struck a chord with you, as evidenced by the letters we've received in the past couple of weeksNewly Asked QuestionsAre happy days here again for the PC market?It looks that way, from Hewlett-Packard's latest financial results, which showed sales up by 15% to $28.3bn (£13.7bn) - almost $1bn more than expectedTechnophileKate Bevan: The look and feel of the Sony VGN-UX1XN is spot on, but unfortunately it's incredibly fiddly to useGamesSuper Mario Galaxy | Assassin's Creed | Sim City SocietiesYouChooseWhat song goes with Halo 3? | Portable, if 22lbs is portable | And you have to buybooksNewsbytesWind-up media player | Treeview TV? | XPS One | Secure mail for all | It's educational | More than OneCare | High-performance students | Dollar shoppingAsk JackChip choice | Bullguard or PC Guard? | Slow Virgin | Help with LinuxLetters and blogsHangups with dialup | The great DAB-ate | Blinkered view | Medium is the massage
The controversy surrounding the potential effects of violent games has taken a positive turn in the past year; blanket witch burnings appear to have abated and - certainly in the UK with initiatives like theByron Report- measured analyses are coming from the top-down. While we all wait with bated breath for those results, another voice in the crowd adds to the din.PhysOrgreports on a study out of at Iowa State University published as "Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis" which confirms that, indeed, kids learn from games and violent games teach aggression.While this may be feel like (another) nail in the coffin of the games industry, in fact the researchers aren't hellbent on taking it down. Instead, they promote caution in the design and development of games:And because learning occurs from video games, regardless of whether the effects are intentional or unintentional, the [researchers] added that this "should make us more thoughtful about designing games and choosing games for children and adolescents to play." ... Because video games were found to be such effective teaching tools, [they] propose greater educational use of today's smarter technology found in those games -- technology that "thinks" along with students, adapting instruction to each student's current skills, strategies or mistakes.Whether this caution actually trickles down to the consumer technologies we know and love is a whole other story.
Paul Kinsler has a Sky+ box - the sort that can record, pause and play back Sky transmissions on to a hard drive - that you can't get from the company itself. That's because he's put in a much bigger hard drive all on his own."It's easy to do," says Kinsler. "You undo a few screws on the bottom of the box, take out the existing hard drive and replace it with another one obtained from any PC component store."I've done it twice with Sky+ boxes. You don't really need any IT know-how to do it; the instructions from various websites are idiot-proof. It's far easier to upgrade a Sky+ box than it is to upgrade a PC."Beefing up your boxHis reasons were straightforward: storing programmes is nice, but quickly becomes a habit. "I had the original Sky+ box when it came out a few years ago and I switched its 40GB hard drive for an 80GB one, almost doubling the amount of programming I could store to about 40 hours."Then I got a new box, which came with 160GB as standard, and I upgraded this to 250GB." 250GB should be enough to give you up to 120 hours of programming.The reality is that, armed with a little technical knowledge - widely available via the net - we can get a lot more out of our TVs and hard-drive based personal video recorders (PVRs) than the manuals would have us believe. But until the TV industry figures out how to make money out of these additional possibilities, it is doing its best to delay their deployment. This is frustrating, but for the moment they can't do much to stop you souping up your equipment yourself.If you fancy giving your Sky+ box a memory boost, there are dozens of websites devoted to helping you with this mission.Chris Green, the editor of IT PRO magazine, claims to be one of the first people to have successfully hacked one, and has created a step-by-step pictorial guide showing you how to do it atchrisgreen.co.uk/hacking-a-sky-box.Another site, morlocks.co.uk, also offers a clear online upgrade workshop for various Sky+ boxes, and a web search under 'Sky+ upgrading' will throw up dozens more.Instructions for non-Sky PVR upgrades are harder to find, although if you stick your particular PVR's make and model number into a search engine, it may throw up an update guide. This DIY route should be cheaper than buying a second PVR.What's better, when you switch the hard drives, you can also retain the old one's content. "I found another website,skycopyplus.co.uk, that provides free software that enables you to copy over all the links on your old hard drive on to your new one, via your PC," Kinsler says.Of course, if you do hack into your box, it's at your own risk - and there is a risk, as when taking apart any electronic equipment, that you could damage the machine and harm yourself.  However, Sky and the other operators are not happy with viewers taking it upon themselves to improve their boxes, and do not recommend or endorse the procedure.Tampering with a box invalidates the warranty and could break some product features.Tamper tantrumsUnfortunately, neither Sky nor Virgin Media has any immediate plans to increase the capacity on their boxes. A Sky spokeswoman said: "We know the vast majority of our customers use their Sky+ and Sky HD boxes for time shifting and not for permanent archiving. For super users who want to record vast amounts of TV, the Sky+ box gives you the option to permanently archive programmes on to other types of storage disks."A Virgin Media spokesperson said: "Virgin Media does not allow modifications to our hardware. Any tampering will invalidate the warranty of the V+ box and will not be covered if the V+ box suffers from a fault. The V+ box already has enough space to record 80 hours of programmes. "There might also be another obstacle coming in future. Simon Gauntlett, technology director of the Digital Television Group, says that copyright protection systems are likely to become commonplace in the future and stop you from storing programmes after a certain period of time."As the products and technology get more complex, hacking these devices will be increasingly difficult," he says. (Programmes "bought" from Sky Box Office already expire 24 hours after watching, or within a week of being recorded if not watched; the latter attracts no charge.)Meanwhile, some have been tinkering further with their TVs to add even more functionality, although this one does require a little more technical know-how and is likely to be in breach of the operators' terms and conditions.One such user, who wishes to remain anonymous, uses his PC to run his TV and can now watch anything that comes in via his Virgin cable box on any device that plays streamed files, even if he's not at home."My PC is connected to my Virgin set-top box and to a satellite dish and runs all my TV," he says. "I have the box hooked up to a Hauppauge HVR 1300 and using the Orb programme [orb.com] I can now remotely access the content of my TV."I used to record a lot of content when I was away, but now I don't need to, I can watch the stuff that is being sent into my home TV when I want on my laptop, wherever I happen to be."I have also found that it works on the Nintendo Wii (on its Opera browser), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and I can also watch on my mobile or PDA, but the costs of the data connection are very high."He estimates that setting up this system, known as placeshifting, has cost him just under &pound;200 and he says it should be achievable with any cable, satellite or Freeview box.Of this, a spokesman for Virgin Media said: "Streaming content from the V+ box to other devices such as PCs is a breach of Virgin Media's terms and conditions and will not be tolerated. Any such activity will be fully investigated."The future is out there, the gatekeepers are doing their best to stop us reaching it. But it won't stop some viewers from pressing fast forward.
I pay £24.99 a month for 8Mbps broadband from Virgin. It is unbelievably slow. A pal sent me an 8MB attachment and it took nearly an hour to download. I've asked for help, but had no reply to my email.Bob SuttonFirst, download new anti-virus and anti-spyware programs such as the free ones from AVG. Disconnect your PC, restart in Safe Mode, then run both programs. Second, turn off all file-sharing programs and reboot your router. Go toPC Pitstopand run the Full Tests from the link on the left, under Tests and Scans. This will check your PC's performance, including (roughly) broadband speed, and compare it with similar machines. (BT also has a broadband performance tester if you type in your broadband phone number at speedtester.bt.com.) A third test is to try another PC on the same line: perhaps a friend could bring round a laptop?By now you should be sure if it's Virgin's fault, so you can call its broadband technical support team on 0906 212 1111 and pay 25p a minute. You probably won't get anywhere because there is no real guarantee of the speed of the service. But perhaps you could downgrade to a slower, cheaper package or think about moving to another supplier.
Do you think the new 45nm computer chips being launched by Intel and AMD next year will affect the price of laptops when they come on to the market? I don't want to spend £500(ish) if it will be £250 in a few months' time.Nikki HorrobinFor the past 30 years, there has always been a hot new processor on the way, making people wonder whether to wait. But there has never been less reason to bother. First, chip suppliers and PC manufacturers try not to change their "price points" -- they just bring in the new stuff at the top of the range and let the older technology filter down. In the short term, the PC you want will still cost £500 (or whatever), you will just get a bit more for the same money. Prices come down over the long term as people find the cheaper stuff does all they need.In any case, extra processor speed is unlikely to make any difference unless you habitually do processor-intensive tasks such as encoding video. If you already use a PC, even a crude guide such as the performance tab on the Windows Task Manager will show the processor is running at 1% to 5% utilisation most of the time. You will usually get better results by spending any extra money on more memory (ie, 2GB) or on faster graphics than on a faster processor.Fortunately there is a simple way to test the suitability of any machine for running Windows Vista: Microsoft has built in a test suite that gives a rating, theWindows Experience Index. This gives ratings for the different components, so check the graphics score in particular. This is most likely to be the weakest link, especially on cheap notebooks.Remember, your PC is really only as good as the slowest component.
Can you, or any of your readers, recommend a site that gives simple instructions on using Linux? I installed it on my laptop six months ago and, despite repeated attempts, I have failed miserably to install any programs at all (so can only use the pre-installed stuff). I've read several "easy to follow" (yeah, right) pages, but none made any sense.Paul MannYour experience might well be common, but I suspect many ordinary users just try a Live CD (which doesn't require installation) then give up. Part of the problem is that Linux comes in dozens of different versions that may work in different ways, and different people install different desktops (usually KDE or Gnome) and applications, so it's hard to produce a universal guide. Another part of the problem is that most Linux experts don't have a clue about writing for real newbies who only know Windows.In theory, your best bet is Ubuntu: this is the current bandwagon, it's most likely to attract other newbies and therefore most likely to attract support. However, I don't know of a good guide for switchers. There is aLinux Newbie Guide, which has a stab at explaining how to install software using one of the graphical front ends. Does anyone know anything better?
I am on Windows Vista and have downloaded Virgin Broadband PC Guard. It has advised me to uninstall Bullguard as this will clash. Which would be preferable to keep?Gordon A BrownYou shouldn't have two security suites running at the same time, so one has to go. I assume Virgin Broadband PC Guard is a version ofRadialpoint's suitesince Virgin is listed as a customer, but I can't find any independent reviews of the software. The only thing I can see in its favour is that it's free. Bullguard is a commercial package and has been widely reviewed, although not always favourably, and the bought-in components may be subject to change. On balance, Bullguard is probably the better bet, because of its BitDefender anti-virus software, and I'd certainly go for Bullguard on a portable. However, you can still get better results by choosing separate programs than by buying a security suite.
