David Weinberger, author of Everything Is Miscellaneous, has been doing a series of interviews/podcasts, and the last is with Richard Sambrook, Director of Global News for the BBC. "Which means I run the World Service Language Radio Services: 33 languages and also in English on the radio. BBC World, International TV News, and the International News Websites," he says.But you don't have to listen to the podcast:there's a transcriptyou can skim instead. I did, and one section in particular stood out.Richard: I would say, certainly in the BBC, it has to go through quite a big cultural shift. I think, in our case, we have gone quite a long way through that shift, but not all the way yet. In the early stages of the Internet, we thought that the task was really to attract as many people as possible to our site and get them to stay there as long as possible. It is now becoming clear that is not really what is about.It is about bringing people to the site and having content they want to come to, but then facilitating them in doing things with it: emailing stories to friends, being able to take a video clip and embed it on their own site or send it off to their mother or father. Being able to do something with the BBC's content is important to them as simply having our content available for them to come and to look at and post their own comments on.The interview series was sponsored by Wired News and the Harvard Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society.
In Russian nightclubs, to get through the door, you have to first make your way past the bouncers. They're usually trained killers fresh from crushing Chechen rebels in the special forces and this - although it sounds much better if you use a Russian accent - is called 'Feis Kontrol' or 'Face Control'.A bad memory of failing Feis Kontrol - there was an Alsatian involved and a man with an automatic weapon - came to me in the middle of this week. Because anyone can join Facebook and, joy of joy, once you have, you have access to a cornucopia of voyeuristic delight. You can look up people you know and see who they're friends with, and then, when you've exhausted that, you can look up people you don't know - your fantasy celebrity friends off the telly, or the pages of Heat or the New Statesman or Tatler and then see who they're friends with, and who's friends with their friends, and who's friends with the friends of their friends.For the uninitiated, Facebook is a social-networking site, a variation on MySpace, which began when its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, put his yearbook from Harvard online. It spread to Yale, then to other US universities, then schools and colleges, garnering a massive interconnected database before going global. And for the nosy, it is, truly, a pig's trough of private information that is publicly available, connecting politicians to newsreaders to TV presenters to authors to showbiz celebrities to journalists to broadcasters to Eurotoffs to heiresses to sportsmen to the offspring of famous parents with too much money; and it all meshes together in one vast old boys' network.To be honest, now that I've done it, I'm not sure that I really do want to know that you can connect the socialite Victoria Aitken to the economist Noreena Hertz in one easy move. Or that David Miliband is just four steps away from Jacobi Anstruther-Gough-Calthorpe, close friend to Prince William. Or that in this world, friends aren't so much friends, a part of your emotional private life and a source of pleasure and well-being, as 'Friends', publicly displayed commodities designed to increase your rank and status.Until a month ago, I thought Facebook was just a plaything for teenagers, a cultural phenomenon that occupied the same sort of space that, say, drugs used to fill. But a critical tipping point has occurred, is occurring right now: Britain's taste- and opinion-formers have discovered it. And while the rest of us are still using the internet to send emails, book flights, download porn etc, they're out there, cyber-schmoozing their way to ever greater success and power.But here's where the Russian bodyguards come in. It all looks so open, so free and easy. But don't let that fool you. I registered as 'Carole Cad' in order to write this article and painstakingly sent off 75 scrupulously polite messages. And, to date, I've had seven replies. Even though Toby Young, who is a crucial link between celebrity factions, tells me that 'people measure their status according to the quantity of the friends they have not the quality'.Which is why, in a fit of desperation, I became Tara Palmer-Tomkinson. My apologies, Tara. What can I say? It's unethical, it's against the Press Complaints Commission rules, and it resulted in me getting immediate replies from anyone I fancied. Oh yes, Matthew d'Ancona, you'll talk to me now, won't you? Brent, that's Brent Hoberman, founder of Lastminute.com, shall we do dinner? And Giles (Coren), sweetie, I was kidding about your photo.To be honest, celebrity people, if the News of the World doesn't get half a dozen Facebook-inspired scoops within the next week and a half, it's simply not trying. Because anyone can be anyone on Facebook. Norman Lamont, I've discovered, is a student called Fred Hepworth who has been inundated by PriceWaterhouseCoopers accountants 'saying "I loved your budgets"' and Tracey Emin, is in actual fact a man called Callum. The potential for causing mischief is vast.But the names here, largely check out. The trick is to move outward from somebody you know is authentic, it's like join-the-dots. Or Six Degrees of Separation - it's almost impossible for anyone even vaguely famous to be more than two steps away from Toby Young. Ian Hislop who has 217 friends says he 'accepts whoever decides to add me'. Whereas Krishnan Guru-Murthy, the Channel 4 News presenter, confines it to his 'real' friends: 'Surely anybody with hundreds of friends on Facebook is either a liar or a tart.' Kriss Akabusi, the former athlete, says his children joined him; Ronnie Corbett, his grandchildren; and Patrick Moore, his film crew. 'Maybe one day will use the internet to communicate with alien life forms?' he says.Posh people, in particular, have embraced it largely because it's swept through the English public-school system like a bad case of glandular fever. And, just as in real life, it's the springboard for access to the corridors of Westminster, the higher echelons of broadcasting, the shiny world of power and money. But then, what I've realised, is that you can divide the world into those who join in, and those who don't. And us standers-on-the-sidelines types are a dwindling minority threatened with complete extinction.Oh, and 'Ally', or Alexandra Aitken, you're wrong, I'm afraid; I'm really not 'a twinkly, funny, beautiful fairy' but I'll send Tara your best.Facebook: a user's guide1.Register. Go towww.facebook.comand enter your name and email address.2.'Search' for friends and celebrities.3.Send your chosen chum a message, a 'friendship request', or a 'poke'. If they accept, you can see their profile, relationship status and whatever else they fancy sharing.4.Treat with circumspection anyone who claims to be Victoria Beckham, Jennifer Aniston or Tara P-T.5That's it. And if nobody wants to be your friend, remember: there's always Toby Young.
Volkswagen Touareg&pound;54,770Miles per gallon: 22.1Seats: 5Good for: Deep sighsBad for: Blue skiesIn The Great Gatsby, his masterpiece of obsession and money, F Scott Fitzgerald describes Jay Gatsby's car as being 'bright with nickel, and swollen here and there along its monstrous length'. Mr Gatsby would have felt quite at home in VW's latest reworking of its super-luxurious 4x4. The Touareg is a colossal, grunting beast which seems as wide as it is long, and every sill, frame and runner is picked out with enough chrome to dazzle a thousand magpies.The car takes its name from the Tuareg - a nomadic Berber tribe of the Sahara - and hints at the go-anywhere capabilities of the vehicle. The proper pronunciation is 'Twah-reg' - a gift if you are blessed with the horsey vowels of the country set. Not so easy if you are, say, from Slovakia, where the car is built.But don't think the Touareg is merely a conveyance for those who don't have to buy their own furniture. It's a serious bit of kit. It was co-developed with Porsche and was first introduced in 2003. It immediately won a clutch of awards - Best Luxury SUV, Best Sport/Utility, Best 4x4, and, less encouragingly, Least Green Car of 2004 in America. Ahem. However, VW has worked hard to create some wriggle room for a vehicle born at the wrong time.The Twah-reg can be fitted with a choice of three diesel engines but only one petrol engine (usually that figure would be reversed). The diesels are cleaner, more efficient and offer greater longevity. Pedestrian safety has been considered, too. The cars cannot be fitted with bullbars, and the front is made from aluminium, which offers a higher degree of 'deformation' - ie it's marginally more forgiving than being hit by a car made of steel.The vehicle is also a right little Einstein when it comes to clever technology. Snappier brakes gain you up to 20 per cent more adhesion. Front-scanning cruise control automatically slows you down if you get too close to the car in front. There's a blind-spot warning system. And a rollover sensor which scrutinises the angle of the car. If it suspects you've drastically misjudged 'that little shortcut to the beach', it activates the airbags. In all, VW says 2,300 individual parts have been replaced in the new Touareg. And it seems they've thought of everything. The top-of-the-range V10 can even tow a 155-tonne 747. Now how useful is that?It was this Jumbo-pulling V10 I test drove last week. The performance is phenomenal - 0-62mph in 8 seconds - and the luxed-up interior offers an embarrassment of riches. But in these days of climate awareness, surely combining a plane and a 4x4 in a lame PR stunt is so out of touch with modern sentiments it would have had even the Great Gatsby choking on his candy-striped bowtie.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Metroid Prime PinballNintendo DSMetroid Prime's demure female heroine, Samus, is back, and this time without her trademark upgradeable shooter. In fact, since she spends the entire game in 'Morph Ball' mode, she's less hero and more ball. Alongside flippers, bumpers, metal tracks and the usual pinball accoutrements, the Metroid-y elements of the game are limited to enemies you roll over, bosses you batter to pieces with your ball and a couple of desultory shooting and wall-jumping mini-games that, while mercifully brief, do little to raise the overall level of excitement. Featuring seven tables, one of which is (more than slightly lame) wireless multiplayer only and a number of which are simply boss fights, what you're left with is a verging-on-mediocre pinball game and two passable tables. It comes with a Rumble Pack whose scarcely discernable effect is overshadowed by the ludicrous squeaking noises it makes, which will win few new friends in the quiet carriage and neatly typify a title that, although not relentlessly awful, doesn't really do justice either to Metroid or pinball.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Super Stardust HDPS3Playing like a shameless hybrid of 1980s classic Asteroids and recent Xbox Live Arcade killer application Geometry Wars (which has you using one stick to navigate and the other to direct a steady stream of electric death at your enemies), Super Stardust HD's genealogy also includes the eponymous Amiga shoot-'em-up Stardust. In it, you fly around a small, pretty looking globe in search of chunks of rock and aliens to blow up, and power-ups to blast out of stray asteroids for expectedly obscene volumes of HD firepower. What surpasses expectation, however, is the mildly tactical use of those upgrades needed to hack your way through wave after wave of meteors and space invaders, each exhibiting a surprising range of personality. Neat, tricky and elegantly constructed, Super Stardust HD will, however, only reveal its craftsmanship to those with the proper levels of dexterity and perseverance.&#183;Sony, via download &pound;4.99Custom Robo ArenaNintendo DSIn what could have been a whirlwind of self-referential joy, Custom Robo Arena is a game about a game, in which you play a young boy starting at a new school and joining a Custom Robo team. What you get is a depressingly standard role-playing game plot that sees your hero striving to be the best Custom Robo player ever via a lot of banal chatter which, even if you were a very small child, might seem pretty pointless. The real business of the game involves repeated face-offs against a range of tiny robots, in each of which you earn cash and new equipment and gather experience - even if it's not very obvious what the latter actually does for you. The battles are knockabout fun, but the rest of the game is simply knuckle-gnawingly dull.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
We don't have space toprint all the letters and blog pingbacksthat we receive each week; so here's the full text of those we chose from.GOVERNMENT 2.0?&gt;&gt; it'll take a radical change in attitude for it to succeed, but it's a relief to know that they're not completely stuck in the 20th Century any more. I'd like to think that my essay on Government 2.0 had something to do with it, but I'm not quite that deluded.http://www.futurismic.com/2007/06/democracy20_for_the_uk.html&gt;&gt; This is a fairly huge insight for a major government to have (and act on).http://makice.wordpress.com/2007/06/14/british-government-20/NOISY COMPUTERSFirst, it's "dB" not "db". Decibels are named for Bel, hence the terminology. Secondly, noise measurements are meaningless if you don't note whether they are A weighted or linear, power or pressure, at what distance they were measured, and more to the point the parameter being measured - are these average results or maximum levels over a measurement period? Finally, it's a semi-anechoic chamber, not a semi-echoic one. Actually - I'm not quite done! You could have two machines which give a noise level of 45 dB LAeq at 1m but they would not necessarily be equally annoying. The same single figure result can be achieved for two very different frequency spectra - one may have a high pitched squeal, the other may have a low frequency tone. Which you find most annoying is very subjective, but you can't just take a machine and say it's too loud on the basis of that single figure measurement. Most modern offices come in around 40 dB LAeq. Let us also remember that computer fans provide useful masking noise - without them you'd be far more likely to be annoyed by your colleague on the far side of the room sniffing, scratching, chatting on the phone etc. Susan Witterick, senior acoustic consultantOnce again your writer (Wendy Grossman) misses what Apple can do for you: amongst its many virtues - size (165mm square and 50mm deep), design, and all those operating system advantages - my Mac Mini is virtually silent. Simon Barley, SheffieldMy desktop is awfully loud... when it boots up my family think a tractor is driving past. You mention PC reviews. One of the things which annoys me is that while they go on about battery life etc they seldom mention how hot a notebook gets. I have several and even the smallest one gets intolerably hot in no time at all. And this is just for WP and surfing - when playing COD2 it's headed for meltdown! I suppose there's no such thing as a cool notebook so reviewers don't bother but I think adverts misrepresent them as being 'cool'. Soon find out how unpleasant they are to use. Roy Szweda, Milton KeynesI've now had 3 laptops (2 Thinkpads and 1 Toshiba) whose fans have deteriorated after the first 18 months or so, resulting in the obvious unexpected shutdowns. I realised that a small, cheap fan (with a nice low hum) from Woolworths or similar seems to speed up the computer and extend its life. Baraitalo Wyatt, LondonWe have designed a genuinely quiet computer case; and we are manufacturing it in the UK. It adheres to the principles mentioned in the article and others (for instance using larger fans produces less noise - much less in fact - for the same airflow, as well as lower pitched, less intrusive noise); but in the end it all about using the most appropriate components for the computer itself, managing the airflow through the case to best advantage, and using suitable materials to damp out noise of block it from exiting the case. Our case is not silent - silence does not exist which is one reason why dB is a log scale, but it is exceptionally quiet. We have regularly had people come into a quiet room with the computer running flat out (but with the screen blank), and they have been unaware the computer was even switched on. These are seriously quick machines as well - state of the art dual- and quad-core systems with multiple hard drives - used mainly by musicians. PaQ stands for Powerful and Quiet. It's for real. Peter Cyriax, PaQ Ltd.SMART METERSAny independent testing of the accuracy of these 'eco-meters'? By experience, anything consuming more than 10 W is too hot to handle, as anyone changing a 20 W energy saver light will attest. Rob Forth, MEI, NottinghamI don't know whether you had noticed, but the real significance of the smart meter shown on page 6 today is that it has no reflection in the glass table when everything else does! Is it made by vampires? John Harris, LondonI read the article on smart metering with great interest – however what was described are not really smart meters at all, they are a very small part of what can be achieved. The manufactures of real meters and the energy retailers are working very closely together to agree a roll out of real smart metering, that will in addition to giving real time information to the householder, will cover gas, will allow regular accurate bills, and facilitate the use of buildings based renewables. Also to Governments short term plans for 'Clip-on' Displays could lead to significant safety concerns – do we really want consumers putting their hands around the live wires into the meter?? One serious incident and the whole smart metering concept will be damaged. Dr Howard Porter, WatfordI look forward to the next thing beyond smart meters - intelligent energy controls and domestic half-hour meters( as currently used by larger industrial consumers) that would receive price signals about the current and projected energy cost for the next day and adjust your consumption accordingly. You would pay more for energy used when it was expensive ( lots of demand ) , and less for energy used when it was cheap (lower demand ) This would allow your energy controls system to for example ; delay the washing machine cycle until electricity was cheapest ( probably during the night ) tell an intelligent freezer to get very cold during the night, and not so cold when energy costs are high, as long as the contents don't get above a limit. The current price signal could tell appliances to hold off when demand for energy goes up unexpectedly or supply drops due to fault conditions, this is a more gradual version of the power cuts or voltage reductions that have to be used at present Intelligent controls will become increasingly important in the future when we obtain more electricity from sustainable sources which are cyclical - tidal or weather dependent - wind , otherwise we will need more reserve capacity in the generating system ( one of the arguments always used against sustainable) This is a more advanced version of the 'White Meter' scheme long used for electric storage heating, which works with a normal/cheap tariff from your supplier, the point being that with a different energy mix , with increasing sustainable generation , cheap times will change and be less predictable. (One point about your smart meter piece - it did not say how much power was used by Wattson etc itself! Was it battery-powered or rechargeable - could not find out on the website. ) Simon Croft, Colwyn BaySmart metering is part of an evolution in our use of energy. If we aspire to customers taking greater ownership of demand management and reduction, we need to give them greater transparency of their energy consumption. Only when customers can see the direct connection between their actions and their consumption/bill will they then get more involved in managing their energy. Moreover research entitled "Energy Efficiency – Public attitude, private action" found that 82 per cent of consumers polled believed that a smart meter would assist them in changing their daily behaviour to reduce energy consumption. If we only consider the benefits of smart metering in comparison to traditional, then the costs may not be as beneficial in the short term. However smart meters are for life and will benefit the whole country in helping to reduce energy consumption. The smart metering solution is the key to engendering a culture of energy conservation in the UK. Through new technological advances, both costs and energy consumption could be reduced substantially. Rich Hampshire, metering director, LogicaCMG, LeatherheadMAIL MERGE (TECHNOBILE)I consider myself a reasonably proficient computer user at work and at home but Mail Merge defeats me every time. What I want is a SIMPLE programme which allows me to store addresses and print them onto sticky labels, especially at Christmas. After numerous attempts and loads of different varieties of labels I have all but given up. If only computer related instructions started off with the task first eg "store and print labels" and then explained how to do it life would be so much easier. But from DVD recorders to MP3 players to software, so much seems to be written by geeks who are obsessed with technical detail and can't write plain English. OK rant over. Can you help me? I find your column very useful and just wish it was bigger! David Stevenson, St AlbansI totally agree with Linda Jones (Technobile, 14/6/07). Every time I need to use Mailmerge the system at work has been 'upgraded', meaning I have to learn a totally new set of procedures and defaults. The 'Help' feature is useless. Last time I simply gave up, and used an old set of address labels. WHEN is Microsoft going to think about those who try to actually use its products? Sally Burch, LondonUsing mail merge to create a letter is one thing, but address labels? Why not use window envelopes? Chris Rogers, LondonMail merge - yes, it is an amazing story of ineptness. We have been using a database these last fifteen years running under various programs. We have between 500 and 800 entries and we make a selection of about 150 about twenty times a year to whom we want to send a letter. Shouldn't be difficult. Surely one of the most obvious every-day uses of a database is to make a selection and print out address labels or mail-merge letters for the selection. You should be able to tick the 150 people you want to contact, select "print labels" or some such, choose the size and press Enter. The original database program was written by me in BASIC and you could make a selection and then with one press of a button print out 150 labels. This worked fine but I couldn't find an easy way of getting round BASIC's 64 kB size limit, which meant that when our list grew bigger and bigger, we had to depend on commercial offerings. I could have started learning other languages and re-write the program, but do we really need to re-invent the wheel? Finding a database program is no problem, there are dozens and dozens at prices from 40 euros upwards and some of them are quite good even at that price. You can sort, find, query and arrange to your heart's content and even print out a list of the selected persons. But we don't want a list, we want 150 sheets of paper with name and address on the front of each one. All the programs I have found to date require you to make the selection, then store it as a query, then fire up a word processing program and import the query. What with fiddling around all those wizards requiring dozens of choices each and every time and having to use two different programs (database and word processor) I have had to spend a couple of days (no kidding) writing a little handbook to explain what needs to be done to other members of the group, for use if I'm ill or away. That surely is a little crazy. I don't want sophisticated reports, queries and sorts. Surely I am not the only person in the world who just wants to store a dozen pieces of data for 1,000 people, select a sub-set of 150 entries and print out 150 labels or sheets of paper using a simple print command. That's all I want, it doesn't seem too much to ask. My experience to date is that printing out this mail merge takes me most of a morning and that's far too long for such a simple task. Jan Frank, Alicali, SpainCOLLABORATION OR NOTI felt it was very clever of you to invoke Something Awful and the prevailing (erroneous) definition of 'furries' matter-of-factly in an article about collective ignorance. Well done. "A Reader" (no post town given)&gt;&gt; Have now tested my Wikigroaning pair. We have the 'International Crisis' entry standing at 531 words... and 'Debugging' at 3,089 words. :o)) Have a go at Wikigroaning next time you're doing some research and fancy calling in on Wikipedia. You'll not only look like you're working, but you'll also reveal something ever so slightly scary about the contributors to Wikipedia that may make you think twice about relying on it as an authoritative source!http://kindalearning.blogspot.com/2007/06/geek-crisis.html&gt;&gt; Anyhow, I followed the link to the Something Awful article and I'm rather amused by how much the writer sounds like your typical self-professed-genius teen boy. He, being a genius, of course, tells us right away that HE knows what is IMPORTANT in the world. For example. He opens up telling us to compare 'Knight' with 'Jedi Knight' because LAWL STARWARS GEEKS! But I ask you this: When was the last time knights were important? ~1400ADish? No one has really depended on them in quite a while (assuming they ever did) Gunpowder pretty-much ended their already minor role in history.http://dv-girl.livejournal.com/591294.html&gt;&gt; What does it mean? Dunno. I can honestly say that I haven't contributed anything to any of the topics referenced - but I have seen numerous things deleted in Wikipedia and that I stopped contributing because of it. I dare someone to nominate the masturbation article for deletion on the grounds that it lacks notability.http://www.your2ndplace.com/node/180&gt;&gt; Okay, granted that part of the furry population gets some "kicks" out of doing the deed as an animal, but the majority of the furries I've ever encountered are that way simply because it is a fun way to create a new persona in a virtual world.http://lapointe.wordpress.com/2007/06/15/in-defense-of-the-furries/INTERNET WEIGHTTo be more specifics what's the mass/energy wasted every time I forget to attach attachment to an e-mail and have to resend it? Must be getting on for a small nuclear power station globally Doh! Chris Gittner, LondonMBS CONTINUEDI would like to add my comment, since starting using the internet, when visiting any site from educational to pornography I have been able to leave sites prior to signing up. There has always been a choice. This virus however is different in that I do not know which site I visited and I got this virus Every email I said please cancel policy and advise. First bill I emailed saying cancel; second bill cancel; third bill I went to MBS site and followed their instructions to cancel; fourth same as third; fifth emailed said this is cancelled; sixth I am going to charge MBS £10.00 for each mail sent. This virus was stopping my PC from working for 5 minutes after starting. Got totally fed up with this and have followed some very helpful suggestions from the web; well done guys. This company did not reply to my emails. I will avoid them like the plague and hope I never have any dealings with any one connected to the company Tony Ward (no post town given)SECOND LIFE PROBLEMSSo Anne Wollenburg thinks she has problems? [Technobile, May 31]. Let her ponder this: adventurous but heterosexual male (A) goes into Second Life as a woman. Immediately A is 'hit on' by a younger (presumably heterosexual) male (B) who fancies A's avatar. Although A rejects B's persistent advances, he ends up quite liking B and they become "just good friends" (as far as A is concerned). Soon A finds he cannot tell B the truth, as it might damage B's ego considerably, and A would lose a friend. But then A begins to wonder - is B perhaps a woman role-playing as a man? Or a gay man who has seen through A's disguise? Or even a lesbian woman who hasn't? Eventually A longs for one of his Second Life girlfriends to rescue him by getting into a relationship with B. In comparison, whether or not to signal your marital status on Facebook seems truly trivial. (Oh, and yes, I am A). [name and address supplied]TV LICENCEI've not tried the road tax renewal, but another government agency website is having problems. My TV licence is up for renewal until 30th June 2008 (as are a twelfth of the licences around the country). Apparently that's too far in to the future to pay by credit card! What's more, despite promising to reply to comments within two days, they don't. Stephen Wilcox, AmershamCatherine Mowat (Driven mad by the DVLA, June 7) asks anyone who has succeeded in renewing their Road Tax on-line to write in. I did with no problems and I'm no whizz-kid. Hilary James, Ripon. Hilary James, RiponXBOX FAILUREI've had numerous problems myself with the console. I'm currently on xbox no.5. The original console was purchased on November 17th 2006. My first console broke down on january 12th of this year and since then I've had a different Xbox for every month this year (excluding June). After hours and hours of phone calls to xbox customer support, i gave up as i wasn't getting anywhere with the service reps. This due to their policies and their lack of knowledge on the console itself. So i wrote a letter of complaint, 2 weeks later.. i receive a phone call from xbox customer support telling me that my case is very unique, Which is clearly not (yes i do read the xbox.com forums). The service rep told me that i was able to claim compensation and that Microsoft would offer me the choice of 2/4 games, those games were not of my taste. This offer of 2 games is simply not good enough. Half an hour after the phone call had finished, i was back composing a fresh letter to Microsoft. I hope that this is of help. Ben Rich, Shoreham-by-sea
The Direct2Dell blog has a post onDell &amp; Bloatware, 2007, which says it is reducing the amount of software pre-installed on US systems -- but you still have no choice about Google's intrusive and unnecessary (ie evil) crapware.The blog says:We've expanded our opt-out offering on XPS products as well as through our Dimension desktops and Inspiron notebooks. This means when you configure a system on Dell.com, you have the option of choosing "No software pre-installed" for things like productivity software, ISP software and photo and music software.But this still leaves a lot of bloatware pre-installed:Trial versions of anti-virus software (on Dimension and Inspiron), Acrobat Reader (it's required to read electronic copies of system documentation), and Google tools. Why do we treat anti-virus apps a little differently? For two reasons: 1) Because a lot of our customers proactively select a subscription to a security service which includes anti-virus and firewall capabilities. 2) Because many of our customers simply expect their PCs to be protected at first boot and beyond.This is, of course, rubbish. If the Windows firewall is turned on, it's certainly good enough to provide users with enough time to download a free or cheap alternative, if they want one. And Dell could provide links. Anti-virus software is less urgent, and again, Dell could prompt users to download something from a range of offerings including free ones such as AVG. (Businesses probably have their own site licences anyway.) Information could be provided in a different format, or Dell could include a different PDF reader to Adobe's bloated and buggy software. The Google tools are a waste of space, but Google is paying Dell $100 million to pre-install them.However, at leastDell Support provides instructionson how to removeGoogle's crapware, including the URL Assistant.Direct2Dell has seen a predictable backlash in the comments to the post, such as: "Oh geez, another manager justifying why Dell refuses to quit doing things that piss off customers." This may eventually convince the company to offer machines where "no software pre-installed" actually means what it says. Maybe these machines would cost a bit more, but at least customers would have another choice beyond slagging off Dell and buying somewhere else.
For the past week's posts on one page, clickhere
According to the emerging etiquette of the online era, it's the height of rudeness to take out your handheld device and check your emails while friends or colleagues are talking. But what if they've been talking for seven hours?"If you're a new MP, and you want to make a speech in a debate, you just know you're going to get called last, so we're not talking about waiting around in the chamber for just half an hour here," said Jo Swinson, Liberal Democrat member for East Dunbartonshire, who at 27 is the youngest person in parliament. "And when someone's saying over and over again what they could have said in five minutes ... well, multi-tasking really becomes very important then."Perhaps it was only a matter of time before BlackBerrys and other wireless communication gadgets were permitted inside the chamber of the House of Commons. But given the usual pace of change at Westminster, you might have been thinking in terms of geological time. Instead, this week - just four years after BlackBerrys arrived in the UK - parliament's modernisation committee demanded that tradition give way, meaning that the ubiquitous email device will probably soon conquer the heart of British democracy. (Not that the invasion hadn't already begun. "Many of us use them rather covertly, both in committees and in the chamber," the Labour MP Sir Peter Soulsby admitted during an evidence session.)Capitulation to the addictive power of the "crackberry" has been less straightforward in France, where state defence experts have advised government staff not to use wireless devices to send and receive email for fear that foreign spy agencies - notably the Americans - might intercept their messages. Emails sent using BlackBerrys are routed through servers in the US and Britain. "It's not a problem if you're writing to your mother-in-law," the French legislator Pierre Lasbordes told the Associated Press. But if a minister going to a G8 meeting "sends information to his colleagues [and] it goes via Canada and the United States ... that's it. Game over."Research In Motion, the Canadian company behind the BlackBerry, dismissed French fears, stressing that emails sent on its networks were more thoroughly encrypted than banking information on the internet. But as a demonstration of the BlackBerry's reach, the plaintive lament of one French ministry official, quoted in Le Monde, was far more telling than the dispute itself. "We feel that we are wasting huge amounts of time," said the official, who was barred from using a BlackBerry, "having to relearn how to work in the old way."There was nothing in the circumstances of the BlackBerry's birth to suggest that it might snowball, in a few years, from a prototype in a laboratory to a device with 8m subscribers worldwide, many of whom curse their utter reliance on being always connected to email. Mike Lazaridis was the son of Greek immigrants who had worked on the production line at Chrysler in Windsor, Ontario, just across the river from America's great motor city, Detroit.He dropped out of college when General Motors speculatively gave him a contract to start a hi-tech firm, and in 1984, with a $15,000 loan (&pound;7,500 at today's exchange rates) from his parents, he founded Research In Motion (RIM). Now he is worth $1.7bn, making him one of the world's richest people; he is regularly called Canada's answer to Bill Gates. Silver-haired Lazaridis, 46, divides his time between running the firm that created the BlackBerry and funding scientific research and educational programmes.Things started slowly for Lazaridis: it took five years for the company to get the BlackBerry into the hands of 1m users, all of whom were based in North America. But the second million signed up in less than a year, and the company's most recent figures show that 1m more addicts were created in the last three months. It has long since trounced its rival firm Palm, which is now worth $1.7bn to RIM's more than $30bn. "People want to work wherever they like," is how Charmaine Eggberry, who runs the company's European operations, sums up the gadget's fundamental appeal.Or, at any rate, people think that they want to work wherever they like. RIM's well-planned marketing campaigns first targeted the American and British corporate elite, establishing the BlackBerry as a symbol of high status; employees on the next level down began to crave one, and the device began to sell itself. Few parts of the world are immune: some of the company's fastest-growing markets are in India, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia, while in countries such as Nigeria, Kenya and Mauritius, the BlackBerry is helping some people leapfrog computer ownership altogether.But the compulsion to check new messages the instant they arrive, and the ease with which employees can be contacted at any hour of any day, mean that some of the device's most devoted users are also its loudest detractors. Being connected electronically "makes us feel alive [and] important," according to Linda Stone, the software executive who coined the phrase "continuous partial attention" to describe the hazy semi-focus of workers who are always connected to email and web-based social networks. "Connect, connect, connect has brought us to a place where we feel overwhelmed, over-stimulated and unfulfilled," she told a technology conference last year. In April, when RIM's North American networks broke down for 10 hours, one major investment bank warned that deals might fall through; other users breathed a sigh of relief.Research commissioned by RIM suggests that using a BlackBerry turns an hour of "downtime" into working time each day, increasing some users' efficiency by 38% as they manage to cram in extra work on the train, at home, or in the debating chamber. But research on the broader topic of electronic workplace interruptions offers an alarming alternative possibility: that connectedness is rendering us less effective. One landmark study, based on observations of workers at two American technology firms, found that people interrupted in the middle of a task took an average of 25 minutes to return to it - if, indeed, they returned to it at all. Edward Hallowell, a US psychiatrist, has identified a condition in some frequently interrupted workers which he labels "attention deficit trait"."A patient asked me whether I thought it was abnormal that her husband brings the BlackBerry to bed and lays it next to them while they make love," Dr Hallowell told Time magazine. The answer may seem obvious. But the BlackBerry didn't get where it is today by respecting traditional limits. And "abnormal" is not necessarily the same thing as "uncommon"."Those who think that the [wireless digital device] helps them find time are really fooling themselves. It is just another way of avoiding being intimate," argues the psychologist Fiona Travis.The etiquette: When is it OK to check your BlackBerry?In a meetingRealistically speaking, it probably depends on whether you're the boss. But according to one recent survey 31% of senior executives think it's never acceptable.At a meal with family or friendsThe quickest shortcut to giving offence with your BlackBerry. Excuse yourself from the table, or have a really, really good explanation ready for why you need to check email.In the bathroomAlone in a locked cubicle, the concept of etiquette doesn't really apply. Moreover, in office bathrooms almost anything, including BlackBerry use, is less unacceptable than holding a mobile phone conversation in the middle of other procedures more appropriate to the setting.In the carIf you're the driver this isn't a question of etiquette - it's illegal in the UK, just the same as for mobile phones.In the bedroomAll too common, and hard to find offensive if whoever you share the bedroom with is doing it too. (EasyJet's Stelios Haji-Ioannou reportedly checks his in bed, for what it's worth.) But a bad idea in terms of insomnia, and maybe relationship harmony.
MondayVirtual worlds in the real worldEA reshufflesTuesdayManhunt 2 bannedManhunt 2 reactionDS expands repertoire yet againGame offWednesdayManhunt in the USKatamari defects to 360The Guardian gets a Second LifeThursdayLording itText is terrificFridaySurprise meWii revolutionManhunt 2 suspendedSony rallies
So Apple's latest iPod/iTunes advertising campaign features Paul McCartney dressed as a schoolboy, prancing down the street and playing the mandolin.Wee Jimmy Krankieain't got nothing on him.Since Apple started looking beyond the silhouetted dancer, Sir Paul of Beatle is far from being the first musician to appear in an iPod ad. But he's probably the least cool of the lot: I mean, so far we've had Eminem, Wynton Marsalis, Bob Dylan and U2. Isn't there something a bit, well, "cool dad" about it all?No surprise that most of these artists are big favourites of Steve Jobs, but I reckon if Apple wants to take its advertising forwards it needs to get the kids - you know, the ones who sit in the back of the bus playing music over the speakers of their mobile phone.So: My Chemical Romance already have theblack and white aestheticdown pat - and emo kids are probably in Apple's target market. Mind you, I always thoughtHadouken's "That Boy That Girl" video was a bit of an iPod ad on crack.Any suggestions? If Apple decide to use the artist you suggest in the future, you can always use this post as evidence in your court case against them.
Jeff Jones, who works for Microsoft, has beentracking the number of security holesin various operating systems, and the gist of his claims is that Vista has fewer serious vulnerabilities than its competitors. He writes:For those that only want the executive summary, here is a key chart that shows the publicly disclosed High severity vulnerabilities during the first 90 days of availability [sic: the table heading says 6 months], broken down by vulns fixed and vulns unfixed. Note that this chart is showing the reduced Linux builds that exclude non-default and optional components without equivalents on WIndows.There is also a full report (PDF).Obviously this is going to get the Linux users steaming, but the comparison of Windows and Linux desktops doesn't actually matter to around 99% of the market (a market being defined as "people spending money"). The bit that could matter a lot is the comparison of Vista and Windows XP.When someone asked me for a few quotes on Vista, around launch time, I said that I expected the more clued-up businesses to move to Vista partly for the much better security (which includes control over the things users plug into USB ports, etc). Later, a manager from a PC company told me that some business customers weren't moving to Vista yet because they assumed XP was more secure. I expect Microsoft has got the same feedback and will use Jones's report to help flog upgrades.There areplenty of things to argue about, such as how you measure "critical", whether flaws are exploited, and what the totals look like if you include what we, on the Guardian, call "silent mending". In other words, where you find a flaw and fix it without telling anybody.Customers are never warned about these "hidden flaws," but of course, the professional malware writers know about them, because they analyse all the bits of code in Microsoft's monthly patches. Then they write exploits for the "hidden flaws" on the grounds that tens of millions of people are too dim to turn on auto-updates and get the silent fixes more or less silently installed.....There are many times more manual/non-updaters and unsecured pirate users of Windows than there are desktop Linux and Mac OS X users added together. And if you're in the malware business, they are exactly the sort of customers you want.
MIT's Technology Review ran an article this week aboutmapping the internet- by friend of Techblog and fellow Brightonian Duncan Graham-Rowe.It follows some research done to work out how the internet is organised that's being done by researchers atBar Ilan University. What they've found is interesting - and, when represented graphically, pretty astounding.Credit: Lanet-vi program of I. Alvarez-Hamelin et al.In the centre are the crucial nodes that connect to everything, and on the outside the bits that don't connect to much. There's also a mantle of nodes connected to each other.Some think it's"gorgeous", while others sayit's art. One blogger/body&gt;
Note: Photo is larger than life-size (55.6 x 35.4 x 12.8mm)Creative looks to be enjoying some success with its 18.3g/0.65 ounce Zen Stone MP3/WMA player, which basically competes with the iPod Shuffle but costs around half the price. Yesterday, it shipped the Zen Stone Plus (above), which is a 2GB version with lots of features Apple lacks, such as an OLED screen, FM radio, and voice recording. TheUS press releasesays:"On May 3 we introduced a huge new market for MP3 players with the introduction of the ZEN Stone, the tiny, featherweight 1GB MP3 player priced at only $39.99," said Sim Wong Hoo, chairman and CEO of Creative. "Now with the ZEN Stone Plus, we give consumers another great choice. For just $69.99, they can have 2GB of memory with a vibrant color screen for access to all their favorite FM radio stations, plus a built-in microphone for voice recording. There's even a clock, stopwatch, and customizable equalizer settings."The UK prices are around £25 and £50 (or £24.36 and £49.99 from Amazon.co.uk).There's also a cute Creative TravelSound Zen speaker system (below).It doesn't come with any software: you just plug it in via its mini-USB port and drag files across, the old skool way.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ben Hammersley is going to spend two weeks using social media tools -- blogs, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Flickr etc -- to cover the run-up to the July general election in Turkey for the BBC. According to the UK'sPress Gazetteweekly paper:"This is an experiment to look at how a series of international reports can be spread through social media sites and hopefully reach new audiences," says Richard Sambrook, director of BBC Global News. "We talk a lot about convergence -- but we want to explore what that can really mean in international reporting."The project is guided by the BBC's 15 web principles, which were published in February 2007 - the fifth of which states: "Treat the entire web as a creative canvas: don't restrict your creativity to your own site."The idea, says Sambrook, is to "reach new audiences in new ways. It will be the antithesis of rooftop 'dish-reporting'."To declare an interest, Ben was a contributor to the Online (now Technology) section, implemented this blog inside the Guardian (we started it on Blogger), and has already done some multimedia reporting for The Guardian. His announcement ishere.
Just in case you missed the Reutersreporta couple of days ago, it looks like Nintendo's stock value is approaching that of Sony. From the piece:"Nintendo shares closed up 1.4 percent at 44,500 yen, increasing its market capitalisation to 6.30 trillion yen ($51 billion).That compares with Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd.'s 6.23 trillion yen and 6.64 trillion yen for Sony -- the world's largest and second-largest consumer electronics makers, each having sales more than eight times as big as Nintendo's."The article goes on to mention how Wii is outselling PS3 by three to one in Japan.Yesterday, news sources reported on a promise made by Sony Chief Executive Howard Stringer at an annual shareholders' meeting. "Attractive game software is the key to accelerate PS3 growth over the next year," he apparently informed the crowds before promising that 380 new PS3 titles would be released in this financial year - i.e. before the end of March 2008. That's 200 retail releases and 180 downloads.Surely what Wii has shown though, is that quality is very much more important than quantity in this marketplace. Nintendo will be happy to rely on four or five Triple A releases this year (it can afford to - it makes money on hardwareandsoftware sales). Of course, there's a difference in demographics - Wii's casual gamers will only buy a handful of titles during the machine's lifespan, while PS3's more, ahem, hardcore audience will probably be averaging a game a month. But still, few are impressed by sheer numbers. What PS3 needs is extremely big, extremely good platform exclusives, backed up with lots of fun, witty and/or nostalgic PlayStation Store download titles.Whatever, theReuters reporton Sony's meeting claims that the company is aiming to double its PS3 shipments to 11 million units in the current business year and to reduce the game unit's loss to 50 billion yen. "PlayStation 3 going forward will be vital to our future and we'll succeed," said Stringer. Never before in the history of PlayStation has such confidence been so sorely tested.
I'm in New Orleans for the next few days after flying out yesterday to surprise my Dad for his 70th birthday, and when wiling away the hours on the airplane thinking about pleasant surprises, I was taken suddenly by how badly games do surprise. Sure, there's the shock of a ghoulie leaping out from around the corner, but the heart palpitations from running into an enemy don't compare with the warm fuzzy feeling you get when someone takes you away for a weekend. I racked my brain and couldn't think of anything. Go on, enlighten me: what are the events in games which have genuinely (and positively) surprised you?
Inevitable really. This morning, Take 2 announced that it would be suspending the release of Manhunt 2, following the BBFC's decison not to grant the game a certificate as well as the Adults Only rating given by the ESRB in the US. In a statement the publisher declared:"Take 2 Interactive Software has temporarily suspended plans to distribute Manhunt 2 for the Wii and PlayStation platforms while it reviews its options with regard to the recent decisions made by the BBFC and ESRB," the company said in a statement."We continue to stand behind this extraordinary game. We believe in freedom of creative expression, as well as responsible marketing, both of which are essential to our business of making great entertainment"This time, it would appear Rockstar/Take 2 has lost the game it's been playing for the last few years - pushing at the limits of certification boards, courting controversy, then sitting back quitely and watching the money roll in. The company now has three options: appeal against the decisions (the BBFC has said it will not back down), alter the game or scrap it entirely. All of these will be expensive.Whether it was intended or not, a strong message has been sent out to other producers of dark, violent videogames - don't push it too far. The problem is in defining how far that really is. The BBFC needs to back up its decision with a detailed breakdown of where Manhunt 2 transgressed the barriers of taste and decency. Vague, subjective soundbites about tone and atmosphere won't do it.This is a landmark moment for a new generation of videogames. Everyone needs to know exactly where they stand.
How soon will sales of the Wii pass the 360? Within a few months bythe sounds of it. Impressive stuff then, especially considering the supply issues that have dogged the console. And there's little doubt that the Wii has surpassed all expectations. Remember those Nintendo doing a Sega - i.e. going software only - rumours? Not a chance now.But while Wii is currently the hottest ticket in game town I still think things will be different this time next year. The 360 will have had the benefit of having 2007's most exciting release schedule but perhaps more importantly the PS3 - complete with Singstar - will have woken up. And you can't discount the novelty factor. The Wii is very easy to "get". That instant hit is a high that has helped lead to the huge demand for the console. Unfortunately a sparse release schedule combined with a control system that can get frustrating once the novelty wears off could deter long term play. Those attach rate figures - games bought per console owner - will be very interesting. My feeling is Wii could suffer here. But does this matter? So what if Wii owners are only buying Play and Zelda? By appealing to the true mass market have Nintendo changed the metrics normally used to measure success in the games market? Has the Wii really changed everything?
I spent a night in Hampstead, north London, last week; a place I'd last heard of in fairy tales or seen on the big screen. A friend has a room in this land of milk and honey, and I crashed on her floor to save on train fares between my hovel and the meetings I had on two consecutive days inside the M25. When I woke up, a green-eyed monster got up with me.A very pleasant stroll through the affluent leafy suburb - past several parking lots worth of cars I couldn't afford if I sold my mother, my mother's mother and all my friends' mothers - did little to stave off the pangs of jealousy, so I got on the first bus out of town.Normally, I actively avoid these kinds of situations - I despise the rat race and usually don't give a hoot what the Joneses are up to - but this little trip stirred a long-forgotten aspiration for the good life in NW3, one trained into me at the age of 10 when I first played Hampstead on the Sinclair Spectrum.Hampstead was the ultimate 1980s adventure game, yet one of the few that broke from the traditional orcs and goblins fare. In it, you took the role of a down and out dreamer trapped in a grotty east London flat with ideals of leafy suburbs and affluence.As aspirational games go, this text adventure was pretty high on the narcissistic scale. With the right clothes, the right education, the right muesli and the right girl (Pippa, of course), all that stood between your and your freehold was her Dad. And he was a pussycat. Hampstead taught a generation of future Brees and Tarquins how to climb the social ladder and how to look good while doing it.Most games are self-obsessed. Saving the girl and being the hero is a staple, whereas the God Game genre, where you develop a following of faithful armies, is more Machiavellian than egotistical. The little plumber Mario starts to push it with his obsession with gold coins, but his little pipe world isn't nearly as cynical as Hampstead.The Sims is an obvious direct descendent, where success means winning a spouse, buying a big house and furnishing it with stuff that'll make the neighbours consider breaking at least one, maybe more, of the Ten Commandments. But even its take on capitalism isn't as systematic as Hampstead, which offers a guidebook for life.It must have had something to do with the 1980s, when the smell of greenbacks saturated the air. I'm breathing easier now, having survived the 1990s and the early noughties with my bank account barely intact. I think I've broken free from the lure of Hampstead - both in reality and virtually - although it's good to know that if I ever do want to work my way up, all I need to do is find a Wykehamist tie.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A YouGov survey of 2,091 adults (commissioned by the Lulu Blooker Prize) says folksonomy is the word most likely to make web users "wince, shudder or want to bang your head on the keyboard",reports AFP. It came ahead of blogosphere, which I know I use a lot....For reference, the top 10 was: folksonomy, blogosphere, blog, netiquette, blook, webinar, vlog, social networking, cookie, and wiki.Unfortunately the report doesn't provide any suggestions for words that could be used instead. Any ideas?Update: My apologies for the typing error in the headline, which I have now corrected.....
This week's Technology section includes an interview with researcher Lyndsay Williams:Ex-Microsoft star whose paper trail was too short.We like to provide links for further info, but Microsoft inconveniently deleted her page as a leaving present. I suggested she put the same stuff up somewhere handy and you can now see it athttp://www.geocities.com/sensecam/sensecamweb.htm. It's a quick fix and missing some pictures. I'm still looking for a home for an interesting PowerPoint deck about Lyndsay's sound developments.
Within a few months, and certainly before Christmas, judging by two separate sources which have been keeping tabs on sales (as opposed to distribution) of the latest generation of consoles since the Xbox 360 came on the scene around Christmas 2005. So far, according tonexgenwars.com, the Xbox 360 has sold around 11m units, while the Wii has sold 7.7m and the Sony PlayStation 3 (launched at about the same time as the Wii) just 3.3m. The site is running its own real-time estimates of sales: as you watch, the site updates, and with the figure for the Wii ticking over at roughly twice the speed of that for the Xbox, a takeover is obviously close at hand.A separate tab is being kept atVGChartz.com, which has a different set of numbers - 10m for the Xbox 360, 8.17m for the Wii and 3.42m for the PS3. But the variations in figures are within the sorts of tolerance limits that makes it clear that while the Xbox 360 is performing modestly, the Wii is still flying off the shelves while the PS3 sits rather lumpenly upon them. That too comes while Nintendo is still struggling to meet demand: supplies go as soon as they reach shops, suggesting that the line on the graph above will take off even more quickly once Nintendo's suppliers can ramp up their output.For Microsoft, though, the longevity of the Xbox 360 is attracting questions about reliability and the possibility of a price drop. Microsoft isn't happy talking about the reliability issue, also known as the "red ring of death" (What is the real failure rate of the Xbox 360, May 31). Last week Todd Holmdahl, Microsoft's corporate vice-president of the gaming and Xbox products group - and the person ultimately responsible for its quality - spent a long time not answering any questions (tinyurl.com/yqtm4w). For instance, when challenged that the failure rate is too high, he responded: "We think the vast majority of people are having just a great experience ... They love the box. They continue to buy the box. That said, we take any customer issue very seriously." And is the return [failure] rate 2%, 5%, more? "We don't disclose the actual number." Not even in relation to the original Xbox. In fact, the clearest message from the interview is that Holmdahl doesn't do interviews.But what are the lessons of Nintendo's imminent appearance in pole position in the next-generation console wars? By considering the contenders, the answer seems to be threefold. First, being expensive means that only the rich or cossetted can afford you, and there aren't enough of them to create a viable market. (The Wii is the cheapest of the three consoles, the PS3 the most expensive.) Second, being first to market is a terrific advantage which does reap rewards (the episodic content for Grand Theft Auto 4 will only be available on the Xbox 360, not the PS3,Gamesindustry.bizconfirmed this week). Third, because there are far more undedicated gamers than dedicated ones, any console that can appeal to the former will outsell the latter. Nintendo calls this tactic "moving into the blue ocean" (where there are no competitors). While its competitors look to be taking on water, the Wii is sailing on. Can anything stop it now?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Maximum RAMI understand why a 32-bit processor can address only 4GB of memory, and that certain devices appropriate a range of memory addresses for their sole use. But if a PC has 4GB of RAM and those devices need only, say, 500MB, why is there not 3.5GB available for applications? If those devices need 1.2GB, is the user left with 2.8GB or only 2GB?Ken LeeJS:The 32-bit processor can access 4GB of address space, but the hardware design may mean it cannot address 4GB of physical memory. In the original IBM PC, for example, the processor could address 1MB but only 640K was available to the operating system: you lost the top 384K (37.5%). In modern 32-bit PCs, you lose the area from 3GB to 4GB (25%). This space is used for graphics, input-out operations, the system board and so on. Often these addresses are reserved even if the devices are not fitted: your hi-def PC still has memory space for 1980s graphics cards. This means that 3GB is usually the useful limit for a 32-bit PC, as Scott Colvey explained in a recent article (tinyurl.com/3x78qu), though some motherboards can make 3.5GB available.As you suggest, the system can also take more than the 1GB it is usually allocated. If you have a graphics card with 1GB of memory - such as an nVidia GeForce 7950 GX2 - this is going to need extra address space. Windows could be left with 2.5GB of memory or less, but it shouldn't remove a whole gigabyte. Whether any of this matters depends on how many big programs you run. Each time you run a Windows program, it is allocated 4GB of virtual memory, which includes 2GB of program memory (Windows Task Manager reports the "working set"). Clearly you don't have, say, 400GB of RAM chips, but this virtual memory is mapped to real physical memory on the fly, as required.When Windows needs to load a new bit of code, it caches bits of less-used code in the swapfile on your hard drive to maintain the illusion that you do have 400GB. Having more memory makes Windows run faster because it reduces the amount of swapping. You can therefore get a big speed improvement by expanding Windows' memory to 1GB, and 2GB often has noticeable benefits; 3GB, less so.Outgoing AV checkCan you please suggest a cheap or free anti-virus program for a user whose current program is jamming the system when an email is sent? He has had to uninstall it, leaving him without proper cover.Anton SchembriJS:I usually recommend the free version of Grisoft's AVG fromfree.grisoft.com. However, your friend may be able to continue with his current program if he turns off the checking of outgoing mail. This isn't a lot of use anyway, since nowadays any decent virus will send its own email.It's much more important to run multiple checks to make sure a PC doesn't have a virus in the first place. If it doesn't, there is not much point in checking outgoing mail. It's checking incoming mail that's important.PSAPI problemWhen I boot my PC, a box says: "The procedure entry point Get Processing Image file Name W could not be located in link library PSAPI.DLL." Does this matter?J F Rogers, David Blackmore, Jenny Wickham and othersJS:PSAPI is related to a broadband helper program, so it's not really important. See the answer I gave last year attinyurl.com/2g2l4f, or go to Marc Lirons' answer #8 attinyurl.com/y8koqp.Backchat&middot;Many readers expressed interest in the Emporia Life phone. It will be available from the RNIB and Communic8 from the end of this month. The RNIB price is &pound;145 plus VAT.&middot;Umesh G Patel wanted a caller ID system for his pharmacy. Anthony Durham says his business uses "a Meteor box from Crucible Technologies. It reports the caller ID to our admin PC where Equinox looks up the caller in its own database."&middot;Dan Pryce asked about copying files to make backups. Several readers recommend Microsoft's free SyncToy. One says it "allows you to set up any number of instances of five kinds of backup operation (Synchronise, Echo, Subscribe, Contribute, Combine) from one source folder to another". Simon Midgley recommends the free Replicator from the Powertools section of theKarenware.comsite. Others use SyncBack from2brightsparks.com.
On the Lost island? Back in January at CES, Bill Gates previewed a few nifty features that would only appear in the Ultimate - ie, the most expensive - version of Vista. The crowd oohed as Gates demonstrated Dreamscene, which uses a movie clip as desktop wallpaper, and ahhed as he showed off Groupshot, which will take the best bits of different photos and stitch them together.Extras, said Gates, would be made available at odd times for download to Ultimate users. All sounds cool, right? Well, six months after launch, Ultimate users are still waiting to be wowed by the Extras. As a comment on Ed Bott's blog noted, so far Ultimate feels a lot like the Plus! collections of extras that Microsoft used to sell for Windows 98 and Me (tinyurl.com/2pr2b7). So far there's been one additional game: Texas Hold'Em. It's poker, and to be honest it's nothing special. It looks pretty, but so do the other card games that come with all flavours of the operating system. I prefer Spider Solitaire, which shipped with all the versions.DreamScene debuted in March and has proved a bit of a damp squib; and it's still officially only a preview. It usually crashes on my high-end PC and the content available for it is underwhelming: it includes a clip of a running stream that has an unfortunate effect on my bladder and some waving flowers in a field. The only animated wallpaper that doesn't crash my machine is one based on the Vista "flash" logo. The others give me motion sickness and because they're low-res files, they look blocky and unlovely on a high-res screen.We've also had BitLocker, an advanced encryption method. And, well, that's it. Nothing since March. The blogosphere is starting to rumble - "Where's my Windows Vista Ultimate Stuff?" posted Rod Trent at myITforum.com this week (tinyurl.com/259drz). Where indeed?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Avoiding media player upgrades is tough. Even if I'm somehow able to withstand the barrage of reminders every time the computer is turned on. I tick the box - "Don't ever, ever show me this again, please" - yet the next day it seems to have crept into the quick launch bar beside the clock, spewing info bubbles for the damn updates. Update! Update now! At once! Before you do anything else!I understand that those "critical security upgrades" may well be necessary (at least they're free), but I remain unconvinced. Some of the media players on my machine are there simply to play a few special files that I haven't had the time or inclination to convert into filetypes that will play on the other ones. My fear is that any conversions I do will reduce the sound quality, or end with me having several versions of the same file lurking about.But the most frustrating update is not the security update; it's the New Version. Downloading this and trying to install it is guaranteed to turn into an all-out battle between Windows Media Player, Real Player, iTunes, Sonicstage and any other media player you've ever dared to give disk space to. Each vies desperately to become your most favourite, your preferred, your one and only music and movie player. But they're feral beasts, not to be trusted.It goes like this: the installation process is halfway through and suddenly I'm being quizzed about music and video file types I've never heard of, and is it OK for this player to play them by default? Of course, the boxes are all ticked in favour of it, no matter what you might have said in the past. Thanks. Thus getting podcasts from iTunes can turn into a right pain, as my MP3s have now pledged allegiance to the new Microsoft Windows Media Player.Meanwhile, my library of (non-MP3) music on Sonicstage, which connects to my Sony music player, is now at the bottom of a long list of programs, hidden until I try to move anything across from my computer. Thanks, Windows Media Player: by choosing yourself as my only media player to simplify things, you have made life even more difficult.So I uninstall and reinstall and untick the boxes and make a few guesses at what I wanted each specific media player for in the first place.Sadly, all this effort makes no difference. When I open the file in the player - it doesn't matter which file or which player - I'm politely asked if I want all files of this type to be automatically opened using this program. Hello? Did I just dream that bit where I unticked all those boxes?I think I'll just watch some TV instead. At least there's only one media player there.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is Google the biggest internet privacy threat? Privacy International's recent report, A Race to the Bottom: Privacy Ranking of Internet Service Companies, set off more debate on this issue by giving Google its worst rating of all (tinyurl.com/2mgq6a). "We are aware that the decision to place Google at the bottom is likely to be controversial, but throughout our research we have found numerous deficiencies and hostilities in Google's approach to privacy that go well beyond those of other organisations."In response, many people defended Google, at least in relative terms. It was pointed out that, for example, internet service providers could maintain extensive records on customer's activity, and Yahoo! has allegedly been embroiled in helping China imprison dissidents (tinyurl.com/2u7pjv). But Google's recent statements on the topic of privacy have given little reassurance. Though Google has a corporate blog, the effect of such a blog has only been to aid public relations smoke- blowing. In the older media form, Google's press release would be chopped up and rewritten by a glorified stenographer. But in the newer media form, it makes a self-serving statement and it is pristinely echoed by web syndication.For one topic, government mandates for data retention, Google devoted much space to citing potential future regulations that almost certainly wouldn't apply to search queries (tinyurl.com/2fg764). While Google did note the speculative aspects of its reasons, many readers would be left with the mistaken impression that Google's extensive log-keeping was somehow required by law. However, Google is notably silent about situations where existing laws might compel it to act as an informant. In John Battelle's book The Search, he describes a conversation in early 2005 with a Google founder concerning potential privacy violations arising from US government information requests about specific citizens' actions:[Sergey Brin:] "There has never been an incident that I am aware of where any search company, or Google for that matter, has somehow divulged information about a searcher." I remind him that had there been such a case, he would be legally required to answer in just this way. That stops him for a moment, as he realises that this very answer, which I believe was in earnest, could be taken as evasive. If Google had indeed been required to give information to the government, certainly he would not be able to tell either the suspect or the inquiring journalist ... "But I don't view this as a realistic issue, personally. If it became a problem, we could change our policy on it."The lack of substantive knowledge about Google's actions, combined with general concerns regarding how its logs could be abused, makes it difficult to sort out the real threats. For example, one of Google's most well-known bloggers did student cooperative work at the US National Security Agency. But while this fact is a running joke in certain discussions of Google's possible links to spying agencies, it's ultimately meaningless. Any intelligence agency moles at Google (and it's likely there are a few) will not have a public record identifying them as potential secret agents. However, without much concrete on which to focus, the substantive issue ends up only discussed in terms of symbolic factoids.The task is then to prise out any abuses from behind the wall of corporate secrecy. Otherwise, we could end up with an unholy alliance between corporations and governments, where corporations act as privatised spies for governments, while government data retention mandates are used to give corporations an excuse to keep the sort of detailed records they'd want to in any case for market research and sale.The amount of data Google collects on web users, combined with its expertise in indexing and data-mining, presents a danger worth addressing. There are similar dangers from other companies.But arguing over whether discussion should focus on the worst offender, versus a general industry indictment, can be a distraction from the need to implement privacy protections which cannot be easily ignored.sethf.com/infothought&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I understand why a 32-bit processor can address only 4GB of memory, and that certain devices appropriate a range of memory addresses for their sole use. But if a PC has 4GB of RAM and those devices need only, say, 500MB, why is there not 3.5GB available for applications? If those devices need 1.2GB, is the user left with 2.8GB or only 2GB? Ken LeeThe 32-bit processor can access 4GB of address space, but the hardware design may mean it cannot address 4GB of physical memory. In the original IBM PC, for example, the processor could address 1MB but only 640K was available to the operating system: you lost the top 384K (37.5%). In modern 32-bit PCs, you lose the area from 3GB to 4GB (25%). This space is used for graphics, input-out operations, the system board and so on. Often these addresses are reserved even if the devices are not fitted: your hi-def PC still has memory space for 1980s graphics cards. This means that 3GB is usually the useful limit for a 32-bit PC, asScott Colvey explained in a recent article, though some motherboards can make 3.5GB available.You can see some reserved areas by using the System Information program -- go to Accessories and look in the System Tools folder. After running System Information, go to Hardware Resources and click on Memory. The addresses are not very readable as the numbers are in hexadecimal.As you suggest, the system can also take more than the 1GB it is usually allocated. If you have a graphics card with 1GB of memory -- such as an nVidia GeForce 7950 GX2 -- this is going to need extra address space. Windows could be left with 2.5GB of memory or less, but it shouldn't remove a whole gigabyte.Whether any of this matters depends on how many big programs you run. Each time you run a Windows program, it is allocated 4GB of virtual memory, which includes 2GB of program memory (Windows Task Manager reports the "working set"). Clearly you don't have, say, 400GB of RAM chips, but this virtual memory is mapped to real physical memory on the fly, as required.When Windows needs to load a new bit of code, it caches bits of less-used code in the swapfile on your hard drive to maintain the illusion that you do have 400GB. Having more memory makes Windows run faster because it reduces the amount of swapping. You can therefore get a big speed improvement by expanding Windows' memory to 1GB, and 2GB often has noticeable benefits; 3GB, less so.For a very rough analogy, think of each gigabyte as being like a seat in a family car.Note: Text in italics, above, did not appear in the printed version.Backchat: Richard Hancock points out that each Windows program can have 4GB of address space, which isn't necessarily virtual memory. "Only parts of that 4GB address space will be 'committed', ie backed by virtual memory (some or all of which will be backed by physical memory)."
Can you please suggest a cheap or free anti-virus program for a user whose current program is jamming the system when an email is sent? He has had to uninstall it, leaving him without proper cover. Anton SchembriI usually recommend the free version of Grisoft's AVG fromfree.grisoft.com. However, your friend may be able to continue with his current program if he turns off the checking of outgoing mail. This isn't a lot of use anyway, since nowadays any decent virus will send its own email.It's much more important to run multiple checks to make sure a PC doesn't have a virus in the first place. If it doesn't, there is not much point in checking outgoing mail. It's checking incoming mail that's important.
When I boot my PC, a box says: "The procedure entry point Get Processing Image file Name W could not be located in link library PSAPI.DLL." Does this matter? J F Rogers, David Blackmore, Jenny Wickham and othersPSAPI is related to a broadband helper program, so it's not really important. See the answer I gave last year (IE7 glitch with PSAPI.dll, November 30), or go to Marc Lirons' answer #8 athttp://www.updatexp.com/ie7-issues.html.
Maximum RAMI understand why a 32-bit processor can address only 4GB of memory, and that certain devices appropriate a range of memory addresses for their sole use. But if a PC has 4GB of RAM and those devices need only, say, 500MB, why is there not 3.5GB available for applications? If those devices need 1.2GB, is the user left with 2.8GB or only 2GB?Ken LeeJS:The 32-bit processor can access 4GB of address space, but the hardware design may mean it cannot address 4GB of physical memory. In the original IBM PC, for example, the processor could address 1MB but only 640K was available to the operating system: you lost the top 384K (37.5%). In modern 32-bit PCs, you lose the area from 3GB to 4GB (25%). This space is used for graphics, input-out operations, the system board and so on. Often these addresses are reserved even if the devices are not fitted: your hi-def PC still has memory space for 1980s graphics cards. This means that 3GB is usually the useful limit for a 32-bit PC, as Scott Colvey explained in a recent article (tinyurl.com/3x78qu), though some motherboards can make 3.5GB available.As you suggest, the system can also take more than the 1GB it is usually allocated. If you have a graphics card with 1GB of memory - such as an nVidia GeForce 7950 GX2 - this is going to need extra address space. Windows could be left with 2.5GB of memory or less, but it shouldn't remove a whole gigabyte. Whether any of this matters depends on how many big programs you run. Each time you run a Windows program, it is allocated 4GB of virtual memory, which includes 2GB of program memory (Windows Task Manager reports the "working set"). Clearly you don't have, say, 400GB of RAM chips, but this virtual memory is mapped to real physical memory on the fly, as required.When Windows needs to load a new bit of code, it caches bits of less-used code in the swapfile on your hard drive to maintain the illusion that you do have 400GB. Having more memory makes Windows run faster because it reduces the amount of swapping. You can therefore get a big speed improvement by expanding Windows' memory to 1GB, and 2GB often has noticeable benefits; 3GB, less so.Outgoing AV checkCan you please suggest a cheap or free anti-virus program for a user whose current program is jamming the system when an email is sent? He has had to uninstall it, leaving him without proper cover.Anton SchembriJS:I usually recommend the free version of Grisoft's AVG fromfree.grisoft.com. However, your friend may be able to continue with his current program if he turns off the checking of outgoing mail. This isn't a lot of use anyway, since nowadays any decent virus will send its own email.It's much more important to run multiple checks to make sure a PC doesn't have a virus in the first place. If it doesn't, there is not much point in checking outgoing mail. It's checking incoming mail that's important.PSAPI problemWhen I boot my PC, a box says: "The procedure entry point Get Processing Image file Name W could not be located in link library PSAPI.DLL." Does this matter?J F Rogers, David Blackmore, Jenny Wickham and othersJS:PSAPI is related to a broadband helper program, so it's not really important. See the answer I gave last year attinyurl.com/2g2l4f, or go to Marc Lirons' answer #8 attinyurl.com/y8koqp.Backchat&middot;Many readers expressed interest in the Emporia Life phone. It will be available from the RNIB and Communic8 from the end of this month. The RNIB price is &pound;145 plus VAT.&middot;Umesh G Patel wanted a caller ID system for his pharmacy. Anthony Durham says his business uses "a Meteor box from Crucible Technologies. It reports the caller ID to our admin PC where Equinox looks up the caller in its own database."&middot;Dan Pryce asked about copying files to make backups. Several readers recommend Microsoft's free SyncToy. One says it "allows you to set up any number of instances of five kinds of backup operation (Synchronise, Echo, Subscribe, Contribute, Combine) from one source folder to another". Simon Midgley recommends the free Replicator from the Powertools section of theKarenware.comsite. Others use SyncBack from2brightsparks.com.
Opening up governmentIt'll take a radical change in attitude for it to succeed, but it's a relief to know [the government is] not completely stuck in the 20th century any more (Open the gates of information, June 14). I'd like to think that my essay on Government 2.0 had something to do with it, but I'm not quite that deluded.futurismic.comSilence isn't goldenComputer fans provide useful masking noise - without them you'd be far more likely to be annoyed by your colleague on the far side of the room sniffing, scratching, chatting on the phone etc etc (The art of reducing your computer's noise, June 14).Susan Witterick,StainesI've now had three laptops whose fans have deteriorated after the first 18 months or so. I realised that a small, cheap fan from Woolworths or similar seems to speed up the computer and extend its life.Baraitalo Wyatt,LondonToo hot to handleAnything consuming more than 10W is too hot to handle, as anyone changing a 20W energy-saver lightbulb will attest (Smart meters, June 14).Rob Forth,NottinghamI look forward to intelligent energy controls and meters that will receive price signals about the current and projected energy cost for the next day and adjust your consumption accordingly. This would allow your energy controls system to, for example, delay the washing machine until electricity is cheapest. Intelligent controls will become increasingly important as we obtain more power from sustainable sources.Simon Croft,Colwyn BayOnly when customers can see the direct connection between their actions and their bill will they then get more involved in managing their energy.Rich Hampshire,metering director, LogicaCMG, LeatherheadMerging on the ridiculousI am a reasonably proficient computer user but mail merge defeats me every time (Technobile, June 14). What I want is a simple program that allows me to store addresses and print them on to sticky labels. I have all but given up.David Stevenson,St AlbansI totally agree with Linda Jones. When is Microsoft going to think about those who actually use its products?Sally Burch,LondonUsing mail merge to create a letter is one thing, but address labels? Why not use window envelopes?Chris Rogers,LondonMail merge - yes, it is an amazing story of ineptness.Jan Frank,Alicali, SpainHeavy questionsWhat's the mass/energy wasted every time I forget to add an attachment to an e-mail and resend it (Newly asked questions, June 14)? Must be getting on for a small nuclear power station.Chris Gittner,LondonReal life vs Second LifeSo Anne Wollenburg thinks she has problems? (Technobile, May 31). Let her ponder this: heterosexual male (A) goes into Second Life as a woman. Immediately A is hit on by a younger (presumably heterosexual) male (B) who fancies A's avatar. Although A rejects B's persistent advances, he ends up quite liking B and they become "just good friends" (as far as A is concerned). Soon A finds he cannot tell B the truth, as it might damage B's ego considerably, and A would lose a friend. But then A begins to wonder - is B perhaps a woman role-playing as a man? Or a gay man who has seen through A's disguise? Or even a lesbian woman who hasn't? In comparison, whether or not to signal your marital status on Facebook seems truly trivial.A(Name and address withheld)Read all of this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk&middot;The article above was amended on Tuesday July 10 2007. Susan Witterick, author of one of the letters above, would like to make it clear that the views she expressed are entirely her own and not in any way connected to her employer, Applied Acoustic Design. By citing her employer as the place from whence the letter originated, we gave this impression. This has now been corrected.
In today's paper I reminisced about one of the oft-overlooked text adventures from the 1980s:Hampstead. From its beginning in a squalid flat in East London to its eventual end in a large, multi-million pound manor in London's affluent NW3, you made American Psycho's Patrick Bateman look like a pussy cat in fluffy clothing as you manoeuvred through the 1980s Zeitgeist.Even at that ripe young age, I recognised it as a welcome change from the swords and sorcery of most text adventures. It introduced a sense of satire to the new interactive genre, matched only by the magnificentHitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. And now I look back on it, it seems that this gaming platform had and still has the best chance at creating compelling interactive stories.I recently attended aCoding Dojoduring the Festival season in Brighton where I sat like a lemon watching people far more computer literate than I programming a text adventure. I had no chance of contributing to the nuts and bolts of the project, but I could offer my thoughts on plot and direction. So, inspired by the trip down Hampstead's memory lane and spurred on by both the Dojo and Penguin's recentA Million PenguinsWikiNovel experiment, I thought the talented gamesbloggers could create a text adventure ourselves, set in modern day, with modern themes, without an orc in sight. If it was worthy, we could release the final product on an independent platform.All in favour in a bit of interactive collaboration, say Aye. If we get a critical mass, we'll set up a wiki and get started.
Carl Robertson still shudders when he remembers it. "You have to live through it to understand the damage that can happen, not only emotionally, but financially." A death? A robbery? No. The 63-year-old California-based estate agent is talking about phishing, the stealing of personal credentials using spoof emails pointing to fake websites.Robertson had been a casual internet user for three years when he followed a link in an email purporting to come from eBay. The mail led him to enter personal details into what he thought was an account confirmation page.Security flaws in computer systems can be patched and upgraded, but phishing relies on gullibility, frightening people into action with emails that threaten dire security consequences unless they comply straight away. "They wanted my password and all this other information about me. Bank accounts, everything. I thought it was all going to eBay," Robertson says.Education campaignsHeavily phished brands such as eBay, PayPal and the leading banks run extensive education campaigns about the dangers of phishing emails, but some users will always ignore warnings until it's too late, says David Jevans, chair of the Anti-Phishing Working Group, a consortium of companies trying to combat it.The numbers may be small, but they add up to enough to make it very profitable for the scammers, according to a paper by Richard Clayton and Tyler Moore at the University of Cambridge. The paper (tinyurl.com/2e6w9j) found that an average phishing site attracts up to 30 user inputs per day before being taken down. Most phishing sites were removed within 48 hours - but the remainder could be hard to eradicate, lasting up to six weeks."They only get 10 to 20 people," says Michael Barrett of PayPal. "But if you work on the basis of a couple of hundred bucks per customer, then the bad guy has made four grand for little work."Anti-phishing techniques have included browser technology that alerts users to suspicious sites using an online blacklist of known phishing sites. However, the effectiveness of such alerts is limited. "Phishing is so effective because users often ignore the security indicators, and even if they do notice them, they don't always understand what they mean," warns Rachna Dhamija, a postdoctorate fellow at Harvard's centre for research on computation and society.A 2006 study co-researched by Dhamija (tinyurl.com/k5jau) showed that almost one user in four ignores browser-based warnings. And a followup study (tinyurl.com/2d42gd) showed that people will ignore all sorts of clues that a site is not really their bank's, including the padlock in the menu bar or the bank's own security images; conversely, if they do see such an image (which can easily be relayed or copied), they'll ignore direct warnings from their browser not to use the page.If you can't educate users could you build the intelligence into the internet instead? This is what David Ulevitch is hoping for. OpenDNS, founded by Ulevitch, provides free domain name server (DNS) services. A DNS looks up a website's domain name (such as guardian.co.uk) and forwards the surfer to the underlying IP address that the web server lives at (212.187.153.30). OpenDNS automatically blocks web servers it knows to be hosting malicious sites, including phishing sites.But OpenDNS's 750,000 customers are a drop in the internet ocean. Network-based protection must reach the largest number of users possible. PayPal is using its muscle with giant email providers such as Yahoo!, AOL and Microsoft.Callow net users gravitate to these free webmail services, which Barrett hopes can choke off fake emails purporting to be from PayPal by blocking them unless they are signed with PayPal's own electronic certificate. If the approach works when it starts later this year, PayPal may expand the system to create a clearing house for other companies to use.This could do what other network-based email security schemes failed to do. S-MIME, a system that authenticates emails by digitally signing them, has been around for almost 20 years, says Jevans.PayPal is also working on two-factor authentication (2FA) as a way of solving the phishing problem. 2FA uses two things to authorise you: something you know (a password or PIN) and something you have (a hardware device). The company has already tested hardware tokens in some countries, and will roll them out in the UK around the end of the year, says Barrett.Meanwhile, the UK payment industry association APACS has been working with the credit card companies to design similar systems, and Sean Gilchrist, head of electronic banking at Barclays, says that it will ship card readers to a quarter of its online customers in the next few months.The reader is designed to support money transfers to recipients not on Barclays' pre-authorised list. It uses the chip on your bank card to calculate a one-time code for transactions, using a combination of your PIN, the amount to be paid and the recipient's account numberBut Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at Cambridge University's computer laboratory, worries about multiple potential attacks. These include crooks reading the worn buttons on the reader to guess your PIN, through to unscrupulous retailers harvesting information from the card (along with your PIN) using hacked point of sale terminals. He is also concerned about "man in the middle" attacks, where codes are relayed to the bank via fake websites.The move to 2FA is "driven by liability engineering rather than security engineering", says Anderson. "Everyone is trying to dump the risk over the fence, so it ultimately ends up with the customer." At present, though, most banks reimburse customers who suffer card fraud.Warnings ignoredBut Anderson and Dhamija point to another area that needs urgent attention: the software designers building both the e-commerce sites and the browsers that present them. "I think we're discriminating against humans. We're not trained to think about their capabilities, and their skills, and what they understand," Dhamija says.For example, users have been conditioned to ignore warnings, through repeated exposure to verbose security warnings about unimportant things, such as Windows throwing up an exclamation mark saying that this operation will overwrite the existing file, or that a cable "has come unplugged". Being told to look for the padlock sign in the browser window as a sign of security makes it easier for scammers to simply post an image of a padlock and a security logo on the website to give it an air of legitimacy, she adds.And despite the sophisticated network engineering, industry initiatives and talking shops on phishing countermeasures, that layer of unreachable people remains who simply don't listen, don't learn and definitely don't read the manual remains huge. Last year, they accounted for &pound;33.5m of the &pound;428m lost by UK banks in card fraud.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thereviewsare in today, with Overlord, Picross and er, Great Battles of Rome getting the once over. You could be forgiven for thinking that the traditional summer gaming drought has kicked in but Overlord, at least, deserves a look. It's all too easy to say Overlord is Pikmin crossed with Fable, but that essentially is what it is. While your hero is controlled in the traditional third person, the meat of the game involves the Gremlin style minions. These are easy to control and the game soon becomes a fantasy puzzle game of using the right minions at the right time. Unfortunately you can't really be as "bad" as you'd imagine - certain quests need to be completed in a predetermined way for progress to be made - and the graphics won't blow you away. But on the 360 at least there is nothing like Overlord and that alone makes it worth a look.I've not played Picross yet but with the excellent More Brain Training arriving a few days ago I probably won't bother. And Great Battles of Rome? I'll stick with Total War thanks.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Revoke the phishing licenceThe effect of having your details stolen via a bogus website can be devastating. Danny Bradbury looks at what the big players are doing to stamp out the problem.Will Galileo ever achieve orbit?Free Our Data: Europe has abandoned the idea of funding the satellite navigation system via a public-private partnership, writes Wendy M Grossman.Coming soon: mobile phone hyperlinks for the real world2D barcodes are helping the mobile web to take a giant leap forward, writes Matthew Wall.Ex-Microsoft star whose paper trail was too shortInnovations ranging from a truly personal area network to a 'thrill chip' were among the fruits of Lyndsay Williams' research work, writes Jack Schofield.Size isn't everything for the modest creator of SQLiteRichard Hipp's database is used by some of the biggest names in IT - but he has not made a penny from it, writes Tim Anderson.Newly Asked Questions:So where the hell are all those Vista Ultimate Extras?On the Lost island? Back in January at CES, Bill Gates previewed a few nifty features that would only appear in the Ultimate - ie, the most expensive - version of Vista. All sounds cool, right? Well, six months after launch, Ultimate users are still waiting to be wowed by the Extras, says Kate Bevan.How soon will sales of Nintendo's Wii pass the Xbox 360's?Within a few months, and certainly before Christmas, says Charles Arthur, judging by two separate sources which have been keeping tabs on sales (as opposed to distribution) of the latest generation of consoles.Guided by the Hampstead way of lifeGamesblog: Hampstead was the ultimate 1980s adventure game. As aspirational games go, it was pretty high on the narcissistic scale. With the right clothes, the right education, the right muesli and the right girl (Pippa, of course), all that stood between your and your freehold was her Dad. And he was a pussycat.GamesOverlord | Picross | Great Battles of RomeTechnobileMat Smith: Since when did I tell the assorted media players I have that it was OK to take over my computer?SiteseeingBaby, you can drive my search.NewsbytesGB in 3D | Blu-ray rolls ahead | HD DVD sales disappoint | Tourists hit in Italian job | Txt me $$$ | Australia's grand plan | More accessible | Is Your Mobile On?Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
OverlordXbox 360/PC, &pound;49.99/&pound;34.99, cert 16+, Triumph Studios/Codemasters, 4/5Tired of always playing the gaming good guy? Overlord thinks so too. This is a darkly humorous fantasy adventure that combines the dynamics of the underrated Miyamato title Pikmin and the medieval fantasy environment of Peter Molyneux's Fable. Aiming high then, but Overlord manages to excite. This is chiefly due to the minions - the Gremlin-like critters that are the stars of the show. They can fight, ransack and generally cause havoc as well as opening doors and fawningly presenting you with treasure. Luckily the controls work well, allowing you to easily guide your minions to their next target. The action can get repetitive and the graphics won't win any awards. But throw in some interesting moral decisions - torch or feed the peasants? - and you have a cult hit in the making.Greg HowsonPicrossNintendo DS, &pound;19.99, cert 3+, Nintendo, 3/5Puzzle games should be two things: childishly simple and infernally addictive. Picross, the latest such effort for the wonderful DS, satisfies both criteria in spades, and even manages to feel fresh and original. But it is almost unbelievably simple, essentially being a picture version of Sudoku. Each puzzle consists of a square grid (usually 5x5 or 10x10), with each column and row marked according to the number of squares in it that must be filled in. And if there are gaps between squares, you're told how many exist in each block (thus a column marked 1 3 2 means that from the top, you must fill on one square, followed by a block of three squares, followed by one of two). Dealing with the higher numbers first and using logic, as with Sudoku, you generate a little pixellated picture is animated as a reward. With a number of different challenges and the ability to generate your own puzzles, Picross proves to be unputdownable while it lasts.Steve BoxerGreat Battles of RomePS2/PSP/PC, &pound;19.99, cert 12+, Slitherine/Black Bean, 2/5The cover looks a bit like Rome: Total War, and it's endorsed by the History Channel - must be worth a look, eh? Only if your idea of an RTS is a mass of coloured sticks clashing in a Microsoft Paint window. In the tactical phase, things look promising enough. There are 100+ battles to choose from, spread across two campaigns (Romans and Celts) backed by a stirring soundtrack and comprehensive documentary footage. However, once the fighting starts you might as well go off and make the tea for all the control you have. It's bland, glitchy and graphically five years out of date; you'd have to be a pacifist to bother.Mike Andereisz&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On June 8, the European Transport Council - composed of the transport ministers of all the EU countries - officially gave up the idea of funding the nascent Galileo global satellite navigation system through a public-private partnership. Instead, the cost of testing and deploying Europe's civil answer to the US's military global positioning system (GPS) is to be paid out of public funds.Exactly how much that will be is uncertain; a 2001 report commissioned by the EU estimated that developing and deploying Galileo would cost &euro;3.4bn (&pound;2.3bn). Philip Davies, senior account manager at Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd (sstl.co.uk), says he's seen estimated running costs in the range of &euro;8bn to &euro;10bn over 20 years. These numbers will be part of what is scrutinised between now and September, the deadline the Transport Council has given the European Commission to come up with alternative proposals for funding and managing the system.Military connectionBecause of its military connection, detailed numbers for the original cost of GPS are hard to come by. The system's roots lie in two 1960s projects that merged in the early 1970s. In May 2005, GPS World estimated the total cost of building and maintaing the system to that point at $16bn (&pound;8.1bn). In January 1999, the Clinton White House's 2000 Budget included a request for $400m to modernise GPS, to be spent over six years. Since then, GPS has had to compete for funds with increasing military expenditure on other projects.Galileo's original timetable called for its constellation of 30 satellites to be complete and operational by 2011; the first were due to launch next year. However, that schedule now looks iffy. In 2003 the managing body, the Galileo Joint Undertaking (galileoju.com) awarded contracts for the test satellites Giove-A and Giove-B. SSTL, a small Guildford-based company, won the &euro;28m contract to build Giove-A, which was successfully launched in December 2005. The &euro;72m contract to build the slightly larger Giove-B went to EADS Astrium. It should have been completed on the same schedule, but now seems unlikely to launch before the end of this year. The two test satellites and the first four deployed were always going to be paid for out of public funds.After that, though, the notion was that a concessionaire would pay for two thirds of the projects's total cost in return for being able to sell access to a secured commercial service. Besides the open service, free to end users, and the commercial one, Galileo is intended to offer three more: "public regulated", intended for government and emergency services; "safety-of-life", primarily for aircraft; and global search and rescue.The business plan published by the Galileo Joint Undertaking at the outset of all this estimated that the market for satellite navigation applications would grow from &euro;30bn in 2004 to &euro;276bn by 2020. This estimate was conservative compared to some of those in the report the EU commissioned in 2001 from PricewaterhouseCooper, which projected a market of &euro;276bn by 2015 for personal communications and location services.Those figures slide past one important point: GPS represents a perfect illustration of the benefits argued by Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign. It is a project funded and run by the government; its output data are available for use for free, without copyright restriction. That has already created a market worth billions of pounds in Europe alone - and thus generated tax revenues worth millions to governments that may not have contributed at all to GPS. Would the market be as large if every satnav using GPS had to pay a fee to the US government, and cede downstream rights to any intellectual property they might generate, in order to make GPS "pay for itself"?There were always, however, questions about how a private investor was going to recoup the investment competing against the free GPS and open Galileo services. They were revived in July last year, when Giove-A started transmitting signals and an American team cracked the codes to begin receiving data before the GalileoJU was willing to publish them (Galileo's secure codes cracked, August 31 2006). GalileoJU was inclined, at the time, to dismiss the importance of this, and SSTL's Martin Unwin believes the incident was largely irrelevant."You can do most of the applications with free services," Davies says. "So the only revenue stream you were going to be able to tap into was niche markets - surveying, maritime, such as big tankers navigating round sand banks, [and] aviation. That was never going to be big enough to fund the system. So it was pretty clear that the contractor was expecting the public sector to pay for the system."So far, there seems to be little support for canning Galileo, despite the cost and despite the fact that even without Galileo, GPS's 27 satellites are due to be updated - to GPS III - by 2014. Galileo's earlier deployment might have made its increased capabilities over the current version of GPS a selling point.With the change in funding, Davies says, "the pressure is off, because previously they were trying to earn money on the basis that Galileo would be better than GPS. Now that's no longer the case." Without the pressure to earn money from it, "more sensible decisions can be made over the performance of Galileo". If the original timetable can't be met, even partial deployment of Galileo could significantly improve global navigation.But why Europe should spend all this money to create a global navigation system when we already have open access to GPS? The key reason for Europe to build Galileo, the first civil system, revolves around the increasing importance of global satellite navigation to daily life."The people who really need Galileo most are the governments," Davies says. Every country's infrastructure increasingly depends on GPS for aviation traffic control and other traffic management systems - and, very likely, eventually road toll collection systems. "Not that the Americans would turn it off," he adds, "but it gives them a lever during discussions that they're providing this support for the European infrastructure."European independenceBuilding Galileo would give Europe back its independence and, in addition, would mean that everyone will have access to a better system. Increasingly, receivers will be designed to work with both systems, and these will have greater accuracy and fewer black holes. For good accuracy, receivers need to be able to see four satellites; indoors and on city sidewalks between skyscrapers, with just GPS to draw on this is often impossible.Beyond that, there is also the size of the market that has been created. The US's estimated $16bn created a fast-expanding market now valued at double that amount per year. No wonder that, like the internet before it, everyone wants their own piece.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Here's a simple way to read one of the new Microsoft file formats, even if you have no Microsoft software installed. Let's suppose you have a file that ends with .docx, from the latest version of Microsoft Word. It's actually a zip file, so add .zip to the end and unzip it. You'll find a cluster of files and folders inside, and the one you want should be called document.xml. Double-click that and it will load in a browser window, where you can read the text.I'm not suggesting this as a standard office procedure: the text still includes the mark-up tags. However, it does let you read the text in a hurry, and it provides an insight into why Microsoft's new formats are not such a bad idea. My colleague Charles Arthur recently complained about .docx under the headline This time, it's Microsoft which must adapt or die (June 7). I agree. And .docx shows Microsoft adapting.Yes, the old Office file formats have enjoyed a long, successful run, and they aren't going away. But times have changed. First, Microsoft has come under belated pressure from the European Union and some US states to open up its formats. (I say "belated" because I've been campaigning against proprietary file formats for a decade.)Second, the current file formats have become overly complex, and a target for virus writers. There are good technical reasons for replacing them with something more robust. Third, programmable file formats offer huge business advantages, including data mining and the re-use of content. With .docx, for example, a company can write routines to change the letterhead on thousands of letters and perform other updates without changing anything else.That is hard or impossible with big binary blobs like a .doc file. It's easy when the file is already split into constituent parts, with the styles, font tables, settings and contents all in separate XML files. Fourth, the old formats are coming under pressure from the Open Document Format (ODF), which is already an OSI standard. The free OpenOffice.org suite uses ODF files.Put those four things together and it's easy to see why Microsoft responded by creating the new Office Open XML formats. It has already put these through the ECMA open standards process with a committee that included Apple, the British Library and many others. It now wants to get them accepted by the OSI.The big question, of course, is why Microsoft didn't simply adopt ODF. So I asked. The answer was that unless businesses could interchange documents between the old and new formats, the new standards would be difficult to adopt. ODF was not defined with Microsoft compatibility in mind, and couldn't offer the level of compatibility it required.According to Microsoft program manager Brian Jones, the company has "no issues with ODF", which does a different job. Microsoft's goal was different: "An open XML format that could fully represent the existing base of Word binary documents." Either way, you don't have to use the new formats: the old ones are still supported. You don't have to buy a new copy of Office: the backwards compatibility pack very easily adds support to some earlier versions of Office for Windows. And you don't have to use either the old or new formats: you can still use plain text, RTF, HTML, PDF, ODF or whatever else does what you need.There is no reason to be browbeaten into thinking that there should only be one document format. And I welcome the increases in power, flexibility, openness and choice brought by .docx, even though I have no intention of using it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Baby, you can drive my searchBMW, Audi, Ford, Vauxhall and Toyota were the most searched-for car manufacturers online in the UK in the past three months. The purpose seems to be research - with Mini, Ford Focus, Vauxhall Corsa and Honda Civic the most searched-for marques. Those for Porsche, Lamborghini and Alfa Romeo trailed searches for more economical brands and makes. The two brands that have seen the biggest gains in brand searches in the past year were Ford, up 53%, and Nissan, up 21%. Ford and Nissan have both launched new models, and have stepped up offline advertising - probably fuelling the rise.weblogs.hitwise.com
Imagine waiting at the bus shelter idly reading the poster for a new blockbuster movie. You whip out your cameraphone and snap a barcode-like image on the poster. Software in your phone decodes this and takes you to a website where you can watch the trailer and find out more about the film. Sounds cool?The world of the so-called 2D barcode is nearly upon us. After several false dawns, hyperlinks for the physical world are becoming a reality, thanks to mobiles with higher resolution cameras and the emergence of 3G high-speed connectivity.ScanBuy (scanbuy.com), a New York-based provider of 2D barcode capture technology, has signed a deal with Nokia to embed its software into the mobile manufacturer's S60 and S40 models - primarily in China, a country with 500m mobile phone users. And global packaging company DuPont is offering to print the codes on to its customers' products using ScanBuy's technology.These more sophisticated versions of the traditional barcodes (universal product codes, or UPCs) used in retailing can be scanned by cameraphones and converted into text, images or video. They can simply contain information - up to 1MB in some cases - or act as web links, making the hitherto tricky process of surfing the net via mobile as easy as "point and click".The technology is proving popular in Japan and South Korea, with 2D barcodes printed on billboards and bus shelters. Carriers such as Japan's NTT DoCoMo (nttdocomo.com) have led the way.Subscribers to its i-mode internet service, for example, can generate their own 2D codes for printing on adverts, flyers and business cards. In Europe, Spanish mobile phone giant Telefonica (telefonica.com), owner of O2, is beta-testing 2D barcodes with its users.Marketers are particularly interested in a technology that enables consumers to interact with traditionally passive advertising. And it is easy to see how this technology could be extended. House hunters walking past a For Sale sign could scan the barcode and find out the particulars of the property. Newspaper readers could scan sports reports and then watch video clips of the highlights. Business people could scan each other's business cards and instantly store contact details.The technology can also be applied effectively as a digital ticketing system. When you buy a ticket to a concert or film, for example, the promoter sends an image of the unique barcode to your mobile as proof of purchase. When you turn up at the venue you present this image on your phone to a barcode reader - a modified mobile phone - to gain entry.Barcelona-based Codilink (codilink.com) is selling 20,000 2D barcode cinema tickets and discount vouchers a week, having licensed ScanBuy's technology. Codilink managing director Ben Chesser says: "Within one-and-a-half to two years, early adopters will be doing this regularly. It takes time to build awareness, but this technology is finally ready for take-off."One drawback preventing widespread adoption has been the lack of standards in a fragmented and highly competitive mobile phone market. Few consumers have been bothered enough to download decoder software on to their phones.The advantage of ScanBuy's proprietary software is that it can read any of the main barcode protocols, such as QR, mainly used in Japan; Data Matrix, mainly used in Europe; and EZcode, ScanBuy's code designed specifically for VGA cameraphones. And once more mobiles are shipped with decoder software built in, the mobile web will take a giant leap forward.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Social sites such as MySpace, Facebook and Bebo that want to run your life for you are all the rage, but this shouldn't distract from the strong growth of networks geared to special interests. When I wrote recently about the slowness of the digital revolution to hit the book world, I was hit by a shoal of letters listing stacks of sites not mentioned. It is all very well extolling the attractions ofLibraryThing, I was told, but hadn't I seenbibliophil.org, an established site, orgoodreads.com, a recent startup enabling members to see online what their friends are reading, complete with their comments, as well as to browse through their entire libraries? It also enables you to form sub-groups of people from your locality or your own book club or based on authors or subjects. Otis Chandler, who founded the site, which claims 125,000 users, says, witheringly, that he would rather look to friends for advice than an algorithm.There is a reason it wasn't mentioned. I had never heard of it. Goodreads is one of dozens of new start-ups fighting for attention in this fledgling space in an attempt to become the dominant provider. In the networked world the winner often takes all. LibraryThing, currently the market leader, which has just linked with Random House, has only just hit 200,000 members so there is all to play for as users will not want to input their entire libraries into multiple sites.This is a critical period in books, not least because the rise of literary social networks is happening at a time when some newspapers, particularly in the US, are starting to shrink their review sections. Among other book sites mentioned by readers werebooktribes.com(with a claimed database of 2.5m books and which stresses its independence from publishers) andshelfari.com. Another one,whatsonmybookshelf.comwhich, in addition to enabling you to embed the site in another site such asFacebook, operates a points system for trading books that have been finished with.This may have identified a gap in the market. Do you really need all the books you have read, and if not, what should you do with those that don't go to the charity shop? Whatsonmybookshelf offers one solution whilebookmooch.comis dedicated to giving books to others using a points system. You get them every time you give a book away and a 10th of a point for every book you enter in your library. It is called "mooch" because of an archaic use, "to obtain something without paying for it" - appropriately a secondhand meaning for a secondhand book site. It even has a widget that can be used to put titles fromAmazonon to a wishlist of books you want to borrow.If you don't want to swap you can simply leave read books on a train or in a public space using the well establishedbookcrossing.com, which encourages those who pick them up to register them on its site. If you don't want to do anything in return for free books, then sign up to the excellentgutenberg.orgor one of its imitators such asmanybooks.netwhich has more than 17,000 ebooks ready to be downloaded to your PDA or other device.The future doesn't, however, necessarily reside with the written word. Earlier this week I bought a book for holiday listening from the newly launchedsilksoundbooks.com, which boasts top actors such as Bill Nighy and Judi Dench reading uncut versions of books. It is to be welcomed not least because it is offering whole books at &pound;7.95 each, thereby providing much needed competition for the more expensiveaudible.com, far and away the biggest operator.Where is all this leading? As these book sites get bigger they will suddenly realise the leverage that their members have given them. It is not completely fanciful to speculate that they could use their huge user bases to negotiate for cheaper books directly with the publishers rather than intermediaries. Watch out, Amazon.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In a world of people obsessed by turning the tiniest idea into something profitable, Dr Richard Hipp's best-known software stands out for two reasons - he actively disclaims copyright in it; and at a time when multi-megabyte installations are booming, he has a self-imposed limit on the size of his product: 250KB. And he's stuck to both aims. "I think we've got 15 kilobytes of spare space," he says of the headroom left in the code.Thus his product - SQLite (sqlite.org), a self-contained database engine and client - now forms part of Apple's Mac OS X operating system as well as part of its Aperture photo-handling application. It is also used by Google, Adobe, Sun and a number of other big names. But he receives no royalty for the millions of copies being used by commercial and non-commercial users alike. The reason? He has placed SQLite in the public domain. It contains the note: "The author disclaims copyright to this source code. In place of a legal notice, here is a blessing: may you do good and not evil. May you find forgiveness for yourself and forgive others. May you share freely, never taking more than you give."Unrestricted approachIt is an unusual approach, even in the open source world. Most open source code is licensed under an agreement such as the GNU GPL (general public licence), which includes terms to ensure that the software remains free. "I looked at all of the licences," Hipp says, "and I thought, why not just put it in the public domain? Why have these restrictions on it? I never expected to make one penny. I just wanted to make it available to other people to solve their problem."SQLite is an entire SQL relational database management system, wrapped up in a single file. SQL, or structured query language, is the industry standard programming language for storing and retrieving data. Well-known SQL database managers include Oracle, IBM's DB2, Microsoft's SQL Server and Access, and the open source MySQL and PostgreSQL."We're not trying to compete with those other engines," says Hipp. "Our goal is not add all sorts of bells and whistles, but rather to keep SQLite small and fast. We've set an arbitrary limit to keep the footprint of the library below 250KB."However, the application can support databases running to terabytes, including gigabyte-sized elements. Being written in C, it can be compiled to run on pretty much any operating system.Samuel Neff is senior software engineer at B-Line Medical in Maryland, USA. He likes SQLite because it has zero configuration and installation. The code is freely available, so he can easily extend it with customisations, and its performance is excellent.In his tests SQLite was four times faster than Microsoft's SQL Server. The comparison is unfair, though, since SQL Server is designed to serve entire networks and to support huge databases with thousands of users, whereas SQLite is mainly intended for a single user on a single machine. Even so, Neff's experience shows the benefits of using tightly coded software that does no more than is necessary.Dr Hipp knows exactly when SQLite began. "I started on May 29 2000. It's just over seven years old," he says. He was working on a project which used a database server, but from time to time the database went offline. "Then my program would give an error message saying that the database isn't working, and I got the blame for this. So I said, this is not a demanding application for the database, why don't I just talk directly to the disk, and build an SQL database engine that way? That was how it started."In the past couple of years SQLite has increasingly been attracting attention. Apple used it in OS X 10.4, released in April 2005, as part of Apple Mail (for its message index) and to support its Core Data services. SQLite is also built into PHP 5.0, the hugely popular open source scripting language for web applications. It is in Symbian 9.5, an embedded operating system for smartphones. The tiny database engine is also part of the new Google Gears, which enables web applications to work offline. Most recently, Adobe has announced the inclusion of SQLite in Adobe Integrated Runtime for desktop applications based on its Flash multimedia engine. "Performance is great," says Ben Forsaith, business development manager at Adobe UK. "It's open source. It's lightweight, really small and widely adopted."So how many SQLite databases are in use? "We don't have a good way of counting it," he says, "but we're guessing it's the most widely deployed SQL database in the world."Dedicated effortDespite being open source, the SQLite code does not have many contributors. "I have an assistant, Dan Kennedy, an Australian living in Thailand, who contributes a lot of code," Hipp says. "He works for me, I pay him. There are some people at Google who have been contributing to the full text search capability. But Dan and I have done in excess of 99% of the code."One of the limiting factors is that anyone contributing code must waive their copyright. "I require anyone who contributes code to sign a copyright disclaimer, and I keep those copyright disclaimers in my fire safe," Hipp says.Is he worried about the code fragmenting into many different versions, because it is public domain? "I don't see that as a problem," he says. "Other people are free to make a copy of SQLite and fork the tree [produce alternative descendants] if they want to. So far I'm not aware of anybody doing that. If someone decides they want to, it won't hurt my feelings. But it has turned into a very complicated piece of software, and it takes a dedicated effort to keep it in good shape."Hipp attributes much of the reliability of SQLite to his use of tests. Less than half of the program code is delivered as the database engine. The larger part consists of thousands of automated tests, which exercise the code and check that the results are as expected. "That's the real key to keeping it working well," hesays.There is a commercial aspect to SQLite. Hipp runs a company that provides support for the application, and sells extensions for specialised features including encryption and compression. It is only a small company, despite the popularity of the software."It's very clear to me that if I'd had any business sense whatsoever I could have made a lot of money, but I don't," he says. "I like to tell people that we make enough to live fine in Charlotte, North Carolina. We don't make nearly enough money to live in London or San Francisco, but we don't live there so that's OK," he adds - with a touch, just a touch, of wistfulness.
Nowadays people carry around lots of little electronic gadgets, so perhaps we could use the human body to connect them together and to carry both power and data. You don't want wires running round your body, so perhaps you could connect wearable devices by painting or tattooing tracks on the skin with conductive paint. People like tattoos, so it could double as a form of decoration ...I'm having this perfectly normal conversation in a front room in suburban Cambridge with Lyndsay Williams, who lives there with her daughter, Louise. It's normal because Williams didn't just think of creating a "personal area network" of devices - she developed the idea and patented it, thinking it could be used for such things as heartrate monitoring. "But it was so new, I think it frightened quite a lot of people at the time," she says.Well, that and the patent's aside that: "It will be apparent that the body may be that of a wide variety of living animals." Pet power! Microsoft went into damage- limitation mode, saying that the patent "does not currently map to any particular Microsoft product that is either shipping or in development" (tinyurl.com/25bc7d).The "body bus" was just scary enough to be a hit with the press in the summer of 2004, and the patent was just one of the 15 that Williams earned in eight and a half years working for Microsoft Research; the company hands out marble cubes to celebrate each award, so her living room now has a neat pyramid. She also developed the SenseCam device (tinyurl.com/2rok4r) for life-logging; a GyroTablet handheld computer with motion detection (tinyurl.com/25e3ga); a "thrill chip" (tinyurl.com/2fyss8); a digital sticky-notes pad and various other novelties.Focus on innovationThe SenseCam could be the most significant. It is being used in one of Microsoft's best known US research projects, Gordon Bell's My Life Bits (tinyurl.com/yuw2b4), and with Alzheimer's patients at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge. Given the company's public relations focus on innovation, on building a patent portfolio, and expanding into new areas, you'd think Williams was just the sort of lateral thinker it needs. So it was a bit of a surprise to find that Microsoft Research made her redundant at the end of last month."It was a surprise to me too," she says, "but at Microsoft now, the main goal is to get x number of peer-reviewed papers published per year. I joined Microsoft because I was interested in innovation, in creating useful devices, not writing papers. My goal was to do things that would improve the lives of millions of people. I didn't want to do academic research and that's what Microsoft wants now. I don't fit in."When asked for a comment, Microsoft said it was "grateful for Lyndsay's valuable contributions" and wished her well.Looking back, I tell her that in March I went to see Rick Rashid, who started and still runs Microsoft Research. The proudest boast of his Techfest keynote speech was that MSR's 750 researchers had published more than 3,700 peer-reviewed papers, and the event also focused on the expansion of MSR into India and China. While those could in retrospect be taken as a sign, he also highlighted the SenseCam.But Williams believes that she's the only person to be made redundant and that Microsoft is still investing in Cambridge. Most of the other IT research labs have closed, with AT&amp;T shutting up shop in 2002, and Intel closing its Cambridge lab last year. Finding another job could be tricky: she's had offers from Silicon Valley, but her daughter is at school and she doesn't want to move. "I can do research upstairs and work for a company overseas," she says. "I'm happy if I've got an oscilloscope and a computer. They're a lot easier to work with than people!"Something might turn up. She came to Microsoft's attention via an odd route: Slashdot. The news-for-nerds site had a discussion about SmartQuill (tinyurl.com/24e98d), a pen with handwriting capture and motion controlled display, which she invented while working for BT's research lab in Martlesham. Microsoft invited her for a chat and offered her a job.After graduating from the University of Salford, she'd started out as an avionics engineer at British Aerospace, because, she says, "Woodford was only three miles down the road" from her home in Wilmslow. At BAe she worked on propeller balancing technologies for the Avro 748 turbo-prop, which helped the Queen enjoy quieter flights. That was "the day job". She was also pursuing her own projects."I'd seen the Moog synthesizer and couldn't afford one. I said, 'right, I'm going to design my own'," she says. "Then I saw a Fairlight sound sampler, which had too many logic chips. I thought I could design one around a Z80 microprocessor. I did the hardware and software for a sound sampler, and thought I could change the world." The aim was to reduce a &pound;25,000 device into one costing &pound;49.The Sinclair Spectrum home computer was based on a Z80 chip, and this was where our paths first crossed, though I didn't realise it. In 1983, as editor of Practical Computing magazine, I published an article on how to build an analogue/digital interface for a Spectrum, complete with diagrams, flow charts and Basic and machine code. It was written by a Lyndsay Robinson, who also contributed to Practical Electronics.Sound samplerUseful chap, we thought. But Robinson was her maiden name. If she'd been christened Fiona, we might have twigged. (She says now that her mother noticed she was getting letters addressed to Mr Robinson.) But she never tried to capitalise on being a woman, and it hasn't been an issue.Williams's Spectrum efforts led to the SFX Sound Sampler for the Commodore 64, and she went on to develop sound samplers for a string of home micros. She also developed what could be the first PC sound card, and another interesting bit of electronics, the Philips Personal Music Composer PMC100, launched in 1986. She still has one on her shelf, and it doesn't really look out of place alongside the hi-fi style Windows Media Center, Xbox 360, Sky set-top boxes and other modern electronica.One failure was her involvement with the Psion Series 5 handheld organiser. "They wanted a feature where you could record audio in a meeting, and I said 'for another 50 cents, you could have it play back music'. They weren't interested. They said 'It's a business machine'." That was a couple of years before Napster was launched in 1999, bringing MP3 music files to the masses, and four years before the iPod. Maybe but for that Psion could have changed the world.More recently, Williams became interested in "haptics" - using tactile sensations to interact with computer applications - and in trying to record excitement and recreate it. This means "recording physiological features such as heart-rate and skin resistance (because you sweat with fear) while you're doing something like a ski jump, and then thinking how to replicate those on a person", she says.Her research led to the ThrillChip, which is based on a Peltier cooling chip like those used to cool Pentium processors. Put the ThrillChip on your neck and it can literally send shivers down your spine."I thought the main commercialisation of the ThrillChip would be for the Xbox, where you've already got things like vibrating steering wheels," she says. "A side benefit is that it's a very good way of getting rid of a headache. Put it on your forehead and leave it switched on for about five minutes, it really cools down your head. But Microsoft has decided not to pursue it." Microsoft loves innovation. But some of the things that emerge from a suburban Cambridge living room are apparently too hot, or cold, to handle.
GB in 3DMicrosoft has launched an enhanced Virtual Earth for England, Scotland and Wales.http://tinyurl.com/34wnwcBlu-ray rolls aheadBlockbuster says it is extending its stock of Blu-ray movies for rental to 1,700 US stores. It will continue to offer Blu-ray and HD DVD in the original 250 stores.blockbuster.com/corporate/newsHD DVD sales disappointToshiba has slashed its US sales forecast for standalone HD DVD players from 1.8m units to 1m, reports Reuters.tinyurl.com/3ay4dbTourists hit in Italian jobAround 10,000 Italian tourism sites have been infected with a Trojan intended to steal financial data such as bank passwords, spotted by Trend Micro.tinyurl.com/2dchakTxt me $$$Anam Mobile's global SMS Money Transfer service lets users move cash between bank accounts via text messages.anam.com/moneytransfer.phpAustralia's grand planThe Australian prime minister has unveiled a $2bn (&pound;850m) project to deliver high-speed broadband to 99% of the population by June 2009.tinyurl.com/2qu2thMore accessibleDolphin's EasyConverter for Windows (up to &pound;3,125.50 inc VAT; less for schools) converts text files into Braille, large print, MP3 audio or Daisy 2 formats.yourdolphin.comIs Your Mobile On?IYMO? is an Edinburgh Fringe production that "explores the absurdity of our technological world", from August 3-27.mobileon.co.uk
In the world of video games, few companies have baited parents and politicians quite like Rockstar.In Grand Theft Auto, for instance, it created a virtual American city where players assumed the identities of gang members and committed random acts of extreme violence against pimps and prostitutes. All directed from the safety of their bedrooms.But after years of courting controversy - and earning millions in the process - the company finally fell foul of the censor yesterday. Its latest release, Manhunt 2, was banned amid claims it was an "unrelenting focus on brutal slaying". It is the first video game to be banned in a decade.The game, which was due to be released next month, was refused a rating by the British Board of Film Classification, which oversees the age limits for movies and games in the UK. The move makes it illegal for any shop in Britain to sell the title.Dubbed a "snuff stealth thriller" by one website, the game puts the player in the position of a scientist who has been subjected to a series of terrifying experiments. After being imprisoned in a dark and menacing asylum, the main character escapes and players must help him fight his way to freedom.It features extended scenes of extreme violence - including a section in a brothel where the main character is encouraged to kill prostitutes using a variety of objects. BBFC director David Cooke said that the game had no redeeming qualities to set against its "sustained and cumulative casual sadism". "Rejecting a work is a very serious action, and one which we do not take lightly," he said. "Where possible we try to consider cuts or modifications which remove the material which contravenes the board's published guidelines. In the case of Manhunt 2 this has not been possible."Rockstar refused to discuss the decision, but issued a statement in which it rejected the BBFC's claims."While we respect the authority of the classification board and will abide by the rules, we emphatically disagree with this particular decision," the company said. "Manhunt 2 is an entertainment experience for fans of psychological thrillers and horror - the subject matter is in line with other mainstream entertainment choices for adult consumers."The company said that games were treated unfairly in comparison with violent horror films and TV shows, although the BBFC pointed out that Manhunt 2 is the first game it has banned for 10 years.The last time Rockstar attracted controversy was two years ago, when it was discovered that a secret level inside Grand Theft Auto allowed players to engage in a series of sex games. The revelation led to an embarrassing climb down by the developers, but while it led to the title being temporarily taken off the shelves by some shops, the games industry remained generally supportive of the company.Yesterday it was struggling to garner any sympathy. Many experts said it had pushed things too far with a game that was clearly intended to cause a media storm."A decision from the BBFC such as this demonstrates that we have a games rating system in the UK that is effective," said Paul Jackson, the director general of the games industry body Elspa. "The important thing to know is that all games are rated according to age suitability."The first Manhunt game also caused controversy, after the parents of a schoolboy murdered in Leicester claimed it was responsible for the death of their son. The family of Stefan Pakeerah said his killer, 17-year-old Warren Leblanc, was addicted to playing Manhunt when he stabbed his victim in February 2004.Police and prosecutors did not draw a link between the game and Leblanc's attack, but Stefan's mother, Giselle, has kept up her campaign against Rockstar, and yesterday said she was "absolutely elated" by the decision.News of the ban will come as a crushing blow to Rockstar and its parent company, US-based Take-Two Interactive, which has been hit by financial problems. Take-Two has recently replaced its executive team after serious irregularities emerged in its share dealings, while profits have withered in the absence of a big hit.If Rockstar does appeal against the decision, the BBFC told the Guardian that it would stand by its verdict, which was the result of extensive testing by half a dozen experts."What we're concerned about is the whole tone of the work corrupting and creating a sense of callousness," said a spokeswoman. "The only thing on offer is going around killing people in the most gruesome ways possible."ReviewIn Manhunt 2, the main character, Danny, needs to escape an asylum past guards and other inmates by sticking closely to the shadows. Getting past the guards is fairly straightforward, but soon he comes face to face with one of the other inmates who smacks him in the face. Danny has no option but to beat him to a bloody pulp.Although Danny professes a fear of violence, he sticks a syringe right into the neck of a nurse who is blocking his escape. Danny also has a friend called Leo who talks him through his escalating spree of ultra-violence to help him out of hospital.As Danny makes his way out of the hospital he can stick a pen in somebody's eye, or stick a knife or some shards of glass into a victim's neck. When Danny finds a shotgun he can stop sneaking through the shadows and pistol-whip the interns or just shoot them in the face.Another new feature which Rockstar was keen to show off was "environmental kills". This refers to the ways in which Danny kills using items around him such as toilets, telephone cables or fuse boxes.It was at this point in the demo that I found myself questioning the point of Manhunt 2. The animations were hilariously over-the-top with gore - I can imagine playing the game for the first time and squealing with perverted delight at how well-executed these moves were.&#183;Adam Hartley is UK editor of games websiteSpong.com
Digg-er: Rupert Murdoch. Photograph: Nicholas Roberts/AFP/GettyThis morning's story inthe Timessuggesting that Rupert Murdoch is in discussions with Yahoo! to swap MySpace for a 30% stake in the company should raise a few eyebrows.I'm not sure what weight there is to the story - and certainly given the source (the Times is, of course, owned by Rupert Murdoch) any information is likely to have come heavily weighted towards the tycoon's point of view.The details are scant, but it sounds as if it's effectively an offer to swapFox Interactive(mainly MySpace andIGN).News Corp, the parent company of The Times, is interested in a deal even if it means losing some control of MySpace because it would give the media group exposure to a far larger internet-based business.Well, of course they would - it would be the deal of the century. After all, with Yahoo! still worth $37bn, despite itsproblems. Murdoch spent a grand total of $1.2bn on buying his two major digital assets two years ago, and is suggesting that he could sell them for something roughly equivalent to $11bn.A year ago - with MySpace on top of the world and Yahoo looking very troubled - Murdoch might just have been able to pull this off. But Facebook is slapping MySpace all over the place, and its value is only going to diminish unless something remarkable happens. Yahoo!'s already looked at buying Facebook, and I wouldn't be any surprised if Murdoch had made overtures as well (he invited Mark Zuckerberg to a big News Corporation pow-wow recently)... but MySpace doesn't feel like it's got momentum.In fact, if anything, the story suggests that Murdoch's muddled digital strategy isn't really any better than it has been in the past: not good news if you work for Fox Interactive.I don't know whether there's any truth in this. But if it went ahead, it would be a heist of gargantuan proportions - and all Yahoo! would manage to prove is that it's more monumentally stupid than we could have ever imagined.
"YouTube looks set to overtake BBC.co.uk in share of UK visits within a matter of weeks," saysHitwise.Last week, BBC.co.uk ranked #14 among All Categories of websites with 0.82% of all UK Internet visits compared to YouTube's #25 ranking with 0.81% of UK Internet visits. The gap between the two websites is closing rapidly. Last week, BBC had a 1.6% lead on YouTube in share of UK visits, down from 37% three months ago and 131% six months ago.YouTube was only founded in February 2005
From our better late than never dept: "Vista Avalon Simser was born May 18th,"writes Bill Simser, so she has the first name of an operating system, while the middle name was the code name for Windows Presentation Foundation. She represents an advance on a previous child, DOS (Dev Orion Simser).Bill doesn't work for Microsoft, though he does work with Microsoft products.Okay, first I know that most of you are reading this on the bus, at home, at work, and you're laughing. Some people are shocked and probably scratching your head why a nerd would potentially put their child through the slings and arrows of naming their spawn after an operating system. Hopefully by the time she's old enough for someone to make fun of her name, nobody will remember where it came from.There'sa photoset on Flickr.For inexplicable reasons, Vista has yet to make Wikipedia'sList of unusual personal names.
