"Surfin's simply fun using currant bun", according to the front page ofThe Sunon Tuesday. In a front page story splattered with more capitals than a Lucy Ellmann column, the world's greatest newspaper advised its readers: "get your computers ready, folks." Like Dixons, Tesco,  Virgin, Arsenal FC, Egg, W H Smith and others, the racy red-top is now offering a free Internet service. We look forward to Page Three stunnas printing their e-mail addresses: 38-24-36@CurrantBun.com anyone?And no, that domain name is not a joke. Sadly, The Sun could not use sun.com, as that address was taken ages ago by a little ($10 billion) Unix computer manufacturer called Sun Microsystems: better not confuse the two.However, the girl with the best coverage this week wasMelissa, a Word macro virus that was left in the alt.sex UseNet newsgroup and rapidly swept the world. Being very gregarious, Melissa mails herself to the first 50 people in your Microsoft Outlook address book. It's a good time for users to update their virus-checking software: check the suppliers' Web sites. Otherwise, if you get an e-mail message with the Subject line "Important Message From &#91;username&#93;" and an attachment called LIST.DOC, that's Melissa. Best delete it unopened and unread. Still, at least Melissa's author - clearly aSimpsonsfan -  had a sense of humour.When the minutes of the hour match the day of the month, the virus puts a phrase into your currentbun document that reads: "Twenty-two points, plus triple-word score, plus 50 points for using all my letters. Game's over. I'm outta here." Harder to search for on the Net, but so much more creative than inserting wazzu, folks.
Are computers important? For you for the world in general?&lt;BR&lt;Absolutely, but it won't just be computers in the traditional sense. The importance lies in getting everyone using computers and the Internet, whether it be through a personal computer, a set-top box or a mobile phone. That's why we're giving Internet access away for free.What about the Internet?Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom? Used correctly, the Internet can only benefit our lives. It will save us time and money, and provide a wider choice. If we can do our shopping, banking, research and ticket booking online, then we can be free to spend our leisure time doing the things we really want to be doing - spending time outdoors with our families and friends, perhaps? The big issue is regulating what our children see. It's the parents' responsibility to monitor what their children view online, in the same way that they would monitor what videos they watch or what magazines they read. Parents need to make a greater effort to get online and understand the wealth of information out here.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC. or something different?I have a PC in my office, but I still rely on a traditional notebook and pen when I'm out and about .What do you use the machine for?The usual - word processing and e-mail, and occasionally checking out our Web site and those of our competitors. I'm afraid I don't do anything extraordinary, like programming or Web designing!Any particular favourite software?Anything you'd like but can't have yet? Not really.Any favourite Web sites? Or news groups on UseNet? Where else do you roam on the Net?I only really have time to check out the Virgin group sites and affiliated sites. Most of our companies can be reached viawww.virgin.comso, as you'd expect, I tend to go there and to our portal siteVirgin Net. When we were in the balloon this winter, we had a site that tracked the route and told people all about the trip, which I was happy to hear a lot of schools were using to learn about weather systems. We also sent messages directly from the balloon via e-mail and via the site. I was also at the launch of the HEMS site for theLondon Air Ambulance Service, which we helped develop. I occasionally read news, too.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?We had e-mail connection from the balloon to our Web site this winter and we had lots of good luck messages from people all over the world, to which we responded. But I don't lurk in chat rooms under the guise of Gertrude, if that's what you mean .Spend long at the terminal?No, not really. I have a very hectic life, but both my children use the Net for schoolwork and research, games, music, entertainment and the like. Even my mother is online!Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?No, not a techno geek, anyhow. Anyone who's seen my jumper collection may assume me to be one! But seriously, geek is a derogatory term, used when only keen hobbyists used computers. I'd say a geek now is someone who buries his or her head in the sand and refuses to learn how to use one.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?Well, I do have a desert island of my own! When we visit Necker, I always take family, friends and staff for company. There's no way a computer could replace them.Are you worried by the Y2K problem?No. I have great staff, whose job it is to worry about those sorts of things for me.Professionally, what's taking up your time?It's a secret.
Woody Allen once quipped "I don't want to achieve immortality through my work. I want to achieve it by not dying." Allen longs to transcend the finitude of the flesh and live forever. In the West, the dream of immortality has acquired its most enduring impetus from the Christian Book of Revelation, in which we are told that when the last trumpet sounds the virtuous will go to Heaven to live forever in "the light of the Lord".Resurrection to eternal life is the great promise of Christianity; it is this event that Christians celebrate this weekend at Easter. In Christ's resurrection from the grave and ascension into heaven, Christians see a foreshadowing of their own future.Resurrection and immortality are profoundly religious dreams, yet in recent years, both ideas have received a boost from a rather surprising quarter - the global Web of the Internet. Like Woody Allen, an increasing number of Netizens are expressing a wish to live forever. Cyberspace, they believe, will provide the means to make this dream come true.The dream of cyber-immortality is based on the emerging view that the true core of a human being is not the matter of our bodies, but an immaterial pattern of information which makes up our minds. This view, increasingly being promoted by cognitive scientists and artificial intelligence experts, suggests that human beings are not defined by the atoms of our bodies, but by an ethereal matrix of electrically stored data. The mind is seen as the software, the brain as the hardware.If that analogy is true, say cyber-immortalists, then why should it not be possible to transfer the "software" of the self from the neuronal computer of the brain to a silicon computer connected to the Internet. Once in a chip, this software self would effectively be immortal, they say, for it would no longer be limited by the failings of the flesh.This vision of downloading one's self to cyber-immortality goes back almost to the beginning of cyberspace. At the close of William Gibson's seminal cyberpunk novel, Neuromancer, the story's hero, Case, is downloaded into cyberspace to live forever in a virtual reality simulation of a tropical paradise. Cyber-immortality was presaged even in the first bona fide cyberfiction classic,Vernor Vinge's enigmatic novella True Names in 1981, three years before Gibson christened the digital domain. As Vinge's heroine approaches death (this time through old age), every time she visits cyberspace she gradually transfers more of her personality into a virtual "construct", creating a self that will live on digitally after the earthly woman passes away.Another take is suggested by the mathematician and computer scientist Rudy Rucker in his novels Wetware and Software. Here the main character is uploaded for storage into a central computer, from which he is periodically downloaded into a series of android bodies. As the centuries pass, he is reincarnated again and again, yet in between these bodily bouts he returns to a transcendent cyberspatial "Void", which Rucker likens to "heaven".Paradoxically, in this supposedly materialistic age, we are seeing here a return to the old idea that humans are
bipolar beings with a mortal material body, and an immaterial "essence" that can endure forever. This is a technological re-envisioning of something very much like the Christian idea of the "soul" - but stripped of any ethical or moral dimension.Like the Christian soul, this new digital version (this cyber-soul) also requires a "home", or a space, of its own, one that is immaterial and nonphysical. Here, cyberspace fits the bill. For like the Christian heaven, it too is a "place" that is outside physical space and time.These may seem odd notions to be emerging in the "age of science", but historian David Noble has shown that ever since the late Middle Ages, the rise of technology in the West has been influenced by religious dreams. In his book The Religion of Technology, Noble charts how Western technology has been fuelled by a belief that through mastery and application of science, Christians could create a New Jerusalem here on earth. This belief was expressed most influentially in Francis Bacon's deeply Christian treatise The New Atlantis, one of the founding texts of the scientific revolution. The new cyber-religiosity is the latest iteration of this centuries-old trend.Much of the philosophy fuelling these cyber-religious dreams is coming from fields such as artificial intelligence, and the new cognitive sciences, which view the mind as a series of interconnected software-like modules tailored for specific tasks such as speech recognition and vision processing. Many AI experts insist that if computers can be taught to parse sentences and play grandmaster chess, then it can only be a matter of time before they will be able to simulate the full complement of human mental activities. From the vision of an artificial mind inside a computer, it is but a  step to imagining that a human mind might be made to function in such a device.That is precisely the fantasy touted by the American robotics expert Hans Moravec, director of a world-leading lab at the Carnegie Mellon University which creates robots with three-dimensional vision and mapping capabilities. Moravec has seriously suggested that the day is approaching when mind-downloading will be possible. In his book Mind Children, he envisages a scenario in which a "robot brain surgeon" would "open your brain case" and begin downloading your mind layer by layer using "high-resolution magnetic resonance measurements" and "arrays of magnetic and electric antennas". The process would destroy your physical brain, but the "real" you - that is, your mind - would be transferred to a waiting computer, where, according to Moravec, it would now be set for eternity.Even if there was a catastrophic systems crash, you would not necessarily die, Moravec says, because your cyberspatial self could be restored from backup files kept offline. As in Revelations, "death would be no more". True, there would be a gap between the time when the last backup copy had been made and the time of the crash, but says Moravec, "a small patch of amnesia is a trivial affair compared to the total loss of memory and function that results from death in the absence of a copy."What is astonishing here is that while the dream of transcending bodily limitations was once seen as theologically possible now it is increasingly viewed as technological feasible. To quote commentator N. Katherine Hayles, "perhaps not since the Middle Ages has the fantasy of leaving the body behind been as widely dispersed through the population, and never has it been so strongly linked with existing technologies."But a question hangs over the dream: is it actually possible to transfer a human mind into a computer? Despite the optimism of Vinge and Moravec, these fantasies elide over very real difficulties - both technical and philosophical. While the traditional AI paradigm views intelligence as simply a software function, a radical new breed of AI researchers, led by MIT's Rodney Brooks, insist that an intelligent being must necessarily be an embodied being. This is the philosophy behind the MIT "Cog" project, an ambitious scheme to build a humanoid robot. Cog has a head, a torso, two arms, two eyes, and two ears. Brooks and his team hope that intelligence will emerge in Cog -much as it does in a human infant.A new breed of philosophers of mind also insist that human intelligence is ineluctably tied to the physical reality of our bodies, to our existence as mortal material beings. Given that view, which I also hold, the notion that one could separate a human mind from its body is extremely dubious - even in principle! Without the actual body, with all its finitude and limits, would any downloaded entity really be "you"?Ironically, the architects of many cyber-immortality fantasies don't really want to give up their bodies. While they dream of transcending the limitations of the flesh, most long for its unique thrills and sensations. In Case's tropical cyber-paradise he relishes the feel of the sun on his back and the sand squishing beneath his toes. Above all he delights in the ecstasy of sex with his cyber-girlfriend, Linda Lee. In such fantasies, the cybernaut is reconstituted not just in mind, but also in body; not a physical body, but a virtual one.For according to the emerging philosophy, once we have perfected the technology of virtual reality - in which objects are visually represented in full three-dimensional splendour - then the self that is downloaded into cyberspace will also be visually represented in bodily form. Such forms are called "avatars", and there already exist online virtual worlds (such as AlphaWorld) where visitors are represented by simple cartoon avatars. Future avatars, we are told, will not only look real, they will experience the full complement of physical senses. Just how that can be possible without an actual body is never made clear - but such  is the dream.Steven Whittaker, a US commentator on cyber-matters, explains this paradox by describing the typical cyber-immortalist as "someone who desires embodiment and disembodiment in the same instant . . . His is a vision which loves sensorial possibility, while hating bodily limits." In these fantasies, cyberspatial simulacra do not get sick and do not age. Cyber-immortalists want the pleasures of the flesh, but without any of its restrictions.Yet again, this is essentially the promise of the Christian eschatology celebrated at Easter. Repackaged in digital garb, this is the dream of the "glorified body" that the heavenly elect are told they can look forward to when they go to Paradise. The Christian promise of life everlasting has always been interpreted by orthodox theologians to mean that when Judgment Day comes, people will be resurrected in body as well as soul."The person is not the soul" alone wrote Saint Bonaventure, "it is a composite. Thus it is established that &#91;the person in Heaven&#93; must be there as a composite, that is of soul and body."But this heavenly body will be a "glorified body", one that, like the posited cyberself, can experiences the joys of incarnated form without the failings of mortal flesh. Again, just what it meant to have a "body" in a place that was (strictly speaking) outside space and time was a question that much vexed medieval scholars. Yet this was the view that all major Christian theologians insisted on - and many still do today. For all the technological trappings of Gibson et al, theirs is essentially the same dream.The apotheosis of cyber-religious dreaming is the notion of digital resurrection, the idea of reconstructing in cyberspace people who have died. According to Hans Moravec, a future breed of "superintelligent archeologists armed with wonder-instruments" should be able to perfect a process whereby "long-dead people can be resurrected in near-perfect detail at any stage of their life." As Moravec tells us, these "souls" would be brought back to "life" in a vast computer simulation of our entire planet. For Christians, resurrection is promised with Last Judgment, but if Moravec is correct we might all expect it well before that.The question, of course, is would you actually want to be resurrected to cyberspace? In Christianity, the virtuous are promised an eternity of bliss in the presence of ultimate Grace; but what would be the fate of an eternal cyber-elect? What I imagine is not bliss, but eons of alt.sex.bestiality, alt.gossip.royals, and every boys' homepage ramblings about sex, football, and the latest bimbo sensation. Personally, this is my idea of Hell.• This article is adapted from Margaret Wertheim's new book The Pearly Gates of 
Cyberspace: A History of Space from Dante to the Internet (Virago Press).
What animals did the first human beings in Britain really encounter after the last ice age? It's easy to imagine a slightly larger collection of today's British mammals being present when the glaciers receded, some of which disappeared as humans battered them to extinction.But that now looks overly simplistic. Scientists have now confirmed that our ancestors did meet and hunt mammoths in Britain as recently as 11,000 years ago, but early peoples' relationships with animals were far more complex and protracted than we thought. Our whole perception of what is "wild" could be misplaced.The lynx, big enough to pull down roe deer for breakfast, was thought to have died out at least 7,000 years ago and is not included in most accounts of recent British mammals. "But carbon dating has now put lynx remains from Scotland at just 1,770 years old, in Britain's Roman era," says Dr Derek Yalden, president of the Mammal Society and author of a new History of British Mammals. "If so conspicuous a member of our fauna can be overlooked for so long, it raises questions about how reliably we can date the extinctions of any other species."Yalden's compilation reveals that Britain's mammals have been staggeringly diverse and have come and gone and come again - along with early people. Early species sharing Britain with Neanderthals included elephants, lions, spotted hyaenas, European jaguars and a Barbary ape, as well as the ever-popular sabre-toothed cat.Most of these, along with tapirs, gazelles and even a panda, vanished 25,000 years ago with the height of the last "Devensian" glaciation. But then came a rollercoaster of climatic change. It began to get warmer, but then temperatures fell again and it became cold and dry. Britain's mammals then included mammoths, reindeer, saiga antelope - now found on the Siberian steppes - Arctic foxes and Arctic lemmings. "This was a northern fauna - not the sort of animals we'd expect in British latitudes now," says Yalden. "It was damned cold."In fact, the climate then was probably of greater concern to early Britons than to hairy mastodons. Dr Peter Woodman from the University of Cork's department of archaeology says that while animals were there to hunt, conditions may have been too extreme to permit continuous human settlement.
Instead, people and animals probably moved north and west in warmer periods, falling back again when temperatures dropped. This period of change, rather than the end of the ice age, determined which animals live in Britain now.The climate warmed dramatically over just 50 years and, in the subsequent Mesolithic period of permanent human settlement, complex human relationships with animals started to form. "Accelerated" radio carbon-dating techniques have recently allowed zoologists and archaeologists to revisit and analyse even the smallest bones of history when previously only large bones could be dated. The discoveries have been surprising."Previously, if we found a certain mammal bone we'd place it in the era we thought it came from," explains Woodman. "But we now know they often came from far earlier than we thought. House mice, we have discovered, were in Ireland in Mesolithic pre-history and did not arrive later with the Vikings. That's a huge time difference."
Those mice had formed one-way relationships with unwilling early people. And humans may have influenced species' arrival in more dramatic ways, too. "The red deer is absent in Ireland for most of history, even though it was being widely hunted in Britain and Europe," says Woodman. "They may have been here in too small a number for us to detect, but it's been niggling me that we have no red deer remains at all earlier than about 5,000 years old at our Mesolithic sites. Yet it's widespread by the end of the Neolithic period - when farming had been introduced."The possibility that wild animals were deliberately introduced specifically for hunting by very early peoples is a fascinating one. Generally, we have only thought of introductions as occurrences in later history or in domesticated animal terms. But Dr Terry O'Connor, from the University of York, says, "What matters is not so much what species were where, but what was the nature of the relationship with humans - why are these animals found on archaeological sites at all?"He notes that house mice and house sparrows became established in settlements at almost the instant they were formed, suggesting "very rapid adaptation to a new and beneficial environment".That adaptation is causing a complete rethink. "The assumption, ten or 15 years ago, was that domestication was something that humans did to animals. Increasingly, a small number of us think that's not necessarily the case," says O'Connor. "It doesn't take much behavioural adaptation on the part of a species like a sheep for a relationship of mutual benefit to emerge with people. Individually, the sheep that gets knocked on the head for dinner hasn't gained, but in terms of biomass and species distribution there is a real benefit to the species."Increasing evidence from Mesolithic settlements also suggests that the species that disappeared from Britain after the arrival of people may not have been hunted to extinction after all. "Elk, reindeer and wild horse gradually died out over the last 10,000 years," says O'Connor. "But the likelihood of hunting pressure being intense enough to drive an otherwise viable species to extinction is pretty remote. Instead, vegetation probably adjusted to climate change quite slowly, and reindeer, horse and elk were squeezed out as that happened."People opted for more strategic relationships with animals. Evidence suggests that Britain's Mesolithic people learned to burn reedbeds and moorland to encourage new plant growth which lured game to kill. But this was careful planning, suggesting that people were not always on the move, pursuing animals to extinction.Lynx and wolf lived on alongside people for centuries, because red and roe deer remained plentiful and there was little conflict with humans until domestic stock was established. These larger carnivores were eventually driven to extinction, but it would be wrong to think that the wild mammals that remain today are "typical" of Britain.Instead, Yalden says, today's mix of mammals owes more to humans introducing species than hunting them, and more to humans per se than the post-glacial climate.As he told the Mammal Society's conference, "Only about 30 per cent of our 'wild' mammals are native - the other 70 per cent have been introduced, including rabbits, fallow deer and grey squirrels. But the majority of the mammal fauna in the country now is domestic: pigs, sheep, cattle and horses. In biomass terms, if you convert those big domestic mammals, and us, and the wildlife into its biological weight, only about 1.8 per cent of the mammal biomass in Britain consists of 'wild' species, even when you include all the rabbits and voles and millions of other small mammals."Although the biomass of all mammals in Britain is nearly 20 times greater than it probably was in Mesolithic times, the biomass of wild mammals then was at least ten times greater than it is today. The problem now is that a landscape that can support lots of cattle and sheep, and lots of us, is no longer a landscape that can also support lots of wild mammals like lynx."• Derek Yalden's The History of British Mammals is published by T&amp;AD Poyser, £29.95, ISBN 0-85661-110-7.
John Brunner's 1975 novel, The Shockwave Rider, describes a world of caller ID run amok. A group of people dedicated to providing telephone callers with anonymity creates a service called Hearing Aid, based in, where else, California. To ensure caller privacy, they send a software worm into the phone network deleting the trails left by calls made to Hearing Aid.Twenty-four years later, Internet users can get their hands on sophisticated software that hides their identity when Web surfing or when sending e-mail. But the software creates a cyber-arms race with programmers dreaming up better ways to hide and others writing software to ferret out a Web surfer's identity or e-mail address.AT&amp;T Labs Research is sponsoring a project, code-named Crowds, that lets Web surfers hide their tracks by mixing them with those of other surfers. And a loose affiliation of cypherpunks and online privacy advocates run a system of anonymous re-mailers that bounce e-mail messages around the Internet, encrypting and altering them to make them very hard to trace.The Crowds project consists of a group of people who want to surf anonymously. Each person runs a piece of software called a "jondo" (a pun on the name John Doe, used to hide the identity of a person involved in a court case). The jondo, written in the freeware language Perl, has two purposes. It acts as a Web surfer's entry point into the crowd and accepts and passes on Web requests from other crowd members.Here's how it works. Your browser requests a page, say www.guardian.co.uk, and passes it to your jondo. The jondo removes information that would identify the surfer, such as any cookies, the size of your screen, and which page you were last surfing. It then chooses another jondo in the crowd randomly, encrypts your request and passes it on.The jondo receiving the requests decides randomly whether to pass it on to another jondo or to request the page you are looking for. Once this process finishes, a path through the crowd - from jondo to jondo - has been established and your Web requests and pages flow along the path. One of the jondos will request www.guardian. co.uk and pass it back along the same path.There are two big advantages: the Web server you are contacting won't know who you are, as all identifying information has been removed and the request will come from a random jondo in the crowd; and the fact that you requested the specific page is also hidden. No one knows who you are or what pages you request.The disadvantage is that by bouncing your requests around the Internet, your browsing will be slower. Your request jumps from computer to computer before going to the Web server you are trying to contact. And your machine will be making requests on behalf of other Web surfers visiting Web sites you don't necessarily want to see and using your bandwidth. You may not want your machine to visit www.guardian.co.uk or use its precious bandwidth.An anonymous re-mailer works by taking an e-mail message and creating an anonymous identity for the sender. The message is then passed on, marked as having come from the anonymous address. So a simple e-mail from, say, someone@randomcompany.com might appear to have come from anon1346@ anonymous-place.net. The recipient could reply to the anon1346 address and the re-mailer would take the reply and forward it on to the real recipient.The re-mailer keeps a record of the relationship between real and anonymous addresses. Of course, it is rather easy to work out the real identity of an anonymous user by monitoring the messages going in and out of the re-mailer and matching them up.So, some even more sophisticated re-mailer systems act in concert creating re-mailer networks. A message sent to a re-mailer network is encrypted and a new anonymous address is tacked on. The message is encrypted again with another address and so on. This process is repeated multiple times.
Then the message is passed on to another anonymous 
re-mailer that removes one layer of encryption, learns the address of the next re-mailer, and passes the message on. Each re-mailer removes one layer of this encrypted onion until finally the real message is revealed and it is passed on to the intended recipient.Using a re-mailer network makes it very hard to track a message since it is encrypted and passed between multiple re-mailers. At each stage, the message gets mixed with other messages and becomes obscured in the crowd of 
e-mails passing by.But there are ways to track a message. If the re-mailer passes on messages in the order they are received, then simply tracking arrival and departure time for each message at each re-mailer means that a clever eavesdropper can reconstruct the sequence and determine where a message came from and where it was going.Many re-mailers purposefully hang on to messages for a certain time and then reorder the messages as they are sent to make messages harder to track.Another way is to look at the size of each message and track an e-mail simply by its length. Some re-mailers force all 
messages to have the same length by padding them with garbage information to 
prevent an eavesdropper from spotting the relationship between messages.
And, finally, there's a bigger problem. If not many people use a re-mailer network, it's fairly easy to watch all the 
messages passing in and out and guess the relationship between any two senders.Close to the end of The Shockwave Rider, the protagonist decides that anonymity is dangerous if used against the common good. He unleashes a second computer worm that frees previously hidden information that will better mankind. Sadly, no such software is available for download from the Internet today.• John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is the last in a series of articles about living with the Net
With the Government wavering on its demand 
that the security services be allowed the keys to all computer codes ('key escrow'), users of the popular do-it-yourself cryptography tool, Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), feel their time has come.The Internet newsgroups relating to PGP are buzzing with examples of the types of communication users insist must be kept private. These include business plans; software source code; love letters; medical records; communications with banks; and even school records.Sam Simpson, a communications analyst at Hertford Regional College, is using the alt.security.pgp and comp.security.pgp.discuss newsgroups to arrange the UK's first PGP "key-signing party". PGP works by encoding messages using a combination of public and private codes, or 'keys'. But there is no way of knowing that people are who they say they are, without key-signing - the electronic endorsement of one person's key by another PGP user who knows them.At a key-signing party, PGP users gather and prove their identity using passports or other documents. Others will then sign their key on their floppy disks. A first-level "Web of trust" has thus been created.
Simpson is also involved in promoting a program calledScramdiskwhich creates "virtual encrypted drives" on your home computer.These are encrypted areas within a standard hard drive that can be accessed only by password. Once users are inside, it's like any other drive with directories and files.The Scramdisk site is a mine of snappy quotes like:
"Mary had a crypto key, she kept it in escrow, And everything that Mary said, the Feds were sure to know."Meanwhile, the comp. security.pgp.resources newsgroup has thrown up a spiritual angle to cryptography, which the DTI seems to have overlooked. Michael Johnson, editor of an online version of The Bible (http://ebible.org/), answers the question: "Is PGP really secure?" by reference to the highest authority: "It is secure against most human attackers when used on a physically secure system in accordance with its instructions  &#91;But&#93; it is also true that God knows your thoughts even before you encrypt them".For more on Usenet newsgroups and PGP visitwww.usenet.org.ukandwww.pgpi.com.
The latest medical innovation has produced a powerful repair kit for inner tubes. This is not for bicycles: the inner tubes in question are arteries, heart valves and other blood vessels. Tissuemed, a Leeds-based medical device company, has developed a glue activated by filtered white light: squirt it on to the tear or join, shine the right colour light on the glue, and the tube is instantly repaired.The glue is based on 
albumin, a component of human blood (and many other biological fluids, including egg white). The developers have even produced a patch based on the glue, which could be used to repair holes in lungs. The product has just received the European safety mark, which means it is ready for clinical use.Because the glue is so closely related to the fluids that normally gather around wounds in the body, it allows the body's healing cells to pass through to carry out natural repairs. "Basically, we're just forming a scab," says Tissuemed's Alban Davies, who presented the work at the 37th annual conference on adhesion and adhesives at Oxford Brookes University on Tuesday.Davies was a cardiac surgeon before moving into research. "One of the biggest problems in cardiac surgery is bleeding," he says. "Stitches make holes, and they bleed; this technique doesn't bleed at all."
Joining body tissue has always been a problem. Stitches can scar and become rigid, which can stop blood circulation. Previous attempts at gluing have used the natural clotting mechanism but clots have tended to dislodge and move into the bloodstream - a dangerous problem.Surgeons use light activated glues now, but they rely on lasers. This is an expensive procedure and it can be dangerous: it is difficult to achieve the right level of gluing without turning the tissue to charcoal.Tissuemed's new glue is made sticky when activated by one very specific colour of light. The surgeon can squeeze a tiny drop of glue on to the join through a fine needle, and then illuminate it with a specially developed light pen. Once activated, the glue changes colour, so the surgeon can see when to stop. The activated glue is also reflective, so it becomes impossible to burn the tissue.The innovation is the result of collaboration between biochemists, cell biologists, pathologists, surgeons, physicists and engineers. Davies is particularly proud of the light source: it is like a small pen in the surgeon's hand, connected via a fibre optic cable to the kind of bulb as used in endoscopes, which are available in every hospital in the country.The pens are currently being tried out for comfort and ease of use by hospital surgeons. Davies claims they will cut operating times significantly. "The average sewing-up time for a coronary is 10-20 minutes - we're talking about doing it in seconds," he says.The saved time and improved healing will save hospitals a lot of money, he says; operating time is generally costed at £350 per hour, and intensive care beds can absorb £1,000 a day."We believe this has tremendous financial implications for a health service that is running on very limited resources."
Are you on the Net? If not, you are part of the shrinking 
majority of Britons who aren't, but who are trying to figure out how to get online. Choosing an Internet Service Provider (ISP) that is right for you is a challenge, especially as a number of companies now offer "free" Internet access. Before you start thinking that free access is absolutely free, remember that all Internet access requires you to pay the phone charges for as long as you are connected to a provider.Freeservefrom the Dixons Group, while not the first free service, has brought the idea increasingly to the public's attention. In the short time since the group started Freeserve, it has become the number one ISP in the UK with nearly a million subscribers. Its success has spurred a number of other companies to start new, free ISP offerings and some businesses to switch to a no-charge ISP service.Your choice of service depends on how much experience you have of the Internet. If you've never been online, it's best to choose a service that provides you with software that can set up all the connections on your system as well as give you links to useful sites to get you started.One of the best services for those starting out isAOL. Its installation software will create all the necessary connections as well as take you to a useful portal page that gives you an idea of what is available on the Internet.The downside to AOL, however, is that as you become a more experienced Internet user, you will find the portal approach combined with the fact that you pay AOL for every minute connected - in addition to paying the phone company - quite limiting.More experienced Internet users will find that a free ISP is the best bet. In addition to providing basic Web access, it also typically gives users 5 or 10Mb of Web space for creating a personal home page as well as an e-mail address. Here, one of the best choices isVirgin Net. PC Magazine found that Virgin Net is most useful for those who just want to browse the Web and use e-mail without a complex installation and with a few signposts to help you along the way. Remember, though, if you have a problem, you'll have to pay £1 per minute for support so it's important to know what you're doing, otherwise it could cost you dearly. Also, in order to use a free ISP, you will need to use a phone line that supports Caller Line Identification (CLI). Most free ISPs require CLI to prevent users from spamming the service (using it to send junk e-mail) and so they can track more effectively who is using their service.Other free ISPs are also worth considering, but keep in mind the following points. First, is the service oversubscribed? Will you get through when you dial or will you get a busy signal? Does the service offer different types of connection besides standard analogue phone connections? What hours are the technical support people available?If you already have a paid-for ISP that you are happy with but are thinking of switching to a free service, it's good to try the free ISP for a month. Don't get rid of your paid-for service immediately in the event that you find the free service isn't to your liking. It's slightly easier to maintain two different ISP accounts on your system simultaneously, than to cancel and then reinstate your account.If you want to use the Internet for business purposes, you'll immediately start to see limitations with free ISPs. First, you may not have CLI support through your business phone system, and second, having a small amount of Web space to create a presence for your business won't be sufficient. If you have a number of people in your office, you'll want to give them each their own e-mail address, which is a further limitation of a free ISP. Finally, some support queries might get very involved in a business environment and paying 
£1 per minute would not be economically viable.So for business, it is best to sign up with an ISP that provides you with lots of Web space, e-mail addresses, no requirement for CLI and a simplified support policy. One of the best choices isGlobal Internet. With this service, you receive an unlimited number of e-mail addresses, 50Mb of Web space and the ability to add scripting to your site, which means people can send you information through a program running on the Web server. All these services come at a cost of just £7.50 per month. Global Internet can also provide domain name hosting facilities, so your Web site can be called www.mybusiness.co.uk or some such.At the time of writing, there are 29 different free ISPs in the UK, in addition to Freeserve and Virgin Net. Most offer V.90 (56Kbits/ sec) and ISDN connections, so you can get fast, free access, only paying for the phone call. A complete list can be found atwww.zdnet.co.ukDon't jump in feet first to any service. Try one out for a while and don't invest too much time or effort until you find one that is right for you.• This is a shortened version of an article in the May issue of PC magazine, on sale  tomorrow
Her name is Melissa. She was unleashed on the world last week, and since then has had an absolutely wild time - wreaking havoc in homes and offices around the world. And now the FBI is after her.Melissa is the fastest spreading computer virus of all time. Her full name is the Melissa Macro Virus (MMV to her friends) and if you are on the Internet, you might have been visited by her already. If not, then it is extremely likely that she - or one of her relatives - will be dropping into your in-box some time soon. She's not particularly harmful, but she is simply the latest, painful reminder of just how little privacy you have when you go onto the Internet.The way Melissa works is ingenious. You receive an e-mail from someone you know, with the subject line 'Important Message from &#91;their name&#93;'. Inside the e-mail is a message: 'Here is that document you asked for, don't show anyone else.' Sure enough, there is a Microsoft Word document called list.doc attached to the mail, containing a list of pornographic sites. But the trouble begins as soon as you open the document. It starts a little program called a Macro, which looks inside your e-mail address book and sends exactly the same mail to the first 50 names there. And so the chain goes on.This is why she has spread so quickly. Every message is replicated 50 times. Within hours of her release, millions had Melissa calling on them. So far, the main problem has been the sheer volume of e-mail spread by Melissa. The FBI's National Infrastructure Protection Centre says it has 'received reports of significant network degradation and e-mail outages at major corporations and Internet Service Providers.' The NIPC's director Michael A Vatis has said: 'I urge e-mail users to exercise caution when reading their e-mail for the next few days and to bring unusual messages to the attention of their system administrator.'And this, he reminds us, is not a laughing matter: 'The transmission of a virus can be a criminal matter, and the FBI is investigating.' But the lesson from Melissa is not simply the matter of what has happened over the last week, but what might happen. As Eric Allman, of Sendmail in California, a provider of e-mail services, says: 'It's really more of a wake-up call that shows us how you could take a malicious virulent virus and reproduce it all over the place very quickly.'Already Melissa has some new relatives. We now have Pappa, which does the same but with an Excel spreadsheet, and a particularly scary new strain called Melissa.a, which does exactly the same but with a blank subject line in the e-mail.But while having a program delve into your e-mail address book is annoying and potentially embarrassing, it is only a hint of what a virus can do. Malcolm Hutty, of the UK Internet consultants iVision, says: 'Once you've got hostile code on your PC, anything is up for grabs. It could be using your most private data in the most dangerous way. So, rather than simply checking your address book, it could be, say, sending out purchase orders. You have to think what you would like to happen least, and assume it is going to happen.'The release of the Melissa virus comes after two other infringements of privacy. Only last week, Microsoft was forced to abandon its Global Unique Identifier (GUID) system - which meant every processing document you created could be traced back to your PC once you had registered your software.Yusuf Mehdi, director of Windows marketing at Microsoft, released a letter on the Net explaining the situation and admitting that 'there are hypothetical scenarios in which this number could be used to learn something about users' systems without their knowledge'.This only touched on the potential problems. The online privacy campaign at Junkbusters gives a number of scenarios where the GUID could be used against people, particularly in an office environment. Say you wrote an anonymous letter complaining about sexual harassment or bad health and safety standards in the office, even if you deleted the file - in fact even if you deleted everything on your hard drive - the document could still be traced back to you. Microsoft's solution has been to offer an extra bit of software for you to download that will stop the use of this fingerprinting technique. You should take them up on this offer.There has been similar outrage about the launch of Intel's new chip, the Pentium III. Each chip has a unique Processor Serial Number (PSN) which is used to identify users in electronic commerce. There has long been controversy about the use of 'cookies' - lines of text websites use to identify visitors (as used by the Guardian). However, the PSN took things to a new level. A major online campaign started against it, under the banner of Big Brother Inside (mimicking the 'Intel inside' ad line used by the chip maker).The Big Brother Inside campaign warned that it 'has all the makings of a Social Security Number for the Internet and all the privacy problems that went with it, like governments and credit bureaux and direct marketers using the numbers to build huge databases of profiles on consumers and selling that personal information without your knowledge or consent.' The campaign argued that the PSN will allow companies and organisations to monitor your movement around the Internet.After furious campaigning, Intel agreed to launch the Pentium III with the PSN switched off. A temporary victory. Taken together, the PSN and the GUID are two shocking examples of how the companies that dominate the IT market have put in place systems which they claim are for our benefit, but in fact seriously hack away at our privacy.The real problem here is that the vast majority of computer users will have no idea about them. Most consumers simply want to buy a Pentium PC with ready loaded software and plug it into the Net. And it is precisely by doing this that you end up giving unwanted information away.The less you do to your computer, the more other people will know about you. As Hutty says: 'You have to take control of your PC, otherwise it will take control of you.' In last year's conspiracy theory masterpiece, Enemy Of The State, a character says: 'Privacy's been dead for 30 years. The only privacy left is inside of your head.' Of course, you laugh when a character in a movie says it, but it's not only in films. Scott McNealy, the CEO of Sun Microsystems, the company that makes the computers that host most websites, said recently about online privacy: 'Get over it. You have no privacy.' Now, that is scary.Self-defence tipsNever open a computer program or document that is sent to you by e-mail, even if it is sent by a friend, unless you can guarantee it is safe.Get hold of reliable anti-virus software from the likes of Symantec or McAfee, install it- and be sure to get monthly updates from the company's website.If you use Microsoft Word, switch on Macro Virus alert (under Tools, find Options, then click on the General tab).If you used Microsoft Office, go to Microsoft's website (http://www.microsoft.com) and download the software to stop your documents being identified (follow the link Microsoft Addresses Customers' Privacy Concerns)Presume you have no privacy. That way you will never be disappointed.Useful links:Cookie Central: www.cookiecentral.comBig Brother Inside: www.bigbrotherinside.comJunkbusters: www.junkbusters.comTruste (investigated Microsoft): www.truste.org
There is one problem with most multi-purpose vehicles (MPVs), and it's all down to their multitude of purposes. If you take out all the seats and turn your people-mover into a load-lugger you'll have a bit of a problem when you unload your cargo at the other end and want to bring a few people back - your seats will be sitting at home in the garage.Vauxhall think they've solved the problem with their new mini-MPV, the Zafira. It's based on the Astra, so it's a good bit smaller than a Renault Espace or Ford Galaxy, yet Vauxhall still claim that the Zafira will carry seven passengers, and that - uniquely - it can also be transformed from furniture-van to courtesy-bus and back again without a single seat ever being removed from the car.So is it true? Well yes and no. There are seven seats, with two at the front, three in the middle and two in the back. The clever part is that the very back pair of seats fold into the floor when they're not in use, while the middle three fold up against the front seats. So the Zafira has a level of flexibility which its bigger brothers lack.However there is a problem. The pair of seats in the very back are really only suitable for pre-teenage children, while the middle seat in the second row only has a lap-belt, unlike Renault's Megane Scenic which gives everyone in the car a proper three-point belt. So by my reckoning the Zafira actually has four proper seats, plus what a Vauxhall executive called an 'occasional' seat in the middle of the centre row and two child-sized seats in the back.However, it is a flexible and practical vehicle. And in most other respects the car's lack of inches gives it some big advantages over larger MPVs. You can take superior manoeuvrability and good visibility for granted, but it is also far more economical. At the moment you can choose between a 1.6 or 1.8 litre petrol unit, and both will return in the mid-30s MPG on a run. And there'll be a diesel version along in September, which promises to be an excellent car.The two petrol-powered Zafiras go on sale in late May, with prices ranging from around £14,500 to £17,500 - which makes the Zafira significantly cheaper than a full-sized MPV. I'd go for the mid-range Comfort trim level, which includes standard air-conditioning, and in the 1.8 litre form that will cost under £16,500.The Zafira doesn't quite capture the cheery, Monsieur Hulot's Holiday feel of the Renault Megane Scenic because the Vauxhall's styling is still somewhat sombre. But it hits back with excellent build quality and good use of space. However the new version of the Scenic will be with us soon, and no doubt it will give this new Vauxhall a run for its money. But until then the Zafira is my choice among the mini-MPVs.
What are you driving?A 1967 two litre Herald Vitesse Mark II convertible. It's bright red with a black roof. I've had it about 9 months. Nobody whistles at me any more, they now whistle at the car. It makes me feel a lot better. I've had about twenty cars in my life, and this is a bit of a toy for me. My other car is a Volvo; my last car was a 2CV.What state is it in, inside and out?It has wire wheels, which I'm thinking of getting rid of because they're a nightmare to clean. It's been so well restored. I don't wash it enough, and I do feel guilty about that. I have let it go already. Unfortunately with a car like this you do get the nerds coming up to you. 'Oh, I just happened to notice that you don't have the original bootlock.' I just reply: 'Well, it looks alright to me.'What does it say about you?It's got mid-life crisis written all over it. It's not about recapturing my youth - it's about the need to feel a little bit different. Also, I've never had a red car before, and it's not really me at all. Maybe it says I have the desire to put the roof down and go - even if it's only to Sainsbury's. In my fantasy, I'm driving down to the South of France, in a headscarf with big sunglasses.Who'd be sat next to you?No-one from the Bill, as nice as they are. Sean Connery might be quite nice. Veteran would be the operative word there. I must try and think of someone younger to fancy.Do you get recognised?More in the Volvo. They really don't look at me. They always look at the Herald.What kind of music do you listen to in it?Blondie: Parallel Lines. I play that very loud. Dusty Springfield too.How do the police treat you?I was hooted lots yesterday by a police car behind me. They were just expressing their love of the car, not me or the Bill. They never talk to me.Have you ever had sex in a car?Hundreds of times. My bubble car was the best. No, that's a lie. You couldn't in one of them. When I was a student I had a Zephyr Zodiac with a bench front seat. I had pretty grotty digs, so... well, yeah.• Nick Paton Walsh Trudie Goodwin plays Sergeant Ackland in The Bill (ITV)
Quote of the Week'I met him &#91;Dr Wolfgang Reitzle, engineering director at BMW&#93; some months later at the launch of the new 3-series in Spain, and frankly we got along rather badly. It seems he still hasn't forgiven me for saying in this column that he looks 'a bit like Hitler', and he was very peeved when I plonked myself down next to him at dinner in a seat reserved for his girlfriend. Still, we had a full and frank exchange of views, which ended with him banging the table and shouting something about Germany being made to pay for 100 years for what it did in the war.' Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday TimesDevon vacancyHow worried is Plymouth about the traffic chaos the eclipse is going to cause? Very worried. So worried, in fact, that they've advertised for an eclipse transport chief to deal with the extra 36,500 cars expected to turn up. Anyone with eclipse traffic congestion experience contact Plymouth city council, but the prospects of the three-month contract being extended beyond the event look bleak.And finally...Parcel shelves: what's that all about then? Have you ever seen a parcel on one? And glove compartments...
AustraliaIs your car diseased? All vehicles entering the country must have a certificate of quarantine from the office of pest control. (If you think that's weird, see Bulgaria, below.)In Austria, when parking at night, you must leave your lights on, unless street lighting is provided. Know your lamp posts though - those that are red-banded go out at midnight, whereupon your unlit car gets a ticket.BangladeshIf you hire a motorbike here for a family day out, that's okay, but the load limit is two adults and three children. In Belgium, it pays to know the unofficial toilet law: nearly all service station loos require coins for admission. Otherwise, you might say it's tant pis.In Bulgaria, don't forget to stop and have your wheels disinfected at the border. Entering Bulgaria with unclean treads is a finable offence. A fee is charged at customs for this handy cleansing service.CroatiaIt's illegal to drive without a full set of spare light bulbs. And if your car is dented, the damage must be certified at the border - they don't want to carry the blame. The Czech Republic stipulates the same rule.DenmarkIt might be a sunny day, but get those headlamps on dipped - failing to do so during daylight hours is an offence.EgyptIn Cairo, two beeps mean 'I am alongside and about to overtake'; one long beep means 'I am coming through and will not stop'. A hand raised through the window, finger-tips together, means 'Do not overtake me'. Steer clear of new drivers here - up until recently, the test required merely demonstration of the ability to drive a few metres forward and then reverse, between two cones. However, after 'severe cone attrition', the bollards were replaced by two white lines.FranceOn the autoroute in good weather, the minimum speed limit on a level stretch of the fast lane is 49mph. Caravanners, you have been warned. However, if it is raining and you have held your licence for less than two years, you can't go any faster than 68mph. Otherwise, it's full steam ahead at 81mph.In Finland, it's tough if you're small: irrespective of age, anyone under 4ft 10in cannot travel in the front, unless the seat has a 'suitable restraint system'. No matter how tall or short you are though, if you collide with an elk, you must report the crash without delay to local police. Most elk, incidentally, weigh 500 to 600kg.GermanyUsing abusive sign language to other drivers (no matter how smug they look) carries a fine. An upright middle finger can cost DM2,200. Try it on a police officer and the scale of fines goes from DM500 up to DM3,000, depending on the seriousness of the insult and the poor chap's sensitivity.In Greece driving without a fire extinguisher on board is illegal and may prompt police to rip off your plates and smash them on the road, Zorba style. In gloomy weather, driving with just sidelights on is illegal, too - use dipped beam only.HungaryDrivers must use their headlights in out-of-town areas throughout the day. Hungary has possibly the world's lowest alcohol tolerance - if you're caught with as little as 0.008 per cent alcohol in your blood, you'll be fined up to 30,000 forints (about £85).In Honduras, a driving licence costs less than $7 and involves no driving. If you take a voluntary written test, you get a $2 rebate.ItalyVehicles travelling in opposite directions and wishing to turn left must pass in front of each other, and not behind, as in the UK.JapanIf you're buying a car that is more than ten feet long in Japan, you have to own a parking space and be thus registered before you can even make the purchase. All cars have to have a third mirror mounted to the front driver's side wing, in addition to the door mirror. This is because of the widespread parking paranoia on Japan's congested streets.KuwaitOn Kuwait's roads, which are often covered in oil spillages, smoking and driving is not permitted. This is because it is a dangerous distraction from the road ahead. The pressure group ASH agrees and would like the UK to adopt the same law.LuxembourgStrange logic perhaps, but when overtaking at night outside a built-up area, it is compulsory to flash your headlamps, so warning the driver you are passing.MalaysiaDriving under the influence of drugs is not a good idea - it carries a life sentence. And if you have a glovebox stash of heroine which looks like more than enough for personal use, you're in line for the death penalty.In Monaco meanwhile, it's legal for a 16 year-old to ride a motorcycle up to 125cc.NorwayIf you're applying for a driving licence here, you must produce a certificate of sobriety from the police and a medical certificate.OmanLike most Arab states, be wary of hiring a taxi. If the driver crashes, you are responsible for the insurance.PortugalIf you run out of fuel on the Tagus bridge in Lisbon, you will be fined 500 Escudos and forced to buy ten litres of petrol at the bridge authorities' official price, which is not competitive.Queensland, AustraliaGive way to the right at all unmarked junctions - worth knowing when meeting a land train.RomaniaIf you find yourself stuck behind a horse-drawn cart hauling smiling peasants, don't even think about blowing your horn - you will be fined for frightening the horse. Quite right too. Speed limits are low too - 48mph max, even on the open road.Saudi ArabiaIf you're a woman you're not allowed to drive at all. But this may soon change and women of 35 or over may be allowed onto the road, but only in daylight. In Spain, if you wear glasses, it is illegal to drive without a spare pair in the glovebox. It's also illegal to overtake a funeral cortege, unless it is travelling at less than 10mph.In Sweden, 'Flervagsstopp' means 'stop'.TurkeyTurkish drivers trust kismet (fate). That doesn't prevent an average of 15 deaths per day on their roads, though. Pedestrians are especially vulnerable because the law is on the side of the driver in any collision. If you're hiring a car in Turkey, make sure it has not just one, but two, warning triangles - only a brace will satisfy the authorities.USAIn most states, it's illegal to drive past a school bus when it is unloading children. When pulled over by the cops, it isn't illegal for your hands to be out of view, but you might get shot as a result. Turning right on a red light is generally permitted; the law was brought in during the energy crisis to cut idling time. A windscreen sticker is a no-no in many states, and in California, blacked-out front passenger windows are banned, too. In the same state, driving barefoot carries a fine.In leafy Montana the speeding law is simply that you drive at a speed that is 'reasonable and prudent'. In other words, there is no official speed limit.VietnamCurrently growing in popularity as a tourist destination, confusion rules over the laws of the road. A spokesman for the Vietnamese Consulate reports that it may be wiser to hire a professional driver than drive; the use of hire cars is 'an emerging situation'. Seat belts are not compulsory and speed limits vary according to vehicle type. Taxi, anyone?Wight (Isle of)If you visit the Isle of Wight (which is recognised as a distinct country by less informed tourists and once applied to have its own currency), and insist on doing so in a coach, you must drive round the island clockwise. A 40mph speed limit is currently being discussed.XanaduA long forgotten place in northern China. If you're thinking of driving here, a 4x4 will be necessary, plus a van to carry all the required red tape. Also a song, the in-car playing of which should be a prosecutable offence throughout the world.YemenYemeni roads are subject to Islamic and tribal law. If you kill a pedestrian, you are likely to be found guilty of driving without due care. If the victim is a man, you must pay millions of riyals to his family, if a woman, half the amount. Children are a lesser amount again, though all fines are doubled during Ramadan.ZululandNow part of South Africa and a growing destination for fly-drivers. (Okay, there's Zaire, Zimbabwe and Zambia, but not many people drive through them). When in Zululand, it's good to understand the etiquette of the road. When a faster car comes up behind you, you are expected to move over into the emergency lane. Once it has passed, it may well flash its hazards, to say 'thank you'. If you want to say 'no problem', flash your lights on high beam.&#149; Additional research from Lonely Planet guides and global motorcyclist Nick Sanders, whose video Fastest Man Around the World costs £14.99. Call Nick on 01295 758095 for a copy.
Are computers important?... for you?... for the world in general?Computers are not very important . They are a terrible design tool but excellent production tools. I believe in the idea and am interested in computers as production tools (fortunately for me, my collaborators can handle this!!). 
With my collaborators I insist that we arrive at a substantially complete design solution before beginning to work on the computer. It's an excellent way to see and revise progress. Tools are too precise for more than a sketch. In a sketch you can see many things - with a computer there is only yes and no.What about the Internet?Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom? The Internet is (mostly) fantastic. It does enhance individual corporate freedom.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC... or something different?Apple computers - although I'm getting a small PC to run programs not available on Macintosh computers.What do you use the machine for?I don't use a computer for designs - I use it for simple word processing, Internet, e-mail, faxing, database etc.Any particular software? Anything you'd like but can't have yet?I'm not able to get voice recognition for Macintosh .Any favourite Web sites? Or newsgroups on UseNet? Where else do you roam on the Net?Mostly for in and out of print books, CD and video sites,Bibliofind,Barnes &amp; Noble, video rentals, odd size shoes,CD Nowetc.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?I get into dialogues with strangers on the street!!Do you use your own name when surfing?Yes.Spend long at the terminal?Not yet.Are you a geek?No.Got any favourite geeks?My friend Peter Girardi at Funny Garbage (a design and production company ) is my favourite.On a desert island - a human or a computer for company?Please!! What am I going to do with a computer? I know what to do with a human.Professionally, what's taking up your time?Lectures, exhibitions, books and promoting my book Tibor Kalman: Perverse Optimist (published by Booth-Clibborn Editions). Designing a show about my work, Tiborocity, which opens at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and then travels (westward) around the world. A book about fashion, a book about 42nd Street, a new exhibition about sitting for Vitra. A book on architecture, a titles symposium at the Lincoln Centre. And for M&amp;Co Labs - new products -yuppie porn and new products for the Museum of Modern Art in New York. And a bunch of other stuff that I cannot bear to think of at this moment .
More than half of all US homes now have a PC, says  Californian research company, InfoBeads. The growth in sales of PCs selling for less than $1,000 (£633) tipped the balance last year, with six million homes acquiring PCs to take penetration to 50.3 per cent. With the price of some machines dipping below $500, a similar increase is expected this year. Separately, another US-based research company, International Data Corporation, forecast that sales of PCs would increase by 14.3 per cent this year to 103 million units. However, because of falling prices, the value of those PCs would increase by only 4.8 per cent to $178.4 
billion (£110 billion).Microsoft  has finally released a new version of Internet Explorer, its Web browser, after nine months of testing. IE5 looks almost identical to IE4, with most of the improvements being to the way it works: it's slightly faster, far more robust, and provides support for more types of Webcontent like XML (Extensible Mark-up Language). It's also possible, at long last, to save a whole Web page, including images, and e-mail it to someone else. The IE5 suite includes improved versions of related programs such as Outlook Express (e-mail) and Chat (for Internet Relay Chat). Outlook Express can now manage a number of different identities and collect e-mail from Web- based services likeHotMail- useful for people who want to read and write messages while not connected to the Net. Microsoft has also made a number of free accessories, such as an add-on to zoom images, available on its Web site atwww.microsoft.comIE5 can be downloaded free, but because of its size, the suite is best obtained from a computer magazine cover CD.The arrival of IE5 has allowed Microsoft to release further test versions of Windows 2000 and Office 2000, which share IE5 code. Office 2000 should be launched first, with Windows 98 Second Edition - that is, Windows 98 with IE5 replacing IE4 - following in the autumn. There are no bets on the schedule for Windows 2000, formerly known as NT5, but it is now at the Beta 3 Release Candidate 1 stage.Siemans  reckons it's the first computer company to provide full support for Linux, a free Unix-like operating system. That means it's offering service contracts to provide expertise, maintenance and training at the usual commercial rates. Presumably this support is fuller than IBM's, because earlier this month, the world's biggest computer company announced that it would work with four Linux distributors - Red Hat, Caldera Systems, Pacific HiTech, and SuSE - on joint marketing, development, training, and support initiatives. Next month, IBM will also offer Linux pre-installed on some servers. However, in the US Dell has already started to offer PCs with the Red Hat version of Linux pre-installed. It's free, but there is a $69 charge for installation, configuration and tuning - which is more than most PC manufacturers pay for  Windows. In the UK, Dell hopes to be able to offer Linux on workstations (not consumer PCs) and servers within six weeks but one problem is that "there's no infrastructure in the UK to support &#91;Linux&#93;."Intel  announced a 433MHz version of its Pentium II- based Celeron processor, for use in low-cost computers, this week. It offers a very marginal (8 per cent) speed increase over the current 400MHz version, but it is expected to creep up to 466MHz in the summer and 500MHz early next year. When the Celeron will be given the new processor instructions recently introduced with the Pentium III remains to be seen. But the need to compete with AMD's rival chips, which include 3-DNow! instructions, suggests the sooner the better.Sharp is planning to release a palm-sized Internet ViewCam that makes it easy to put digital video images on to Web sites. To keep file sizes fairly small, the VN-EZ1 (pronounced "easy one" in American) uses MPEG-4 compression, which is due to be ratified as a standard next month. And unlike Sony's Ruvi, Sharp's digicam uses standard SmartMedia  memory cards to capture from 37 seconds to 2 hours 17 minutes of video, or from 18 to 576 still images, depending on the size of the memory and the resolution of the images. Stills are only 640 by 480 pixels and the EZ-1 will eat a set of AA cells in an hour, but the real hazard may be elsewhere. Sharp includes a program to make it easy to attach video clips to messages. Your mailbox may already be groaning under the weight of unwanted attachments carrying illustrated doc files, but it could get much worse this summer.Can America Online (AOL) really compete with Microsoft? The Industry Standard, an online news service, has just staged a Celebrity Death Match that compares the two industry giants. The table posted atwww.thestandard.netis interesting in that it shows 
the two firms "boast eerily similar products, services and 
strategies", at least in terms 
of the Internet. However, it misses the fact that Microsoft does have another hugely- profitable multi-billion dollar software business with Microsoft Office.
You've just got divorced, moved house and left your job to go self-employed. The good news is that you have survived three stressful "life-cycle episodes". The bad news: you're going to have to spend the next six months telling different government departments of your various changes in status and dealing with the consequences of them getting the facts wrong.Wouldn't it be easier to do all the notification from an Internet terminal, or at a self-service kiosk next time you go shopping? And, while you're at it, rather than pay separate departments for national insurance, income tax , VAT and TV licence, wouldn't it be simpler to make out a single payment to "HMG"?All this could be possible in the next few years under plans for conducting government business online. They will appear in a white paper, provisionally called Modernising Government, which the Cabinet Office minister, Jack Cunningham, is due to publish on Tuesday. The contents are reasonably predictable. The buzzwords are "customer-focused" "joined-up" and "information age".
According to papers prepared by the Cabinet Office's Central IT Unit (Citu), the plans are to:• Remodel government around its "customers" (citizens and businesses) rather than government departments• Give people a choice of ways to contact the government, including through private firms such as supermarkets• Integrate services across agencies, departments and local authorities.The goal is to end wasteful and inefficient duplication in the way government handles our affairs. The future will be a network of "one stop shops".So far, so good. But  there is no obvious route towards this Nirvana. We all deal with many different government departments, local, national and semi-autonomous agencies. All have their own ways of handling information; different government departments even hold names and addresses in different incompatible formats.Cunningham has a magic wand: IT. 
The white paper will propose linking agencies' information systems on a colossal national intranet, which could have up to 600,000 users. It will be accessible to the public at post offices, supermarkets, self-service kiosks and even at home through cable TV.The Government claims that putting its services online will bring four key improvements: it will make them quicker, more convenient, more flexible and, will "empower" the citizen.The white paper will also talk about the possibilities offered by the Internet, smartcards and digital TV. However, it will avoid committing to specific technical solutions.Modernising Government was originally due out a year ago, under the title Better Government, sponsored by David Clark, then public service minister with an enthusiasm for IT. But it was shelved when  Clark was reshuffled last autumn, then postponed to ensure that it conforms to other government priorities, such as preparing computers to handle the euro.It has one high-profile fan. Tony Blair has said publicly that, by 2002, one quarter of all dealings between the public and government will be carried out electronically. (The Prime Minister left himself an escape hatch - "electronically" could just mean using the phone, or having state benefits paid into a bank account rather than in cash, as about 30 per cent of claimants do already.)But 25 per cent is a modest target by international standards. Citu says Britain already lags behind Canada, Singapore and Australia in implementing information-age government.The delays to the white paper are not just to do with politics. If Modernising Government is to prove more than a vague policy statement, the white paper will have to tackle three formidable obstacles.The first is how to identify the citizen. Unlike countries such as Denmark, which has had a central system of ID numbers since the early 1970s, the UK has no national identity scheme. Different government departments use different identity numbers. The most comprehensive of these, the new 10-digit NHS number, was introduced on the strict promise that no other agency would use it. The white paper will take pains to avoid the issue of national identity cards, widely seen as a political death-trap. (ID cards were Conservative policy until 1996, when MPs who had demanded them as a law-and-order measure discovered that a national card would have to bear the EU flag.)Instead the white paper will suggest a choice. We will be able to carry a smartcard containing an encrypted digital signature, verified by a personal identity number, to use at kiosks and automated teller machines. Or we will be able to deal with call centres by setting up "authentication" routines, as telephone banks today identify customers by asking for facts such as their mother's maiden name. 
Both ideas will raise eyebrows in the civil liberties lobby. "Voluntary" ID cards rapidly become obligatory, a process known as function creep.The security of call centres depends on a tape recording being kept of all conversations to resolve possible disputes. This is not an ideal way to assuage fears about "Big Brother". While most people are aware that government departments already share personal data for "enforcement functions" - usually detecting benefit fraud - the Government will have to obey data protection laws by ensuring that people understand that data collected as part of the delivery of one  government service may be used for another.The white paper will lay much stress on the need for confidentiality.   Cunningham will stress his commitment to data protection. This is not just a concern of Guardian readers: Citu's papers admit that independent research showed data protection as a "significant public concern". The white paper will also offer the bait of "privacy enhancing technologies" (PETs). This means using encryption to allow individuals to control how their information is used. Other PETs likely to figure will allow citizens to check their own files more easily to ensure they are accurate.Who will pay for all the 
new  networks, kiosks and terminals? Electronic government enthusiasts invariably promise that the technology saves money. Last month, a survey by Kable, a specialist consultancy, claimed that e-commerce could save central and local government £4 billion a year - equivalent to a penny off income tax.The white paper will avoid making such promises. However, it will envisage private industry setting up and running "access paths" or channels under schemes similar to the private finance initiative (PFI), claiming that some of the infrastructure is already in place and is ready to be adapted.One crucial component is the Government Secure Intranet, launched in April 1998, and operated by Cable &amp; Wireless. It is likely to grow to 300,000 civil servants "with onward connectivity to a similar number of officials and service providers in the wider public sector". Connecting all departmental databases to this intranet would take two to three years.One idea likely to be in the white paper is that of a "Government Portal", rather like the Yahoo Web front page. The snag with the PFI is that, by signing up individual competing companies to take over different departments' systems, it tends to entrench rather than abolish institutional differences. 
EDS, which runs the Inland Revenue's tax-administration systems, is a bitter rival to ICL, which has just won a contract at HM Customs and Excise. And so far, the experience of privatising government IT has caused as many problems as it has solved.The third major obstacle is how to overcome the crisis in confidence over large-scale IT projects. The white paper is coming out at a spectacularly bad time for government IT projects. The Government already spends about £2 billion a year on IT just to keep its traditional services running - usually badly. The Immigration and Naturalisation Department is the latest government IT fiasco to hit the headlines. A £70 million office-automation system, supplied by Siemens Business Services through the PFI, is badly behind schedule, delaying visas for thousands of applicants.Last week, Social Security minister Stephen Timms tried to limit the damage caused by another IT fiasco, the Benefits Agency's National Insurance Recording System 2 (Nirs2) computer by announcing an automatic £10 compensation payment to everyone who has suffered from the delays.In Parliament next week, Cunningham is likely to dismiss these failures as symptomatic of the old way of doing things. "It is no longer acceptable for departments and agencies to build systems and services that reflect the bureaucratic structure of government." The implication is that shiny, new IT provided across departments by the private sector, will be less accident-prone. We shall see.But IT fiascoes don't hit only the traditional public sector. Last week, the De La Rue company announced the scrapping of an "over complex" IT system as part of a £40 million shake-up. And Citu's consultation papers say that delivering public services over the Internet "poses a set of information management problems which are arguably larger than any that have been successfully tackled" so far.As a final challenge, the white paper will have to sell the idea of information-age government to the citizen. A strong message that emerged from the consultation process was that electronic services will have to be better than existing services if customers are to be won over. This is a tall order.The danger is that all electronic government will achieve is to move the queue at the counter to a queue at the computer terminal.
Teflon, you may be surprised to learn, is just far too sticky. Bacteria love it, finding its surface ideal for colonisation. If you want a surface to be ultra-hygienic, and simply impossible for bacteria to bind to, then it had better be damned slippery.Next week, at a conference to be held at Oxford Brookes University, adhesive researchers will present what they believe is the ultimate in anti-bacterial agents: a surface even the most tenacious of organisms cannot hold on to."For bacteria, finding a surface to cling to is a survival mechanism - the equivalent of sex in the human world," says John Tsibouklis, leader of the Portsmouth University research team that made the breakthrough. If bacteria get a grip, the colony's survival is pretty much guaranteed. "You can't take a cloth and wipe them off: people try mixing antibiotics with soaps, but once a colony is established you've basically lost the battle."Bacteria excrete a "polysaccharide glue", a sugary polymer that has extraordinary sticking power. To test their new materials, the Portsmouth researchers dunked them into bacterial cultures. "When we pulled them out, we could see the polymers sitting on the surface like water sits on a non-stick frying pan," Tsibouklis says.The new coating, the researchers claim, is close to the theoretical limit for non-stickiness. On their adhesive scale, polythene shopping bags rate a 30, Teflon scores 20, and the new material scores just six. It looks set for a bright future in applications as diverse as medicine, catering and shipbuilding.
The project started as a scheme to stop ship's hulls becoming caked in marine life. The first stage in this problem is always the settlement of bacteria on the surface. Then algae, barnacles and the rest of the ocean's best colonists come along. The result is damage to the hull's surface - which opens the doors to corrosion - and big problems for the smooth flow of a ship through water.Beating off a bacterial invasion involves analysing just what makes a material sticky, and then getting rid of those characteristics. Molecules grip each other by exchanging or sharing their electrons, and by using weak and fluctuating attractions known as Van der Waal's forces. Tsibouklis and his colleagues have managed to create molecules that eliminate all electron movement, and simultaneously minimised the Van der Waal's forces. Importantly, they are also durable and easy to apply to surfaces.The new materials are based on long flexible polymers known as silicones - the base for bathroom sealants - and acrylates, which are used in acrylic paints. Although these products are, by necessity, sticky substances, the researchers have made them slippery by replacing hydrogen atoms in the molecules with fluorine atoms. This changes the availability of electrons for bonding. The result is a compound that offers no holds, even for bacterial glue.Tsibouklis has finished with the fundamental science of the project and is looking at putting the materials to work. The coating is about to be tried out on ship's hulls, and tests will soon begin on medical applications.Surgery stands to benefit a great deal, since bacteria are proficient at colonising instruments and artificial body parts. Catheters and prosthetics like artificial heart valves are particularly prone to this danger.
Tsibouklis believes 
that his coatings could dramatically reduce the incidence of bacterial infection on surgical implants. One medical science multinational 
is already sponsoring aspects of his research, 
and he is looking for other industries to pick up on 
the possibilities of these coatings."They could be used 
on anything from kitchen 
surfaces to contraceptive coils."
It is one of the most fervently held of all environmental beliefs: chopping down trees in the headwaters of the world's great rivers is causing massive flooding downstream. The Yangtze, the Ganges, the Mississippi - you name the river and the floods are there to prove it.Last summer, the Chinese government, normally no friend of the Earth, bought into the idea. Floods on the River Yangtze, its largest river, killed 3,000 people, did damage estimated at 
$20 billion and affected a fifth of the country's population. The State Council issued emergency orders to halt deforestation in the upper reaches of both the Yangtze and the Yellow rivers, and launched a billion-pound reforestation programme. The state timber company said it would slash production and cut its workforce by a million.The new policy was hailed by greens as a breakthrough. Yet many researchers say that it won't work. They insist that deforestation has little effect on flooding on large rivers. In recent weeks, the Internet has seen a war of words between top experts on the subject.The eco-orthodoxy boils down to this. Forested hillsides have thicker soils because tree roots minimise erosion. Together, the trees and soil act as sponges, capturing rainwater. As a result, they moderate floods after storms and store water to top up streams during the dry season. Take away the trees, the argument goes, and the soils slip away too. The sponge is gone, heavy rains rush straight into rivers and cause floods downstream. Also, the flood waters from treeless, eroding hillsides carry more silt. That silt clogs river channels, worsening the floods.Chinese scientists claim to have put a figure on the size of the sponge. Zhuang Guotai of the State Environmental Protection Agency told the nation last summer that for every 70,000 hectares of forest cut down, storage for a million cubic metres of water was lost.The story sounds persuasive, but is it true? The facts don't fit too well for last summer's floods. For one thing, deforestation is not a recent phenomenon in the river's catchment. Most of the forests in Sichuan province in the headwaters of the Yangtze were cut down more than 40 years ago to fuel backyard steel furnaces of Chairman Mao's ill-fated Great Leap Forward.Though Yangtze flows last summer were in places the highest since 1954, the river's recorded history includes 23 higher peaks, all prior to deforestation. The heavy damage caused by last summer's floods may have had as much to do with neglect of flood defences and the encroachment of farmers on to Dongting and other lakes once set aside for absorbing floodwaters.What about the general claim that deforestation increases flooding? Were the floods in Poland and Germany two years ago caused by deforestation in the Alps? Does tree chopping in the Himalayas trigger floods in Bangladesh? Two recently published reviews find little evidence for it.Ian Calder, head of the Centre for Land Use and Water Resources Research at the University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, is author of a forthcoming book on water in the environment, The Blue Revolution. In it, he concludes that the orthodoxy amounts to little more than "folklore and scientific myth. Hard as researchers look, they can find no consistent relationship between deforestation and more floods".Kenneth Chomitz and Kanta Kumari, of the World Bank's Development Research Group, have also concluded that "the scientific literature supports a link between deforestation and flooding only at a local level - within a drainage basin of less than about 50,000 hectares". That is an area not much bigger than the Isle of Wight, and about one three-hundredth the size of the Yangtze catchment.
Why should size matter? Robert Simons, a hydrological consultant working with the US government's Forestry Service, says that if you can see "increased water run-off for small watershed, it is difficult to believe that there is no increase for larger watershed.I suspect it is just more difficult to determine". 
But Chomitz and Kumari say there is a fundamental difference. Most storms are small and don't last long. They will flood a small valley, but not much more. Big areas of rain are less intense and will flood different parts of a large catchment at different times, so there is unlikely to be a major surge downstream."Only extremely severe and long-lasting storms affect all tributaries of a major river at once," says Chomitz. "And storms of that magnitude would be large enough to saturate the soil and cause rapid run-off even if the land were still forested."This is conjecture, but it fits the facts. The scale issue may also be important for the role of silt in clogging up river channels.Rivers are not like water pipes. Put sediment into the river and it automatically flows to the sea. Most of it will be  trapped, probably many times, on sand banks or in wetlands. And the longer the river, the more times the sediment gets trapped. Says Chomitz: "The proportion of eroded material in a watershed that is carried by a stream declines from almost 100 per cent in a small valley to about 10 per cent in a basin of a million square kilometres," such as the Yangtze. For the rest, the delivery time to the river mouth can be measured in decades, centuries or millennia.So silt may well clog up river channels. But the people on the lower Yangtze will have, at the least, a long wait before seeing any benefit from sacking the upstream loggers.And likewise on the Ganges. Anil Agarwal, director of the Centre for Science and the Environment in New Delhi and a leading third world environmentalist, says that the Nepalese are being falsely pilloried for causing floods a thousand kilometres downstream in Bangladesh. "Rivers such as the Ganges naturally produce huge amounts of silt. There is no evidence to believe that ecological solutions like reforestation will control floods."Jack Ives, geographer at the University of California in Davis and editor of the journal Mountain Research and Development, agrees. "After floods, aid agencies queue up to spend money on planting more trees." But it is not clear that deforestation causes increased soil erosion at all in the first place. 
Calder says recent research suggests that the critical factor for protecting soils from erosion is not the amount of trees but the amount of ground vegetation. Thick scrub or even a crop of wheat is often as good, if not better, than a commercial forest plantation in which weeds and other undergrowth are removed.Says Calder: "It is often the management activities associated with forestry - cultivation, drainage, road construction, soil compaction during logging - which are more likely to influence flood response than the presence or absence of the forests themselves." On the Philippine island of Palawan, logging increased erosion only marginally, "but the conversion of uncut forest to road surface increased erosion by a factor of 260".Will reforestation reduce erosion? Recreating a natural forest on degraded land might. But planting a commercial forest may sometimes be worse than useless. Pakistan spent 30 years planting trees across an area of the Himalayas the size of Yorkshire in an effort to cut the amount of silt clogging up a new dam. Result: "no discernible difference at all", according to the World Bank.Forests have many uses, ecological, economic and aesthetic. There are many reasons for keeping them intact. But to view them as a hydrological panacea may well prove an expensive mistake.
Fangs for the memory"I often accuse my ‘mammalian colleagues'... of conceiving of mammals as consisting solely 
of molar teeth and of considering that 
mammalian evolution consisted of parent molar teeth giving birth to filial molar teeth and so on down through the ages."
Alfred Sherwood Romer in 1968, quoted by Timothy Rowe writing on a 150 million year old mammalian skeleton. NatureSmug about millennium bug"We have been bombarded with images of a New Year's Eve nightmare - stalled PCs, 
disappearing bank accounts and failing 
satellites... There is an element of paranoia. Even the Government-sponsored TV advert . . . depicts a man with no eyes or mouth who looks like an extra from Zombie Flesh Eaters 7."
Lou Reade's comment column. Eureka Innovative Engineering DesignHeaven-scent, hellbent"Particularly odd but intriguing is the Odorous Substances Project of the Joint Non-lethal Weapons Directorate. The idea is to create unbearable stink bombs."
Corey Powell on the search for a gentler kind of weapon. Discoveruniform, she no form"‘I'm proud to be a woman, but don't like to be perfect,' says Laetitia Casta, who is wearing Army boots, khaki socks and Ralph Lauren 
GI-style silk poplin poncho and olive drab combat bikini."
Caption to study from Helmut Newton fashion show. The New Yorker
Sometimes, in this accelerating world, we all feel out of touch. Things change too fast for us to keep track of, and things that seemed certain and eternal become tenuous and obsolete overnight. So when a High Court judge makes a fool of himself, it's endearing. We might have lost a degree of grip in today's rapidly rotating popular culture, but at least we're not as cut off as the bewigged figures in the scarlet fancy dress.One memorable recent example was provided by Mr Justice Harman when he expressed ignorance of someone or something called Gazza, recalling only the Rossini opera, La Gazza Ladra. Once again, we could be reassured that our legal leaders have stayed unrepresentative, ivory-towered and far from being in possession of the plot.Of course, it is possible that the learned judge was just camping it up to get some of those "laughter in court" comments in the papers. But the memory of some of his other antediluvian pronouncements on the morals of the modern world make that unlikely, and earlier examples - the judge who asked who the Rolling Stones were, or various comments of the late Lord Denning - indicate a thread of continuity.The archaisms and entrenched attitudes of the higher reaches of the legal profession wouldn't matter too much in the normal run of events. Most major changes in society evolve slowly enough for the law to keep up, even if some judges can't quite manage it. But in the world of technology, the legislators and the judiciary simply don't stand a chance of picking up the kind of knowledge they need as fast as they need it, and end up making binding judgments based on hopelessly outdated statutes.In one fraud case, for example, non-contemporaneous computer printouts of bank account transactions were ruled inadmissable, because they weren't "bank books" within the meaning of the act. The law was framed in the days of ledgers that had to be balanced by hand at the end of each day, and computer records couldn't have the same status. In other cases, the archaic telex has been held to be the only legally-binding means of sending written contracts, because the law didn't acknowledge the existence -let alone the veracity - of faxes, electronic mail, electronic documents and their encryption.Again, this wouldn't matter if the law weren't called upon too often to apply outdated legal concepts to modern phenomena. Each anomaly could be corrected as it arose, with outside experts called in to help the framers. But as computers and communications become ever more pervasive, legislatures and judges around the the world are being asked to decide on issues of which they have little knowledge, using hopelessly inadequate legal tools.The Microsoft anti-trust case is one example, although Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson is, to his credit, showing signs of mastering a crash course in the procedures and economics of software development. 
But the Sherman Acts being used against Microsoft were written a century ago, and 
it's been strange to hear legal arguments about anti-trust activities based on precedents set several decades ago in 
cases involving things like catering service charges 
tied to treatment bills in 
private hospitals.And now we have the 
European Parliament proposing to outlaw Web cacheing as an infringement of copyright, which is based on a massive misunderstanding of how the technology works and some confusion over whether information in a cache is a "copy" within the meaning of the various acts in the various European countries. Our 
own Government's response doesn't inspire confidence. 
The minister in charge has been quoted as saying that Web cacheing is already outlawed here anyway by the 1988 Copyright Designs and Patents Act, and as no one took any notice of that, there was no real problem.Now, remember that the 1988 Act replaced the 1956 Copyright Act, with the intention of bringing it up to date. Remember too that in 1988 there was no Web, no streaming video, no worries about cross-border hosting of copyright material for download, and no CD writers or rippers. And then wonder what'll happen when that Act is applied to the Internet world as it is today, as interpreted by legislators who are mostly ignorant about the subject and judges who are even further adrift.The only long-term solution to the legal problems of technological development is the election of parliamentarians with the right kind of knowledge, and the appointment of judges whose attitudes aren't stuck in Victorian times or, in some cases, in the days of Judge Jeffreys.The only short-term 
solution is for those of us involved in technology to form more effective lobby groups, using the techniques of the music industry advocates currently pressing the Web cacheing issue rather than the fundamentalist freedom-of-everything arguments of the more wild-eyed Internet advocates.
Otherwise, we'll get the laws and the judicial rulings that we deserve. And some future 
Mr Justice Harman will still be getting cheap laughs by asking what this World Wide Web thing could possibly be.© PC Magazine, 1999• Peter Jackson is an editorial fellow at PC Magazine. This article appears in the May issue, on sale next week.
Earthlings won’t be going to Mars anytime soon but the consolation prize for a  number of scientists, engineers and astronauts is that they will be able to go and play house in a desolate crater in the remotest wilds of Canada instead. Nasa and the Mars Society, the group that would dearly like to see a human expedition to Mars, announced last week that they will undertake a joint $1.2 million project to simulate a Martian colony on earth. The Mars Arctic Research Station, which should be running by the summer of 2000, features living pods that look like large hot water tanks on legs. And like any des res with all mod cons, each will also be graced with a garage and private greenhouse. View the models and learn more about the project atwww.marssociety.org/researchstation.aspApple Macintosh users might want to try out a new Mac-only browser from a Braunschweig, Germany company called iCab,www.icab.de. The slimline browser weighs in at under 2 megabytes compared to its portly rivals, Internet Explorer and Netscape Navigator. The browser will definitely appeal to banner ad haters: it has a button which allows users to turn off the blinking things. It’s free for now but eventually should cost about £20.Been trying to find a useful activity for your forefinger? Look no further than Finger Flute World athttp://member.nifty.ne.jp/yubibueThis  wonderfully serious Japanese site explains: "If you have a forefinger, you can be a great musician. We get carried away with our own finger flute. Why don't you join us for playing finger flute?" Don’t miss the audio files of finger flute triumphs like Swanee River. But the best section is the "How to Play" instructions in not-quite-right English, which first asks, "Do you have index fingers?" and then adds cheerfully, "Open your mouse (sic)! Please dent your tongue’s center." Do make sure you follow the directions to disinfect your finger before playing.Game developers went to San José, California, last week for their annual Game Developers Conference, where one of the highlights was the first annual Independent Game Festival awards. The IGF organisers say they want to turn the awards into the gaming equivalent of the Sundance Film Festival - a good place to show work, get recognition, and find a publisher or distributor. You can read about the awards atwww.indiegames.comand find further links to the developers’ sites for downloads.As a kid you practised drawing hieroglyphics on your book covers, knew all about Anubis and longed to see what papyrus really looked like. You still never miss the mummies when you visit the British Museum. If you are guilty as charged then you’re a prime candidate for the Theban Mapping Project Web site  atwww.kv5.com, a beautifully-designed site which contains scads of fascinating information detailing the on-going excavation at KV5, the tomb of the sons of Ramses II. There are also some great Quicktime fly-throughs of the tomb, and panoramic views of the Valley of the Kings.if you have long harboured a grudge against amphibians, try an Aussie Shockrave game, Cane Toad Explode, atwww.shockrave.com.
html In this intellectually-stimulating adventure set to a fast-paced didgeridoo soundtrack, you drive around in a "ute" and try to squish as many cane toads - considered a major nuisance in Queensland - as possible. Watch out for the rocks as well.Why get in a car when you can hop in a boiler? Why tell someone to shut up when you can tell them to close their head? Why threaten to discharge a firearm when you can say: "Dust, pal, or I pump lead!" Why, indeed? Budding Sam Spades and Philip Marlowes can learn these terms and other bits of gumshoe slang at Twists, Slugs and Roscoeswww.vex.net/~buff/slang.
html) a Web site dedicated to the hardboiled language of American detective fiction.Harness the power of your pants - and view the world’s largest pair of Y-fronts - at the Pants Appreciation Society page atwww.angelfire.com.
html The giant undies, borne aloft on a flagpole, have visited several UK festivals already, with Glastonbury next in line. You can sign up for the society, which exists "to promote the awareness of pants, improve the quality of pants and ultimately the quality of life of the wearer." There’s also a Dr Pants problem page for forlorn smalls fans.
At last week's annual games show in Tokyo the big question was: can Sega make it with the Dreamcast console now that Sony has announced the jaw-dropping specs for its new console?The answer is: probably. Sega has enough time before PlayStation 2 appears, $100 million has been earmarked for marketing the European launch, word is that they've done a deal with BT and two other European telcos to oil the online-gaming gears, and the games themselves are starting to look very impressive indeed.Hottest attraction at the gigantic orange-and-steel Dreamcast stand was the extraordinary Shenmue, various sections of which were playable. There was a free-fighting sequence in an alley; a chase section incorporating the previously mysterious Quick-Time Event system (press buttons quickly in response to on-screen prompts to stop our hero tripping over tomatoes), and a bizarre segment where it appeared you had to learn hip-hop dance moves from a Rastafarian chip-van owner. Also on demo for the squirly-logoed console were a lusciously smooth conversion of Namco's slash-'em-up, Soul Calibur; a silky air-combat game, Airforce Delta, from Konami; Capcom's hilarious free-roaming 3D fighter, Power Stone; and video of (yawn) Biohazard: Code Veronica (that's Resident Evil 3 to you) - all of which should tempt casual Western gamers a little more than Sonic.Sony, meanwhile, didn't feel that it needed to show off PlayStation 2 at all and concentrated instead on trying to sell cutesy dragon game Spyro to the Japanese, and putting on frenzied live "rock'n'roll" stage shows to promote Um Jammer Lammy, the sequel to Parappa The Rapper.Long-queueing punters were also herded like lab-rats into a guarded room to play Omega Boost, a nervefrazzlingly fast 3D space shooter starring a big robot, produced by Polyphony Digital, who were the people behind Gran Turismo. Other visually impressive new PSX games included Capcom's Dino Crisis (Resident Evil in realtime with dinosaurs), and Square's Racing Lagoon (a "high-speed driving RPG" or role-playing game). There's some life in the old chipset yet.Some of the most popular games at the show were powered by anything but cutting-edge hardware, as proved by the crowds around Konami's highly entertaining complex, which was showing off the company's various music games. Arcade hit Dance Dance Revolution, where you actually have to dance specific steps in time with the music, was premiered in its PlayStation incarnation, complete with sensory floormat peripheral (a techno version of Twister). Cabinets of Drummania (drum in time to the music) and Guitar Freaks (guess) were also magnets for the funky Japanese youth. Lined up on a handful of machines, Konami's realtime take on the "survival horror" genre, Silent Hill, was looking - well, very foggyKonami's music games will be big over here soon, but there are some Japanese genres which will never translate to the Western market. New horse-racing simulations were very popular, as were fishing games (with a version of Get Bass, complete with rod peripheral, announced for Dreamcast) and train-driving games. There was even a gardening simulation, for nature-starved urban Japanese to live out their vegetable-nurturing fantasies. Biggest of all, however, was the "love simulation" genre: Sonata was advertised by schoolgirl uniforms pinned on boards above the monitors, while schoolday romance Little Lovers: She So Game would certainly require a title change over here.The handheld market is also hotting up, with two new rivals to Nintendo's all-conquering GameBoy (now in a colour incarnation): Bandai's WonderSwan has a very sharp, hi-resolution mono screen that runs off a single battery, while SNK's Neo Geo Pocket Colour (cunning slogan: "I'm not Boy") has a bigger, more colourful playing area than its Nintendo rival, and was running impressive-looking 2D beat-'em-ups and shooters, as well as the more standard handheld puzzle fare.Over in "Foreigner's Corner" lurked a crew of British companies brought to Tokyo under the DTI's Action Japan initiative. Among them were Jez San's Argonaut, showing off an amusing ambulance-driving game, set in a privatised future where you have to compete with other drivers to take patients to hospital. Next to them, Oxford-based Mathengine, purveyors of real-time physics modelling to the masses, are basking in the glow of having been nominated as middleware providers for PlayStation 2. This means Mathengine will be provided to software houses with Sony's software development kit (SDK). As Mathengine's SDK product manager Paul Topping explained: "Mathengine is the optimal way to do physics on the new PlayStation." Global maths domination cannot be far away.And now for our TGS99 awards. Best Game Slogan has to be Sony's Omega Boost: "Special Forces EX Generation Productnoid is exceptional product of Networks in ruined intellectual chaos of Alphacore constructions of computerised global Networks. . . this is the OmegaBoost." Try saying that after a few Asahis.Most Arrogant Mission Statement goes to Microsoft (natch), for complaining that consoles dominate the Japanese market at the expense of PC gaming: "Our goal is to create a major change in the Japanese game market." Not with Combat Flight Simulator, you won't, boys. This is disingenuous anyway, because Dreamcast uses a modified version of Windows CE for its operating system, and Microsoft is involved in the Dreamcast online presence. However, it's true there was very little PC action at the show, the only new game of much interest being Doom-monger Jon Romero's new first-person shooter, Daikatana, making a somewhat subdued appearance at the Eidos stand.And, last but not least, Hardest-Working Product Demonstrators were the women at Headline Digital's Net War, who attracted far more slavering attention than the game they were promoting by posing in bikinis all day.
Final chapterSince the publication of Fay Godwin's letter about her iMac experience, I have looked 
forward to the arrival of OnLine to follow the different ripples that have spread out from the splash she made (Feedback, February 25, and subsequent issues). One of these issues is the relationship between computer 
manufacturers and the public.Computers are complicated devices that are at the edge of development, yet they are sold as consumer items. We are now so used to having high technology working invisibly in our homes that we do not expect to be pioneers, armed with a screwdriver and a 
workshop manual. It is only because we secretly believe it is our own fault (as it often is) that a computer will not do as we want that we accept being sold prototype versions of the latest technology, and then put up with the engaged helplines.I had never touched a 
computer before I bought my first machine (Mac, of course), but before even looking at the adverts I bought The Little Mac Book and read it from cover to cover. I still had 
endless problems, most of my own making, the solving of which required me to learn a lot, and fast, about how 
computers work. Most users do not want or expect to have to do this.
This is a symptom of a 
modern malaise, familiarity with technology having bred contempt. In the past, early adopters of new inventions expected to have an oily rag and a set of feeler gauges in their pocket at all times. In the early days of wireless, the valves and coils were on the outside of the cabinet so the owner could get to them easily, and every town had its own shop stocked with condensers and transformers for those who wanted to build or modify their set. It was 10 years before a radio was sold as "so simple, even a child could use it".There are plenty of computer buffs around today; the 
difference is the present attitude towards them. People Who Understand How Computers Work are popularly seen as style-challenged sociopaths rather than the local heroes of the 1920s who could fix your wireless set with a nail heated on the gas ring.Selling any computer, even the pleasure-to-use Mac, on the premise that anyone can use it straight out of the box is dangerous, and I would bet that those on the other end of the helplines would agree. The iMac will get you on the Net in minutes, but if you want to do things that only a few years ago were the limit even for a 
professional with £10,000 worth of equipment, you need to know more than how to double-click an icon.Steve HarrisSteve@ontheair.free-online.co.ukOn The Air: The BroadcastingMuseum and VintageSound ShopChesterEditor's note:the letters, faxes and e-mails inspired by Fay Godwin's tale of her trouble with her new iMac are still pouring in; there has not been enough space to publish half the number received, but in the proportion published we've tried to reflect the overall views. Many thanks to everyone who has written in, even those who condemn the decision to publish the original complaint as a conspiracy to undermine Apple. May we now draw the curtain on this one?Card sharpAs you highlighted Private Eye's story about Monsanto making the plastic used in the Co-op Bank/Greenpeace credit card (Soundbites, March 11), I hope you will feel able also to report the gist of this response.While it's been fun getting Monsanto to guarantee that the biodegradable (plant-based) plastic (called Biolpol) is not currently based on genetically engineered (GE) crops, it is true that they have been trying to get GE plants to do the job.However, Monsanto recently announced that the GE route is too expensive! 
Presumably disgusted with this clear example of the failure of genetic engineering, they are putting their Biolpol 
business on the market.So our card remains not only great value, but also a truly environmentally sound, GE-free alternative to (polluting) PVC cards. To get one, call freephone 0800 339922Peter MelchettExecutive DirectorGreenpeace UKLondon N1Self abuse. NotThe ABILITY to capitalise random words in a NARRATIVE is merely demonstrating 
CONTEMPT for the invention of the SPELLING checker (Gym MODIFIED bods, March 18). If you are going to print articles in the OnLine section can they promote 
both GOOD standards of 
written English and also be RELEVANT?Consultant (and former
English teacher)Pblisset@penagen.co.ukLucy, give it a break. Random capitalisations do not art make. And all that teenage angst and melodrama, what place does it have in a quality publication like the Guardian OnLine?Clint Witchallsclint_witchalls@saatchi.co.ukA little girl, standing with her father outside 10 Downing Street, is said to have asked, "What is Mr Asquith for, Daddy?" I have to ask a similar question: What is Lucy Ellmann for? What relevance do her ramblings have to OnLine, a supplement supposedly devoted to Science, Technology, Computing, and the Internet. Cats, gyms, and the rest - where is the relevance? She got into novel-writing through a friend in the publishing business. Who is her friend at OnLine? I think we have a right to know.Raymond HarrowellRaymond@harrowell.freeserve.co.ukEditor's note:Absolutely  and when that friend is tracked down, they will be out on their earJust wonderin'Has anybody ever seen Bill Gates and Don King in the same room at the same time?Robert McMinnNottinghamEditor's note:Anyone interested in reading the "complete uncensored version of the Walsh Report", highlighted in Duncan Campbell's article about policies and techniques for monitoring communications online (You've got mail .. and so have weeee, March 18), should go towww.efa.org.au/Issues/Crypto/Walsh/walsh.htm(at least you could before OnLine went to press this week)Send your e-mail's to:online@guardian.co.uk
LIBF 99 (London International Book Fair), Olympia, London. LIBF: 01203 426 475 or visitwww.libf.com(requires registration) March 28-30Internet Librarian &amp; Libtech 99 International conference and exhibition, Olympia 2, London. Ticket hotline: 01203 426 488 or visitwww.libtech-international. ComMarch 29-31DVD Summit 2, an international conference about Digital Video (or Versatile) Disc, Dublin Castle, Ireland. Call +353 1 6671711 or visitwww.dvdsummit.comMarch 30-April 111th Edinburgh International Science Festival, Edinburgh. Box office: 0131-473 2070
 or visitwww.edinburghfestivals.coukApril 3-18CADE 99, the second conference on Computers in Art &amp; Design Education, University of Teesside, Middlesbrough TS1 3BA. Call Bob Clay on 01642 384019 or e-mailr.clay@tees.ac.ukor visitwww.tees.ac.uk/cade99April 7-9Microsoft Office 2000 European Deployment Conference, for companies planning to install Office 2000, Acropolis Convention Centre, Nice. Call 01252 77 11 22 or visitwww.microsoft.comApril 12-14EPI 99 annual conference and exhibition about Electronic Public Information, Botanical Gardens, Birmingham. Call Mic Dover on 0118 961 2920 or e-mailepi99@informativ.co.ukApril 13 
Eurostorage 99 conference on large-scale computer data storage, Intercontinental Hotel, Berlin. Contact StorageTek on 0800 731 8852 or e-mailBerlin@stortek.comApril 19-20Comdex/Spring 99, McCormick Place, Chicago. For details and online registration, go towww.comdex.comApril 19-22Data Protection Act 1998, an implementation workshop, The Reception Business Centre, Edinburgh. Privacy Laws &amp; Business: 0181-423 1300 or visitwww.privacylaws.co.ukApril 20Intranet Expo 99 conference and exhibition, Olympia, London. Contact Miller Freeman on 0181-742 2828 or visitwww.intranet-expo.comApril 20-21Linux: The Commercial Reality, a series of one-day briefings by Mike Banahan. For details contact netproject on 0181-715 0072 or e-mailinfo@netproject.com or visitwww.netproject.comBriefings will be given on April 21 (London), April 23 (Leeds), April 28 (Edinburgh) and May 12 (London)Document Management Roadshow 99, a series of one-day seminars and exhibitions organised by iTx Marketing Services. Call the ticket hotline on 01905 727606 or visitwww.itx.co.ukRoadshows will be held on April 26 (Edinburgh), April 27 (Leeds), April 28 (Bolton), April 29 (Birmingham), May 5-6 (London) and May 7 (Ascot).CSS 99 conference and exhibition about Customer Service and Support for IT and network managers, Olympia, London. Contact VCM Communications on 01273 836800 or visitwww.css.uk.comApril 27-29
Are you getting the best out of your browser? Netscape and Microsoft are constantly making improvements, so staying up to date is worth the download time.Microsoft's Internet Explorer 5.0 release has one feature that's a real winner,  AutoComplete. It remembers what you type and lets you select from a list the next time you start to enter the same thing. Type a few letters and a suggestion list appears. This speeds entry of repeated text, such as login names. Go towww.microsoft.comfor details.Don't be afraid to switch browsers as Netscape and Microsoft continue to innovate. Switching is painless since the basic concepts are the same and each company makes changing easy.Next look at your screen. Generally, the higher the screen resolution the better. With a high resolution you'll see more of each page on screen and reduce the need for scrolling. Use the maximum practical screen size on your computer. A good minimum for many pages is 800x600.A lot of Web pages don't work well unless the browser is opened as large as possible. Selecting your browser's Full Screen option uses the entire screen to display a Web page. In Internet Explorer select Full Screen from the View menu, or press F11.You can set the minimum size for the text on the page making it easier on the eyes. Or if your eyesight is 20/20, select a smaller text size to fit more on screen. In Internet Explorer select Text Size from the View menu.Another way to pack more on screen, if your screen is big enough, is to use Scroll from KatieSoft, Inc.www.katiesoft.com.Scroll lets you view multiple Web pages at a time. So you could put together a single page with Yahoo, Altavista, Google, and Infoseek and search to your heart's content. It's as easy to use as a browser and very useful if you find yourself often switching between the same few pages.Not long after getting on the Web you'll notice your bookmarks are getting out of control. Some links no longer work, and others you just can't find. All browsers provide a way to organise bookmarks into folders.But Alert Bookmarks from Viable Software Alternativeswww.viablesoftware.comlets you create multiple 
sets of bookmarks and store them in a unique "bookmark bar" at the top of the screen. The bar appears when you need it and 
disappears to let you browse. Alert Bookmarks works with Internet Explorer, Netscape Navigator and the lightweight browser Operawww.operasoftware.com.BookMarx from Trellian Softwarewww.msw.com.auautomatically checks your Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator bookmarks for changes and tells you if a bookmark is no longer valid because the page disappeared, or when a page has changed since you last looked at it. 
So you'll be told automatically when, say, the latest news appears on CNN, or when new All Saints' pictures appear on allsaints.ukmix.net  And it keeps your bookmarks tidy by helping you weed out dead links, should they ever go out of fashion.Lastly, don't waste too much time worrying about cookies. A cookie is a small piece of information stored in your computer by a Web site that you visit. The cookie is used to identify you the next time you revisit a site. When you visit the Guardian's page a cookie remembers your user name and saves you the bother 
of typing it again.
Other sites use cookies to customise their appearance to your tastes or to target advertising based on your surfing habits.Many Web surfers who fear that cookies could harm their computer by introducing viruses or logic bombs, force their browser to reject any attempt to store a cookie. This means that they have to re-enter user names each time they visit a site, or miss out on customised Web pages such as My Yahoo!
The fear is misdirected. Cookies are small pieces of text and harmless. Make sure your computer is protected against a real threat, like viruses in programs you download, with a virus scanner such 
as Network Associates VirusScan fromwww.nai.comBut leave cookies turned 
on and reap the benefits 
of Web sites that remember you.If cookies and privacy are your concern, read more atwww.cookiecentral.comand download a cookie cutter  that helps you decide which cookies to keep and which to throw away.
Next week, in the last 
of this series, we'll look 
at how to stay anonymous on the Net by hiding in 
a crowd.• John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is the ninth in a series of articles about living with the Net.
Apple claims to be the first mainstream company to make its system software available to theOpen Sourcecommunity with the launch of its Mac OS X (pronounced oh ess ten) server operating system, which used to be code-named Rhapsody but has been renamed Darwin.Programmers outside Apple will thus be able to work on the "source code" from which the operating system is compiled. However, while commendable, this looks more like an example of bandwagon marketing.Mac OS Xis based on Berkeley Unix BSD 4.4 with Carnegie-Mellon University's Mach 2.5 kernel or operating system core, which are already well known, and runs only on Apple hardware. However, whereas theGNU/Linuxclone of Unix is open and free, Mac OS X is 
not as open (depending on how you read the Apple Public Source Licence) and not free, though the price has been slashed from $999 to $499.Meanwhile, the merger of two of America's largest cable TV companies,ComcastandMediaOne, is remarkable less for its size ($53 billion, far outstripping AT&amp;T's purchase of Tele-Communications), but because it has so little to do with television and everything to do with delivering broadband communications. The deal underscores that the future delivery of integrated digital services to100 millionAmerican homes has become the main goal of communications companies. Cable and telephone giants are now fighting for the same turf. "They understand the future," said John T Chambers, chief executive of data networking firm, Cisco Systems.
The mighty motor carThe AAThe Automobile Association site, with a webcam overlooking the M3 in Basingstoke - midde England in all its glory.The RACSimilar site to fellow motoring organisation AA, including live traffic news, hotel finder and guide to buying used cars.Top GearOnline version of popular BBC motoring programme.AutotraderOnline salesroom for over 130,000 second-hand vehicles.FordVauxhallPeugeotRoverAnd a few alternativesBikeMartNo-nonsense information for motorcycle enthusiasts.Cycling UKLists cycle events, holidays, accessories, insurance and clubs for pedal-pushers everywhere.Friends of the Earth atmosphere and traffic campaignYou can test-drive the virtual car and check out government transport documents.Reclaim the StreetsBroad-based direct action roads protest site.The Sinclair C5Account of ill-fated Formula One bath-tub.
Quote of the week'I'm sorry, but anyone who is enthusiastic about their driving does not want to be dragged along by a diesel engine. Diesel is automotive soya and Alfa Romeos are born to run on Aberdeen Angus. Alfa Romeos don't want to roam the countryside pointing out rare birds. They want to tear about, pulling them.' Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday TimesIt's a petrol pump panicThree per cent of motorists in Britain think their cars won't start as a result of the Millennium Bug, according to a survey by NOP Automotive. Five per cent are worried that petrol pumps will seize up and 12 per cent think that traffic lights won't work. So there.Congratulations to......Chris Milward of Southampton, just crowned as the new RAC Ambassador Of The Year. Hello there Chris! Didn't it use to be the plain old Service Patrol Of The Year? Must be the influence of that Ferrero Rocher ad. With your excellent service Monsieur Milward you are really spoiling us. Anyway, good work fella.
Martin Broomer knows what it's like to be King Canute. For the past six weeks he's been overseeing seaside activities in Biarritz , allowing journalists from all over the world to warm the tyres of the new S-Type Jaguar. And everyone who went was only asked to agree to one stipulation: don't report on it before March 24.While Mr Broomer eyed the lower end of the automotive rag trade with suspician, a deft attack came from the quarter he'd least expected. It wasn't the Ohio Observer, or the Falmouth Packet, but the Financial Times which went to press.At Wheels, we'd been obediently sitting on our story for weeks, but given that Autocar, Auto Express, and the Sunday Times, and probably the Falmouth Packet, have followed the FT's line, we thought we'd join the tide.The charter plane had Jaguar's leaping mascot emblazoned down its side, the in-flight meal included Jaguar mint chocolates and, as I nodded off, I rested my face against a Jaguar antimacassar.In the evening, I resumed my nap during a seminar, regaining consciousness to note such vitals as the car's cosmetic beads on all closures and its limits of tooling feasibility. The omens were not promising.Then I drove it and saw the light. The new S-Type is automotive sex. For size, price and spec, it sells against the likeable likes of BMW's 5 Series and the Burgermeister Merc E-class. But it is more than the sum of its rivals' parts.Even the most trenchant German car fanatic will buckle in this car's presence. It might be helped by favourable whole-life costs, pence-per-mile running figures and tax liability, but it all boils down to one fact: this car is just so good you want to eat it.From being a lover of hard-shoulder dramas in the late 80s, Jaguar has spent the last decade putting things right, investing to a level of build quality and durability worthy of its heritage. The latest XJ saloon was no revolution, but it is Samsonite-solid. Next to it, the new XK coupe has proved such value it has helped Jaguar to its best-ever annual sales.So when Jaguar resurrected its S badge, last seen in 1963, it had done the homework. The key car has a new 3.0 litre V6 engine. The first car I tested, though, was the destroyer - sorry, flagship - four litre. With a V8 in charge, this S-Type has enough power to call its handling potential into question. In other words, if you rant it round bends, you'll probably be in a tangle, even with the standard dynamic stability control and yaw-rate sensors.Returning to the main seller, I found a better balance. For a spirited performance, the smaller-engined car is more rewarding, as the power is finely matched to the suspension. If this doesn't excite you, check your pulse.Whatever you choose, though, it won't have the chauffeurial waft of an XJ. True, the S-Type is silky in a straight line, but it's a geezer's getaway on a mountain road.Because the auto box is so responsive, opting for the 3.0-litre manual seems like unnecessary hard work. The other good bit is inside. Available toys will include voice-activation for the air con, phone and stereo.Best is last. As tarmac decoration goes, the S-Type makes rivals execs look dull. On test, the rippled bonnet attracted so much attention that my co-driver wondered if we hadn't perhaps scooped up some wildlife.You'd think the French would hate a car whose name they can't pronounce but they can't keep their eyes off it. Neither could I. It all left me completely awake, and sure of one thing: Jaguar has not landed in the medium saloon market, it has annexed it.• The S-Type is on sale now and prices start at £28,300 for the 3.0 V6 manual. The auto V6 version costs £33,150 and the 4.0 V8 £37,610.
What do you drive?A B-reg VW Golf. It has 175,000 miles on the clock, and the syncro-mesh on the gear box is going. It all adds up to a great deal of comedy in a car. Even though I aspire to greater cars and models, I can't afford any. Presumably after a few months paid work at the BBC, I'll be able to afford something a little flashier. A D-reg Golf, for instance.What do you think this car says about you?It says I can go from A to B quite easily. Although I'm a great car enthusiast, the Golf probably has me as reliable. I can fit my friends into it, so it's a sociable car. And it also says I have better things to spend my money on, other priorities in life.What does everybody else think?If they saw me in it, they'd probably think I didn't care much for the environment. They'd probably think I'm not a car enthusiast. But I clearly am. Not all train enthusiasts own InterCity 125s - unless you're Pete Waterman of course. It's laid back. It says I'm stylish, fashionable.What state is it in?It's all right. There's a damp patch in the back. I've got a seal loose somewhere, clearly. Better have it clubbed. I have a pink steering lock - which is a bit gay, in the old sense of the word. It gayifies my car. There, I've just made up a word. I've had it for about a year. It's the only car that I've had, really. For a Top Gear presenter and a car enthusiast, I do get the train an awful lot.What's it like stepping into Jeremy Clarkson's shoes?I am absolutely not stepping into those shoes. For a start, nobody could fill them, if you saw the size of his feet. I'm very keen to stress that. I'm very different to what they've had before. I have a bit of northern attitude. A bit more man on the street - the common man.How would you describe your driving?Bad. It's a matter of public knowledge that I did crash Steve's Ferrari. I would consider myself a good driver, but most of the population would probably disagree.Ever experienced road rage?Yeah, from my girlfriend. She'll often strike me while I'm driving, which is very dangerous. When I'm in London I get generally frustrated at people's lack of manners. I'll let someone out and then a driver behind me will be mouthing obscenities in my rear view mirror. I'm on a mission to educate people and make them more polite. Do unto others as you would have done unto yourself.Have you ever had sex in a car?Yes.Can you go any further than that?Not with you, no. Which paper is this for? The Guardian. Oh shite, my mother reads that. Yes, I have. But it wasn't in my parents' car.Brendan Coogan, brother of Steve, presents Top Gear on March 25.
Mobile phone companies are facing hostility from parents and councils over the growing number of transmitter masts appearing on schools.One mother has already withdrawn her five-year-old son from school because of fears for his health.The school is just one of about 400 across the country believed to have accepted up to £6,000 a year from network operator Orange to erect transmitter base stations.Jill Anderson, a former technician in a laboratory specialising in cancer work, led a campaign at St Margaret's School, Whalley Range, Manchester, to force the school to carry out independent research into suspected long-term effects of low-level radiation emitted by transmitters. But she got tired of waiting for the school to act.'I decided that I did not want to sit in a courtroom in six years' time arguing about the possible link between the transmitter and my child's health. There should be a moratorium while this is properly researched.'The tests carried out so far in this country examine the effects of one type of radiation over periods of 30 minutes. Young children will be near these masts for six hours a day for six years.' Other parents are backing Anderson, including a university lecturer who specialises in cancer science.Growing fears about the unknown long-term impact of regular exposure to mobile phone signals have focused on possible links between cancer, Alzheimer's disease and loss of memory. 'Even if the emissions meet British safety levels, we might not be satisfied,' said fellow parent Rick Walker. 'The New Zealand government has banned these masts from anywhere within 500 metres of schools and homes.'Councils and education authorities are unsure how many of the masts are on their property, said Friends of the Earth, which has carried out extensive research for Scottish local authorities. But many are increasingly concerned and are investigating the possibility of enforcing safety zones which would match the New Zealand ban.Orange, which has more than 5,200 base stations across the country (of an estimated 14,500 operated by all network companies, some of which are shared sites), insists that its stations are safe and pose no health risks.'These stations emit 60 watts, which is nothing compared to a television or FM radio transmitter, and nobody is worried about those,' said a spokesperson.The NRPB, the government body responsible for regulating radiation levels, said there were no health risks, but admitted more research is needed on the long-term effects of low-level radiation waves. 'We have measured the signals in school playgrounds, and each time we find the strongest signal is coming from television or FM radio transmitters,' said a spokesman.Liverpool City Council's chair of education, Paul Clein, concerned about the number of masts on schools and residential blocks in the city, is calling for safety zones to be established. 'Just because the health risks have not been proved does not mean they do not exist,' he said. 'The Government has been looking at this since 1992 and it is time they got down off the fence and gave councils a lead.'Companies claim they are unable to say how many of their masts are on public property for 'commercial reasons'. Councils approached by The Observer say they do not know where masts are sited because companies do not need planning consent to erect them since they are classed as 'permitted developments'.
An uncensored copy of an official security review, published on the Internet, reveals extraordinary proposals for monitoring electronic communications online. They include suggestions that audio equipment in computers could be designed to operate as listening devices, that electronic backdoors could be incorporated into software before it goes on sale and that hackers could be used routinely to penetrate computer systems under investigation by the police or the security services.The report, Review of Policy Relating to Encryption Technologies, was commissioned in 1996 by the Australian government, which then suppressed its findings, belatedly releasing only a censored version. Early this year, however, an uncensored copy turned up in the library of the University of Tasmania in Hobart, and Electronic Frontiers Australia, a civil liberties group, posted it on the Net (at www.efa.org. au/issues/crypto/walsh/ index.htm). The report has since been withdrawn in response to a directive from Canberra, says a notice on the home page of the group's Web site.Experienced computer scientists and privacy lobbyists are not surprised by the report's proposals. 'It's very hard to believe that capabilities for that kind of attack won't be developed,' says Whitfield Diffie, Distinguished Engineer at Sun Microsystems, the Californian computer company, and the pioneering co-inventor of 'public key cryptography', which is the basis of most modern encryption and digital signature systems. 'I have consistently lobbied that you have the right to try and protect yourself,' Diffie said this week. 'Information warfare is one of the big things going on. It's very difficult to see the typical person's computer system being secure against any concerted attack.' The Australian report, completed in 1997, was produced by Gerard Walsh, a former deputy director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, ASIO. Its appearance online came just as the British Government was preparing to announce its U-turn on electronic security for the Net. Under pressure from business, the Government, in a consultation paper published a fortnight ago, said that it was prepared to waive its requirement for those involved in electronic commerce to use a 'key escrow' system, in which encryption codes would have to be deposited with 'trusted third parties', if industry could come up with an alternative that satisfied the demands of law enforcement and national security. Now a joint industry/government task force has just two weeks to report back to Prime Minister Tony Blair.The task force is chaired by David Hendon, a civil servant at the Department of Trade &amp; Industry, who for the previous three years has spearheaded the intelligence agencies' failed drive to prevent widespread computer encryption closing down their access to private and business communications. The consultation paper, jointly from the DTI and Home Office, emphasises why new powers are needed: 'It is becoming increasingly common for the police to seize a computer containing encrypted evidential material where no amount of reasonable force will break the encryption and provide access to the material it contains.' The British Government is not alone. In the US, the Pentagon is already spending billions of dollars on preparing for information warfare (see bottom). Some US Senators and computer specialists have proposed that new powers and methods be given to a new police 'National Electronic Technology Center', or NET Center.A common feature of the various proposals being aired internationally is that the key escrow schemes would be ineffectual against serious criminals or terrorists.Among the most controversial proposals in the Australian report, Walsh suggests that the law should be changed to allow 'police and security services to 'hack' into a nominated computer system to secure access to that system'. The law would provide for judges to issue hacking warrants. This, he claims, would merely 'harmonise the search provision of the &#91;law&#93; to today's standard form of storage'.Walsh goes on to suggest that the 'introduction of other commands, such as diversion, copy, send, &#91;or&#93; dump memory to a specified site, would greatly enhance criminal investigations.' Going further, he suggests exploiting the fact that many computers are fitted with audio systems that could be exploited 'so that a target computer may be converted to a listening device'.Planting other types of software fixes or viruses could create 'an intelligent memory' to select and forward data of interest to law enforcement hackers. Building in 'a permanent set of commands not specified in the program written by the manufacturer' could help create 'a remote switching device with a capacity to issue commands at request'. Such unseen alterations, Walsh suggests, would 'enable passive access to a computer work station or a LAN' and 'link investigative capability more effectively to current technology'.Although there is no evidence that intelligence agencies have started to deploy computer viruses, they are known to be studying their potential as weapons (see left).Meanwhile NSA, the US intelligence agency, has already ensured that software systems exported from the US are rigged to provide less security than users may realise. Modern Net browsers, from both Netscape and Microsoft, incorporate a security system (called SSL) that automatically encrypts transactions such as credit card purchases. These browsers' built-in security systems use a 128-bit key system, which is regarded as uncrackable.But both makes of browser exported from the US have been altered to cause them to broadcast 88 of the 128 bits at the start of the transaction. This dramatically reduced level of security (40 bits) makes any 'secure' web transaction readable by signals intelligence computers - whose 'sniffers' can also catch the giveaway broadcast on the Net of most of the key. At the end of 1997, Swedish reporter Frederik Laurin revealed that the Swedish government had been caught out in a similar way by the Lotus Notes e-mail system. The government's 500,000 users supposed that, with a 64-bit key, they were relatively secure.They did not know that the export version of Lotus Notes incorporated a 'workfactor reduction field' that extracted 24 bits of each key, encoded it and passed it to NSA. Lotus admitted what it had done to Svenska Dagbladet, the national daily newspaper. 'We deliver 64 bit keys to all customers, but 24 bits of those in the version that we deliver outside of the United States are deposited with the American government,' confirmed Lotus.In the Australian report, Walsh even considers whether the government should create a second intelligence agency to monitor communications. But he rejects the proposal, likely to cost A250 million, as too expensive to justify.In the US, senators last year proposed turning NSA inwards by linking it to the proposed new NET Center. Their bill proposed that the new centre would work with NSA to 'conduct research to develop efficient methods of accessing plain text of communications and electronic information', and to 'investigate and research new and emerging techniques and technologies to facilitate access to communications and electronic information'.Britain's surveillance centre, GCHQ, has already been given powers to do everything that Walsh proposes. The 1994 Intelligence Services Act sets out GCHQ's prime function as being 'to monitor or interfere with electromagnetic, acoustic and other emissions and any equipment producing such emissions in support of the prevention or detection of serious crime'. Interference requires a warrant from a Secretary of State.Unlike Walsh in Australia, however, the British act does not consider the legal position of someone whose computer systems, information or business activities might be damaged or destroyed by a government information warfare attack. Walsh implies that the government ought to regard itself as liable for the consequences of an electronic attack on a surveillance target. American opponents of the NET Center say the proposal, if approved, 'would constitute a fundamental re-definition of the relationship between intelligence agencies and domestic law enforcement'. The Electronic Privacy Information Center, a lobby group based in Washington, says 'such an approach would ignore 50 years of experience and would pose a serious threat to privacy and constitutional rights.' Diffie adds: 'Signals intelligence has risen steadily in importance throughout this century. It's a robust phenomenon. The driving force is how much people communicate. This could evolve to circumstances where a machine analyses &#91;everything found on computer disks&#93; - then you would have mechanised mass surveillance.' 'Such things are possible,' he warns. 'None of the security mechanisms on current computers are good enough to withstand the best attackers.'• Duncan Campbell is a freelance writer and broadcaster, and not the Guardian's crime correspondent of the same name
Apricot used to dominate the UK computer market, and at the height of its powers, once took over the Albert Hall to launch a new range. Later it had to be saved byMitsubishi, but what remains may not last much longer. The Japanese giant plans to make all its PCs in Japan instead of shipping them from Scotland, so the old Apricot factory is up for sale.Still, another pioneering British computer company,Psion, had a happier week. Ericsson unveiled a 'mobile companion' - a pocket-sized computer to work with its mobile phones - which will be made by Psion to Ericsson's spec. Psion also launched a new subnotebook with a colour screen, and signed a deal with DoCoMo, a subsidiary of Japan's phone company, to develop WIDs or Wireless Information Devices. Psion's problem is that it must compete with Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, which was seen powering almost everything of interest at this week's Windows 99 Show at Olympia in London (it closes tomorrow at 4.30pm).Hewlett-Packard launched a new colour handheld, theJornada 680, while Husky (another pioneer) showed the first rugged CE machine, the Field Explorer. Microsoft boss Bill Gates was also out selling CE last week. In Shenzen, China, Gates showed a television set-top box that could link millions of Chinese to the Internet. The device was developed at Microsoft's R&amp;D centre in Beijing. Obviously there's no similar centre in, say, Zimbabwe or Nicaragua, where charities like Computeraid International (photo above) are trying to meet local needs by recycling PCs from the UK. Its problem is that it has twice as many systems as monitors. Users with screens to donate cane-mail.If you haven't a screen and you haven't a bean, you can at least collect beenz, launched this week by Philip Letts ofThe Beenz Company. Beenz is a currency that can be earned and spent on the Web. 'It will revolutionise the way the Web works, and it's a British invention,' he exclaims. Fine. How many beenz make a Psion Series 5?
You are in a 747 flying from San Francisco to London. The captain announces that the 12-hour flight will be much shorter this time because the plane now has twice as many seats. Do you believe him? Many Internet users fall for this line when they buy 'faster' modems. For what is commonly called speed is actually bandwidth - the number of bits that can be transmitted in a second - the digital equivalent of seats on that 747.High bandwidth is necessary but there's an equally important factor in how long it takes a Web page to download: latency, the time a single bit takes to get from a Web site to your computer. It's the bit's 'flying time' and is limited by the speed of light and congestion on the Internet. And these delays add up.For example, The Guardian's Web page www.guardian.co.uk has around 18,000 bytes to be downloaded. Each byte is 8 bits, a total of 144,000 bits. With a 28.8Kbps modem that transfers 28,800 bits per second you'd expect the page to appear in five seconds (144,000 divided by 28,800). It doesn't.That's because TCP, the protocol that governs the download, doesn't receive the page in one go. Each piece consists of a number of segments of around 536 bytes. TCP first asks for one segment and checks that it receives it. Then it asks for two segments, checks, asks for four and so on until it is using all the bandwidth it can. This careful checking and doubling helps to stop a program from hogging the Internet. But each check requires a back and forth message. And that delays the communication by twice the latency or 'flying time'.If the network is congested or packets get lost the doubling process is slowed adding additional messages, called ACKs (acknowledgements) across the Internet. When the latency is large - perhaps the Web server is far away or the Internet is congested - there's a big delay before you see the page.But there are remedies. Get the highest bandwidth modem you can, 56Kbps or better - if there aren't enough seats on the 747 you're not going anywhere. Then make sure your Internet Service Provider (ISP) handles that speed.Download a copy of Net.Medic from VitalSigns Software (www.vitalsigns. com) to check the modem is running at the speed that the computer expects.Install an up-to-date browser that uses the HTTP 1.1 protocol (both Netscape and Internet Explorer do) as this can make a big difference to download times.Next look into PeakJet 2000 from PeakSoft at www.peak.com which guesses the pages you are likely to download and gets them while you are busy reading another page.Talk to various ISPs about their connections to the Internet backbone and check out their record with other people. Net.Medic will pinpoint if your ISP is having congestion problems.Ask your ISP if it has a proxy server. This is a giant version of the cache in your browser and stores copies of commonly accessed pages at the ISP, making them very quick to access.Consider using some software to tune your TCP stack. This is a fairly technical topic but PPP Boost from C3 Systems at www. c3sys.demon.co.uk does all the work for you - just select the 'recommended' settings - and it's free, too.Why fly your 747 to Los Angeles when you can pick up what you want in New York or Amsterdam? Where possible use mirror sites which are exact copies of Internet sites stored in different places around the world. Choosing a site near you will get the best performance. You can determine this by using the 'ping' utility built into Windows. To find the difference in latency between your PC and, say, Yahoo! in the UK and Yahoo! in the US, go to the Start Menu, select Run, then type ping www.yahoo. co.uk Note the time values given in milliseconds. Do the same for www.yahoo. com and compare them.Lastly, try to avoid being stacked up round Heathrow waiting for a landing slot. Lunch hours, for example, when many people go Net surfing, is a bad time to try any site. Calling a Californian Web site at 9am Pacific Time (5pm GMT) can slow your browsing to a crawl.John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is eighth in a series of articles about living with the Net.
Are computers important?... for you?... for the world in general?I have an independent production company - we couldn't function without computers and the Internet. No one can, apart from people who live on heaths and are called things like 'Seth'.What about the Internet?Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom? It only threatens the freedom of bastards who try to rip off your credit card. Otherwise it allows communication in and out of places (Bosnia, Kosovo, China etc) not accessible through more easily censored means of media.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?I use a PC. Once Bill Gates hijacked the Apple operating system and called it Windows there was no need for any other format.What do you use the machine for?Downloading the trailer for the new Star Wars film. Typing scripts for my radio show. The Internet's essential for doing research on guests. We also use e-mail to send pictures of our new baby daughter to her granny in Toronto. Downloading pornography to make 'humorous' birthday cards for mates. Looking for a house in a remote part of the country so we can escape the Y2K bug fallout.Any particular favourite software?Championship Manager 2, International Cricket Captain, Sensible Soccer, Duke Nukem, Civilization, Netscape Navigator.Any favourite Web sites or news groups on UseNet? Where else do you roam on the Net?Electronic Telegraph Archive (www.telegraph.co.uk) - why don't more newspapers have archives on the Net? - cricinfo (www-uk.cricket.org/ ); football 365 (www.football365.co.uk); Yahoo; The Channel 4 Web site (www.channel4.com); Cityindex (www.cityindex.co.uk) for my spreadbetting addiction; sites where they make pornographic pictures out of Disney characters; any conspiracy theory sites.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?I used to talk quite a bit to everyone on the Gamesmaster section of the Channel 4 Web site (www.channel4.com/entertainment/ gamesmaster2/) but don't really have the time now.Do you use your own name when surfing?Only on the Gamesmaster Web site because it comes up in red pen to stop sad bastards impersonating me. Otherwise I say I'm Gary Lineker and swear a lot at old people.Spend long at the terminal?Far too long - the Internet is more addictive than crack cocaine .Are you a 'geek'? Got any favourite 'geeks'?I'm too funny and profane to be a geek and I try to avoid their gaze lest their geekery be contagious.On a desert island, a computer or a human for company?You can play much more complicated games with a human being.Professionally, what's taking up your time?My own production company which makes my Saturday lunchtime show, Sportscall for Radio 5 and various sports documentaries, a chat show for BBC Choice on digital, a Saturday column in the Star and a four-month-old baby daughter who cries too much to let me do anything else.
The need to access computers has become one of the primary civil rights issues facing people with disabilities,' says Jim Fruchterman of Arkenstone, a non-profit body providing computer systems for the blindwww.arkenstone.org.He is one of around 3,500 people with disabilities and their carers gathering with computer programmers, designers and technologists in Los Angeles this week for the 14th international conference on technology and people with disabilities, hosted byCalifornia State University.Schoolchildren can increase their awareness of the problems faced by the disabled in a virtual reality project being developed by by Ottawa University with Nortel Canada. TheDisability Awareness VR schemehas simulated life in a wheelchair, in consultation with 15 pupils with cerebral palsy or spina bifida who attend mainstream schools. Software users experience the frustration of trying to manoeuvre through tricky doorways or reach a drinking fountain. The software will be made freely available to schools via the Internet.What does a Picasso sound like? A 'video sonification software' packagevOICetranslates images from a standard miniature 'eye-ball' PC camera into different sounds, allowing people to 'see with their ears'. Every shape and colour has its own sound. With practice users can comprehend complex or moving scenes.Visually-impaired computer users will be able to run their fingers over the screen and 'feel' its content. with the MouseCAT from Haptic Technologieswww.haptech.com. It converts images to pressure via small pads which press onto the fingertips. it can be used in conjunction with a speech convertor to read out text.Perhaps the most futuristic technology is the Cyberlink Mindmouse fromLeapfrog Technologies of Arizona. Three sensors in a headband detect voltages across the forehead which vary with brain-wave activity, letting a user move a cursor by thinking about it.'prisoners in their own thoughts' is a description of some sufferers from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's or dementia, used by Eva Lindh of theDepartment of Informatics at Umea University, Sweden. Such people often lose the ability to use language but retain other faculties. She is working on CharM, a theoretical model for helping them, which proposes combining a number of cutting-edge technologies such as bio-physiological monitors being developed by defence agencies to monitor soldier health on the battlefield; body or garment computers; and systems to recognise emotions from facial expressions. The resultant 'embodied systems' would sit 'on the axis between doing and being'.a safe environment for children with disabilities or serious health problems to make friends,TAPPED INhas been set up by a team fromSRI International, a non-profit research body formerly attached to Stanford University. Teresa Middleton of SRI says children and young people who are critically or chronically ill - for example with cancer or cystic fibrosis - are often isolated from other children. 'While they may get support from parents and doctors, the kind they get from their peers is irreplaceable. If one child is having rotten side-effects from chemotherapy, the person she will trust is another who has gone through the same thing.' Another Net-based support system is the DO-IT online mentoring programme developed by theUniversity of Washington. New students with disabilities receive support by e-mail from former students or professionals who have beaten the same problems.A UK team is demonstrating a robot arm which can help people with severe disabilities perform everyday tasks such as eating and drinking, applying make- up, shaving or brushing their teeth. The 'Handy 1' robot was developed by the Centre for Rehabilitation Robotics at Staffordshire University's School ofArt and Design. It consists of a chair base with a series of mains- or battery-powered arm attachments which have five degrees of movement: a rotating base, a shoulder, an elbow, and two wrist movements.
Lara Croft nude:that's how to attract attention in three words, and a number of Web sites exploit it with 'artist's impressions' of the pneumatic heroine of Eidos's Tomb Raider series in the buff. You might think they asked for it. Nintendo hasn't had this problem with Mario the plumber, nor Sega with Sonic, its blue hedgehog.Still, it has created problems for Eidos and Lara creators at software house Core Design, who don't want her linked to pornographic sites. One sign that they may be cracking down is the disappearance of TheNude Raidersite which claims it's being sued for $1.1 million. Eidos referred us to Core, which declined to comment but said that an official statement will be issued as soon as possible.Unrealand Douglas Adams's Starship Titanic won the main games awards at the annual Codie Awards Gala held in Los Angeles, California, last week. 'The Codies' are presented by the Software &amp; Information Industry Association (SIIA), formerly known as the Software Publishers Association (SPA). Games are only a side-show for theSIIA, which focuses more attention on business and educational software. They take a different view at the annual Computer Game Developers Association conference, held in San Jose, California this week. However, the CGDA's numerous Spotlight Awards were due to be presented last night, too late for this column, though the results should now be on the Web site atwww.cgda.orgChampionship Manager 3has been delayed for another week, and won't reach the shops until March 26, says Michael Newey, the game's product manager at Eidos. But the company has written to 50,000 fans of earlier versions, and is using Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger in its advertising. Newey reckons this will help make CM3 the UK's fastest-selling CD-Rom ever, when it finally ships. CM3's main rival, Gremlin Interactive's Premier Manager 99, took the field two weeks ago with Fulham and England soccer supremo Kevin Keegan leading the attack. The consensus seems to be that, although PM99 has cleaned up on the Sony PlayStation, CM3 will win capture the PC market. But the real pity is that both games are appearing so late in the season. Next month, Electronic Arts should have World Cup Cricket 99 out...MetalL Gear Solidhas taken over the number one spot in the race to become the UK's best selling game of the year, according to the monthly table in MCV, a trade magazine. The Konami game for PlayStation shifted around 85,000 copies in a single week, which pushed it straight to the top of the PlayStation and All Formats sales charts. The game's success suggests that piracy and 'grey importing' (bringing in overseas copies) isn't as common as some people feared. The game was a big hit in the US last year, and there was a risk that UK buyers could already have seen more than enough of the game in illegal versions.Peter Molyneux, founder of the Lionhead software house, will give the first public showing of his next game, Black And White next month. Molyneux is best known as the founder of Bullfrog Productions and author of games such as Populous and Dungeon Keeper. Work in progress on Black And White will be presented as part of his talk on game creation in the Princess Anne Theatre at Bafta (British Academy of Film and Television Arts) in London on April 14. Bafta, driven by Lord Puttnam, is trying to muscle in on the games industry/get the games industry taken seriously as a creative force (delete to taste) and is organising a series of talks, demonstrations and workshops, this year. Entry for non-members is £7.50.Those whoskipped Telstar's South Park: The Official PC Desktop Theme and Screensaver last year as too boring, will be given a second chance to buy it next week. The software is being re-released with a T-shirt for £19.99. Tomb Raider 2 will also reappear in a cut-price PlayStation version on March 26 on the Platinum label. Meanwhile, a collection of six games based on Rugrats, the cartoon series, has just been released for PCs and Macs for £29.99. But you could always wait for a boxed set of the Rugrats Movie Activity Challenge that comes complete with nappies.
A New dude could do away with the City slickers. Instead of expensive consultants to interpret the terrifyingly complex modelling programs used by many businesses, the job may be done by software being developed at Leeds University.Dude (Decision-support User Documentation Environment) gives other applications a user-friendly interface and produces 'active' documentation. The user can ask all kinds of 'what if?' questions, changing the data to see how results vary. Dude can reprocess data on request, rendering the documents as HTML fragments.Next week researchers from the Leeds Computer Based Learning Unit will present Dude at a Dynamic Documents conference in Jena, Germany. The package could eventually be applied to medical diagnostics and treatment, managing university departments or reporting scientific results.Initially Dude is being developed for the European Steel and Coal Community, which is desperate for a user-friendly interface for its mathematical models of coal-burning power station performance under varying fuel and management scenarios. As well as allowing variations in the input to modelling programs, active documents act as managers for information, allowing readers to define how they want to access the data.The Leeds researchers believe this is how education and research material will be presented in the future. Ben Whitaker, who will present Dude at the conference, is also involved in academic chemistry's first venture into active documents, the Internet journalPhysChemComm.It publishes papers that are entirely active. Graphs can be edited to suit your interests, data can be copied into other applications, and diagrams of molecules can be displayed exactly as you would like to see them.Applying a similar kind of flexibility to the data presented in consultancy reports will give clients much more to work with when it comes to making management decisions. In fact, they might just make the analysts redundant.
Stand under a motorway bridge. The passing traffic sounds like the sea. This is as close as a lot of us get to the sea these days. Nature's a myth, a bygone, it's shifted out of reach, become illusory. It's all owned by MONSANTO.The only contact we now have with nature has been narrowed down to whatever dealings we have with our own BODIES. It's the only live thing we can't yet ignore completely. We're stuck listening to the noises it makes, we monitor its moods and temperature, its intake and output and - given enough time and money - we try to keep it tuned and serviced like a MACHINE. Yes, we LIKE machines.The place to do this is the GYM, where nature is turned into art: you take your naturally flawed form and knock it into some unnatural shape, gyrate and weld it until you have something else altogether. The gym is anti-nature, anti-ecology: you DRIVE there. On arrival you change into chemically manufactured Lycra and go use up a whole lot of ELECTRICITY on machines that imitate actions that used to be natural: bending, lifting, carrying, running, walking, walking up stairs. All the stuff mod cons have freed us from, people now PAY to experience in gyms. Their reward: muscles you can show off, and your right to eat twice as much as a normal person.If there was ever anything sillier than a bicycle, in concept and actuality, it has to be the STATIONARY bicycle. You get the most improbable mode of transport all worked out, then you modify it so it's still improbable but now doesn't get you anywhere! The 'programme' encourages you to imagine you're going up hill and down dale but in fact you're going nowhere. Fast.It's all to keep reality at bay. We've made the outdoor world so DANGEROUS for ourselves, you can't even go out on a sunny day for fear of cancer. So we go to the gym, a desensitised bubble where you only have to meet other EXERCISERS. The boredom and artificiality of this self-imposed imprisonment, when you could be working, playing, THINKING or making kedgeree (which also takes hours). All that repetitive swinging of limbs to and fro, the brainless COUNTING as you try to follow the chart of your regime, the constant pop music in the background, the gear, the shoes, the deodorants, Athlete's Foot powder . . . And all for what? Not health exactly, but the illusion of it, and the all-important heroism of CONTROL. The entire planet's going to pot but YOU'RE GOING TO THE GYM. It's the same buzz you get out of finding a non-GM food, or managing to stay off alcohol for a day or two. You've done your research and now you're really looking after yourself.It never occurs to gym addicts that they could be using their muscled torsos for GOOD - walking lonely latchkey dogs or washing old folks' windows. That would be degrading! The whole point of the gym is that there IS no point, it's exercise for exercise's sake, the more needless the better. And yet they boast of it, as if there were some trace of virtue in pumping iron for hours on end. The true fanatics in fact no longer connect exercise with anything else they have to do, and assess every physical activity only in terms of its value as exercise. Sex (alone): 75 cals. Sex (mutually gratifying encounter with fellow human being): 250 cals. Carrying gym bag to car: 8 cals. Road rage incident on way to gym: 60 cals. Rescuing neighbour from burning building: 500 cals. Etc.Muscles are a status symbol - every starlet's got to have some. Their unnecessariness is very important. You don't want normal proletarian calf muscles, the kind gained by hard work and visits to the laundromat. No, you're rich, you're entrepreneurial. You want a body, you've got to BUILD it! There are guys on Wall Street who could lift tree trunks if they had to (which they don't). They push the soft buttons of capitalism all day then dispel the fury, frustration and powerlessness of living in the free world by marching on a TREADMILL. They think, because their muscles are invisibly rippling beneath their three-piece suits, that they could take on the world and WIN. But the world is disintegrating all around them, largely BECAUSE these guys have concentrated all their optimism on the gym. Does it even make them sexy? A man in the throes of passion for a stairmaster? No.There is nothing BRAVE about it, except having to face the competitiveness of other exercisers. (And the SIGHT of them.) There is no battle with the elements in a GYM, no rough terrain, no predators. There are no surprises in a gym (except when the plumbing breaks down). There are no barking dogs to alarm you, or fluttering pigeons. No smells of fox or wild garlic or bonfire or horse dung, no snow-drops or primroses, no streams and puddles, no farm shops, no UFOs, no sunsets, no rain, no cars, lorries or motorbikes, no cutesy-wootsy lambs and calves, no barbed wire sheep's wool. There are only machines, only manmade things. No solitude, no quietude. No pebbles. No bumblebees. No hope.No future.Lucy Ellmann, 1999Lucy Ellmann's latest novel, Man or Mango? published by Headline/Review, is now available in paperback (A6.99)
As the UK Government tries to abdicate its role over computer encryption, shrill voices in the US are again warning that national interests are highly vulnerable to cyber-terrorists, writes Edward Helmore in New York. Over the past month, senior US defence officials have been telling the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee that the Internet has become a threat to US national security.Last week, Deputy Defense Secretary John Hamre said that while the military has safeguarded the Pentagon's most sensitive computer systems, hackers successfully penetrate the agency's general network between 10 and 15 times a day.Hamre's warnings come as concern increases within the US security community that the Internet is now so large, fast-moving and unregulated that it is beyond control. In September, when he issued a memorandum addressing US military vulnerabilities on the Web, his words unleashed a frontal assault by Internet foes who seek to insulate and isolate the Pentagon from the network.The anti-Web assault in the US has moved far beyond the debate over encryption or that of a knee-jerk reaction from a collection of secretive agencies that instinctively equate the free flow of information as dangerous. Worried that terrorists could compromise security by combining unclassified material available on the Web from military computers with other information - the 'mosaic theory' - the chief of Pentagon Internet security, J William Leonard, closed down many of the military's (www.xxxx.mil) 3,000 or so Web sites. Military Web sites contain a treasure trove of information, including the maintenance status of fighter aircraft engines, air refueling schedules, an Air Force 'how-to' manual for determining which targets to attack, and army manuals on small unit tactics and the use of many weapons.The Pentagon directive has given enemies of information the pretext they need for a full-scale attack. Last week, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Lt Gen Patrick Hughes, claimed threats to security no longer come from spies and moles but from simply releasing too much information. 'We now seem to have erred on the side of making so much information available that some of it has been damaging to our collective government effort,' he said.The growing anti-Internet movement at the Pentagon has become so fervent that the Federation of American Scientists, a watchdog based in Washington, warns that the 'golden age of public access to government information on the Internet is over'. Members of the federation say that the purge is misdirected and the real threat remains terrorists with car bombs who don't need the Internet to find a US embassy to attack. William Arkin, author of a book on Pentagon Web sites, says the agency is trying to create a 'Fortress Internet'. In his view, 'the very dynamism and anarchy of the Web is at the heart of the new-found military discomfort. A network that was once the military's own has been fully appropriated. Now it shifts and changes by the minute, moving at a speed that exceeds anything the weapons makers can produce'. In efforts to curtail both the threat of Pentagon hackers and the availability of 'non-classified' but prospectively harmful material, Pentagon has decided against the proposal to establish a separate military agency exclusively to deal with Internet security. Instead, the US Secretary of Defence William Cohen is soon expected to recommend a task force comprising all the different security agencies - CIA, FBI, NSA, DIA, and NRO. But fear of the Internet is likely to intensify after the discovery of the leak of nuclear warhead plans from Los Alamos. Sensing a wedge issue with voters,the Republican party has indicated that it intends to make national security a key component of the 2000 presidential campaign.Two weeks ago it was revealed military security analysts had uncovered and stopped computer hackers who had found a new way to attack open Pentagon networks on the Internet. Just days after that, Republican Senator John Warner told the committee in Washington the nation 'would be unforgiving' if a terrorist attack occurred and it was later determined that the government hadn't done enough to stop it.
New generations of viruses are taking advantage of the complexity of the latest computer operating systems to spread software devices that propagate themselves, hunt down information of interest and send it wherever they want via the Net The Caligula virus, found early this year, travels in Word documents. It can even penetrate PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), the most commonly used personal cryptography program, and copy for its perpetrator via the Internet a sensitive file at the heart of the program, a user's 'keyring' file. This file is itself encrypted, but the technique highlights software's vulnerability.Another recently discovered virus, Picture.exe, was targeted at users of America Online.It stole usernames and passwords, and mailed them to a destination in China. A third new virus, Happy99.exe, appears as a greetings card, displaying fireworks. Once installed, it copies e-mail logs from the user and mails itself out with every new e-mail.Five months ago, the Russian government proposed to the UN that there should be a new international agreement to ban the development and use of 'particularly dangerous information weapons', and also to establish an agreement to deal with information terrorism and cyber crime. The Russians called for an 'international system to monitor the threats related to the security of global information and telecommunication systems'. But the plan met with opposition from the US and British governments. DC
A reader writes: 'Have you noticed how 95 per cent of the jokes on the Internet are at Microsoft's expense?' Well, no, we hadn't . . . but the market share sounds about right. Heard this one? Bill Gates recently compared the operating system market with the soft drink market, explaining that Microsoft is hanging on for dear life in the ultra-competitive OS market while Coke enjoys a real monopoly, since it'll be on top forever. But the Department of Justice doesn't pick on Coke.Of course, Bill should be careful not to give Coke any ideas. We might end up with a scenario like the following: Joe: (walking into McDonald's) Hi, I'd like a Big Mac.Cashier: Okay, here's your Big Mac and here's your Coke. That'll be $3.99.J: Uh, I don't want a Coke.C: Sorry, they're bundled.J: What? I'm not paying for a Coke! C: You don't; the Coke is free.J: But wasn't a Big Mac $2.49 last week? C: Sure, but this latest Big Mac is far more innovative. It's got integrated Coke! J: I already bought a Snapple across the street - I'm not going to drink the Coke.C: Then you can't have the burger.J: (Sigh) Okay, fine, I'll pay the $3.99 and throw the Coke away.C: Oh, you can't do that. They're seamlessly integrated. Totally inseparable.J: How can that be? They're two totally separate things! C: No, watch. (takes Big Mac, dunks it in a tank of Coke) See? J: Why did you just do that?!?! C: It's a benefit to the consumer. Otherwise you'd end up with two different, inconsistent tastes. This way you're assured of a continuous taste across all your foods.J: Aaarrgh!
Krauss could, of course, be wrong (although he thinks it unlikely). His forecast depends on the energy in the universe being largely composed of a ghostly entity known as the cosmological constant, which defines the energy contained in 'empty' space.Einstein first introduced the cosmological constant to his theory of general relativity as a simple fudge factor. Its addition made the universe into the static and stable place he assumed it to be. This approach didn't really fit the evidence, so eventually he abandoned it. A few years later, physicists realised that empty space is not actually empty: 'virtual' particles are continually popping in and out of existence. The cosmological constant, they realised, could be linked to the energy of these particles.Until recently, the astronomical evidence was all consistent with a zero cosmological constant. That would mean that the universe's expansion is regulated by the gravitational attraction of all the matter within it. In this scenario the universe would either keep expanding (but at a steady speed that allowed life to continue forever) or that it would gradually slow down and begin to contract into a reverse of the big bang.But new data, some of it collected by the Hubble telescope, suggests that the universe is actually expanding at an ever-increasing speed. Cosmologists infer from these measurements that the universe's empty space holds twice as much energy as is held in the universe's matter; so the cosmological constant is positive, not zero, and its energy produces a repulsive force in 'empty space'.That makes the universe expand and hurtle away from us, taking all the necessities of life with it.Although the evidence for a positive constant is strong, Krauss admits that things are 'still tentative'. Until cosmologists are sure about the value of the cosmological constant, no one can be sure about the doomsday problem.Finding out the energy associated with 'empty' space is therefore a vital piece of the cosmology puzzle: in the end, it seems, nothing matters. And it matters a great deal.
Is there such a thing as eternal life? Of all the questions mankind has wrestled with over the millennia, this one has been a consistent source of concern. Well, fret no more because physicist Lawrence Krauss has the answer, and it's an emphatic no. Life in the universe is hurtling towards oblivion - it cannot possibly continue forever.The result, Krauss says, is a shock; it directly contradicts the last major study of this subject.The astronomy professor from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, used to deal with relatively trivial topics - he brought us The Physics Of Star Trek, for instance - but Krauss has now decided to turn his hand to weightier issues. After considering all the available data on the expansion of the universe, the role of energy in providing us with life and information, the nature of consciousness, and, er, the unreliability of alarm clocks, he has concluded that civilisation in the cosmos is doomed.In a relatively short time - maybe 15 billion years - the stars will start disappearing. The universe is able to expand at speeds greater than the speed of light (space itself is not restricted by the law that says nothing can travel faster than light), and so within a few billion years, most of the stars will be moving away from our galaxy so rapidly that their light can't ever reach us.According to Krauss's calculations, distant galaxies and stars are going to blink out of existence very soon. 'The surprising fact is not so much that energy is disappearing, but that it's going to happen so quickly,' he says. 'Within a hundred billion years everything but our own cluster of galaxies will be invisible.' Since the energy that comes from the stars is necessary for life, the universe's expansion will strip us of the one thing we need for continued existence. The universe, however, is eternal: it will keep on going, leaving us to fade quietly away.So, the end of the world is relatively nigh. What's the plan? Krauss and his co-author from CWRU, Glenn Starkman, have considered a number of options. The first is to build some kind of energy mining machine to harvest all the currently available energy before it disappears over the horizon. Black holes seem to offer the best possibility; they are remarkably good at absorbing energy. 'The trouble is,' says Krauss, 'it's hard to get energy out of them.' Whatever the imaginary machines Krauss and Starkman considered, they seemed impossible to build, difficult to use, or used more energy than they collected. Time for Plan B: hibernation.Back in 1979, the Princeton physicist Freeman Dyson first raised the possibility of a limited amount of energy in the universe. He was optimistic: with the data available to him then, it seemed that there wasn't too much of a problem, and that life could for ever in these conditions.He suggested lowering the metabolism of biological life, so that it used energy at a minimal rate. Occasional forays into the active world, combined with energy- saving hibernation periods, would ensure eternal life.Krauss and Starkman have two arguments against Dyson's plan. The first is that his complex quantum mechanical calculations were wrong: the perpetual use of energy, no matter how slowly, is impossible. The second objection is more simple: who's going to wake us up? 'Alarm clocks aren't reliable,' Krauss says. 'Everyone who goes to work knows that.' Even an infinitely reliable alarm clock, that would, without fail, awaken civilisations after millennia of hibernation, has a fatal flaw. Any alarm clock, Krauss points out, uses energy. 'Even if one could manage to expend energy only to wake up the hibernator, and not run the alarm clock in the interim, the alarm clock would still eventually exhaust the entire store of energy.' Dyson, Krauss and Starkman are in discussions about the paper at the moment - the CRWU researchers posted their ideas on the Internet only last month - and, so far, Dyson doesn't entirely agree with their evaluation. 'Krauss and Starkman say my calculations are wrong, and I still say they are right,' he says. He believes their disagreement arises from different ways of thinking about information.Krauss believes that a scientific view of the energy requirements of biological life has to centre around the problem of consciousness. That, he says, must have something to do with computing, which uses energy to process information. 'We don't know the nature of consciousness, but the most reasonable assumption is that it involves computations.' Dyson shares this view, but offers a different type of computation. 'In thinking about information and memory, they think digital and I think analogue,' he says.In Krauss and Starkman's view of life, information is carried in discrete states, like the zeroes and ones used to encode binary data. In normal life that data is kept stable by contact with our environment, which acts like a shock absorber, suppressing the potentially disastrous random quantum fluctuations that occur in the universe. In hibernation, they argue, we will be detached from the environment in order to conserve energy. That will leave us vulnerable: our data will be too easily disturbed by the random fluctuations. Eventually they will cause us to jump out of one discrete state into another, so that we become 'disorganised' and lose consciousness. The end.Dyson, on the other hand, has everything operating in analogue fashion: little dust-grains, for example, floating freely in space and communicating with each other by electric and magnetic fields. 'It is easy to calculate that in this situation quantum fluctuations are unimportant,' says Dyson. 'The disasters described by Krauss and Starkman don't happen.' Of course, many would argue computing is a very poor reflection of consciousness. Krauss admits it's a bit of a leap from information processing to the understanding of life, but he can't find a better way to approach the issue scientifically. 'There are always going to be people who say there's something that goes beyond the laws of physics, that consciousness is some spiritual thing. Once people start talking like that I can't argue with them.' And that's what he wants to do. Having laid out the physics of doomsday, he hopes that fellow researchers will be provoked into thinking up solutions to mankind's not-so-imminent extinction. 'We have a lot of time left to figure a way out,' he says. 'It isn't exactly a pressing problem.' So far, the reaction from the cosmology community has been slow but encouraging. Once people stop shrugging their shoulders and muttering 'so what?', they then start to think about the challenges. Krauss says he understands their initial reluctance to get involved. He had his own doubts about the validity of the research for a while. Now, he is convinced - and amazed - that physics can address these issues. 'The difference between physics and philosophy is that you can try and disprove arguments in physics,' he says. 'We are trying to address issues that have a concrete answer: right or wrong.' In general, researchers aren't exactly falling over themselves to get involved in end-time predictions. The beginning of the universe is fashionable; the end is not.'Occasionally people spend some time thinking about it, but there's no ongoing research effort,' says John Barrow, professor of astronomy at the University of Sussex. In a 1986 book, The Anthropic Principle, Barrow examined, among other things, what might happen if the universe was found to be expanding more rapidly than was then supposed. His conclusion agrees with Krauss's viewpoint. 'Only a finite amount of information processing can take place. If you define life as information processing, it must die out,' he says.Perhaps the dearth of research interest can be put down to the depressing nature of the subject. When the University of Texas professor Steven Weinberg published his book The First Three Minutes, describing the origins of the universe, he summed up his view of the universe's future rather glumly: 'The more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it also seems pointless.' Krauss prefers to see the bright side. 'You could see it as depressing. On the other hand, you could argue that, since life can't be eternal in the universe, it's remarkable how fortunate one is to be around during the time that life exists.' It certainly doesn't keep him fretting in a darkened room or give him an inferiority complex. 'It doesn't make me feel small, it makes me feel appropriate,' he says. 'We have to recognise our perspective: we're in a remote corner of a remote galaxy in the middle of nowhere. I always feel that, until we learn to recognise the universe for what it is, we'll have a hard time progressing.'
I have every sympathy for iMac owners who are having trouble getting faults rectified (Feedback, March 11). Last weekend, I experienced a major system crash on my PC and discovered, to my horror, that a full so-called 16-hour call-out warranty was not worth the paper it was written on. I fully agree with Russell Caplan's assertion that the computer industry has a patronising arrogance and complacent attitude to end users, who are left seething at their treatment.Rebecca MackettTo balance the avalanche of correspondence precipitated by Fay Godwin, I'd like to share our experience of the iMac, which we added to our modest Apple Macintosh network last November. We plugged it into the mains. We plugged it into the network. We plugged it into the telephone line. We switched it on. It worked perfectly, and has done ever since. This is the first genuine 'plug and play' computer it has ever been my good fortune to purchase.Ross SpeirsIf you read through your iMac problem page it becomes evident the issues revolve around peripherals - printers and scanners etc. The large box-shifting shops/warehouse set-ups are only interested in selling, not in back-up and support. We, as an Apple dealership, lose out on these sales but are then expected to sort out non-client problems, issues that the box shifters are unable to deal with. The Epson printer was shipped with the incorrect drivers. We were aware of various issues at an early stage, and we ensured that our clients received the correct cables/drivers and information. Through the Net we constantly update our knowledge to help resolve any Apple computing issues. It takes time and care to keep abreast of the ever changing computer issues - and we take time and care with our clients.We believe it is better to know you will have the support of a qualified company and pay the extra A10 or A15 than be left in the lurch as soon as the till has closed. The iMac and the new G3s are not only the best looking computers around but, compared with the learning curve for traditional PCs, they are easiest to use.Jill Bennett, xheight connexionsObviously Fay Godwin's article touched a nerve (or even a whole nervous system). Anyone not wanting to scrabble for a bent paperclip can connect towww.imacbutton.comand purchase a 'hi-tech' alternative. For my own part I experienced exactly the same problems with crashes until I installed more RAM. As somebody should have probably said: 'You can never be too thin, too rich or have too much Ram.'Iain NobleIt seems that most of the iMac problems reported in the flood of shared experiences triggered by Fay Godwin's original letter arise from the USB software for the Epson 740 printer, which dealers insist on selling with the iMac. I resisted this pressure and decided to keep my old StyleWriter when yielding to the lure of the iMac, and am now very glad I did.It is nonsense for Tim Atherton to claim that the iMac is of little use to professional or intensive amateur users for anything but the Internet. With enough Ram and the right attachments the iMac is a powerful and cost-effective professional system, though not as simple to set up and use as the advertisements would have you believe.Alistair KilgourPerhaps the saddest aspect of the iMac correspondence is the number of sheep who, despite their bad experiences, are still suckers for clever marketing and intend to stick with their duff machines. No, I'm not a Mac-basher. I'm a freelance photographer and use PCs because they work, they don't fail and they do everything a Mac can, only cheaper and with a greater range of software.Steve DayThe problems highlighted concerning the iMac are indicative of a more sinister problem. Computers are complicated and at times it requires some technical knowledge to solve problems. They are marketed to people as if they were merely TVs that you can write letters and play games on.Julian BatchelerMy main complaint is the lack of a decent manual. To spend £800 on a computer and get 6 photos as instructions seemed crazy. My horizons expanded considerably once I acquired The Little iMac Book.David RawsthornCome on, guys. As Fay Godwin's endnote alone made quite clear, the driver software initially supplied for the Epson Stylus 740 printer didn't work properly with her iMac. Once this was sorted, her problem was solved. Did it really require two pages of letters on a single topic, all establishing essentially the same point? I know there's been a lot of hype about iMac, but this really does smack of Apple-bashing for the sake of it. In the interest of balance. Can we now expect to see page after page of letters about readers' problems with drivers, configuration, or crashes on their Windows PCs?Alex Summersby Editor, MacFormat(MacFormat is an independent consumer magazine, not affiliated in any way with Apple Computer.)Your letters page has all the appearence of a vendetta. Have you never heard of anyone having problems with a PC? I have read OnLine since its inception and I have noticed the anti-Mac bias on a number of occasions, but nothing as blatant as this. You are no longer a reliable source as far as I am concerned and your readership just fell.Rick SareenRefined search IICanny Internet users need both search engines (which are very good for finding unusual and very specific subjects) and subject gateways (which are often better for broader research and for finding associated resources). However, Roddy Macleod's letter (Feedback, February 25) mentions seven subject gateways' URLs. What a pain. A better bet is to use an integrated service likeBUBL LINK, which gives access to the whole lot - over 10,000 quality educational resources, browsable by subject. As a bonus it has a general reference service, where you can find items by type - images, sounds, journals, maps, dictionaries, etc. Even better, it's UK oriented, it's fast and free to use, with no registration, no cookies, no adverts, and all entries are checked every month, with broken links fixed or removed. For finding UK institutions, the BUBL UK service is also invaluable.Alan DawsonPrivacy paranoiaTo be quite honest I am becoming tired and bored of all those users of the Guardian Web site who complain about cookies (Feedback, February 25). As you should know by now, privacy simply does not exist on the Internet. Every connection that you make to the network is stamped with your IP address. Your IP address is a unique number and it can always be traced to you (don't even ask me about the Pentium III). What exactly are people afraid of? A reputable organisation that asks permission to place a cookie on your hard drive is harmless; no doubt, you can imagine if there were malicious intent, the disreputable organisation certainly would not ask for permission.For those who are paranoid I point them towww.epic.org,www.fortify.netandwww.anomymizer.comas good starting points on how to feed their paranoia. Forewarned is forearmed and all that.Ian .J. GowrieMore fax factsYou mentioned that faxes can be received on US telephones and forwarded to e-mail addresses for free (Netwatch, February 25). Demon (www.demon.net) provide this service for their customers with a UK number and a set-up fee, and JFax (www.jfax.com) will forward voice and fax messages sent to numbers in many cities worldwide (including London) for a small monthly fee. Faxes can be sent from e-mail either via JFax (for a fee) or via TPC (www.tpc.int) for free (but with advertising).Charlie McCayYou list the Callwave and eFax services and note that users can only receive and not send faxes. Your readers may like to know that if they wish to send faxes via a Web site, they can do so atwww.easyfax.netI've tested it out on British telephone numbers and the faxes take around two minutes to appear on a normal fax machine.Stuart HughesDarwin's discipleContrary to what Andrew Brown writes (Evolution is to allegory as statues are to birdshit, March 4), the predictable thing about Gould is that when he ventures outside his own field he tends to get his facts wrong.Incidentally, is Brown serious when he suggests some relevance in the Jewish descent of some of the scientists he discusses? Doesn't the idea of 'Jewish science' have a rather uncomfortable past?Nicolas Walter, Rationalist Press Association, London N1Sad caseIt's a sad sign of the state of computer journalism in the UK that your description of the chip layout of the Pentium III (Pent-up anger, February 25) seemed unusual. Thank you for providing this brief but refreshing glimpse into a parallel universe where technology writers actually write about the technology, rather than the experience of using it, or the personalities behind it, or the money it makes, or the power struggles it causes. I fear I shall not see its like again in print.Adam RiceIntel are either ignorant or contemptuous of their customers. The launch advertising of the PIII seems to concentrate on Internet speed. For home users, at whom the ads appear to be targeted, Internet access is an input-/ output-bound task, and the PIII will make no difference.If software houses recompile their products and if the new release of MS-C/C++ is bug-free (two pretty big ifs) then a few bits of a few applications will be able to make use of the SIMD features. (SIMD is a well-known technique for internal partial parallel processing and not an Intel exclusive, by the way.) If processing speed is really an aim of the industry, then I suggest that Microsoft (and others) might like to (1) encourage the development of multi-processor motherboards for the full range of processors currently available (yes - even Gxs etc); and (2) ensure that the next release of the mainstream MS operating system supports such motherboards.Allowing for the overhead of multi-processor environments, I suggest that the performance from, say, 4 AMD 350Mhz processors with a sensible operating system would be impressive. It would also cause less RF pollution than the current moves towards the 1-gigahertz processor clocks.Bob MargolisFor more information on the Pentium III and successors go totarget=_new&gt;www.mackido.com/Hardware/and look under Processors.Richard Morgan-AshCorrection:We stated that Intel makes £2 million an hour &#91;net income&#93;; in fact, based on the corportion's record fourth quarter earnings, the figure should have been $1 million. ApologiesSignificant othersGoing to the bathroom (Microlites, March 11) should surely be 'uploading', not 'downloading'?Pete Hay.What nonsense! Everyone knows you have to whistle, not hum, to fake out a modem.William (my phone bill is bigger than my IP address) HudsonWe were interested to read your article on the Government's call for comments on its plans for electronic commerce (Cave-in on a key measure, March 18). Your readers might be interested to know that the Institution of Electrical Engineers (Europe's largest professional body for engineers, including IT specialists) is organising a half-day forum on Monday morning, March 22 at its headquarters in London, for the industry and users to get together and debate this issue. For more information, call me (on 0171 344 8403) or go to our website (www.iee.org.uk).David DowleWill big business ever get the hang of e-commerce? Last week, my bank sent me an attractive brochure inviting me to use Internet banking for all my accounts. So I accessed their website as instructed, registered my details, and sat there hoping to check my balance within minutes. Back came the message: 'Thank you, we will post you an application form.' A week later, it still hasn't arrived.Tony ScullThe latest delay in Labour selecting its Mayor of London candidate gives you more time to examine my bid onwww.art-science.com.Ken Baldry
A British Telecom engineer is planning to sue his former employers, claiming that he has been left brain damaged from using mobile phones.In the first case of its kind, Stephen Corney will argue that protracted use of mobile phones has severely damaged his short-term memory. Mr Corney, aged 39, was last year forced to retire from his post as a senior data engineer, the highest engineering rank in BT, on health grounds.Close to tears at a press conference yesterday, he struggled to describe the impact his health problems had had on his life, explaining how even the most basic task now posed a near-impossible challenge.His lawyers have issued a protective writ, which allows them three months to gather scientific evidence to support the case. Thompsons, who accepted the case on a no-win, no-fee basis, are seeking more than £100,000 compensation for his emotional and financial problems.Mr Corney, who is from Bedfordshire and a father of three young children, had been working for BT for 10 years when, in 1996, he went to the doctor worried by memory loss. His GP suggested that mobile phones might be responsible.Mr Corney first noticed problems in 1995 when BT issued digital instead of analogue phones to all its employees. Within nine months he was off work sick, and he has been unable to return since. As part of his duties, he tested mobile phone coverage as he drove around the country, and was using his mobile in the car for as long as five hours a day, often for periods of 90 minutes at a time.Speaking slowly yesterday, Mr Corney attempted to focus on the questions asked by the media, but frequently he appeared to forget mid-sentence what he had been asked. Describing the initial symptoms, he said he felt 'punch-drunk' after using the phone.'When I was using the phone for long periods I could feel a tightening around my head, it felt like a steel band, and the longer I stayed on the phone, the tighter it got. My head would get very hot around my ear and the muscles under my eye would twitch. I began to have problems with my left ear; my hearing would cut out like a faulty microphone.'Memory loss soon set in. 'Often when I had been given the information I required for the next job, I would have to ring straight back because I had already forgotten it. To begin with when I stopped using the phone each day the effects would go away, but then they began to stay longer and longer and then one day they just stayed.'Visibly distressed, he said that he once spent over an hour looking for his car after work, realising only much later that he had been looking for his old car instead of the new one.On sick-leave he found even simple tasks, such as visiting the supermarket, impossible. 'I had to have everything written on a list and I crossed everything off; I'd put the shopping in the boot of the car, get back into the car, then see the list and go back and do all the shopping again. I had to pay by credit card because I'd spent all my money. It was very upsetting.'He claimed that several colleagues suffered similar complaints, but that each had been told by BT's in-house doctor that no one else had reported problems connected with mobile phones.A BT spokesman last night said he was unable to discuss individual cases, but added: 'All the experts agree that there is no convincing scientific evidence that mobile phones pose any health threat. However, BT and the rest of the industry continue to examine the issues and support research in this area.'BT issues all its 40,000 engineers with mobile phones. Head-sets thought to reduce radiation levels substantially are now freely available to staff.Tom Jones, Mr Corney's solicitor, said he was confident that mobile phones had caused the brain damage. The case could be difficult to prove, however, because of the absence of conclusive medical evidence. Research has shown that rats and mice suffer when subjected to mobile phone radiation, but there is little firm evidence to indicate that humans are affected.New research is being published almost daily and the Department of Health has commissioned a study which is due out shortly. Henry Lai, an American expert on radio frequencies, has released research suggesting that mobile phones can make you feel 'high' and by increasing opiate levels in the brain make you want to drink more alcohol.
In the old days, convoys of Mini Coopers rolled from the conveyor belt at Longbridge and drove straight out of Birmingham towards Dover. Some of them had Union Jacks painted on their roofs. After the ferry, they continued south and wound up in the corniches of the Riviera.Then they went into town, knocking over tables in colonnades where Mediterraneans had hoped to sip coffees quietly. Later they drove into Rome, circled the Colosseum and then down the Spanish Steps, heedless of long-haired guitarists and students of Gramsci who sprawled themselves carelessly there.These cars knew no bounds. They were sassy, insouciant and their exhausts made distinctively wholesome noises as they accelerated out of a gear change. Vvvrrraaammm! Something like that.They were cars designed for romance, though clearly you needed to put a picnic rug in the boot if you were hoping for something more physical than a quick snog over the gear stick.I remember driving mine along the Hagley Road in Birmingham with the wind in my hair, thinking: 'Hang on a second. This isn't a convertible. And I've got the windows rolled up. What gives?'Minis were a symbol of swinging England and a reflection of a British Empire that refused to admit it was not able to colonise Europe any more. True, the Mini was designed by a bloke born in Turkey, but let's not spoil the story.In the sixties, Birmingham was a city of dreams. The Rotunda, at least in my imagination, would take off like Thunderbird 1 and circle the Bull Ring before landing at Villa Park. Better yet, the Minis of Longbridge were groovy and the Wolseleys of nearby Washwood Heath had walnut dashboards and radiator grilles that evoked Britain's pastoral past. Nowadays, only the Morgans of Malvern express those British eccentricities. Apart from them, British cars are not groovy any more.This, no doubt, is why Paramount is planning to remake The Italian Job without Mini Coopers. There'll be a heist and there'll be drivers in jumpsuits with crash helmets and baseball bats, no doubt, but no Minis. British cars don't have the cachet they did.Instead, the studio plans to remake the film with Beetles. The official reason given by Paramount for this change is that Minis were never sold in America, nobody there appreciates their cultural importance, and consequently another car must be chosen.Americans know what Beetles are, so the rest of the world must bow down before their consummate ignorance of the interesting nuances of European car design. 'The Mini means nothing to most people in California,' said a source in the disturbing news stories about this ill-favoured remake plan. The Lincoln Continental means less than nothing to anyone with any sense of taste.But is the Beetle such a good idea? After all, it was Hitler's car, just the thing if you wanted to be in Warsaw by lunchtime perhaps, or to cruise while listening to early Kraftwerk, but not for comic interludes involving cross espresso drinkers.'The Mini was integral to The Italian Job. I, for one, would be disappointed if it vanishes,' said one person. And his name is Michael Caine, so he should know. True, Caine, who drove a Mini in the original film, is being wooed by the studio to play the role of Noel Coward who, you'll recall, was the film's criminal mastermind.So his opinion may well not count for much. But Caine must not be allowed to appear in this appalling new film. If they successfully lure Caine into their grubby project, everything Britons hold dear will be lost. Well quite a lot.What's more, there have been lots of films starring Beetles already. The Love Bug and its successors (Herbie Rides Again, Herbie Goes To Monte Carlo, Herbie Sinks Without Trace Owing To A Burst Water Main On The Hanger Lane Gyratory) starred a VW Beetle.It was a car that had a romantic life, which, in a very real sense, is extremely perverted. Based on Gordon Burford's story Car-Boy-Girl, it was troilism with a twist - sometimes the car fell for another motor. Which was just sick.In retrospect, Herbie Goes To Monte Carlo can be seen as the VW Beetle auditioning for its Mediterranean role in the remake of The Italian Job. In it, too, Herbie fell for a Lancia. It was an under-motivated romance, rather as implausible and just as revolting as Hitler falling for Mussolini. I fear something as vile, mawkish and implausible will infect The Italian Job II.There was no hint of intra-Mini romance, although perhaps suggestively, they did chase each others' bottoms all around the Continent.But the real point is this: what is happening to Britain? Once James Bond drove an Aston Martin; now he drives a 7 series BMW, a car designed for boring suits to sit in gridlock on the M25 rather than for fast-handed, Martini-sipping espionage specialists with a neat line in international one night stands.Once Minis were groovy; now, even though a new kind of Rover Mini is going on sale at the end of the year, they are deemed insufficiently so by the Philistines who make Hollywood movies.What next? Will Delboy Trotter of Only Fools And Horses swop his Reliant for something four-wheeled? A Trabant, perhaps? Morse, not in a mark 2 Jaguar, but at the wheel of a Merc? British cars have become an international joke. Typical of this is a joke in Frasier, on Channel 4, about the inadequacy of British cars' electrical systems. I can't remember the joke, but it wasn't at all funny. Not at all.It's clear what we should do to restore the reputation of British motoring, the quirkiness of our design, the eccentricity of our off-road skills. We should put on one-piece jumpsuits and crash helmets, take up some baseball bats, drive up some outdoor staircases and really explain things to those Paramount guys when they start filming in Italy in the summer.We'll be leaving Longbridge in a convoy at about 3pm on July 4. There'll be sandwiches - but bring your own transport.
Everyone loves the Geneva Motor Show. Car manufacturers love it because the neutral Swiss ground allows them to launch a new car without fear of being upstaged by huge imposing stands; visitors love it because there are always lots of new products; and, finally, journalists love it because Volkswagen has a boat moored on Lake Geneva that's awash with free alcohol.Geneva residents like it, too, as the opening of the show is marked by the turning on of the Jet d'Eau in the centre of the lake after its winter hibernation - a giant geyser that fires water into the air at 132 gallons a second (about the same rate as the champagne is going down over on the VW boat).Sports cars were the name of the game this year, in perfect time for the petrol price-hiking Budget on the same day. Small ones, large ones, coupes, saloons, soft-tops and concepts, they were present in all shapes and sizes, from Ford to Ferrari.Aston Martin was one of the first on the launch itinerary with its new DB7 Vantage. It's the first Aston to be powered by a 12-cylinder engine, but that didn't seem to impress the audience - its unveiling was greeting by welcome colder than the snow-topped French Alps on the skyline.Things were different at the Bentley stand. Introduced with a drum roll and a rousing speech, Bentley's new concept car - the Hunaudieres - was met with huge applause despite the fact many journalists couldn't see the car because of its low setting. Bentley could have unveiled a Reliant Robin and most of the hacks present wouldn't have noticed until the crowd had cleared.The Hunaudieres was named after the famous straight at the Le Mans 24-hour race, although Bentley hasn't competed there for 70 years. Just as well the Crewe firm harks back to those glory days - as the car, with its W-format, 8.0-litre, 16-cylinder engine, is not unlike a concept car launched by Bentley's new owners, Volkswagen, a few years ago.Closer to production reality (and a real racing heritage) were the new Porsche 911 GT3, with a massive twin wing on its tail; and the new Ferrari 360 Modena. Apart from a video in the Ferrari press conference revealing that Michael Schumacher can drive very fast and that Eddie Irvine needs to work on his golf swing, there was little to be learned about the new car - especially as it ran out of translators by the time the UK press arrived. The Ferrari bigwig could have read out the menu from the local Italian restaurant and no one would have known.Sticking with sports cars, having blitzed the 1998 show with the unveiling of the Focus, things at Ford were somewhat more subdued this year. Sporty concepts of the Puma and Cougar were all the blue oval could muster, as well as a Mondeo that ran on unleaded and gas.At the Seat stand, the mid-engined Lotus Elise-like two-seater Formula sports car was all but ignored by journalists who were too busy fighting over all the freebies the Spanish firm was giving away. At least those pushed to the floor in the battle could console themselves by watching the giant underfloor Scalextric set.Plenty of other cars made their debuts at Geneva - from the Audi TT Roadster to Vauxhall's new small car and the Mercedes CL Coupe, to the new Bugatti EB218 saloon boasting a shape more slippery than a thoroughly sucked sherbet lemon.However, the undoubted star of the show was Citroen's C6 Lignage concept car which showed a return to form for the French firm's big saloons. With beautifully stylish lines and such Citroen-esque details as swivelling headlamps (like the old DS) and a chevroned slatted sunroof, it ditched the pomp and circumstance and let the car do all the talking.The C6 may not be a roadgoing car as yet and only a taster of what's to come from Citroen. But, like the Jet d'Eau in the centre of Lake Geneva, here at last was a car worth gushing about.
I sympathise with Fay Godwin (Feedback, February 25). I too turned down 
incredible offers on PCs in the press, and went for the iMac, partly thanks to the excellent publicity about how simple it all is. I had used a Mac for about five years, and wanted to carry on, but now I am not so sure.
I too have the problems she describes. The iMac freezes when I blink or scratch my head, the unbent paper clip has become my second most cherished possession, and I am on first name terms with Help Desk staff all over the world. Luckily I am blessed with masses of patience.They all blame each other, of course, over why it freezes twice a day, and why it only ever communicates at 33,600 kilobits/second rather than the advertised 56k. I have upgraded to MacOS 8.5 (and reinstalled it at least twice) and bought a Super Disk to save data on for the next time I need to rebuild. For the money I have spent I could have bought a massive PC with loads of freebies.Peter Jonespierrej18@hotmail.comMy father's experience of the iMac (with Epson 740 printer) almost exactly reflects the story from Fay Goodwin, including the crashes, paperclip restarts, multiple phone calls and, on one occasion, the requirement to reload all his software, including the 
operating system, from source.He is seriously upset about this - previously he used a Mac II for nearly two years 
without a glitch - and I'm not happy as I recommended it (he was brave to take it on at 84).
I don't know if this is common experience as I don't follow the Mac press. Any solutions you receive on her behalf would be welcome here! Personally, I'll stick to my Mac clone for now.John Roltjohn.h.rolt@uk.pwcglobal.comYes.Yes.Yes! You are not alone, Fay. New-ish  to 
computers, we bought our 
first - an iMac - just before Christmas. Promoted as being "user-friendly", after several hours and help over the 
telephone to Apple Support, we were up and running; that is until we tried to connect the Epson 740 printer and/or Umax 1220U scanner. We won't bore you with the details, but it took us many phone calls to Apple Support, Epson Support, Umax Support to bring everything together. Mostly, the blame was placed on the software - that is, the CD that came with the printer and the scanner, and the fact that they were using a "USB connection" (which is apparently so new that no one seems to know much about its shortcomings).Three months later, we have very limited use of the scanner (it crashes the computer most of the time) and we live in dread of the printer coming up with some excuse not to print. If we want to use the computer as we were led to believe would be within its capabilities (using Photo Deluxe and Presto Page Manager) we might as well forget it. Most attempts at trying to implement the 
software results in freezing, crashing or a little "bomb" sign appearing on the screen. This does little for the blood pressure!We have spent over £200 on lessons from a recognised local Mac expert. Before the iMac came into our lives, our telephone bills were so low that we were on an infrequent user tariff  Our first bill after iMac was £277.
We have decided that we will stick with Macintosh. The early 
problems are sure to be resolved and, after all, it's a hell of a pretty machine. As for connecting to the Internet, don't ask! We did it - in the end.George AllenandGillian WalkerGillian.T.Walker@btinternet.comFay Godwin's letter emphasises just how much damage can be done to a 
company's reputation by even one disgruntled customer. As Apple have added thousands of new customers with the iMac, they really need to get on the ball when responding to problems... Steve Jobs wants the iMac to be, basically, an 
Internet and e-mail appliance. In which case, it's too 
complicated. And technologies like USB are just not proven, not robust enough, and not nearly all they're cracked up to be.Robert McMinnRbtMcM@aol.comIf, as Fay Godwin asserts, her iMac could not be switched on using the power button, she (and anyone else in the same situation) should demand a replacement. Why she put up with the paperclip is beyond me. I intend to buy an iMac myself and shall keep her experience in mind.Damian Lairddamian.laird@strath.ac.ukFay Godwin's letter recalling her dealings with Apple is thick with echoes of my own 
experience. I bought a Power Mac 5500 from a local dealer whose sales pitch was that I would be better served by them than by a big dealership, which may have been cheaper but would send me a machine in a box and then ignore me. The local, friendly, personal shop would be so much better to deal with and never leave me to stew in my own juice. Sadly I did have problems, endless problems, and was left to do just that.David Pollarddpol@geraldson.u-net.comFay Godwin's experiences with her Apple iMac and Epson 740 printer sound 
particularly unfortunate. I've got the same system and have had no problems - at least not for a while.Oliver de Peyeroliver.de_peyer@virgin.netFay Godwin's iMac woes rang a loud bell with us. We bought the package: iMac, Epson 740 printer and Agfa scanner. The iMac screen froze from day 1, during the Nanosaurus game, pre-installed. It freezes constantly, in any application. I flinch when I hear the children swearing at their "cool" computer, and I know it's happened again. The straightened paperclip is 
permanently to hand; the iMac's side panel permanently open for restarting. A friend of my son's tells us we need more RAM. Is that all it is?The Epson 740 has also been temperamental until recently... The best bits of the scanner software and of the fax software have expired - very annoying. If this is the normal practice of suppliers, I find it an unbelievably bad piece of customer relations.
Otherwise, it is only fair to say, we are very pleased with our iMac.Robin Stottrstott@lineone.netApple's mediocre response to Fay Godwin reminds me of when I first got my PowerBook 140 in 1992... &#91;now&#93; when someone asks me about Apple computers I say: "Good computers, shame about the company." Her machine must be a duff one, and should have been exchanged at an early stage.Peter Lennardpeter@vokeraengineer.free-online.co.ukLike Fay Godwin, I recently bought an iMac with an Epson Stylus Color 740 and had quite a struggle to get it working. The problems were caused by the printer driver. Although the iMac has only a USB 
connection, the driver on the CD that came with the printer was for an old-style Macintosh serial port, so at first the printer would not work at all.
I downloaded a new driver from the Epson Web site and 
initially this did work. But later, after I installed Apple's iMac Update and iMac Firmware Update, the keyboard and mouse would seize up as soon as the system started. I had to reinstall the operating system. Finally a new driver appeared on the Epson Web site (at ftp://ftp. epson.com/drivers/ MUSC745B.SEA.hqx), and this has solved the problems (so far).
I was fortunate in having good Internet access.John LazenbattJohn.Lazenbatt@sas.ac.ukAs an independent Apple Macintosh trouble shooter and consultant specialising in the sort of clientele that Fay Godwin 
represents, I feel moved to express my view in support of her unacceptable and 
horrendous plight.
This sorry state of affairs is not simply an Apple problem but reflects a patronising  
arrogance and complacency within the computer industry in general. From the actual manufacture and sale of the machines to the development and sale of operating and application software, there is a callous disregard for the end user, the consumer.The level of quality assurance when compared to other expensive consumer items is in general of a particularly low standard. Were computers and the software to be judged by the same quality criteria applied to the motor industry, they would not be licensed to wreak havoc on an unsuspecting but unfortunately pliable public.
Updates, fixes, upgrades, clean installs and the endless reinstalls as a method for overcoming the errant behaviour of the computer are the sorry litany of pathetic excuses for the intrinsic shortcomings of an industry grown fat off the misery of unsuspecting 
punters like Fay Godwin.Russell Caplanmacaplan@globalnet.co.ukI think that the iMac is the nearest we are going to get this century to a Network Computer. Based on letters from Fay 
Godwin, John Stormes, my own brief play with an iMac, and what I have heard third-hand, they are obviously of 
little use to professional or intensive amateur users for anything but the Internet... I feel sorry for Fay, but if she wanted a computer to do real work, she ought to have bought a proper old-fashioned beige Mac!Tim Athertonatherton@dircon.co.uk
Geocitiesis rapidly becoming one of the biggest and most popular sites on the Internet's World Wide Web. The secret of its success is that it gives away free home pages and e-mail addresses, and anyone can sign up online. It's a good place to put baby pictures for friends and family, club newslettters, or to experiment with Web design ideas. But free pages also provide a great opportunity for individuals and less-commercial groups to make a wider impact. For example, WIN (Women's International Net), has put the first issue of its monthly e-zine atwww.geocities.com/Wellesley/3321and made it available by e-mail fromwinmagazine@geocities.comThe International Campaignto Ban Landmines, having won this year's Nobel Peace Prize, has opened a 
Web site atwww.landmine.orgto solicit donations. The Campaign was already on the Web on the VietnamVeterans of America siteat  The UN'sCyberSchoolBusis launching 
a landmine project and Web site on October 24.NASAis tracking the atCassini mission to SaturnPaper aeroplane fans can even download and build a scale model of the spacecraft (plutonium not included).If you haven'tdiscovered it yet, where have you been? You definitely need to know about Need To Know, the supremely well informed site atwww.ntk.netthat describes itself as the weekly high-tech sarcastic update for the UK. And it's fun.Scotgeisthas just been launched by the Glasgow Herald, and offers "a new platform for Scottish creativity" atwww.scotgeist.com. There's a link from that to the paper'snew siteon the second Scottish Enlightenment at 
BEDLAM (Bethlem Royal Hospital) 
is atwww.museum-london.org.ukin conjunction with the Museum of London's latest exhibition, Custody, Care &amp; Cure, 1247-1997.Title of the weekis Eff/in-fluence, 
a "Webwork" that Jenny Jones has produced for an exhibition by British artists being held at the Shoe String Gallery in New Jersey. Go towww.users.dircon.co.uk/~incubataThis is not Jenny Jones ("Your Body is Tight... But Your Clothes Just Ain't Right!") the American chat show hostess, who can be found online at 
www.jennyjones.comThinkquest, an annual contest 
for educational Web sites produced 
by school children, has been such a 
success that it's being extended to 
younger entrants withThinkQuest Jr. 
However, the first contest is for US schools only.GVU - Georgia Tech's Graphics, Visualisation &amp; Usability Centre - 
has started its eighth survey of Web 
users. You can fill in the forms atwww-survey.cc.gatech.eduuntil November 10.Official Web sitescontinue to spring up all over the Internet. 
Examples includeBarney the purple dinosaur.DVD Video,Hopalong Cassidy,MotownandTimberland.Unofficial Web sitesare getting more likely to be squeezed out. The admittedly useless Q-tips page at 
www.bway.net/~you/qtip.html 
is under legal attack from the trademark's owner, the Chesebrough- Ponds Company, for example.• You can contact Jack Schofield atjack@cix.compulink.co.uk
