Here’s one hard fact about Apple’s plans to relaunch its Beats Music streaming service later this year: there will be an endless stream of rumours about those plans until it happens.Why? Because if there’s one thing leakier than the hype cycle leading up to new Apple products, it’s the music industry when digital licences are being hammered out.With that in mind, here’s more than one rumour about Apple’s plans forBeats Music, according to theNew York Times and its music industry contacts.First, the former Beats Music chief creative officer (and Nine Inch Nails frontman) Trent Reznor is “playing a major role in redesigning the music app”, with the report describing him as a “point man” for the project.Second, the report claims that Apple has failed to persuade record labels to agree to a lower monthly subscription price than the $9.99charged by streaming music services such as Spotify.This fits into a timeline of previous leaks on Apple’s pricing plans: a desire to go as low as $5 a monthfloated through Recodein October 2014, then $7.99 a month asuncovered by 9 to 5 Macin February.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?Third, the relaunched music service probably won’t be called Beats Music. However, it will keep the curated playlists and “more vivid visual appeal” while “conforming to Apple’s sleek and minimal design aesthetic”, according to the NYT.Fourth, Apple’s plans do still include iTunes Radio, its free streaming music service thatlaunched in June 2013but has been relatively low-key ever since. The report suggests that former Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe – not a man usually described as “low-key” – will be playing a pivotal role in that relaunch.“Among the ideas that have been floated for iTunes Radio are a more geographically targeted approach that would bear some resemblance to a traditional radio station, with Mr Lowe as the voice,” claimed the New York Times.An overall picture is emerging – one backed up by the Guardian’s music industry sources – of the efforts going on behind the scenes at Apple to make sure that the next iteration of Beats Music will be a success.If undercutting Spotify’s price is not an option, Apple still has some big advantages: a pile of cash to secure exclusives from big artist - and the ability to preload its streaming service on every iOS device with a free trial.But label executives say that Apple’s plans are about more than financial and distribution muscle, and point to the people involved – Reznor, Lowe, Beats co-founder Jimmy Iovine, and Beats Music boss Ian Rogers – as pulling out all the stops to make sure the actual service is definably different, and a step on, from the existing crop of streaming services.The results are expected to be unveiled at Apple’s WWDC developer event in June, which leaves two more months of intense rumours and public negotiations shedding light on the company’s plans.
It’s fair to say that Periscope, Twitter’s live-streaming video app, is late to the game. Not just the three-weeks-and-counting between its launch and that of tech press darling Meerkat, but the two and a half years between it and YouNow, which has grown to 100m user sessions every month by offering performers a share of the revenue.So does Periscope have what it takes to seize the lead in an already crowded marketplace?When it comes to the app itself, it’s fair to say that Periscope makes Meerkat look like a tech demo. Even in the beta version I’ve been using for the past week, the app has a level of polish which speaks to its year-long development time, with every swipe and tap feeling like it’s been carefully thought out.That lead extends to the hard tech of the video streaming, as well. Using both Periscope and Meerkat side by side, it’s clear that the lag on the former is around a third that of the current leader. If you’re just passively watching a stream, that might not matter too much, but both apps trumpet the interactivity of live streams, with users ideally influencing the streamer themselves. If that’s the case, cutting a 30-second delay down to 10 seconds or less is the difference between being able to have a conversation and not.Not live streaming but ‘teleporting’Keyvon Beykpour, Periscope’s co-founder, tells a story of the moment the app clicked for him. “I think that the reason we care a lot about the lag is that we’ve realised, and I hope that our users have that aha moment, that the magic moment is when you say something that ends up affecting the experience.“Watching my buddy streaming from the Karaoke bar … I said I dare you to go onstage, and he did. I made that happen.”Beykpour doesn’t describe Periscope as a live streaming app. “We think we’re building a teleportation product,” he says.But not every comparison between Periscope and Meerkat is fair. In some places, the app has zigged where its competitor has zagged.That’s no clearer than when you finish a live session, and Periscope pops up a screen which says “preparing for replay”. There’s no ephemerality here (at least, not by default). When a stream is over, it can be rewatched by viewers who missed their chance first time around, and everything – the comments, hearts, and new-viewer notifications – plays out as-live.Replaying live streams“We didn’t want you to miss the experience, we thought it was special because it was live,” explains Beykpour. “I still believe that, but we want to balance that with practicality. The synchronicity problem” – ensuring that viewers are available at the same time the streamer is – “is hard. There just is a significant drop-off with that problem.“The true test for us has been does it decrease the percentage of people who watch live, and the answer I think is no. If you’re watching live, given how low latency the product is, you can change what’s happening.”But one reason why Meerkat has no replay function is to make sure that people who have never streamed themselves before feel comfortable giving it a go. “To do that we wanted to make sure that you feel like you control the content,” said Meerkat founder Ben Rubin at this year’s South by South West festival. “If we want you to go a little bit outside your comfort zone, we want to make sure that you control the content. We want to make sure that people feel comfortable to stream their grandson’s soccer game on a Sunday afternoon.”Private broadcastsPeriscope has its own answers to that problem. The app enables private broadcasts, which let anyone lock off a broadcast to just a selected few followers – perfect for the family game of football. And then, to entice more public streams, it adopts its own mechanic, letting users give each other “hearts” for good streams.It’s barely any different from a Facebook “like” or a Twitter “fav”, with the exception that you can give more than one for a single stream, but it’s still a nice motivator. Walking New York’s High Line park on a bitterly cold Sunday morning was rewarded with 25 hearts, a reminder that, even in beta, people were watching and appreciating.Periscope also takes a subtler approach to community-building. If you use Twitter, it’s been hard not to notice Meerkat, because of its strong hooks into the service. A new stream is automatically announced on Twitter; comments and replies are shared on Twitter as @-replies; and new users are made to automatically follow Meerkat’s own Twitter account, @appmeerkat.By contrast, Periscope is content to live as its own network. That’s partially because the app makes strong use of push notifications to encourage you to watch friend’s live broadcasts, although Beykpour says that “we want to be good push notification citizens”, and the app has a plethora of options for controlling that (including a first-of-its-kind ability to mute the app temporarily from within a notification, which the founder thinks is likely to set a trend).Periscope has the advantages of Twitter’s social graphUnlike Meerkat, Periscope still has access to Twitter’s social graph, which lets users easily find people they follow on the social network and refollow them on Periscope. After Meerkat was cut off from that information by Twitter, due to the company’s upcoming release of Periscope, it was paradoxically required to put more of its contentonthe network itself, in order to let users find each other.Ultimately, both apps still have to answer the largest question, which is whether and how video streaming will become an everyday occurrence. Periscope is betting on private broadcasts leading to a bustling community to draw people out of their shells, while Meerkat hopes that people will give it a go out of curiosity, and carry on from there. I’m not entirely convinced – but maybe I’m just shy?If you’re bitten by the bug, though, it’s clear that Periscope is the better app for the job. With more customisability, drastically lower lag-time and a sleek finish, it’s got everything to recommend it over the incumbent.
I can remember my first proper joystick. It was the mid-80s and my dad had brought us a Commodore 64, “to do homework on and stuff”. He wasn’t fooling anyone, least of all himself; this sexy chunk of brown plastic was for gaming and we all knew it. Soon though, we got fed up of playing Chuckie Egg with keyboard controls, so using my birthday money, I bought aQuickshot II– the 1980s computer peripheral equivalent of a Ford Escort GTI: slightly naff, but showy and desirable.The Quickshot II looked sort of like a real flight stick, with its gigantic red trigger buttons on the shaft, and its chunky base, complete with four sucker pads so you could stick it to the ugly MDF computer desk that you bought from Do It All. I spent countless hours playing Elite with that thing, pretending I was Han Solo, outsmarting pirate vessels throughout the galaxy. It was, to be honest, a crap joystick, really. It was brittle and insensitive, a bit like me at that age – and if you got carried away, it was easy to wrench the shaft off. And, anyway, real gamers preferred an arcade-style stick, like the Competition Pro, with its squat, sturdy build and micro-switches for precise control.I didn’t care. The Quickshot II looked like it belonged on the control desk of the Millennium Falcon or in Maverick’s F-14 Tomcat, and for most of the 80s, those were the places I wanted to be.Since then, I have always loved showy gaming controllers – especially the very specific ones designed to compliment simulation games. I love the plastic “dead man’s handle” contraption that comes with the Japanese train sim series Densha De Go (thespecial edition Shinkansen modeleven has its own screen). I love the PlayStation 2 RC Helicopter sim PetitCopter which comes with a joypad that looks like a remote control device. I love the 40-button control desk that accompanies the Xbox tank sim Steel Battalion.The 40-button control desk that accompanies the Xbox tank sim Steel BattalionAnd who can forget – or let’s face it, evenremember– the fishing rod that was more or less essential for Dreamcast angling classic Sega Bass Fishing? When I edited the Dreamcast magazine DC-UK, I would storm around the office shouting “where is the bass fishing controller? Who has got the bass fishing controller?”. That is until we received a copy of theserious Latin American percussion simulator, Samba De Amigo. Then it was all, “who has taken the maracas from the games room?!”. Happy days.Then, of course, you have the ludicrously serious driving wheels. Well, actually they’re not even just driving wheels; you can pretty much buy a car to play racing games on now. Control manufacturer Thrustmaster makes a perfect force feedbackreproduction of a Ferrari F1 wheel, complete with dozens of switches and buttons – you can also get realistic foot pedals and a gear stick. And it doesn’t have to end there. Specialist companies like GT Omega will build for youan entire cockpit, complete with a bucket seat and a metal frame in which to place your realistic driving peripherals. It would take up most of your living room floor space – but it would be amazing.For the last few years however, dedicated peripherals have fallen out of favour. The rise of the touchscreen smartphone has led to a new orthodoxy of accessibility. Everything has got to be intuitive and swipeable. The interface must become invisible, so as not to alienate people. Microsoft was so taken with this movement that it tried to convince the world that the motion controller Kinect was a really neat idea. The philosophy was clearly “hey, let’s liberate people from the need to touchanything”. But it turned out that people like to touch stuff – or at least be able to, you know, control what was happening on screen.But now big, dedicated controllers are on the way back. There are reportedly new Guitar Hero and Rock Band games on the way (the socially acceptable face of ridiculous oversized gaming devices), and the return of space combat simulators like Elite: Dangerous and Star Citizen has meant a renewal of interest in proper sticks. When I say “renewal of interest” I know, of course, that the PC flight sim market has existed for years, creating a small but enthusiastic market for aviation controllers. It’s just that now the joystick is set to rise proudly from that arcane sector.I have, for example, just borrowed aSaitek X52from manufacturer Mad Catz to play Elite: Dangerous with. It is an unfeasibly complex beast, complete, not only with a stick, but also with a throttle controller. The joystick has many, many buttons. In fact, it has two mini-joysticks – or hat switches – on top, so that you can seamlessly navigate menus while navigating space. Fans of Top Gun will be thrilled that there is even a fire button that has a little spring-loaded cover over it that you can flip up. This is for your best and most dangerous missiles. I like to flick it up and hover my thumb over it, before flipping it back again, creating a sense of destructive tension and power. This is why I should not be allowed near heavy machinery.The Saitek X52, complete with throttle controller and multi-directional joystickAccording to Mad Catz, there are over 280 configurable control options on the Saitek X52. I have no idea what most of them do, but it is a pretty exciting thing to look at and touch. The throttle even has its own LCD display. Mine shows the time, but it can be remodelled to indicate your various personalised set-ups. To be honest, I’ve just gone for the default controls that instantly configured when Elite: Dangerous sensed that I had a Saitek X52 attached. Now I can roll, pitch and yaw with ease, while flipping the rocker buttons to activate my defence systems, or lower the landing gear. It is thrilling for the same reason the Quickshot II was thrilling all those years ago: what specialist controllers do is expand the fantasy beyond the screen; they make the game environmental and immersive. They are a form of virtual reality.On the subject of VR, no one really knows how we’re going to move and interact in virtual worlds, so someone has to sort it out. See, for example,the Roto virtual reality chairwhich spins in relation to onscreen events, orCyberith multidirectional treadmill,which will let you run through a virtual world without tripping over the coffee table and falling through your patio doors. Then there’s the quite amazingUltraHaptics devicethat creates tactile controls through the use of ultrasound technology – you’re effectively manipulating sound waves to control the game. To someone who was once boundlessly excited by the idea of an “auto-fire” switch, this is a magical age.Today’s mainstream games industry is very concerned with seeming cool, attractive and accessible, so specialist controllers are something of an anachronism. Having a collection of these things is a bit like having a dressing-up box, and for a lot of adults that is kind of weird. But I’m glad joysticks are back and I will be sad to pack up the Saitek X52 and return it – although I have to because it is enormous and I can’t actually reach my keyboard anymore. When No Man’s Sky comes out, I’ll probably buy another one, and construct a little spaceship cockpit, and then hide in it. Specialist controllers add concrete, tactile reality to the fantasy of being somewhere else, somewhere extraordinary and thrilling. In 1980s Britain that was important to a boy like me. In 2015, that feeling hasn’t faded as much as it probably should have.
Twitter has launchedPeriscope, an app that broadcasts live video filmed by your smartphone to your followers on the social network.The free iPhone app was developed by a startup, also called Periscope, which was acquired by Twitter in January. Its app is a rival to Meerkat, which launched in February and generated interest at this year’s SXSW festival in March.Twitter’s pitch for its new app: “Periscope lets you broadcast live video to the world. Going live will instantly notify your followers who can join, comment and send you hearts in real time,” explains its App Store listing.When broadcasts finish they can be made available for replays for up to 24 hours, as well as being saved to the broadcaster’s camera roll. There is also an option to automatically tweet a link to the broadcast when it starts, with viewers able to watch on Twitter’s website or within the Periscope app.Periscope can also be used for private broadcasts. “If you want to broadcast to specific people, press the lock icon before going live and choose who you want to invite to your broadcast,” explains its App Store listing.Some people had early access to Periscope, including Silicon Valley investors, Twitter staff and a smattering of public figures. Astronaut Chris Hadfield, magician David Blaine, author Tim Ferriss and actress Felicia Day are among its “most loved” broadcasters at launch – a metric based on how many hearts they’ve received from viewers.Periscope’s launch comes shortly afterTwitter controversially blocked Meerkat from accessing its social graph– the means by which the app was helping people find others to watch based on who they were following on Twitter. Periscope, unsurprisingly, faces no such obstacle.Live video broadcasting apps aren’t a new phenomenon: Kyte and Qik were two early examples, while services like Ustream and Livestream have had smartphone apps for years too.The new wave of apps is capitalising on the fact that in 2015 there are many more smartphones in people’s hands; better 3G and 4G networks to deliver the video that these apps produce; and mobile data contracts that ensure it’s not ruinously expensive to broadcast and/or watch.Expect a lot of footage of pets, skylines and parties that aren’t interesting unless you’re there in the days and weeks ahead. More meaningful uses for Periscope, Meerkat and the inevitable flurry of rivals will emerge too, however.Celebrities will undoubtedly be one of those. Periscope seems tailor-made for the generation of online video stars that have emerged on YouTube, who’ll be able to use it for impromptu live broadcasts and Q&amp;As with fans, for example.News will be another: watch for a new wave of citizen-journalism thinkpieces the first time someone happens across a big, breaking news event with their smartphone and a live-streaming app.Twitter will undoubtedly be keen to highlight any Periscope equivalents of thefamously-tweeted photos of the Hudson River plane crashin 2009, whether the footage comes from professional journalists or not.There may be controversies in store too. Think about people Periscoping (yes, it will be a verb, just as “Meerkatting” is) Premier League football matches, or any other sporting encounter where there are lucrative television rights and fearsome lawyers to contend with.Or think about music: Periscoping a song or multiple songs from a gig would in theory be a “performance” for which royalties are due, although the questions of who’d be liable for them and whether any music rightsholders or collecting societies would be willing to pursue them remains to be settled.Finally: porn. Just as adult entertainers flocked to messaging app Snapchat in 2014 – especially once it launched its Snapcash peer-to-peer payments feature – so they’re likely to be exploring the potential of Meerkat and Periscope. The latter’s private broadcasting feature, in particular, may be of interest to this sector.
Jurors in the sex discrimination case that hasgripped Silicon Valleybegan their deliberation on Wednesday with lawyers for the alleged victim claiming she was “looking for something to change”.Ellen Pao, a former junior partner at Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers, one of the tech industry’s most powerful venture capital firms, is suing for $16m – claiming her career was derailed because of her gender. Pao’s lawyer, Alan Exelrod, has argued Kleiner is a “boys’ club” whose ingrained culture discriminated against a talented woman.Gender – and race – are increasingly controversial topics for a tech industry in which internal surveys from top companies including Apple, Facebook and Google have shown a lack ofdiversity among workforces.Related:Ellen Pao gender discrimination trial grips Silicon ValleyLocal and international news and technology websites have chronicled every detail of the case, the most high-profile of its kind ever to reach court. Kleiner has backed some of the biggest names in tech including Amazon and Google, while Pao has moved on to become interim chief executive of Reddit, the social news site.One of Pao’s lawyers told the jury her client had stood up to the firm and demanded change.“Just remember, you are the conscience of this community. And let Kleiner Perkins and the venture capital firms know that every employee who works hard deserves a fair and equitable workplace,” said the lawyer, Therese Lawless,according to the tech site Recode. “This type of behavior is no longer acceptable.”Lawless said Pao had decided on legal action because she was “looking for something to change”.But her former employers at Kleiner have strongly denied any sex bias. In an often fierce cross-examination, defence attorney Lynne Hermle cast Pao as a kind of office poison, a litigious schemer and a hypocrite who was passed over because she was a bad colleague – and one who personally failed to promote women in her own work.Male colleagues had thought she was “presumptuous” when she wanted a seat at the table, said Lawless. “But it was normal for her to do that. How do you think her male colleagues got on the many boards they sat on?”Pao has accused the firm of discriminating against women and then retaliating against her by failing to promote her after she complained. She was later fired.Another of her attorneys, Alan Exelrod, said in his closing argument on Tuesday that Pao was an accomplished junior partner who was passed over for a promotion because the firm judged men and women differently.Hermle on Tuesday challenged Pao’s claim that she sued to help women facing gender discrimination at the firm. “The complaints of Ellen Pao were made for only one purpose: a huge payout for team Ellen,” Hermle said.Kleiner Perkins has said Pao was a chronic complainer who twisted facts and circumstances in her lawsuit and had a history of conflicts with colleagues that contributed to the decision to let her go.Hermle showed jurors a slide with comments from Pao’s work reviews that called her “territorial” and “not a good team-mate”.A judge ruled over the weekend that Pao can seek punitive damages that could add millions of dollars to a possible verdict in her favor. She is seeking $16m in lost wages and bonuses.The case is expected to be decided in the coming week by the jury of six men and six women.
Fifa 15 publisher Electronic Arts has launched a stern defence of its decision to reconfigure the transfer market within the game’s popular Ultimate Team mode. Ina blog postseen by the Guardian before publication, the company insists that fans who have taken to social media and games forums to declare the game fundamentally broken are wide of the mark.Ultimate Team works like a trading card game, allowing players to purchase packs of digital player “cards” allowing them to build fantasy teams of well-known stars. Previously, FUT’s open-bid auction system allowed fans to sell high value players at vastly inflated prices. However, many Fifa purchasers quickly found that they could exploit the open auctions for considerable monetary gain. In early March, the system was restricted so that all cards on the market have to be priced within an EA-defined range, and include a Buy It Now option. Fans responded with near-universal criticism of the move, going so far as to coin the hashtag #RIPFUT on social media.In its extensive blog post and FAQ , EA confirms that the prime target of these changes were third parties manipulating the system for their own financial gain. “We want to keep the game fair and secure for everyone, and ensure a level playing field for all FUT fans,” says EA. “To accomplish this we have to root out the activities of coin farmers and cheaters who are harming your experience. These exploiters generate coins illegitimately through the use of bots and phishing scams, creating a flood of fraudulent in-game currency and driving up the cost of players on the transfer market.”While something needed to be done, many questioned EA’s need to apply a minimum price value to cards. Rather than level the playing field, in many cases it saw FUT players lumbered with unshiftable commodities. For instance, only last week the market was swamped with gold Daniel Sturridge cards, all unsold at their minimum value of 16,000 coins.Related:Has EA just broken Fifa Ultimate Team?EA says it is aware of this issue. It has alreadyrevised the price rangesof more than 650 individual cards (including Sturridge), and, in a previously unplanned move, introduced tiers specific to each platform. “These reflect the values and dynamics within those unique economies, and make transfers fairer and more enjoyable for all FUT players,” the post explains.The bottom line is that minimum pricing isn’t going to disappear, no matter how much fans complain. “[Removing it] would open price ranges up to the movement of fraudulent coin-selling transfers,” EA claims.“An example of the need for minimum price ranges would be ‘Man of the Match’ Coutinho,” explains a development team spokesperson when asked for further comment. “Upon release, his initial range was set at 200, 000 min and 400,000 max. All of his transfer market activity saw him selling at the exact minimum or maximum price range, and nothing in between. Essentially, coin sellers were using him to move 200,000 coins to coin buyers.“Without a minimum range, the margin could become bigger, and would also allow opportunities for coin sellers to corner certain players like MotM Coutinho.”On the back of this research, EA has adjusted the Liverpool midfielder’s price range to 150,000-230,000, and says his buying and selling activity now matches that of a “normal player’”.Longer term, Fifa forum regular Flamstead has offered what appears to be a workable solution to the issue of non-selling cards. “After trying to sell the player three times at the minimum rate, you should be able to discard him for the minimum price. Either that or have the option to immediately discard for half the minimum.”EA, however, insists this isn’t viable. “It was considered by the development team but could have potentially thrown off the balance of the game,” explains our source. “The risk being that if gamers ended up preferring to discard for the minimum price, they would opt out of placing them on the transfer market. This could lead to very few players left on the market.”Across the series’ official forums it’s clear that most devoted players remain critical of the change. Intriguingly, however, fans do offer some balanced, even positive, feedback via the message boards of individual clubs – suggesting that while these new arrangements don’t suit FUT die-hards, more casual players of the mode are benefitting.“It’s been better for me,” writes a Crystal Palace fan called Tomo. “As someone who hasn’t been inclined to spend real money, I’ve never really had more than 100K coins at one time, and am more likely to have 30-40K. It now feels like I’m on a more even playing field – that I can prosper with a bit of luck in my packs or by selling a player at the right time. Average players definitely do sell where they wouldn’t before.”Everton supporter Pablo P agrees. “I can see the benefit if it actually does stop coin sellers – the likelihood of that is slim to none, though,” he writes. “People will still buy coins as the prices [of top players] will still be in the millions.” He feels the company should be prioritising elsewhere anyway: “I’d much rather they invested as much time into their servers, and ensuring that the sweats were match-made against the sweats.” ‘Sweats’ is a term for Fifa fans who only play teams loaded with world class players, or resort to underhand tactics to win games, such as endlessly knocking the ball around their back four after establishing a lead.The loudest independent voices where Fifa is concerned, however, stem from Youtube, with some channels devoted to the game having a reach to rival EA itself. They remain largely dubious as to the company’s motivations, and cite numerous examples of ways in which they believe the mode to be broken beyond repair.“I’ve got a load of good players in my club, but I only have 4,000 coins,” explainsJMX25, a Youtuber with over 275,000 subscribers, in a video uploaded this week. “The problem is I can’t sell anyone, which means I can’t get any more money to buy other plays.”Another Youtuber,GCIIMessi, shares a similar tale regarding an inability to sell players: “I 100% understand why EA has implemented price caps, but I think they’ve done it the wrong way. I bought David Luiz a few days ago for 700,000; now I can’t shift him at 550,000, the lowest start price.” It should be noted, however, that both of these channels feature links to sites from which Fifa coins can be purchased – despite the recent changes.User comments in response to these claims add to the EA criticism, and accuse the US publisher of looking after only itself – which it again strongly refutes. “Price ranges were implemented to benefit the entire community,” it says. “EA has no plans to sell coins directly to players, and we believe the game benefits when the playing field is level for all and progress is achieved through playing matches, squad building, transfer market trading, and making decisions with pack items.”As a software distributor, EA is within its rights to prevent third parties from making significant, royalty-free earnings from its intellectual property. The challenge, now is to keep its multimillion-selling sports franchise equally appealing for casual and devoted fans alike. At present, the latter is clearly discontented. And turning that around has suddenly become the company’s biggest challenge between now and the arrival of the 2016 iteration later in the year.
Kickstarter is introducing a new feature to help its successful creators showcase what happens after they raise money on the crowdfunding website.Spotlight takes the form of a webpage for each successfully funded project, replacing the pitch page that until now has remained online permanently once a project’s campaign ends.Each Spotlight page will also include a timeline of the project’s history, which Kickstarter hopes will show the stories behind the crowdfunding campaigns, including how people got their products to market once the money was raised.More than 80,000 projects have been successfully funded on Kickstarter since its launch in 2008. Their creators will have full control of their Spotlight pages, which the company is describing as a “permanent showcase” of their work.“We know a creator’s Kickstarter page is often core to the identity of the project they brought to life from our platform,” a Kickstarter spokesperson said.“It’s often a top search result for artists and entrepreneurs, so it’s an important part of how their audience interacts with them and the story they share about themselves and their work after funding.”Related:Why brands like Pebble keep coming back to KickstarterCreators will also be able to direct visitors to their Spotlight page to external websites – for example, a link to buy a product that is now commercially available.Kickstarter has become an increasingly prominent service in the technology world, with some companies using it to turn their prototypes into commercial products, while others with a product ready for launch use it more for promotion and pre-orders.The technology category has generated some of the most-funded projects on Kickstarter in recent years, including theCoolest beer cooler(which raised $13.3m), thePebble smartwatch($10.3m), theOuya games console($8.6m) and musician Neil Young’sPono digital music player($6.2m).Pebble’s follow-up campaign for the Pebble Time smartwatch, which is still in progress, is set to pass $20m two and a half days before its funding deadline.
Minecraft will be given to secondary schools in Northern Ireland as part ofa projectorganised by the annual CultureTECH festival and funded by the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure.The hugely popular building-block game will be supplied to 200 schools and 30 libraries and community organisations, which will all receive download codes for MinecraftEdu, the educational version of the game.Launched in 2011 by Swedish studio Mojang, Minecraft has sold more than 60m copies on PCs, smartphones, tablets and consoles. It generates a vast blocky landscape, then allows players to freely explore, constructing buildings and mining for minerals that can be crafted into useful items.The game was quickly recognised for its educational potential, offering children a compelling way of learning about architecture, agriculture and renewable resources. Copies soon started to appear on classroom computers around the world.“The level of engagement is the first thing you notice ,” said Mark Nagurski, chief executive of CultureTECH. “This is work that the kids really want to do and if you’re able to harness that enthusiasm, energy and creativity you end up with a pretty significant learning opportunity.“The other exciting thing for us is the scalability and ‘sharability’ that Minecraft offers. If someone creates an engaging way of teaching, say, ancient history, using Minecraft, that can immediately be shared with all the other teachers using the game. You can already see that [happening] with things likeComputercraftand we hope this project will add significantly to that resource.”Soon after the release of Minecraft, educational game developers in the US and Finland formed a company named TeacherGaming to create a classroom edition, complete with teaching tools and hosting software to allow seamless connected play between pupils on different machines.TeacherGaming claims that MinecraftEdu is already used by more than 3,000 teachers in hundreds of schools around the world, in classes ranging from languages to the history of art.In 2013, one Swedish school made the game a compulsory part of its curriculum. Later the same year, Google partnered with quantum mechanic Spyridon Michalakis to create qCraft, a version of Minecraft designed toteach children about quantum mechanics.Related:Minecraft add-on LearnToMod aims to teach children coding skills“Last week we worked with Artichoke and The Space to recreate, in Minecraft, a version of Burning Man artist David Best’s ‘Temple’ in Minecraft,” said Nagurski.“The real world Temple was a 70ft structure in the city that was ceremonially burnt. When we took it into the schools we were able to give young people a chance to create their own versions of the Temple, working alongside the artist. We’ve seen Minecraft being used to teach everything from coding to physics but I think that there’s a real opportunity to develop more of these kind of creative projects too.”This is the first time, however, that Minecraft has been distributed across an entire region.CultureTECH has said that it will work with various education partners to provide training and support to teachers who want to use the programme.
Facebook opened up its Messenger app to developers on Wednesday, making way for new applications like video chat, gifs and audio services on its system.The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, announced plans to turn Facebook Messenger into a platform for apps created by other companies at the social network’s F8 conference on Wednesday. Zuckerberg called it an “exciting, big new area and opportunity for Facebook”.Messaging services including Snapchat and China’s WeChat have attracted millions of users. Facebook paid $19bn for WhatsApp last year, but its own service has lacked some of the options of its rivals.Forty new applications will initially be available on Messenger Platform including Zya Ditty, which will sing personal messages to friends to the tune of popular songs. Sia’s “Chandelier” OneRepublic’s “Counting Stars” and The Kingsmen’s “Louie Louie” are among the first tunes licensed to the service.Facebook is hardly new to the idea of making itself a platform for third-party developers: its website fuelled the first boom in social gaming when companies such as FarmVille creator Zynga were at their peak.Facebook also worked with a number of streaming music companies – Spotify most prominently – on features to help their users share details of their listening to Facebook. Those partnerships wereannounced at the F8 conference in 2011.Related:Facebook helps its users hop back in time with On This Day featureFour years on, and it is Messenger – which hasmore than 500 million monthly active users– that could fuel a new raft of partnerships for Facebook, which has clearly been watching developments around messaging apps like WeChat, Line and KakaoTalk in Asia closely.Those companies, which also have hundreds of millions of users, have built bustling communities of developers around their messaging apps. In the west, messaging apps such as Tango have also become a platform for social gaming, with that company also working with Spotify.Media companies may also be potential partners for the new Facebook Messenger platform. BuzzFeed, for example, is working with messaging apps including Snapchat, WeChat, Tango and Viber, albeit more around running an official profile that links to its news rather than building apps for them.Facebook is rumoured to bein talks with a number of media organisations about hosting their contentrather than simply linking to it. Any such deals are more likely to be based around its main news feed rather than the Messenger app, although it is possible they could also be announced at F8.
YouTube is preparing to take on gaming broadcaster Twitch TV with its own live game streaming service, according to reports.Tech site Daily Dotsays sources claimthat YouTube has been interested in live game streaming since its owner, Google, allegedly bid for Twitch last May.In the end, Twitch accepted a $970m offer from Amazon. Speaking at the Guardian’s Changing Media conference in March, Twitch chief executive Emmett Shear suggested that he favoured Amazon as it promised the site creative freedom.Related:Twitch boss calls the end of games consolesAlthough dominant in recorded video sharing, YouTube has so far failed to translate its success to live video streaming. The site begantesting a live video servicein 2010, showing a U2 concert and Indian Premier League cricket. However, the platform failed to take off and has been sidelined by the site.In contrast, Twitch TV has built a vast audience by concentrating on gaming since its 2011 launch. Its platform shows big eSports events, such as the League of Legends world championships, but also allows any gamers to broadcast their own footage. The site now has 100m monthly users.It is thought that gaming – and especially eSports – will now provide the focus of a “YouTube Live” offering, putting the service in direct competition with Twitch.A source told Daily Dot: “Gaming and eSports in particular are going to be a big driving force for the new-look YouTube Live. There’ll be huge opportunities for established streamers and organisations soon.”While Twitch has a considerable head start, YouTube has the resources to compete. According to reports, the Google-owned site has begun recruiting a “formidable team” of experienced streaming engineers. It also has vast reach, with more than 1bn users watching hundreds of millions of hours of content every day.Furthermore, YouTube already has a vast talent base of gaming superstars. The site’s top ten gaming channels, including the likes of PewDiePie and StampyCat, werewatched 2.2bn times in January. If YouTube could persuade those gaming channels to endorse and operate on the new platform, it would have a formidable offering.However, there are major differences between live streaming and recorded video in terms of culture and content. Twitch concentrates on eSports events, speed run attempts and players tutoring others on new games. The big YouTube stars tend to produce meticulously edited content, more based on personality and humour, than timeliness.According to Daily Dot, YouTube is set to make an announcement about its live streaming plans at the E3 gaming conference in Los Angeles in June.
Online video startup Vessel has opened up for all, following itslaunch as an invite-only app in January. Although not a direct rival to YouTube, it’s one of the most credible challengers yet to that service’s monopoly on shortform video creators.Currently available as a website or iOS app, Vessel serves up videos from a growing roster of YouTubers, TV firms and music labels, with at least 72 hours exclusivity on each video before it appears on other services.Related:Hands on with Vessel, the app providing a 'first window' for YouTubersVessel’s plan is to charge a monthly subscription of $2.99 to watch videos during their exclusive period, although there will also be a free tier offering videos that are past that period, or weren’t exclusive to Vessel in the first place.The 72-hour aspect is part of the startup’s brand, to the extent that anyone registering for Vessel during the first 72 hours after its full launch on 24 March gets a year’s free access to its premium tier.“We have been working hard to welcome more creators to Vessel and to refine the service, adding new features and performance enhancements that make the experience of watching videos through the platform even better,” wrote founders Jason Kilar and Richard Tom in a blog post.“Most importantly, we have been listening carefully to feedback from consumers, creators and our advertisers about how we could improve the service.”Vessel’s pitch to creators is that they’ll make more money from having their new videos exclusively on its service for at least three days than they would on YouTube.“If you are a creator on the free web, the cheque that comes out to you after the distributor takes their cut is about $2.20 per thousand views, or maybe $3. We’re projecting that creators will make over $50 per thousand views for the period of time they’re making their video available on Vessel for early access,”Kilar told the Guardian in January.Related:Vessel founder: ‘Companies realise it’s a chance to redefine the next generation of TV’The headline was carefully chosen. Vessel isn’t trying to sink YouTube’s boat: in fact, it’s encouraging its creators to continue building their fanbase on Google’s site, not least because that means more people who might be led to Vessel – creators get a referral fee every time one of their fans signs up for a subscription.Even so, Vessel is a challenge to YouTube’s authority – one that YouTube is meeting bylaunching a new initiative to fund content by its biggest stars– the number of prominent YouTubers in talks with YouTube to launch second channels is no coincidence – as well as upping its efforts to court brands and thus increase creators’ advertising income.Vessel’s launch is just one of the ripples in an online video pond that until now has been dominated by YouTube. Others include Facebook – currentlyaveraging 3bn video views a dayon its service – andSnapchat with its recently-launched Discover featurefor shortform video.
Meet the age of digital navel-gazing, when it’s not enough just to Instagram the sandwich we ate for lunch – we want to be prompted to look back at the sandwich a year later, and share it with our friends all over again. Well, some of us do. Possibly.This, at least, will be one response to the launch of a new feature on Facebook called On This Day: the latest example of digitally-curated nostalgia in the social networking world.The feature provides a way to “look back at things you have shared and posts you’ve been tagged in on Facebook” according to product manager Jonathan Gheller, in ablog post announcing its launch.“On This Day shows content from this date in the past. For example, you might see past status updates, photos, posts from friends and other things you’ve shared or been tagged in – from one year ago, two years ago, and so on. Only you will see this content unless you decide to share it with your friends.”The new feature is rolling out on Facebook’s website and mobile apps, so although some people canaccess it via this link, others will have to wait until it’s enabled for their accounts.Once it’s turned on, they’ll be able to subscribe to notifications when there’s a new memory to look at, with features to edit and delete the posts if those memories aren’t as joyful as Facebook is hoping.Some people will love this feature, for sure. In fact digital nostalgia services, such asTimehop,have already proven popular with a certain segment of social networking users. That particular app, which resurfaces your Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, Instagram and Flickr posts,ended 2014 with 12 million users.Related:Mark Zuckerberg says he believes in freedom of speech. Does Facebook?Let’s hope Facebook has been thinking hard about all the ways it could go wrong. Memories of your abusive former spouse, or your dead sibling, or that post where you were in a hurtful argument, or ... Well, you get the picture. Not all memories are welcome ones.Algorithms aren’t always fully attuned to human sensitivities, as seen whenFacebook apologised in December 2014for its Year In Review videos, which confronted a number of users with recently-deceased family members or friends.Hopefully the lessons learned from that experience will be brought to bear on On This Day – the fact that people have to visit the specific page and turn notifications on before seeing its memories in their feed is one improvement.
It’s Wednesday – is it sunny where you are?
The US economy could lose out on hundreds of millions of dollars of investment if federal regulators continue to stymie plans for delivery drones, Amazon has warned lawmakers.Related:Amazon to begin testing same-day delivery drones in CambridgeThe already fierce debate over delivery drones heated up on Tuesday when Amazon – which hasthreatened to withdraw drone development from the US because of strict regulations– attacked the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) for putting America’s role at the heart of the state of the art technology at risk by delaying the approval of testing licences.Paul Misener, Amazon’s vice-president for global public policy, told a Senate committee on Tuesday that the FAA took more than six months to respond to its request to test-fly its drones – so long that by the time the licence was granted the drone was already obsolete.“We don’t test it any more. We’ve moved on to more advanced designs that we already are testing abroad,” Misener said. “Nowhere outside of the United States have we been required to wait more than one or two months to begin testing.”He said the company had had to wait more than six months for FAA approval for outdoor testing. “This low level of government attention and slow pace are inadequate, especially compared to the regulatory efforts in other countries,” he said. “The FAA already has adequate statutory authority. What the FAA needs is impetus.”Misener said that the US will continue to fall further behind other countries in the new and potentially lucrative industry unless the FAA picks up the pace of granting regulatory approval. He said other countries had taken much more “reasonable” approaches and recognised the potential economic benefits of commercial drone operations.Amazon began testing its drones, for a potential delivery service called Prime Air, in Cambridge, UK, last November.Industry experts have said drones could generate nearly $14bn of economic activity in the US in the first three years of integration and $82bn over a decade.The FAA said safety was its primary concern. Margaret Gilligan, the FAA’s associate administrator for aviation safety, said an advisory panel is developing standards for detect-and-avoid technology and radio controls, which are expected in 2016. “As proposed, the United States would have one of the most flexible [drone] regulatory frameworks in the world,” she said.The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents 50,000 commercial pilots, said: “It is vitally important that the pressure to capitalise on the technology [does] not lead to an incomplete safety analysis of the aircraft and operations.” It said drones must be proved to identify and manoeuvre to avoid other aircraft.In draft rules released in February the FAA said pilots must remain within sight of drones. Amazon has complained that being forced to keep pilots so close to drones would prevent it from operating its planned droned delivery service in the US and could force it to develop the technology overseas instead.Misener said Amazon’s Prime Air service aims to deliver packages within 30 minutes by flying drones below 500ft. He said the use of drones would increase overall safety as it would mean fewer consumers driving to the shops and a reduction in delivery trucks on the road.Amazon submitted a request to the FAA to test a new model drone on Friday.
When the Pebble smartwatch returned to Kickstarter to raise funds for a third iteration, the Pebble Time, it rapidly broke every record the crowdfunding site had going,hitting its funding goal 17 minutes after launch.The fundraising period isn’t even over for the watch, and yet it’s already the highest-funded project on the site, by a comfortable margin. As I write this, it’s raised $19m; by the time you read it, it will be more again. And with every one of those dollars, Pebble is demonstrating why creators come back to Kickstarter again and again, long after they’ve already been kickstarted.Pebble’s record-breaking funding is not surprising. The original Pebble watch spent more than two years as the most-funded Kickstarter campaign ever, and was only eventually overtaken by theCoolest cooler, a combination blender, beer cooler and bluetooth speakerwhich seemed a shoe-in for crowdfunding success from the moment that description was put to paper.But what was surprising was that Pebble felt the need to return to the site at all. The $10m it raised in 2012 had been sufficient to bootstrap a successful company, and the second edition of the watch, the Pebble Steel, had been released in a more conventional manner, hitting the company’s website for $200 to buy straight away.And it’s not like Pebble needs the cash injection to get the watches made: they’re already manufactured, allowing it to promise backers that they’ll receive their watch by May 2015. In Kickstarter terms, that’s practically overnight shipping.So what enticed the company back? “It just made a hell of a lot of sense,” says Pebble’s Eric Migicovsky. We meet at the pre-launch event for the Time in Austin, Texas, at the height of tech conference SXSW Interactive.Anyone who backed the Pebble Time on Kickstarter is invited, as is anyone who backed the original Pebble. There are free tacos, and a cocktail list named the SDK – or Signature Drink Kit (a pun on Software Development Kit, the tools platform owners release to developers). Migicovsky is in his element.“We have a new product that we’re launching. We’ve worked on it for over a year, we already have a million people who’ve bought Pebble in the last two years. And what are the ways you can launch a product? You can go to Best Buy, and have people line up; you could sell it on your website. But we knew that we’re going up against a gigantic competitor, Apple.“How do small companies compete? They go to the people that love them the most. And in our case, that’s Kickstarter.”Related:Kickstarter crowdfunding in 2014: $529m of pledges from 3.3m backersKickstarter offers a direct line to Pebble’s most engaged customers, but also a ready-made platform for seeking out new ones.The publicity garnered by rocketing to the top of the most-funded list didn’t hurt, and nor did launching the campaign over a month before the Apple Watch goes on sale for a product not due to arrive until a month after.Altogether, it seems to have worked. “Fifty per cent of the people that backed us on Kickstarter had already got a Pebble,” says Migicovsky. “Fifty per cent don’t, they’re new to Pebble.”Practice makes perfectIn coming back to Kickstarter for a second go, Pebble is not alone. The site is increasingly a home for repeat creators, who return to launch new projects a second, third or fourth time.They are enticed back by the community that builds up around successful projects; by the ability to workshop new ideas in the same way as that first attempt; and, yes by the money, and particularly the ability to get that money up-front (although in pure cash terms, taking a project to Kickstarter costs more: the company charges 5% as its own fee, and between 3 and 5% for payment processing).According tothe Kickstarter website, 12% of all creators – 21,000 of them – have launched more than one project, and taken in 21% of all the cash, a total of $280m. And practice makes perfect: creators who launch a second project after succeeding the first time have a success rate of 73%, compared with the overall success rate of 39%.The idea of coming back for a second bite of the apple might be an obvious thing to creators, but from the outside it seems to go against Kickstarter’s mission. Even the company’s name speaks to the importance of that first major push – literally “kickstarting” a project. Once someone’s already successful, why not just do things the old-fashioned way?John Dimatos, Kickstarter’s lead for tech and design projects, says that its just too natural not to. “The second somebody creates a project, completes it, and they’re looking for their next thing to do, it seems like such a natural fit, to want and desire to come back to the experience they had the first time.”Quotingthe title of a book by veteran Kickstarter creators Studio Neat, he describes that experience as “exhilarating”: “So a lot of it is just that, like, it will be fun. You’re creating a mini party around the creative endeavour that you have. And so let’s do it again.”Pebble isn’t the archetype of these repeat creators. Although they’re more successful than the average, the majority of repeat creators are more like Studio Neat, a two-person design firm led by Dan Provost &amp; Tom Gerhardt. Its first project, the Glif iPhone camera stand, was a major success back in 2010, and one of Kickstater’s first big hardware products.Since then, they’ve been back around once a year with a new idea. There’s not really any common thread between the projects, beyond a keen sense of design and a knack for identifying what’s on the cusp of trendiness: past successes include akit for making simple syrup- a key ingredient in many cocktails - and one for ice (pictured);a stylus for touchscreens, andan app for filling in college basketball tournament brackets.The Neat Ice Kit by Studio Neat - funded by Kickstarter.Photograph: Studio Neat“Though it may sound surprising, our story is becoming less and less unique as more designers are finding creative ways to bring their ideas to life,”they write in It Will Be Exhilarating. “And experience is not required. Before the Glif, we had no industrial design, manufacturing, or retail experience; yet in the past two years we have released three hardware products (the Glif, Glif+ and the Cosmonaut), one piece of software (Frameographer), and one book (you’re holding it).”But even if they aren’t all Pebble, there’s still a risk that repeat creators could change the tenor of the site. It wouldn’t be the first time a platform had become dominated by a group of insiders who know how to work the system.But Dimatos says there’s no sign of that; and more than that, repeat creators help expand the ecosystem. “So here’s an interesting distinction, right: there’s the new creator that is Tim Schafer,” the veteran video game designer whose Double Fine Adventure raised $3.3m in March 2012.“But Tim Schafer, he has spent decades building up a reputation. He’s able to look at Kickstarter and say: ‘This is a platform that suits my independence.’ He brings in his reputation and his work, and we welcome that. We welcome that this is a place where someone can come in and dictate a project and a game on exactly his terms, for his fans.“On the other hand, you have someone like [Studio Neat’s] Tom and Dan, who ... before they came to Kickstarter, nobody knew who they were. They weren’t famous or visible in any way. So they launch Glif, and just by the power of their design, and the visibility of our platform, [it] allowed them to create a name for themselves, and they’re able to build on that with repeat projects.”Smart strapsAt the ultimate end of that spectrum, where a repeat creator can build their own community that ends up feeding back to the site at large, lies Pebble.The Pebble Time includes a serial port on the back of the watch, which does nothing – at first. But for those who so desire, it provides near-total access to the device’s hardware and software, lending it a huge amount of adaptability. Migicovsky hopes that budding hardware hackers will use the port to make “smart straps”, which he envisages as anything from an expandable battery wrapped around your wrist, to a GPS sensor and heart monitor, or even a geiger counter.Related:Pebble Time: smartwatch maker returns to Kickstarter with colour-screen modelBut rather than sit back and wait for that to happen, Pebble’s goosing the system. The company has pledged $1m to support the development of smart straps – and is using Kickstarter as a vehicle to do so. “If you have an idea and want to be part of the smart strap revolution, this is your chance! Get a team together, build a prototype and put your project up on a crowdfunding platform. Our team will work to help bring your idea to life.”In feeding back to the community, Pebble is doing exactly what Kickstarter hoped. The company has always viewed itself as a toolkit for all creativity. It does its bit to help out, being far more hands on than most ecommerce platforms are (Dimatos’s role as tech lead involves identifying promising projects and giving them a helping hand from an early stage), but ultimately it needs success stories like Pebble to come back to where they began.And Kickstarter needs all the success it can get to become the new sort of commerce it’s always viewed itself as. Dimatos looked back on his days at New York University’s interactive telecommunications programme, which he described as having “a very natural affinity to Kickstarter”.“You graduate from a place like ITP and look at the professional world, and sometimes you don’t always see a great fit.“Kickstarter is always going to be a fit. Because you can literally just do the thing that you want, and if you find, like, 100, or 200, or 500, or 1000 people that care about it, you’re set. You can keep moving with it.“So I think a lot about students. One of my goals is to say in 20 to 30 years, people will be graduating from college and saying: ‘Well, I could get a job, I guess. But really, shouldn’t I just do a Kickstarter campaign?’”
Andreessen Horowitz, the US venture capital firm that backed Facebook and Twitter, has invested $20m (£13m) in a startup creating virtual reality from London’s “silicon roundabout” area.Improbable was founded three years ago by a group of computer science graduates from Cambridge, led by Herman Narula.It aims to use the computing power of multiple servers to create worlds where every player can leave a permanent mark on the environment,in a way that can be seen immediately by other players.Chris Dixon, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, will join Improbable’s board as a director. Dixon led his firm’s investment in a $75m funding round for Oculus Rift, a maker of virtual reality headsets, which three months later was sold to Facebook for $2bn.The Improbable team, based in the Tech City area in Shoreditch, east London, describes its software as a “spatial operating system” for simulated reality which games designers can use to develop their own worlds. The technology may also have commercial applications in fields requiring complex models, such as biology, economics, finance, town planning, transport and military training.The worlds created will be able to manage multiple layers of cause and effect – an explosion in one player’s game could cause a shipping container to fall out of the sky into another player’s landscape.Announcing the investment,Improbable’s blogsaid its mission was to help games developers by “making it financially viable and easy to build simulated worlds”. “This is significant because the worlds we want to see people build and explore won’t be possible if creating them takes decades or enormous sums of money.”In apost published on Tuesday, Dixon explained how Improbable’s technology works: “Developers who use Improbable can write code as if it will run on only one machine ... Improbable automatically distributes their code across hundreds or even thousands of machines, which then work together to create a seamlessly integrated, simulated world.”Improbable’s funding so far has come from its founder’s family. Narula is the son of billionaire Indian construction magnate Harpinder Singh Narula, and his startup employs 50 people recruited from Google, Facebook, Goldman Sachs and games studios Lionhead and Ubisoft. The new funding is reported to value Improbable at about $100m.
Clash of Clans maker Supercell has posted annual revenues of €1.55bn (£1.13bn) from its three titles.The mobile games maker reported earnings (profits) before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) for 2014 of €515m, fuelled by in-app purchases and advertising in its Clash of Clans, Hay Day and Boom Beach games for iOS and Android.That compares withrevenues of €519m and profits of €242.2mthat Supercell reported in 2013.Yet unlike some of its peers, the company’s headcount has not swelled accordingly. It ended 2013 with 138 employees, but only added a dozen more last year.Chief executive Ilkka Paananen said: “We take great pride in Finland’s growing strength as one of the global leaders in mobile gaming. We’re very thankful to the millions of players around the world who play our games.”Supercell has deliberately kept its games catalogue small - famously celebrating with champagne when a game in development is cancelled because it believes the lessons learned are valuable .Most recently it axed match-three puzzler Spooky Pop, which had been soft-launched in some countries.Related:Clash of Clans maker Supercell: 'You can't design fun on a spreadsheet'The company’s closest rival is King, the maker of Candy Crush Saga and other Saga mobile games.King, which listed in New York last year,reported $2.26bn of revenues and adjusted ebitda of $950.2mfor 2014. Convert those figures to euros to compare with Supercell, and you get revenues of €2.07bn and ebitda of €870.4m.However, King ended the year with about 1,200 staff compared to Supercell’s 150.The only other similar mobile gaming company is Japan’s GungHo Online Entertainment. The bulk of its 2014 revenues of ¥173bn (€1.33bn) – came from its Puzzle &amp; Dragons mobile game.That means the world’s three largest mobile games companies alone raked in revenues of just under €5bn in 2014.
Bloodborne’s horror, at a glance, approaches cliché. Yharnam, the city in which Hidetaka Miyazaki’s latest game is centered, is beleaguered with plague, its streets all grime and squalor. Bodies pile in sodden sacks, flies buzz around horse carcasses, while a pram, that beloved prop of the Hollywood set designer, lays on its side at the doors to a forsaken church. There are few places of sanctuary any more for the remaining healthy locals, who tremble and pace inside their homes, under an everlasting curfew, away from the terrors that roam outside their doors.We’ve seen many of those freaks and mutants before too. There are the rabid Doberman and hoe-wielding peasants of Resident Evil. There are the fat crows of Hitchcock’s The Birds. Even the soul-sucking Death Eaters of Harry Potter are hinted at. Jack the Ripper would certainly be at home here in the nooks and crannies of Yharnam’s Gothic sprawl; its cobblestones are ever slicked with Saw-like gushes of blood.But step inside Bloodborne and the ambiance is entirely unfamiliar. The texture and arrangement of the horror is unique. For one, there’s a melancholy to these streets and the monsters that stalk them. At first, this sadness (compounded by a wistful violin score) appears to undermine the fear, but sit with it for a while, and the atmosphere only becomes thicker and more complicated. Veterans of Miyazaki’s previous two similarly singular games, Demon’s Souls and Dark Souls, may be expecting an easy ride. But again, while Bloodborne borrows ideas from its forebears, their texture and arrangement is new.This reordering begins with the rhythms of combat. No more cowering behind a shield, waiting for an opening through which to stick a pike or rapier. Your rangy character’s defence is tied to their speed: evasive rolls and quickstep retreats provide a buffer to the enemy’s onslaught (and make no mistake: these monsters are nothing if not single-minded; they chase you down with inexorable hostility). A skilled player will be able to weave between the legs of Bloodborne’s great padding boss characters, hacking at ankles. A newcomer will simply be able to outrun their pursuer – for a few seconds respite, if nothing else.Bloodborne.Photograph: SonyYour primary weapon can extend and retract like a switchblade. In its shorter form, it releases a flurry of strikes at close distance. When extended, it’s slower but with far greater reach. Combos can involve switching between these two states, to showboating effect. Later in the game, you are able to equip gems into the weapon to strengthen it, or add elemental effects that, for example, set your enemy aflame. In your other hand, you carry either a burning torch, to light up the murk, or a ranged weapon (initially a pistol or shotgun – but soon enough you gain access to a range of other vintage firearms, each of which maintains a dilapidated steam-punk feel). It’s not all high tech: when faced with a huddle of enemies, you can hurl stones to lure individuals away, thinning their numbers into more manageable encounters.Combat has changed in other crucial ways. Gone is the flask of life-giving drink quaffed in Miyazaki’s previous games; instead foes liberally drop health-restoring items, which can be guzzled momentarily during a fight. More interesting still: when struck by an enemy, a section of your health bar turns from red to orange. Now you have a few seconds in which to land your own attack. Manage a strike, and the blood you harvest will refill your health bar. It’s a simple change with fundamental repercussions: attack is now the best form of defence, and even when you’re close to death, you can pull yourself back from the brink with a few well-aimed hits. Much later you may equip runes to your character, which work rather like Dark Souls’ rings, infusing your character with specific advantages to further tip the odds in your favour.Bloodborne’s currency is Blood Echoes, an item harvested from foes that can be spent on increasing your character’s abilities or purchasing clothing, weapons or items from a gaggle of ghostly imps that live in a cauldron in Bloodborne’s overgrown copse of a hub area, known as Hunter’s Dream. Die and your current stash of Blood Echoes are dropped at the point of your defeat (or, now, gobbled up by the foe that bested you). You can reclaim them by making your way back to the location (or defeating the victorious enemy), but die en route and they’re gone for good.As such, the greater the number of Blood Echoes in your possession, the more anxious you become as the greater the potential loss that’s attached to defeat. But also, the greater the number of Blood Echoes in your possession, the higher the chance that you’re approaching a new lamp, one of the game’s rare points of safety which, when lit, will offer you a new point of entry into Yarnham. Should you turn back to bank your winnings at the hub world, or press on to the next portal, wherever it may be? It’s an ongoing question.Yes, there will be blood.Photograph: SonyMiyazaki is, perhaps, the medium’s greatest world-builder. His storytelling is always fragmented (the game is so relentlessly hostile that, when you happen upon a friendly character, who offers you encouragement, information or some kind of useful item, the sense of relief may bring you close to tears), but there’s a sense that the iceberg of the fiction sits deep and heavy. This is evidenced in the way in which the world pieces together like a grand and elegant contraption. You will spend an hour questing through some knotted area of Yharnam, praying for a lamp to light, only to find a set of gates that, when heaved open, will create a passageway that brings you back to a previous safe point. While different sections of Yharnam’s surrounding area are accessed via different portals in the hub world, most of these areas can be trekked between on foot. The world is vast but, more wonderfully still, it’s clockwork.There are, however, places in Bloodborne that are less precise in their layout. Aside from the main quest, it’s possible to create randomly generated dungeons using a concoction of items swirled together in a chalice. These multi-tiered dungeons generate “glyphs”, numerical keys that can be shared with friends, allowing them to download its layout to their game and share in your pain and frustration.Related:Bloodborne review round-up – bringing mystery backBloodborne continues the Souls series’ somewhat remote form of co-operative and competitive play elsewhere too. Ring a bell and it’s possible to call for another player (they will be teleported into your game to offer assistance). Later, you can also invade other players’ games, to hinder rather than help. The community of players can share messages of support by placing notes on the ground. These warn of traps or ambushes, or simply share a moment of encouragement or relief. “Beware of hound,” reads one; “You’ve come to the right place,” reads another.Bloodborne like its predecessors, will spill its secrets slowly, over months rather than days. Part of the appeal of Miyazaki’s games is this slow-release effect, whereby riddles are unpicked and shared by the community, rather than plainly laid out on the first day of release. It brings players together, where the fiction itself keeps them somewhat apart. Bloodborne is, by any measure, an extraordinary game, one that runs forcefully against the commercial tide, subverting perceived wisdom that contemporary games have to hold their players’ hands, or make their shape and rules explicit from the get-go.Some joy is found in this mystery then. But, elsewhere, the game’s appeal is more plainspoken. Its elegance, precision, humour, and challenge make Bloodborne irresistible. Ultimately, the horror is secondary; wonder is the true transfusion on offer here.
Twitch earned its name – and its$970m Amazon acquisition– through streaming live video footage of people playing games, from League of Legends to FIFA. But the company has ambitions to diversify, starting with music.The latest evidence isa partnership with dance music event, the Ultra Music Festival, which takes place in Miami in late March. Twitch will be live-streaming video of sets from artists including Skrillex, Avicii and Steve Aoki.Related:Twitch hack: Amazon gaming site says user details may have been stolenTwitch has also signed a sponsor for the streams: 7up. “Our community has illustrated a strong affinity for live music, making Twitch a compelling new way for artists to connect with their fans,” said chief strategy officer and head of music Colin Carrier, in a statement.This is just the latest move by Twitch to get more involved in music, though, as it targets a crossover in audience between gaming and electronic music in particular – a trend that’s been explored since the days of PlayStation title Wipeout.In July 2014,Twitch signalled its intentionsby streaming a Steve Aoki DJ set from Ibiza, after surveying users on whether they wanted to watch live concerts on the service and having 80% of respondents say yes.The following month, Twitch startedfiltering out unlicensed background musicfrom videos uploaded to its service, provoking complaints from users, andan apology from chief executive Emmett Shearabout a “lack of communication” before the changes were introduced.In January 2015, Twitch launched alicensed “music library”for its creators to use as an alternative, with an emphasis on independent dance labels like Spinnin’ Records, Mad Decent and OWSLA.The Prodigy have alsojust added one of their new tracks to the library, as part of a promotional campaign for their new album that included livestreaming an interview on Twitch.Music as a first expansion category for Twitch makes sense: just look at YouTube, where music and games are the two most popular categories of video.YouTube has worked with several music festivals on live streams, including Coachella and Bonnaroo in the US. There are also a number of sites focusing on streaming live DJ sets, includingBoiler Roomandthe video arm of Ministry of Sound.Related:Twitch boss calls the end of games consolesIntriguingly,the Ultra Music Festival has its own channel on YouTube already, with more than 760,000 subscribers and an archive of live sets. By contrast, Ultra’s official Twitch channel has less than 4,000 followers at the time of writing.“We don’t tolerate mediocrity and our switch to Twitch is yet another step in the continuum,” said Ultra’s Adam Russakoff as the new partnership was announced.The announcement was somewhat overshadowed, however, by reports thatTwitch had been hacked, putting users’ personal details at risk. The company is requiring users to create new passwords and re-link their accounts to Twitter and YouTube.Amazon paid $970m for Twitch in 2014, gazumping Google, which had been in pole position to acquire the company earlier that year. Twitch ended 2013 with 45 million monthly viewers, butmore than doubled that to 100 millionby the end of 2014.
There was a time when most video games were weird. This was before the internet, before online FAQs and walkthroughs, before the industry transmogrified into an imitation of Hollywood, signposting every release with masses of pre-release hype, pigeon-holing experiences into genres and conventions. You had to learn games and their individual systems; they were discreet and mysterious. They gave you very little.This is one of the reasons why From Software’s triumvirate of masterpieces – Demon’s Souls, Dark Souls and now Bloodborne – are so revered by veteran gamers. They make games mysterious again. Through their complex combat systems, weird trap-like environments and pitiless enemies, they require the player to master everything afresh. Playing a game by Hidetaka Miyazaki after completing most modern action adventures is like trying to fly a plane after passing your driving test. You are going to crash.And so now the reviews are coming in, and if fans of Miyazaki were ever in doubt about Bloodborne, they can rest assured. It is good. While its set up is similar to the Souls titles (you’re still a nameless journeyman warrior, this time entering a plague-ridden town on a sort of hazy quest, and you still gather organic resources from downed enemies in order to level up), the visual style is different – and the combat is upturned. The character now has a gun instead of a shield, which would be a minor point in most titles, but it is pivotal here.“The whole ethos of combat in Bloodborne is different from Souls,” says Rich Stanton in hisexhaustive Eurogamer review. “The latter games excel at interplay – balancing defence and offence, requiring you to switch between the two at the right moment or break the cycle with parries. Bloodborne is all offence. The hunter is capable of ripping apart enemies, and even engaging groups, in a way that the Souls protagonists never were. You don’t have a shield because frankly it wouldn’t fit – this protagonist is all about pressure and staying on the attack regardless of what the enemies are doing.”But as with all the titles in this series, Bloodborne, though huge and seemingly impenetrable at first, can be mastered. As Jim Sterlingwrites in his review: “No challenge in Bloodborne ever feels truly insurmountable, always giving you just enough hope to realize [sic] that you’ve ‘got’ this, even if it takes all day. What first induces panic and irrational mistakes eventually reveals openings through which to strike, as well as poorly defended areas of the body.“Where a lesser game might cause me to throw away the controller in frustration, Bloodbornekeeps me glued, because it always gives me some clue that I’m improving, that I can handle this, and that I’m going to, in the words of the internet, Git Gud.”Reviewers are also talking about the architecture of the game; not it’s building design, but the way the environments link together into a coherent whole, complete with shortcuts and hidden pathways linking new areas on multiple levels. “Bloodborne tells a story with its environments as you press onward, echoing its plot within its architecture and its enemies,” writesKevin VanOrd for Gamespot. “You return to earlier areas to find they aren’t as they once were, and the boundary between reality and nightmare becomes fuzzier with each slain boss.“The way these areas join together enhance the joys of exploration. You discover a path leading from a swampy cave, which in turn guides you to a series of ladders. At the top of the final ladder, you realize where this path has taken you, and can only marvel at the brilliant way these two places, so seemingly distant from each other, are united.”The game’s varied and horrifying bestiary has also promoted some rich descriptive prose. “Perhaps worse than the menace of the unknown are the very visible threats, the misshapen monstrosities and eldritch entities standing defiantly in plain site,” writes Sterling. “An oversized porcine behemoth waits distinctly at the end of a long tunnel, a mound of decayed flesh and skulls drags itself along an open road, all in plain view of an adventurer who knows there is no way to progress exceptthroughthe hideous things ahead … and there’s just no tellingwhatthose things are capable of until they’re tearing their victims apart.”There have been some downers. Several reviews,including Polygon’s, mention the game’s long loading times, which are rendered more frustrating given the amount of times you’re likely to die. There are also some frame rate issues in more visually dense environs. Sony has promised patches at a later date, of course. There is also little so far on the game’s multiplayer components (including co-op play in the new “Chalice Dungeons”) – most sites are holding off on providing scores until these have been tested.But theMetacritic averageis already telling its own story: 93% after 35 reviews. Bloodborne has managed to retain what its predecessors brought to modern gaming – their sense of oblique mystery, their uncompromising difficulty – but it has changed enough to become its own entity. This is a more aggressive game, but one still steeped in learning the rhythms of an arcane universe. Miyazaki writes beautiful symphonies of blood and death, and this could be his major orchestral work.
A Facebook user is taking his privacy campaign to the European Union’s highest court to prevent US intelligence agencies gaining access to his personal data.The case brought by Maximilian Schrems against Ireland’s Data Protection Commission may eventually shape international regulations over access to, and ownership of, online information.The Austrian law student began the case before the US whistleblowerEdward Snowden revealed that the US National Security Agency was routinely intercepting datafrom emails, social media and telephones.His initial complaint was to Facebook over what was happening to his personal records. He eventually recovered 1,222 pages of material in 2011 from the US company, whose European headquarters are based in Dublin.Related:Lawyer suing Facebook overwhelmed with supportPublication of Snowden’s revelations spurred him on to take action against the data regulator in the Irish Republic, arguing that his privacy should have been safeguarded against security surveillance. The regulator declined to intervene.Schrems, whose legal case has been crowdfunded, maintains that companies inside the EU should not be able to transfer data to the US under “safe harbour” protections – which state that US data protection rules are adequate if information is passed by companies on a “self-certify” basis – because America no longer qualifies for such a status.He is seeking a declaration that the safe harbour designation under EU law should be cancelled and that the Irish DPC should audit the exchange of information rather than allow it to continue unexamined.Related:Microsoft, Facebook, Google and Yahoo release US surveillance requestsThe law student lost his claim against the regulator in the Irish high court where the judge, Desmond Hogan, said that only the naive or credulous could have been surprised by the Snowden expose.But the judge did ask the European court of justice, in Luxembourg, to examine whether Ireland’s data watchdog is bound by safe harbour and whether an investigation should be launched in in light of the Snowden revelations.He said Facebook users should have their privacy respected under the Irish constitution, and added: “It would be necessary to demonstrate that this interception and surveillance of individuals or groups of individuals was objectively justified in the interests of the suppression of crime and national security and, further, that any such interception was attended by the appropriate and verifiable safeguards.”Related:European court to rule on allegations Facebook passes personal data to NSASchrems’s case will be heard in Luxembourg on Tuesday. Its hearings are not televised and judgment will be reserved.“The promise of a higher level of data protecting is being betrayed by [Europe] to serve business interests,” Schrems has said. He has formed an advocacy group,Europe v Facebook.
Facebook has become a major driver of traffic to news websites in recent years, but now the social network is making a play to host some of that content on its own site, and give its publishers a share of the advertising revenues.The New York Times reported thatFacebook has been in talks with “half a dozen” news publishersover its plans, naming BuzzFeed, National Geographic and the New York Times itself as three of the likely candidates.Its report says a trial could begin in the next few months, with news stories hosted on Facebook so that users would not have to click links to read them on external websites.“To make the proposal more appealing to publishers, Facebook has discussed ways for publishers to make money from advertising that would run alongside the content,” claimed the article, although none of the companies concerned have spoken on the record.The New York Times first reported Facebook’s ambitions to host news last October, ina piece by its late media writer David Carr.“Loading publishers’ web pages on a mobile device can be maddening, slowed by advertising that goes out for auction when readers click. So while Facebook loves the content, it hates the clunky technology many publishers use for mobile,” wrote Carr.“The social network has been eager to help publishers do a better job of servicing readers in the News Feed, including improving their approach to mobile in a variety of ways. One possibility it mentioned was for publishers to simply send pages to Facebook that would live inside the social network’s mobile app and be hosted by its servers; that way, they would load quickly with ads that Facebook sells. The revenue would be shared.”Facebook is by no means the only internet company angling to host publishers’ stories with the promise that they’ll load faster, look better and/or make them more money from advertising.Social app Snapchat recently launched its Discover feature, which hosts text, photo and video stories from brands including Vice, Daily Mail, Cosmopolitan and CNN, and makes money from advertising.Another app, Flipboard, recently floated the idea of hosting news publishers’ stories on its own system, as it expanded from tablets and smartphones to the web.Related:Strictly algorithm: how news finds people in the Facebook and Twitter age“We want to be a distribution vehicle for our publishing partners, and make their content look and feel great, and load really fast, particularly on mobile devices,”chief executive Mike McCue told the Guardian in February, revealing that National Geographic is one of the company’s early partners.“On the web we’re going to render their content for them in some ways they weren’t able to do before ... It loads faster, it looks beautiful, and they could have beautiful full-page ads in here that are way more successful at monetising than a banner ad.”Facebook would be a formidable competitor in this area, and not just because it has890m daily active users. The company’s news feed algorithm is an increasingly important news filter, particularly for younger “millennials”.That means any deeper partnerships with media groups to host their stories could be controversial, with publishers that do not sign up likely to complain vociferously if Facebook’s algorithm penalises their stories as a result.
Mobile internet army, prepare to lift up your virtual pitchforks once more: Twitter is the latest social network to test videos that play automatically in its mobile apps.The company follows Facebook and Instagram in its desire to see whether users will tolerate videos that play without being tapped on - including advertisements.“We’re running a small test on a few variations in the video playback experience,” a Twitter spokespersontold Advertising Age.Its report gave some detail about those variations:“This autoplay video test will apply to Promoted Video ads, videos that users upload through Twitter’s mobile app and clips that are part of its Amplify program, which lets companies like ESPN and the NFL post videos with pre-roll ads, according to a person familiar with the matter. Videos that originate in Vine, Twitter’s company’s six-second-video app, will not play automatically on Twitter as part of this test.”According to the report, one test will see entire videos playing on a loop, while another will simply loop a six-second preview of the main video.The news followsTwitter’s launch of a native video feature in January, enabling its users to upload 30-second non-looping videos that would then play within users’ timelines.The company’s Amplify initiativelaunched in 2013, though, and has been used by a number of broadcasters and brands to distribute highlights of sports, music and other popular televised events.Related:Yes, Twitter is putting tweets in your timeline from people you don't followTwitter’s test, which for now is only for its iOS apps, followsFacebook’s announcement in Decemberthat video ads for mobile apps would automatically play within its news feed.Tests of auto-playing videos began within its apps in September 2013.Instagram videos have also automatically played for some time now, and last month the companychanged its app to make them loop infinitely while on-screenas well.What about those pitchforks? All these moves have sparked protests from a sizeable group of users of these social networks, with fears of spiralling data usage when their smartphones are not connected to a Wi-Fi network, and accusations that auto-play videos serve advertisers rather than users.However, the protests have tended to settle down fairly quickly, and that is likely to be the case here, with Twitter under more scrutiny from its keenest users overany plans to mess with their unfiltered reverse-chronological timelines.
Instagram has launched a new spin-off app, Layout, to help people create collages of their images before sharing them on social networks.The app is initially onlyavailable for iPhone, although an Android version will launch “in the coming months”, according to Facebook’s photo and video-sharing subsidiary.Layout is the second standalone product outside Instagram’s main app, followingthe launch of timelapse-videos app Hyperlapse in August 2014.The new app gets people to choose up to nine photos from their smartphone’s gallery, or take a new series of shots to use. The images can then be arranged in a variety of layouts, and manually resized or swapped.Layout can share images directly to Instagram and Facebook; save them to the iPhone’s camera roll; or share to apps including Dropbox, Flipboard, Google+ and Snapchat.However, Twitter is not included. Sharing Layout collages to that social network involves saving them to the camera roll then posting to Twitter – seemingly calculated awkwardness that matches Instagram’s decision tostop images shared from its main app displaying within tweets.Related:The top 50 apps for creative mindsIs there really a seething demand for an app to create collages for Instagram and Facebook? Actually, the growing popularity of third-party apps providing this function suggests that there is a fair amount of interest.Instagram users may have noticed more images shared from apps such as Insta Picframes, Pic Collage, Photo Grid, Framatic and LiPix appearing in their feeds in recent months.here is already an iOS app calledLayout, from developer Juicy Bits, which fulfils a similar function for Facebook, Twitter and Flickr. It was chosen by Apple as one of its best apps of 2012 in its annual App Store roundup that year.Instagram has clearly been following the trend for collages too. “From imagining mirrored landscapes to sharing multiple moments from an entire adventure, we’ve seen these kinds of visual storytelling happening on Instagram and we’re inspired by it,”explained the company in a blog postannouncing its new app.Time will tell whether Layout remains a standalone app, rather than having its features integrated into the main Instagram and Facebook apps.
Here we are in Tuesday!
Apple has been valued at more than $1tn – almost three times as much as Google, the US’s second most valuable company.Analysts at Cantor Fitzgerald on Monday said they thought Apple’s shares – which are currently trading at about $127, valuing the company at $733bn – could soon be worth $180 each, which would value the iPhone maker at $1.05tn.It is the first time any company has ever been valued at more than $1tn, and would make Apple more valuable thanthe gross domestic product (GDP) of Indonesia, the Netherlands or Saudi Arabia, according to World Bank statistics.It would also mean Apple would be worth 2.6 times as much as Google, the second most valuable company in the US, with a market valuation of $383bn.Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White said he thought Apple was worth that much because of its continued strong performance in China, where sales are increasing by 70% year-on-year, and the introduction of the Apple Watch, its first new type of product in five years.“Next month, Apple will enter its first new product category in five years, while media reports over the past several weeks have highlighted potential new areas of future innovation,” White said in his note to clients. “Also, we believe Apple’s iPhone portfolio and position in China have never been stronger. Finally, Apple has shown its commitment to returning cash to shareholders, and we expect more in April. We believe the combination of these forces will drive the market to reward Apple’s stock.”Cantor Fitzgerald was already one of the most bullish analysts on Apple’s stock value potential. White’s previous price target was $160 a share. Morgan Stanley analysts also reckon Apple shares could be worth $160 in a year, but Berenberg Bank, the most bearish, predicts Apple’s shares might crash to $85. The average analyst share price forecast is $135, according to Forbes.White said he thought Apple may sell 25m Apple Watches in the 2016 financial year, making revenue of about $11.7bn.White also predicted that Apple’s much-talked-about electronic car project could be a more than $500m opportunity.
The United Nations has pulled out of a partnership with Uber to encourage 1 million women to sign up as Uber drivers because of concerns about the controversial taxi app’s failure to protect female drivers and passengers.Just two weeks ago Travis Kalanick, Uber’s founder and chief executive,announcedthat: “UN Women and Uber are launching a partnership to work together around the world toward a shared vision of equality and women’s empowerment.“We intend to invest in long-term programs in local communities where we live and work, as Uber commits to creating 1,000,000 jobs for women globally on the Uber platform by 2020.”Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director of UN Women, pulled out of a collaboration with taxi app Uber on Friday.Kalanick’s statement was co-signed by Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director of UN Women.However, following pressure from trade unions and women’s rights organisations, Mlambo-Ngcuka has publicly cancelled the collaboration. “UN women will not accept an offer to collaborate on job creation with Uber, so you can rest assured about that,” she said in a speech at theCommission on the Status of Women conference at the UN headquartersin New York on Friday.A video of her speechhas been released by Public Services International, an international federation ofmore than 500 trade unions in over 140 countries.Uber’s original pledge to work with the UN to hire 1 million women was billed asthe flagship announcement of the conference, which was partially sponsored by Uber, and was announced on the opening day of the two-week conference.Mlambo-Ngcuka’s about turn came after trade unions attacked UN Women for agreeing to partner with Uber, which has been accused of failing to do enough to protect female passengers from rape and sexual assault by its drivers.Brigitta Paas, vice-president of the International Transport Workers Federation (ITWF), said: “As unions and NGOs we find it astonishing that UN Women is linking to this organisation, based on a promise of a million jobs that we know are likely to be insecure, ill paid, and potentially unsafe.“Uber says it operates in 55 countries around the world, but according to our research, almost 40% of national or local governments in those countries have said ‘no’ to Uber one way or another,“There is not a day that passes without a news story on Uber, but many of those stories are scandalous and disturbing. They include reports of assaults, surge pricing, and breaches of privacy. There have even been cases of Uber ignoring rulings to shut down its service and indicating to drivers that it will pay the fines and cost of any appeals if drivers are penalised for continuing to use its app to pick up passengers.”The ITWF campaigned publicly at the conference and urged its supporters to use the hashtag #UNWomenDumpUber.A spokeswoman for UN Women said: “UN Women is grateful for Uber’s generous support to this event, and encourage Uber to continue its efforts to promote gender equality. At this point, we do not plan to expand the collaboration.”A spokesperson for Uber said: “Uber was proud to sponsor the UN Women event last week, and we share their vision of accelerating economic opportunity for women globally. As part of our commitment to this vision, Uber set an ambitious goal to create 1 million jobs for women as drivers on the Uber platform by 2020. Uber will be seeking advice from UN Women and groups around the world on the best way to achieve the important goal of economic equality and opportunity for women.”
Name:.sucksAge:So new that it doesn’t even exist yet.Appearance:This is mere speculation, but let’s assume it’s going to be the very worst thing in the entire history of the world..Sucks? That sounds like some sort of internet domain.That’s right. From June, you’ll be able to register your very own .sucks website.What on earth would .sucks be for?One would presume that it’ll primarily be used for sites that specialise in either pornography or complaining.Really? But that’s all websites. That’s literally the entire internet.Perhaps .sucks is not your bag, then? How about investing in a charming .porn address instead?No! Why the hell would I want to do that?It would help to identify your website as a hotbed of graphic, throbbing penetration.Related:Why everyone should register a domain name | Dan GillmorBut my website isn’t a porn site! It’s just my own personal site!I see. Well then, you don’t want someone else to exploit you by making their own gruesome .porn site with your URL, do you? That would be awful. You’d better register the domain quickly, to protect yourself against that sort of thing.Hang on a second, this sounds like blackmail. Is this a shakedown?It does look like it, doesn’t it? And a very lucrative one, too – every time we release a new dodgy-sounding domain, celebrities likeTaylor Swift snap them upto stop weirdos from exploiting their name.Really? How much do these domains go for anyway?They can be anything up to £1,674 each.Dear God.And the best thing is, there are 550 of them now. We keep churning new ones out every month. Brilliant, isn’t it?So basically, whenever cash looks like it’s running out, you just write down the worst word you can think of, tellTaylor Swiftthat it’s going to be a domain and she’ll pay you sixteen hundred quid for it?Pretty much. It’s great, isn’t it? Have a go yourself.Ugh, OK. TaylorSwift.bum. TaylorSwift.erection. TaylorSwift.mexicandonkeyshow.That’s the spirit. You’ve just made yourself five grand. You’re a natural!I feel so grubby.Grubby but rich, that’s the important thing. Grubby but rich.Do say:“www.TaylorSwift.ripoff”Don’t say:“For more great content like this, head over to theguardian.sucks”
Fledgling game studio Playtonic, currently working on a “spiritual successor” to classic Nintendo 64 platformer Banjo-Kazooie, says it knows what Rare is working on – and that fans will be satisfied.Purchased by Microsoft in 2002, the legendary developer had been creating titles in the Kinect Sports series, but many gamers have been desperate to see Rare return to its glory days, when it produced lively platform adventures such as Donkey Kong Country, Banjo-Kazooie and Conker’s Bad Fur Day. Playtonic, formed by six ex-employees of Rare, still has contact with its old employer, which is based only a few miles away.“I still chat to them, I know what they were working on when I left last year,” says Playtonic’s studio head, Gavin Price, who worked for Rare for 20 years, having joined as a tester in the 1990s. “It sounds really good.”Xbox chief Phil Spencer has been teasing gamers by suggesting that Rare may be about to move away from the Kinect Sports titles onto an IP more befitting the team’s skills and heritage. Last year, the exectweetedthat he had played the studio’s new project, claiming it was an example of “Rare building a uniquely Rare game, as it should be.” In January, Rare’s head of music Robin Beanland tweeted that 2015 would be a huge year for Rare andmade a referenceto Banjo-Kazooie.“I want them to do well,” says Price. “They’re mates and we left them behind to come and do this. I’m looking forward to what they’re doing next – people will be really happy to see it.” Asked whether it would be a Kinect-focused title, like the studio’s other recent projects, he replied: “I can’t say for sure what they are or aren’t doing with that piece of hardware that Microsoft isn’t supporting much anymore.”Playtonic recently announced its first title, currently named Project Ukulele, a 3D platform adventure that will stay true to the creative ideals of the old Rare titles. The team has yet to reveal the game’s lead characters, but the action will take place in a series of brightly coloured worlds, that will be open for wider exploration than the old N64 titles.To this end, Playtonic has introduced a new collectible, known as “Pagies”. Each world in the game is accessed via its own magical story book which resides in the hub area; as players collect Pagies, they unlock new areas to the environment – the more pagies you put into a book, the more you expand the world. However, players can choose to go off an open new books and experience new worlds rather than expand current ones.“You don’t just go into the worlds, milk them and move on,” says Price. “It will be more open and expansive. There is freedom to go where you want. You can go into another world or you can spend Pagies on your current world and expand it with new areas. I wanted to take away the linearity of the old experiences as much as possible. These days, people want to find their own way through games – and if you go off and explore and don’t get rewarded for it you’re like: ‘shit, I’ve just wasted my time’.”The team has also talked about including a vast range of non-player characters in Project Ukulele, who will then star in their own spin-off titles. Intriguingly, they have even expressed an interest in working with Rare again in some capacity. “You never know, there are some good old mates of ours down the road, they may want to do a little multi-studio collaboration,” says Price. “We’re just going to be open minded. We’re not trying to look too far ahead. We’ll make the right decision when we get there.”Related:Rare talent: inside the studio building Banjo-Kazooie's spiritual successorOn the subject of old Rare, the popular story is that when Microsoft took control of the studio, it restricted the team’s creativity, and insisted on a more corporate approach, killing the unique atmosphere. Playtonic denies this.“For me, it was more about [Rare founders] Tim and Chris Stamper leaving,” says Playtonic technical director Jens Restemeier, who worked at Rare handling handheld conversions of key titles. “There was no sense of progression about what the company was going to do from that point on. The story people want to hear is that Microsoft came in and destroyed everything. It wasn’t like that. They gave us freedom, almost more freedom than Nintendo gave us.”Chris Sutherland, a 25-year Rare veteran and now project director at Playtonic, agrees. “When any company grows, you’re going to hit problems,” he explains. “At Playtonic, we don’t have an upfront design document, but if you’ve got a company with 50 people then you’re suddenly burning money away and you have to give them something to do and it’s got to be something you know you’ll use.“Planning up front means you know those people are working, but the downside is you’re locked into a way of working. That’s fine when you’re writing a sequel to something, but if you’re trying to do something original and creative from the start, it’s quite tricky to ask: ‘what’s this person going to be working on in three weeks?’Well, I don’t know what the game is going tobein three weeks! That’s as much of an issue. You see that in any large organisation.”Playtonic is starting a Kickstarter in May to help fund Project Ukulele. It could be that the game launches within the same window as Rare’s own take on those classic platforming years. Price, however, is adamant that there’s no rivalry. “They’re really nice clever guys, cleverer than all of us,” he says. “They’ll do well.”
The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are likely to be the last dedicated games consoles as we know them, according to the boss of Twitch TV.Speaking to the Guardian at the Changing Media Summit in London, Emmett Shear predicted that the long life cycles of the machines is at odds with the rest of the consumer technology industry.“The problem is, the seven-year upgrade lifecycle doesn’t work in the face of the two-year upgrade cycles for every other hardware platform,” he said. “It’s so intrinsically built into how consoles get manufactured and made and the full business model, that I’d be surprised to see another generation.”Shear, who co-founded the live video game broadcasting platform that now has more than 100m monthly users, suggests that future consoles will be more like set-top boxes: designed for a multitude of uses, and with a much shorter life cycle.“They’re going to have to change form,” he said. “You can already see this on both Xbox and PlayStation where there’s a tighter upgrade loop for both the operating systems and the games. This is the first step toward being able to iterate the hardware platform. I could imagine a version 1.1 product from both Microsoft and Sony which adds in slightly more speed and slightly more memory very similar to how phones and tablets work today. I think it’s going to look more like the mobile phone market over time.”However, Shear does claim that the Twitch implementations on both Xbox One and PlayStation 4 have been a success. Users are able to broadcast their gameplay via their consoles, using a downloadable Twitch app.“The consoles have been huge for us – they drive a tonne of broadcasting,” he said. “We’ve seen the rise of a few games that have done very well because of consoles, notably Fifa and Call of Duty. The top end of broadcasting still tends to come from PC – if you want to produce high-end content you want more than is going to be prepared for you in any off the shelf set-up, but it’s gotten a lot of people started in broadcasting and that’s really important. It’s been a smashing success as far as integrations go.“We approached monetisation completely differently. We established the partners program to enable anyone who was really successful to make money on our site, and that was huge for fuelling our growth.“We’re probably the only video website on the internet where people actually remind broadcasters to run ads. They say: ‘Hey, you’re not going to make money, what are you doing?!’ It’s that sense of community that drives Twitch, and it’s the same sentiment thats behind the rise of Kickstarter - it’s the democratisation of media in a way that enables everyone to be a patreon now. It’s not just about a few rich people choosing to support the media they want, it can be done in a democratised, distributed way. That’s really exciting.”Shear concedes, however, that the user experience on console still needs some work. He says the company is working on a system that will allow console owners to take part in onscreen chat sessions without a keyboard (but concedes that ‘speech to text’ technology is not ready yet), and wants to improve the browsing experience.“I think we can do a better job on discovery,” he says. “We’ve done some work on that front: the most recent version of the Xbox app for example lets you drill down on livestreams not just by game but what map you’re playing on, which is cool, and it’s unique to that platform right now. But there’s a lot more work to be done. The flipside of being OS integrated is, you can’t iterate every two to three weeks, but we’re happy with how its going.”As for the PC version, Shear says that 80% of the R&amp;D thought at Twitch goes on making the service more reliable, rather than working on new features. “So much of what makes Twitch important is just having the best quality,” he said. “I think it’s easy to take your eye off the ball and get excited by a fancy new feature, but for us the really exciting thing is opening up yet more capacity, decreasing the number of times anyone ever gets a buffer empty, increasing the bitrate we can stream at. When we measure it, that seems to have more impact on people’s happiness on the site than almost anything else we can do.”Shear also mentioned plans to expand Twitch’s presence in Europe, with more servers and more partnerships with popular European gamers and broadcasters. On stage at the Changing Media summit, he also spoke about why the company accepted the$970m takeover bid from Amazon.“Amazon is a big games company; it sells a vast quantity of games,” he said. “Over half the world’s developers are using the Amazon Ec2 cloud platform - actually it’s probably even higher now. So over half the industry are active consumers of Amazon services.“So what does Amazon bring to the table? They sell video games effectively, they have a platform for producing video games, what Twitch brings to that is the missing piece of the puzzle: a community. We provide that reach, and it made a lot of sense. We also gained access to a lot of things through the purchase that it would have taken us a long time to build ourselves, if we ever actually could.”When asked about Google, which isrumoured to have been interested in Twitch, Shear says only: “Amazon was committed to twitch remaining independent ... I don’t think I would have gone with any deal that didn’t give us that level of independence.”
According to theUK Government’s 2014 cybersecurity survey, 81% of large businesses have suffered malicious data breaches. That suggests almost one in five didn’t. But how can those companies be sure?Working out whether you’ve been hacked by cybercriminals is like leaving your diary in your bag while you visit the bathroom. When you get back, everything might still be in your bag, but you can’t be certain that no one sneaked a peek.“In this context, it’s impractical to prove a negative,” said Lenny Zeltser, a senior faculty member at theSANS Institute, who teaches malware defence and analysis there. “A company responding to signs of infection can conclude that it has been breached,” he points out. “However, the lack of visible signs of a compromise doesn’t indicate that the enterprise has not been breached.”Or to quote Donald Rumsfeld, when thinking about hackers, companies will always have to cope with those peskyunknown unknowns.In the early days of cyber intrusion, many hackers were crying out to be known. They were eager to crow about what they had done, and often revealed themselves in spectacular fashion by deleting files or defacing websites. These attackers still exist, and are often driven to make a political point.Types of hackers“If a hacktivist attacks you, you’re going to know about it within 24 hours, because they’re going for the glory,” said Harry Sverdlove, CTO of IT security firmBit9 + Carbon Black. “They’ll paste your passwords onto Pastebin, and they’ll mess up your website,” he said.There are other types of cybercriminal too, though, Sverdlove warns. “There are criminal enterprises, and there’s espionage, which may be corporate or nation state. It’s that last category that wants to stay silent, because they want to stay in [your network] as long as possible.”These attackers are after your intellectual property. They want to pilfer your patents, and steal your negotiating documents. But organised criminals are also eager to stay inside your system as long as possible, too, siphoning off valuable data such as customer information and credit card details.Whatever the motive, the stealthy attacker will use a variety of tricks to avoid detection. They want to avoid changing anything too much, lest it draw unwanted attention from alert systems administrators.One way they do this is by “living off the land”, said Sverdlove. Stealth attackers will sometimes use programs that are already on a victim’s computer network to do their dirty work, rather than installing malicious software.Installing custom malware to send stolen data to a remote server halfway across the world can risk detection. Instead, he has seen criminals using brand-name online storage services to upload sensitive data from their victims’ networks.“They use common applications. It wasn’t a piece of malware, and so it wasn’t going to get flagged by antivirus,” Sverdlove said. These applications might be used by any legitimate employee, making them hard to spot.Smart hackers may also send their stolen data at peak times of the day, so that they can blend in with everyone else’s internet traffic on the company network. This is safer than sending gigabytes of data at night, when no one else is using the network, Sverdlove said. Hackers may also trickle data out of the organisation slowly, rather than in a torrent, to help stay below the radar.Stealthy hackers are a lot like black holes. They suck in all of the material they can find, and you can’t see them directly. So perhaps we can learn something from astronomers. Instead of looking at the black hole directly, they find evidence of a black hole based on what’s happening to things around it.Have you been pwned?Sometimes, that evidence may not even be on your own network. Zeltser realised that social media chatter can often throw up information about suspicious activity concerning your company online.With tongue firmly in cheek, he set up a proof of concept website:Was Company Hacked?It performs a custom Twitter search based on a brand name entered by the user, along with some appropriate security hashtags, to see if there is any chatter in the Twitterverse about attacks on the company.Australian security expert Troy Hunt has taken things a step further withHave I Been Pwned?Instead of looking for social media chatter, this site gathers two sets of data. The first comes from large data breaches that have been publicly disclosed. The second comes from what he calls ‘pastes’.One of the first places for personal data to appear after it has been stolen is onPastebin. This site allows people to paste information publically and anonymously. Many people paste legitimate things on Pastebin. Some post novels. Others, resignation letters, or their carefully compiled list of every single video game, ever.But others post more contentious documents. Anonymous members have posted missives urging attacks against companies there. And some others post stolen customer details, such as email addresses and encrypted passwords. Lots of them.A Twitter bot calledDump Monitorcollects information about these pastes and the emails in them. Hunt’s site picks those up and catalogues them.The end result is a service that allows users to enter an email address or username that they have used online. ‘Have I Been Pwned’ tells the user whether it has turned up in any of the breaches. The site will also tell users whether that information has been posted to Pastebin by a hacker.It’s a useful personal safety tool for internet users, but Hunt says that he’s now getting attention from companies, too.“I’m working with a number of organisations behind the scenes that are using ‘Have I Been Pwned?’ to identify indicators of compromise, namely the appearance of their staff and customers in publicly disclosed data dumps,” he said. “Seeing the volume of hits they’re getting is alarming. Massive troves of data are turning up every day.”Turn your gaze withinThis kind of tool can be a useful weapon in the battle against stealthy hackers, but it isn’t the only place to look for possible hacking activity. “There are many, many indicators of compromise, it’s just a question of what’s being monitored,” added Hunt.The most obvious place to look is inside your own network. Years ago, IT companies focused on the perimeter – the ‘ring of iron’ around the corporate network that was supposed to keep hackers out. That’s still important, but it’s no longer enough, say experts.“Relying on a strong perimeter? That’s really stupid,” said Larry Ponemon, whosePonemon Instituteresearches privacy and data breaches online, and consults on mitigating cyber damage. “It might only be one in a million things that get inside your firewall, but that one thing becomes very important,” he added.How do you cope with that danger? We could take a lesson from the NSA, which knows a thing or two about unauthorised intrusion. In December 2010, Deborah Plunkett, head of the NSA’s Information Assurance Directorate, admitted that there was “no such thing as ‘secure’ anymore”. Instead, the agency works under the assumption that hackers are already inside its network.Before becoming VP of advanced security and strategy at IT security firmCore Security, Eric Cowperthwaite was information systems for a large healthcare firm in Seattle. Assuming that the network had been hacked might have been too strong an approach for his board of directors, he said, but a strong internal focus was definitely on the menu.“What they expected as a strategy was for me to build the best security possible, and then also have the ability to detect malicious behaviour and respond to it,” he said. “Let’s assume that the bad guy can breach our network if they’re really determined.”The systems to detect that intrusion are many and varied. Hunt recommends security analytics tools like Arbor Networks’Pravail, that gather network packet data and lets you visualise it to look for specious activity. Others recommend intrusion detection and prevention systems that sit on your servers or on your network, watching for clear and present dangers.Defence in depthUltimately, though, detecting hackers takes an element of human intelligence. It’s about narrowing your focus, and understanding where to look first. Sun Tzu, an ancient Chinese military strategist who gets quoted by security researchers a lot, wrote a treatise on military security called The Art of War. One of its lessons was ‘know your enemy’.“I need to have attack intelligence, so that I know how and when and where I will be attacked,” said Cowperthwaite. Part of this involves understanding the paths to the most valuable data in your organisation, so that you can both harden those paths, and also monitor them for suspicious activity. “It’s not just that there’s a web server that’s vulnerable that lets them get in, it’s the fact that the web server sits on a pathway to critical assets,” he said.One of the advantages of looking for malice inside your network is that now you’re fighting hackers on your own turf, said Sverdlove, pointing out that it’s easy for them to hide in the wild, on the sprawling internet outside your network.“The moment that they come into your system, the advantage switches. If you know your system, being able to detect them quickly becomes an easier challenge,” he said. This tips the balance in your favour. “Even if you assume they’re in, they’re not getting out with your jewels.”So perhaps assuming that they’re in is a good place to start. Zeltser thinks that’s a good strategy. He makes one final quip about his ‘Was Company Hacked’ web experiment. “I am thinking about not bothering to query any services,” he joked. Instead, when people query brand names to see if they have been hacked, it might be more realistic for the site to simply always say: “Yes”.
Visual novels are a hard sell in the west, the largely Japanese genre being barely a step above choose-your-own-adventure books. The minimal interactivity and reams of text often prove an instant turn-off for many players, so this effort to enliven them seems worthy of attention.Admirably, Tokyo Twilight tries to inject a little life into its tale of high-school ghost-busting with regular exorcisms in the form of strategic battles. But sadly, it also utterly fails to explain anything to the player. Out of battle, conversations involve picking an emotion icon, then an action icon. To what effect? Who knows? The characters you talk to don’t seem to react whatever your choice. In combat, enjoy a confusing mini-tutorial, then laughably basic top-down encounters where ghosts and allies are represented as minuscule arrows.Great character design and pleasant animation are the only saving graces in what can only be described as a gaming experiment gone horribly wrong.
Taking players to a stunning animated world, Ori sets the task of guiding its eponymous hero – a diminutive sprite – to help save the mystical forest he calls home. The blend of 2D platforming and environmental puzzle-solving constantly evolves as new abilities are unlocked, making more of the map accessible. Its story, narrated in an alien language, is at heart an ecological parable, with the forest left withered and lifeless by unnatural forces. It’s never heavy-handed though, and any deeper meaning is left to the player to interpret.An excellent feature is the ability to trade a small amount of energy, usually used for Ori’s attacks, to create a save point wherever you like. It’s a much needed function, as the game’s major flaw is an uneven difficulty curve. Perseverance on later levels is a small price to pay for an otherwise absorbing, hauntingly beautiful title.
Monday again!
Few series in gaming stretch to double digits in their titles, and unfortunately here, in the case of Nintendo’s digital board games, the party is really starting to drag. There are three modes, with Mario Party continuing the ninth game’s misguided design choice that forces players to share a car as they move around the board. Rather than racing for the goal, players compete for stars on a dice roll that determines minigames by the space you land on.Bowser Party does shake things up, pitting a team of four players on the TV screen against a rampant King Bowser on the Wii U gamepad in asymmetric multiplayer, and Amiibo Party utilises Nintendo’s smart figures on a series of unique but sadly simplistic Amiibo boards. At least this mode retains the pre-Mario Party 9 rule set.It’s not uncommon for multiple turns to pass without a minigame, and even when offered one of the 75 new entries, they are severely lacking in strategy or excitement, despite the new control options. While Amiibo functionality seems like a natural fit, it can’t save the game from tedium. Stick with the superlative Nintendo Land instead.
With its decentralised structure, community moderation, and hands-off management, it’s hard to generalise about the social network Reddit. The site is built of thousands of ‘subreddits’ - user-created forums with a focus on specific topics such as the video game Destiny, fitness, a love of maps, or even just drugs.But each subreddit has different norms, rules and tone, which can make navigating the site an exercise in frustration and nasty surprises. It takes a while to develop a feeling for any particular sub, by which point a hostile community may already have ruined your day.Ben Bell, a data scientist at text-analytics start upIdibon, decided to apply his company’s technology to the site to work out which subreddits have communities you would want to be a part of, and which you would be best avoiding.Bell’s interest was sparked bya post asking Redditors to suggest their nomineesfor the most “toxic communities” on the site. Suggestions included the parenting subreddit – full of “sanctimommies” – and the community for the game League of Legends, which has “made professional players quit the game”.He writes: “As I sifted through the thread, my data geek sensibilities tingled as I wondered: ‘Why must we rely upon opinion for such a question? Shouldn’t there be an objective way to measure toxicity?’“With this in mind, I set out to scientifically measure toxicity and supportiveness in Reddit comments and communities. I then compared Reddit’s own evaluation of its subreddits to see where they were right, where they were wrong, and what they may have missed. While this post is specific to Reddit, our methodology here could be applied to offer an objective score of community health for any data set featuring user comments.”Related:Reddit: can anyone clean up the mess behind 'the front page of the internet'?Bell pulled out a sample of comments from every one of the top 250 subreddits, as well as any forum mentioned in the toxicity thread, and subjected them to a number of tests designed to look for toxicity, which he defined as a combination of ad hominem attacks and overt bigotry.From there, he used a combination of sentiment analysis and human annotation to code each comment as toxic or non-toxic. The former involves applying Idibon’s technology to attempt to categorise comments as either positive, negative or neutral in sentiment, which let him narrow down the work required for the human annotators by 96%, only looking at those subreddits which had already been picked as containing a lot of negative comments.Sentiment analysis is a controversial technology. It allows researchers to automatically process reams of data but it is criticised as an overly simplistic tool. In Bell’s tests, however, it proved its worth. “Using the sentiment model, we selected for human annotation the 30 most positive, the 30 most negative posts, and another 40 random posts from each subreddit,” he said.“Each post was labeled as ‘supportive’, ‘toxic’, or ‘neutral’. We found that for comments that were randomly chosen, the vast majority were labeled ‘neutral’, which didn’t really provide much information for comparison, while the ones that were chosen by our sentiment model were far more likely to be labeled with the predicted sentiment than any other label.“There are often problems with sentiment analysis and accuracy, but probably a bigger issue is that it’s not always all that actionable.”“Bigoted comments received overwhelming approval”Bell’s chart of ‘bigotry by subreddit’.The initial finding was that, as expected, there’s a huge variation in the scale of bigotry on Reddit. Bell weighed the presence of bigoted comments by the approval they had been given by the other members of the community – the comment’s score, which is the net of upvotes minus downvotes. That led to some interesting quirks: in a number of subreddits, the community is proactive enough at self-policing that the average score for a bigoted comment is negative. Those include /r/Jokes and /r/Libertarian, both fairly self-evident.At the other end of the spectrum are those communities which seem to deliberately encourage bigotry. Top of the list is /r/TheRedPill, “a subreddit dedicated to proud male chauvinism”, as Bell puts it, “where bigoted comments received overwhelming approval from the community at large”.When it comes to toxicity as a whole, there is some crossover with mere bigotry. The /r/TumblrinAction forum, devoted to mocking users of the Tumblr social network (which is particularly associated with its queer and female userbase), is ranked by Bell as both bigoted and toxic.Other usual suspects, such as the Atheism, Politics and News subreddits, are all ranked as fairly toxic. The problems with /r/Atheism led to that particular forumbeing removed from Reddit’s list of default subs.But there are also some surprises.ShitRedditSays, a subreddit which focuses on highlighting bad content around the rest of Reddit (frequently from a social justice viewpoint), comes close to the top. In part, that is because the toxicity is directed outwards, “at the Reddit community at large”, says Bell.“It’s also important to note that a significant portion of their Toxicity score came from conversations between SRS members and other Redditors who come specifically to disagree and pick fights with the community - a trap that many members tend to fall into, and which led to some rather nasty and highly unproductive conversations.”‘Tough problem’But naming the problem, and identifying the subforums that have community issues is a number of steps away from making Reddit a friendlier place for all.“It’s a really tough problem,” Bell says. “There needs to come a unified understanding of what really is toxic within these communities. Just from the comments we’ve seen in response to our article, there certainly seems to be a considerable contingent that doesn’t get that their behaviour would make others feel uncomfortable.“In the past few weeksthere have already been a number of articles on bigotry in Reddit, and as subreddits become aware of how their behavior is viewed, their own understanding will change as to what is acceptable and what isn’t – and, hopefully, they will work to create communities they can be proud of.”
A £12m donation by Sir James Dyson to Imperial College London has been announced for the launch of a new Dyson school for engineering, which will open its doors later this year.The new Dyson School of Design Engineering is aimed at helping to train the next generation of graduate engineers and technology leaders.In Monday’s announcement, Dyson said: “We want to create engineers who are bold and commercially astute. They will use their skills, nurtured in the Dyson School, to develop future technology that will catalyse Britain’s economic growth.”The Dyson School will be housed on Exhibition Road in South Kensington in a building purchased by Imperial from the Science Museum. The acquisition was made possible by the biggest single donation in the James Dyson Foundation’s history.Related:Dyson invests $15m in technology that may double smartphone battery lifeThe first new engineering department to be established at Imperial in two decades, the Dyson School will teach a four year MEng course in design engineering from October 2015. The curriculum, developed in partnership with Dyson engineers to give industry relevance, including modules in patent application and intellectual copyright, combines technical discipline with creativity. Industry standard equipment and studio space will enable 400 students to design, prototype and test new product ideas.The James Dyson Foundation has donated a total of £50m to engineering education and medical research, which includes £8m for a technology hub at the University of Cambridge and £5m to the Royal College of Art (Dyson’s alma mater) to build business incubator units for graduate students. Dyson’s earlier, ambitious plans to open a government-backed £25m design school in Bath – not far from the company’s headquarters in Malmesbury, Wiltshire,foundered after the scheme became embroiledin red tape and failed to get planning permission.Lending his support to the announcement, the chancellor, George Osborne, said: “Backing Britain’s world leading science, research and innovation is a key part of our long term economic plan. It is fantastic to hear about the new partnership between the Dyson Foundation and Imperial College to open the new Dyson School of Design Engineering that will play a key role in training the next generation of design engineers.”Professor Alice Gast, president of Imperial College London, added: “Design combines the best of technical expertise with creativity and the Dyson School of Design Engineering is uniquely placed to bring these together in its student experience and research. Imperial and Dyson passionately share a vision for educating engineers to elicit innovative thinking and problem solving. The James Dyson Foundation’s generous donation, along with Dyson’s industrial expertise, gives us the opportunity to create a world-leading school for a new kind of engineer to design the future.”The reinvestment of proceeds, approved by the chancellor, will allow the Science Museum to invest more than £20m in transforming about a third of the museum over the next five years, including several new permanent galleries.
The first thing I scribbled in my notebook, as I stood in the lobby of the leviathan Vancouver Convention Center (leviathan not just in mass – the building itself evokes a breaching, algae-crusted humpback) and watched the sea of innovators and billionaires and idea-spreaders part and flow around me, was, “Pretty sure I’m the only fat person at the TED conference.” My hunch would later be disproved, but barely. For all its populist posturing, this upper echelon of the TED community has as distinctive a physical culture as it does an intellectual one — this is a crowd that can afford to invest in “wellness”, for whom image holds great import.Or, to put it another way, for a gathering purportedly aiming to tackle all the world’s problems, TED’s demographic landscape resembles a very narrow slice of it.For the uninitiated, TED is a nonprofit (or, in the words of its mission, a “global community”) that hopes to “make great ideas accessible and spark conversation”, via a network of conferences that are broadcast for free online to millions of viewers. Conference presenters have a maximum of 18 minutes to hold forth on their various areas of expertise: at this year’s conference, I watched presentations on topics as disparate as space colonisation, municipal flag design, human trafficking, self-driving cars and the hidden benefits of marital infidelity. TED also runs an educational initiative called TED-Ed, which “aims to amplify the voices and ideas of teachers and students around the world”.I came to the TED conference clad dutifully in myToms(truly the TED talk of shoes) and vaguely suspicious. The organisation’s reputation, while not monstrous, isn’t particularly flattering – critics charge that TED is shallow, self-congratulatory, myopic, a cult of dilettantes, a shangri-la of unexamined privilege. TED fans counter that it’s a chance to share ideas, broaden horizons and foment positive change. “TED really gets you thinking about stuff you’re not normally interested in,” I overheard someone gush. “Like, we’d never say, ‘Why don’t you come over tonight? We’re going to talk about incarceration!’It’s a turn of phrase that handily sums up both sides, I think.Founded in 1984 and established in its current form in 1990, TED began, fundamentally, as a tech conference – the acronym stands for technology, entertainment, design – and, though it’s gradually broadened its scope to tackle political and social issues as well, you can feel Silicon Valley in its DNA. At the opening night banquet, one tech journalist and 10-time TED attendee told me over saffron creme brulee (yo, by the way, quit innovating my desserts – this biz tastes like bisque) that TED is the tech crowd’s big annual field trip outside their bubble, to check in with the rest of the world, and maybe to show off a little bit.Bill Gates speaks at TED2015 in Vancouver.Photograph: Bret Hartman/TEDIt’s also a chance, to paraphrase Pride and Prejudice, for not-so-rich men to throw themselves into the paths of other, richer men. Though it’s never openly articulated this way, much of the conference feels like an enormous pitch meeting: scientists and tech up-and-comers parading their gadgetry in front of a truly staggering pantheon of millionaires and billionaires (I’m not allowed to tell you who, per TED’s house rules, but whichever ones you’re picturing, you are correct). You can feel the future being packaged, prioritised and funded in front of your eyes, making TED’s small programming board a generally overlooked and faintly alarming knot of power. Some people come to TED just to have meetings, a frequent attendee told me. TED might be run by a nonprofit, but there’s money to be made here, no question.Affluence permeates every molecule of the conference, which TED devotees pay between $7,500 and $15,000 to attend, despite the fact that all the content is available for free online (as one of my friends joked: “Wait, who has $8,000 but doesn’t have YouTube!?”). What you’re paying for, of course, isn’t the content so much as the experience — the opportunity to stand next to [redacted world leader] in the buffet line and, perhaps more importantly, the opportunity to pretend you’re not impressed.Meanwhile, relegated largely to Thursday morning (unless you count former Australia PM Kevin Rudd’s opening address, in which he offered this hilariously Pollyanna-ish prescription for global harmony: “Next time you meet someone from China, sit down and have a conversation!”), the politics and social justice portions of this year’s programme felt, subtly, like a secondary priority. I admittedly wasn’t able to attend every single presentation, but anecdotally, I’m pretty sure I sat through approximately 12,873 variations on “what if we 3D-printed a robot that had feelings but then it was mean to us” or “what if an iPhone could drive a car ... ON MARS” before I heard anyone say the word “Ferguson” into a microphone.That’s a hierarchy of priorities to which I cannot relate at all (my own bubble peeking through, I guess).But maybe I’m not being fair. Are tech people supposed to not be excited about tech at a tech conference? My scientist friends always tell me not to despair too completely over war and disease and climate change and dwindling water supplies, because human innovation has saved us so far and it likely always will, in some capacity. Does it matter whether the nerd who saves the world is thinking about people or money or pure maths when he does it? Not particularly, I suppose. And anyway, caring about artificial intelligence and caring about police brutality aren’t mutually exclusive. I just hope – considering the inconceivable amount of money, power and energy in that convention centre this week – that the tangible concerns of currently living (and dying) human beings receive the same level of attention and funding as the hypothetical concerns of hypothetical future people.That said, I saw and heard some astonishing things at TED2015, across all fields. Computer scientistAbe Davisdescribed his “visual microphone”, an algorithm that can extrapolate sound from the minute vibrations of objects in silent video footage. Human rights activistGary Haugendropped the stunning statistic that, among poor, rural women worldwide, aged 15-45, “domestic abuse and sexual violence account for more death and disability than malaria, car accidents and war combined.” Marina Abramovic’s presentation was, by necessity, a flyover of Feminist Art History 101, but she still managed to squeeze an uncomfortable moment of humanity in at the end – forcing audience members to turn to their neighbour and stare into each other’s eyes for two uninterrupted minutes.Clint Smith’s account of how racism circumscribed his childhood was gutting.SociologistAlice Goffmandelivered perhaps the biggest mic-drop of the week, in her unequivocal, scathing rebuke of police who disproportionately target black teenagers, and the white people who enable them: “Maybe you’re saying, ‘They’re committing crimes! Don’t they deserve to be in prison?’ And my answer is NO, THEY DON’T.” Goffman called for “a criminal justice system that believes in black young people, rather than treating black young people as the enemy to be rounded up”.Noy Thrupkaew’s sharp, vulnerable talk on human trafficking dismantled our culture’s erroneous (and borderline creepy) insistence that “trafficking” only concerns underage sex workers – “a bad man doing a bad thing to an innocent girl”. Instead, she reminds us, “human trafficking is embedded in our everyday lives” – 68% of trafficked workers are forced into agricultural, domestic and construction labour. In other words, slaves provide our food, clothing and shelter, in every country on earth.And then, of course, there was Monica Lewinsky. I was a teenager when the Clinton/Lewinsky scandal broke in 1998, and I remember even then – even without any concept of slut-shaming, any feminist counternarrative to guide me – having no understanding whatsoever of what this woman supposedly did wrong. (Not to mention how unfathomable it is that anyone could construe a “relationship” between the president of the United States and his 22-year-old employee as anything approaching equal and free of coercion.)In the intervening 17 years, Lewinsky’s personhood was flattened beyond recognition: she became nothing but a whore, a punchline, a ghost, even the downfall of the Democratic party.Lewinsky has stayed out of sight for the past decade, earning a master’s degree from the London School of Economics, and is just now re-entering the public sphere – “[taking] back my narrative”, she called it – as an anti-bullying activist. She is, after all, “patient zero of losing a personal reputation on a global scale almost instantaneously”. Lewinsky’s talk was masterfully constructed, drawing audiences in with just enough tabloid detail (“at the age of 22, I fell in love with my boss”), then feeding them her strong, clear call to arms. “We talk a lot about our right to freedom of expression,” Lewinsky cautioned, “but we need to talk more about our responsibility to freedom of expression.” Amen. Up top.Political commentator and lawyer Sally Kohn leads a TEDYou session.Photograph: Marla Aufmuth/TEDMoments of brilliance aside, though (and there were many more over the course of the week), TED is woefully undermined by its format. While easily digestible as a YouTube clip, 18 minutes isn’t enough time to mine a topic to anything approaching a rigorous depth, and TED provides no mechanism for pushback. The overall thrust of Haugen’s presentation, for instance, was that, in order to make the war on global poverty effective, we need to prioritise the installation of law enforcement and criminal justice systems in poor, rural communities to keep impoverished people safe from everyday violence. Not long after he left the stage, Goffman delivered her talk, detailing the myriad ways in which the US law enforcement system abuses and exploits its poorest and most vulnerable charges. “Broken law enforcement can be fixed,” Haugen had declared. Oh, really? Would Goffman agree? And the communities in which she works? What about Smith and his parents, who equipped their son with “an armour of advice” to protect him not from crime, but from cops? And Thrupkaew, who just a few hours later would say: “The criminal justice system is too often part of the problem rather than part of the solution”?I’m sure Haugen is well aware of the shortcomings of the US justice system, and that police themselves can be a menace to the communities they’re supposed to protect. The trouble with TED is that 18 minutes affords him no time in which to address such vital nuances, and the conference provides no way for Haugen, Goffman, Smith and Thrupkaew to publicly debate with one another and hammer out some of these inconsistencies. What’s the point of “spreading ideas” if those ideas fundamentally contradict one another, the audience has no expertise in the field at hand and the “experts” aren’t given enough time to explain?I guess I’m just wary of slapping tidy, feel-good bows on massive, messy, global injustices.Because it’s easy – particularly at an event as doggedly committed to optimism as the TED conference, attended by people with such unfettered access to ease – to mistake listening to a presentation about human suffering for actually doing something about it.Positivity casts a shadow. Yes, hopelessness can breed paralysis, but optimism lets us off the hook too easily. For TED to be the global force for good that it wants to be – for it to be a net gain for the world, and not just for a few tech gurus and venture capitalists – TED’s attendees need to carry all these issues (not just the “fun” ones) back out with them into the world. To not just peek outside the bubble, but live outside the bubble. But this charge to move past reflection and into action applies to me as much as it does to the billionaires. I’m under no illusions that I do anything in the fight against global poverty that compares to, say, [redacted billionaire]. I just hope that we’re all feeling the same urgency, the same panic, because I’m terrified, and these are the people with the best chance of fixing it.On the second day of the conference, I was waiting in line for my free, TED-sponsored kale salad, when I noticed, with a start, that it wasn’t raining. This wouldn’t ordinarily have been of note – I get not-rained on all the time – except that, just beyond the metal barriers delineating TED’s rarefied food truck corral, I could see rain coming down in sheets, bright against the dark business towers. It was raining, hard, just not on us. Someone quipped that [redacted billionaire] must have paid for some sort of forcefield to keep the rain off of the TED attendees. We laughed.Across the street, people hurried by, soaking wet.
There’s an ongoing argument in the technology world about whether tablets and smartphones are more focused on consumption than creativity. As time has gone on, though, the number of apps helping us do more than passively read, watch and listen has grown. Many also fall into a longer heritage of technology that democratises activities like film-making, photography and music-making. Video and photography apps now contain editing features based on those used in professional software, but made accessible enough for anyone to use in a couple of taps, and music-making apps are reducing the barrier to making listenable sounds. In all cases, this isn’t about you suddenly becoming a professional just because an app is holding your hand – instead, it’s about opening up the experience of artistic creation to a wider audience.Creativity means different things to different people. Apps such as Instagram and Magic Piano do not assume any prior experience in photography and music respectively, but are designed to help novices explore some of the intricacies of both art forms. For example, the grid that Instagram overlays on your photos as you edit them is subtly making you think about the composition of your shots, while its manual controls allow you to apply filters and processes such as vignette or tilt shift, once the preserve of professional photographers.Other apps, such as Vine, cater to different levels of skill. Shooting a six-second loop and sharing it can be done by anyone, but creative micro-film-makers experimenting with stop-motion and visual trickery are producing genuinely imaginative work with it.Similarly, music apps such as Figure are pitched at both a casual audience of music-makers who want to enjoy stringing some beats and melodies together, and professional musicians who want to use it as the audio equivalent of a doodle-pad when waiting for inspiration to strike. Meanwhile, apps like Korg Gadget for musicians and Photoshop Touch for designers are proving that smart devices can fit in to professional creatives’ working lives as useful tools, rather than mobile novelties.Some apps are giving a new digital lease of life to older creative techniques – Dubble with double-exposure photographs, for example, – while others are creating new formats, like Frontback, with its focus on capturing the photographer as well as the scene in front of them.So, you’re not David Bailey just because Instagram helped you share a nice photo of your cat, and you’re not Aphex Twin because a music app helped you make a nice beat. But you’ve had fun enjoying a little bit of the creative experience that those and other artists have made their work. With that in mind, here are 50 of the apps to unlock your creativity – and that of your children too, from coding to storytelling.MusicKorg gadget offers you a bewildering choice of synthesizer sounds.Magic PianoiOS/Android; freemiumMagic Piano is a marvellously creative way to learn to play songs on a virtual piano, or simply to doodle around creating your own. There’s a sizeable catalogue of pop and classical tunes to play along to, and good social features too.FigureiOS; 79pIf techno bloops and beats are your thing, Figure is brilliant. Anyone can use it to create beats, bass lines and melodies in minutes, but it’s also good for professionals, as it can export sounds to other music-making apps.AuxyiOS; freemiumLike Figure, this iPad app takes complex musical tools and makes them accessible to anyone with a slick interface. You create beats and loops by tapping and dragging on the screen, and can then export them to work elsewhere.Korg GadgetiOS; £29.99The price should tell you that this is an app for committed music-makers: it styles itself as “the ultimate mobile synth collection”. Once you know what you’re doing, its virtual machines can produce all manner of enticing noises.djay 2iOS/Android; £7.99Everybody wants to be a DJ, as the song goes, and djay 2 brings that ambition within reach. It’s a virtual pair of steel wheels on which to mix songs from your collection, or even from Spotify, if you’re a paying subscriber.Sing! KaraokeiOS/Android; freemiumFrom the maker of Magic Piano, this has a similar focus on getting you to share your musical talents with the world. You can bellow along to a range of well-known songs alone, or over the network with others.Music Maker JamiOS/Android; freemiumOn PC, Music Maker was one of the first popular mainstream music-making applications. Its modern mobile incarnation is well worth a look: a collection of loops and beats to arrange into tracks.GarageBandiOS; £3.99Apple’s music creation app isn’t quite as powerful as the desktop version, but it’s perfect for working on songs, and then exporting them for a polish later. For beginners, its “smart” instruments help you make a listenable racket, too.VideoYouTube Capture offers a handy means of shooting and sharing footage.VineiOS/Android/Windows; freeLaunched as a way to share short video clips on Twitter, Vine has evolved into an inventive community toying with stop motion, jump cuts and other tricks. Master its editing features and the results can be excellent.ReplayiOS; freeReplay is pitched as a video editor for Instagram but that sells it short: it’s an accessible yet powerful way to blend your photos and clips into short films for social sharing, adding text, music and filters to make them stand out.DubsmashiOS/Android; freeSome apps catch on with the technorati, but Dubsmash is different: it’s a mainstream mini-craze. The app gets you to lip-sync to short audio clips from famous songs, films and speeches, then share. Often silly, but fun.MeerkatiOS; freeThis reallyisa technorati craze: an app for broadcasting video live from your iPhone to Twitter for all to see. Big with tech journalists and Silicon Valley types, it could catch on more widely if people stream more interesting events.vjayiOS; £7.99That’s vjay as in video DJ for this app, which allows you to mix together tunes and videos too. You can import your own clips or use preloaded videos from Snoop Dogg and other artists, and results can be shared online.iMovieiOS; £3.99Apple’s video-editing app is an essential download for iOS film-makers of all abilities. It has many of the powerful features of its desktop parent, but the redesigned touchscreen interface makes it accessible to novices too.Movie Edit TouchAndroid/Windows; freemiumIf you’re looking for a good iMovie alternative, Magix’s Movie Edit Touch is well worth a try. Importing clips, cutting them together and adding a soundtrack is simple, with extra features available as in-app purchases.VycloneiOS/Android/Windows; freeThis should be more popular than it is: when you and several friends are all shooting clips at the same event, it stitches together your footage into multi-angle videos. It’s particularly good for parties and weddings.YouTube CaptureiOS; freeIf you’re keen to just shoot and share on YouTube, the online video service’s app is very handy. You can capture several clips, then rearrange them, add a soundtrack, and let the app tweak the colour and de-wobble your footage.CinamaticiOS; freemiumThis is made by the company behind photography app Hipstamatic, with a similar focus on retro visual effects. Record clips up to 60 seconds long, apply a range of filters and then share to YouTube and various social networks.PhotographyCamera51 claims to be able to improve your photographic compositions.InstagramiOS/Android/Windows; freeThe most popular photo-sharing app, and a more powerful creative tool than many realise. You can choose from its preset filters, but try diving deeper and adjusting your shots’ tone, warmth, shadows and other attributes.Camera51Android; freeIt’s coming to iOS soon, but for now this clever app is Android-only. Its schtick is automatic composition: detecting faces and other key attributes in view, and using that data to guide the shot. It really does work well.PixelmatoriOS; £7.99This could be in the art category, since it includes painting and drawing features. But Pixelmator’s strength is as much about editing your own photographs, adding text, frames, and using one-tap image-improving tools.FrontbackiOS/Android; freeThe name says it all. Frontback takes two pictures when you tap the shutter: one using the front camera on your smartphone, the other using the back camera. It then puts them into one image for sharing.EnlightiOS; £2.99Another editing app, which walks the line between accessibility and complexity perfectly. It has a range of tools for gussying up your snaps, including overlaying one on another, with a view towards social sharing.Camera AwesomeiOS/Android; freemiumHats off to developer SmugMug for coming up with a feature named “Awesomize” – a one-tap process to improve your photo. But it has plenty of smarts beyond that, with filters and presets available.VSCO CamiOS/Android; freemiumVSCO Cam is one of the most established mobile apps: a powerful replacement for the default camera app on your device, with tools to capture shots in the styles you prefer, and a gallery of inspiration from other snappers.FacetuneiOS/Android/Windows; £2.99The idea of a dedicated selfie editor will send many people running for the hills, but Facetune isn’t just for digital narcissists. It’s good for tweaking any portrait shot. You can even remove grey hairs.DubbleiOS; freeA number of apps help you to create double exposures. Dubble’s twist is that it helps you do it with random strangers around the world. It sounds like a novelty, but the results are frequently rather wonderful.PinterestiOS/Android; freeVisual sharing site Pinterest isn’t just about photography, but the ability to post new “pins” from your phone using its camera is one of its best features. If you thrive on spotting beautiful things, create a board and try it.ArtProcreate is an amazing illustration app with a wealth of brushes and tools, as this shows.Paper by FiftyThreeiOS; freemiumLike a digital version of an artist’s sketchbook, with a range of virtual pens and tools to sketch, write and scribble whatever you like – from artworks to diagrams. There’s also a stylus – Pencil – to go with it.Autodesk SketchBookiOS/Android; freemiumAutodesk has plenty of history with graphics apps on computers, and its tablet products reflect that. This is an excellent painting and drawing app at its basic level, with in-app purchases of tools expanding it for pros.Bamboo PaperiOS/Android/Windows; freemiumLike Paper by FiftyThree but also available for Android, this is another digital sketchbook for creatives of all abilities, with plenty of drawing and writing tools, and the ability to share to social networks.Tayasui SketchesiOS; freemiumA lot of artists swear by this over better-known drawing and painting apps. In the right hands, it can produce beautiful images, while its support for pressure-sensitive styli gives it another layer of flexibility.LoopiOS; freeLoop is a joy: it makes “hand-drawn animations” where your scribblings come to life, and can then be shared on Tumblr or saved for other kinds of social sharing. The more you play with it, the more potential you’ll find.Photoshop TouchiOS/Android; £3.99/£6.99Adobe’s Photoshop remains one of the most popular art and editing applications for computers. Its touchscreen-friendly version is impressive too: very good for working on your images on the move, then exporting them.AutoCAD 360iOS/Android; freemiumOne for the professionals, here, with the well-known computer-aided design software translating well to touchscreens. It ties in to a cloud service, so you can easily share your drawings and look at your archives.ProcreateiOS; £4.49There are more brushes than you can shake a stick at in this illustration app – more than 120 in total. Something for every artist, then, and it’s more than capable of handling large, complex work as well as quick sketches.WritingHaikuJAM is a fun collaborative writing app.iA WriteriOS/Android; £7.99Journalists and writers alike swear by this minimalist app, with its interface that gets out of the way when you’re typing, and a “focus mode” that cuts out everything around the current sentence when you really need to concentrate.HaikuJAMiOS/Android; freeThere’s great potential in the idea of collaborative writing using apps, even when it’s just for fun. This gets you writing poetry and stories with other people – friends and strangers alike – as well as reading others’ attempts.FoldpassiOS; freeThis is another collaborative app, but one based purely on haiku writing. You come up with a line, then invite friends to write the next one, before adding an image and sharing the results. There’s something special about the experience.Writing ChallengeiOS/Android; £1.49/£1.29Got writer’s block? This app may help. It gives you a prompt to start writing a story, then throws more ideas in at preset intervals. The results may or may not be good, but it should at least get you back in the rhythm of writing.WattpadiOS/Android; freeA community for free, short and episodic fiction, with a huge catalogue of stories to read. But it’s also a place to write: you can use the app to tap out tales whenever inspiration strikes, then share them.Do Note by IFTTTiOS/Android; freeIf you’re the kind of writer who comes up with lots of ideas, Do Note could be very handy. You set up “recipes” to take action on your notes – whether that’s emailing them to yourself or saving them to Evernote.ChildrenNight Zookeeper uses a magical zoo as an educational tool.Makies FashioniOS/Android; £2.29/£1.99Can children show flair as catwalk designers? They can in Makies Fashion, which encourages kids to create patterns and outfits for virtual characters, then take virtual photos of them posing.MinecraftiOS/Android/Windows; £4.99Just in case there are a few parents who haven’t heard ofMinecraftyet, this isn’t just a game of survival against creepers, spiders and other nasties. It’s a wonderful creative sandbox for building and digital dreaming.Night ZookeeperiOS/Android; freemiumAvailable as a web app rather than a native app – Google it to find it – this is creative drawing and storytelling for children based at a magical zoo. It aims to unlock kids’ imaginations with careful prompting and gameplay.TynkeriOS/Android; freemiumOne of a flurry of apps teaching children programming skills. It takes the form of a series of challenges where they use logic to solve the puzzles. There’s also a sandbox mode where they can make their own games.TeleStoryiOS; freeEven children can be film-makers with mobile devices, as TeleStory shows. It gets youngsters to make their own “TV shows” and music videos, with a range of themes and digital costumes to superimpose.Curious WordsiOS; £1.49More video here: Curious Words gets children to record one-second video clips in response to random words, then turns them into short films with music. The idea is to get them out into the real world looking for material.Gruffalo: PhotoiOS; £1.49Hopefully your children don’t have terrible claws, teeth or tusks, but they can get some of that into their photos with this official Gruffalo app. It lets them take photos, then add in digital stickers of the book’s characters.Disney Frozen: Story TheateriOS; £4.49Disney’s apps are like puppet shows where children pick scenes and characters, then make up their own stories. This does the trick for Frozen, encouraging them to invent new tales involving Elsa, Anna, Olaf and co.
‘A million dollars isn’t cool. You know what’s cool? Abilliondollars.” That immortal line, uttered in the filmThe Social Networkby Justin Timberlake (playing Napster co-founder Sean Parker) to Jesse Eisenberg, playing Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, has become the standard for any startup seeking to make a mark on the world. If you’re not worth a billion dollars, why are you even trying?But we are now seeing valuations of startup companies – often with no appreciable revenue, let alone profit – that might have even Parker whistling.Pinterest, which lets people “pin” images they like to web pages and share them in a social network, last week raised another $367m (£245m)in funding, from a number of investors. That implies the business is now worth some $11bn: about £1bn more than Sainsbury’s. Snapchat, maker of a mobile app that provides short-lived photos and videos in a different social network, has raised $200m from China’s Alibaba, valuing it at a reported $15bn – or more than Marks &amp; Spencer, Ladbrokes and the Wetherspoons pub chain added together.These are some of firms currently attracting the biggest valuations – but can they possibly be worth it?PINTERESTValuation$11bn, after seven rounds of formal fundingBusiness modelUsers see and create pages of “pinned” images taken from all over the web, which they can share with others; advertisers can also put up their own images and get them in front of users, either through sharing or by direct addition. A “buy” button lets people buy things directly.Is it worth the money?“Pinterest knows what its users aspire to,” Ben Thompson, an independent analyst writing at Stratechery.com, said as the latest investment was announced last week. “That may be a vacation, a house or a hobby; it can be a significant event like a wedding or a baby. All of these involve big-ticket purchases as well as the potential formation of lifelong brand affiliations.”That makes it attractive for both brand advertising and direct marketing, he says, especially as 80% of users are women, who can be difficult to reach on other internet sites.Meghan Burns of upmarket clothing chain Vineyard Vines toldForbesmagazine that, with Pinterest, “at least people have shown some intention to be served the content you’re providing them. As a luxury brand, it’s a huge step in the right direction.”Pinterest knows what people are looking at. What it needs next is to persuade its users to buy on the site, and keep buying.Snapchat logoPhotograph: Public domainSNAPCHATValuation$15bnBusiness modelSnapchat provides self-destructing photos and short videos from people in your social network, and recently started offering links to video stories from news organisations such as Sky, Yahoo News,Cosmopolitanand more.Its potential revenue streams include putting adverts into the stream of pictures people see; charging news organisations for visibility; and letting people buy “stickers” (online graphics) to send to their contacts, as WeChat and Line do in China and Japan. The most valuable opportunity could be turning its app into a “platform” that other services could use for payment or other services. They would then be integrated into Snapchat, which would then act almost as an “app store” in its own right, skimming off business.Is it worth the money?Snapchat has more than 100 million monthly active users, and a huge proportion of that total are teenagers, who within a few years will be earning, and (it hopes) still using its service. WeChat (which has 1.1 billion users, with 440 million monthly active users) is expected to achieve revenues of $1.1bn from in-app purchases this year; if Snapchat can grow big enough and get people to use its service in the same way, it could easily make comparable money.BUZZFEEDValuation$850mBusiness modelBuzzFeed is often mistaken for a non-serious news organisation (with people pointing to its love of listicles). But rather as print newspapers’ business model is to bring advertisers and readers together, BuzzFeed aims to bring brands and internet browsers together by creating “native advertising” – viral content built with the brand – which then spreads like wildfire online, carrying the brand’s name. It has more than 900 staff, is profitable and generates revenue of more than $100m annually.Is it worth the money?TheWashington Postis valued at about $250m; Tribune Publishing, owner of theLA Times, about $490m. But BuzzFeed, born in the social internet age, doesn’t care about banner adverts or pay-per-click revenues; it wants people to pass on what they find on its site and reach as big an audience as possible.Marc Andreessen, the co-founder of Netscape, who now runs venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz, recently invested and talks of “a profoundly important new media institution”. It may be the first of the “new newspapers” for the web.UBERValuation$41bnBusiness modelUber insists it is a “ride-sharing” company, rather than a taxi business, which lets it circumvent many inconvenient, and expensive, regulations governing taxi use in cities around the world.It takes a slice from the payments between its customers – the passengers – and drivers it pairs them with, who own their own cars. It owns no vehicles and none of the drivers are employees. By undercutting standard taxi companies, and encouraging people who couldn’t otherwise afford to be taxi drivers to get into the trade, it has unlocked a huge market of willing travellers and car owners.Is it worth the money?Many in Silicon Valley think so, arguing that Uber’s strength lies in its logistics algorithms, which match would-be riders with the location of drivers.Those algorithms could be used for all sorts of other delivery services, so Uber could potentially expand into product delivery to fixed locations. “They have the highest potential of any of the companies on this list,” says Thompson. “They are making a bid to be the physical connection between everyone and everything.” The sky may be the limit.FLIPKARTValuation$11bnBusiness modelEstablished in 2007, Flipkart sells goods online in India via a network of 4,000 sellers and 13 warehouses, from which it ships to 300 cities. In 2013 it changed its business model to a “marketplace” rather than an “inventory” one, to cut the amount of stock it holds.Five out of six Indians who go online visit Flipkart, the company claims, and it has 30 million registered users – three times larger than its nearest rival. It is aiming for annual revenues of about $3bn this year.Is it worth the money?Flipkart is essentially India’s version of Amazon, homegrown and thriving. “It’s all about scale and potential opportunity,” says Neil Shah, an analyst for CounterPoint Research who lives in Delhi. “Flipkart has a huge opportunity to maximise its reach, scale and revenues. It is hiring lots of product and engineering folks and building a “big data” and analytics team to learn more about consumers, purchasing habits and so forth, which will propel it ahead of the competition.”Though Amazon plans to launch in India, Flipkart has the advantage of knowing its audience, in a country where three-quarters of the 800 million population have yet to go online.SHAZAMValuation$1bnBusiness modelThe Shazam mobile app can identify songs, or known sounds (from adverts) and gives users the option to buy the songs directly, or to connect to special offers from brand advertisers.Is it worth the money?Having started as a way to identify (and buy) songs heard on the radio, Shazam is trying toinveigle itself into the £200bn worldwide TV advertising marketby letting advertisers connect to would-be customers – witness the “Shazam now for special offers” messages starting to appear on TV ads.It’s not yet profitable, but insists that’s only because it’s adding staff. As music moves away from downloads to streaming, and TV advertising is squeezed by Google and Facebook, its future isn’t assured. But it is unique.SPOTIFYValuation$5.7bnBusiness modelProvides an advert-supported or subscriber-paid source of all the streaming music you could ever want to listen to (apart from Taylor Swift and a few other holdouts). Listeners don’t “own” the music; it’s streamed to their desktop or mobile device, so requires a decent internet connection – but no CD drive.Is it worth the money?Founded in 2006, Spotify has expanded to 53 countries, covering an internet population of more than 1 billion people, but claims just 50m users worldwide, of whom only 12.5m are paying.Chief executive Daniel Ek is sure people will, eventually, shift to paying the monthly £9.99 subscription. But despite its revenues, Spotify isn’t yet profitable, and about 70% of those revenues go to pay musicians and labels.Meanwhile, similar streaming rivals for paying customers – including Pandora, Deezer, Apple’s Beats and Google’s YouTube – aren’t going away. “A picture emerges of Spotify squeezed in the middle [between Beats and YouTube] … it would be foolish to underestimate the scale of the challenge it faces,” Mark Mulligan of Midia Consulting wrote on hisMusic Industry Blog.• This article was amended on 24 March 2015. It originally said the number of staff working at Buzzfeed was more than 200. It is actually more than 900.
Zombie Army Trilogy comprises three games (Nazi Zombie Army and its two sequels) in which you wander through partially destroyed cities picking off legions of shuffling undead. Rough-looking and lacking any attempt at polish or variety, Zombie Army Trilogy does at least get better over the course of its three outings, the last proving slightly less mindless than the previous two, although still very stupid. If you absolutely love shooting zombies through the head, though, welcome home.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKScreamride, Xbox One/360You’re recruited to work at Screamworks, a fictitious institution that investigates the effects of extreme entertainment on humans, namely the scariness of increasingly terrifying rollercoasters. Along with an Angry Birds-style destruction mini-game and a slightly boring track editor, your job is to accelerate, brake and tip the rollercoaster car, exposing your petrified riders to ever-higher G-forces until you overdo it and the car finally derails. Narration is provided by a cold-hearted female android voice inspired by GlaDOS, the Nurse Ratched-like AI from Portal, giving proceedings a bleak sense of humour. But, like everything else about Screamride, her antics feel rather derivative and half-baked.Microsoft, £17.99-£29.99Vietnam ‘65, iPadYour task in Vietnam ’65 is to help the US military force. It’s as much about logistics as actual fighting, the constant need to resupply troops and artillery giving you a lot to achieve with fragile, easily compromised supply lines. Helicopters, howitzers and troop reinforcements cost political influence, which you replenish by defeating Viet Cong units. Making no moral judgment, this is a tactical military simulation that requires a far deeper understanding of the game’s systems than its withered little tutorial provides. If you don’t mind trawling through reams of instructions, and can cope with its bland acceptance of American interventionism, this is tricky and interesting.Slitherine, £7.99
Released in 1982, the ZX Spectrum brought home-computing to families who couldn’t afford a BBC Micro. Its spongey rubber keyboard let you program in Basic but, more importantly, you could use any old cassette player to load a whole catalogue of games. TheRecreated ZX Spectrum, due out at the end of July, is actually a Bluetooth controller that connects to your smartphone or tablet. You can use it to write Basic programs, play the games available through its own Spectrum app store, or as a Bluetooth keyboard for sending emails and typing documents. Although only at prototype stage, its keyboard is considerably less terrible than you may remember from the decade of shoulder pads. With a price tag of £99.99, it will come with Basic, Chuckie Egg and a bundle of other dear old favourites.
Cars are like hair: you have a good haircut, people comment on it; you have a perfect haircut and no one notices, because they assume your hair has always been like that. So it is with the Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV, a vehicle that’s very quiet, has nothing about its cabin but the most ergonomic comfort, and whose main selling point is the economy and innovation of its fuel system. It is (with a few caveats related to motorway driving, and whether it needs to be quite so big) the car of the future. It makes so much obvious sense that people don’t question it and, as a result, no one credits it with anything, except a capacious boot. “What I like best,” my mother said when she saw it, “is that it’s so much cleaner than your usual car.”The plug-in hybrid element is way more complicated in the explanation than in the driving. You use the battery until the charge is exhausted (Mitsubishi say 32 miles max, but starting from three-quarters full, the gauge promises about 18 miles; though gauges, like doctors, often give the worst-case scenario), then the petrol engine kicks in. An innovative part is the regenerative braking, whereby the battery is powered by the excess generation of petrol power when going downhill, say. You don’t have to worry about that too much, but you do get some input into how regenerative it is, via paddles on the side of the steering; this is a car that pretends you’re the brains while making the decisions for you.On battery mode, it suffers a bit on performance. Complaints were raised when I couldn’t overtake an Ocado van, but their hybrid model is pretty modern as well. In petrol-only motorway driving, performance is great but efficiency isn’t, which makes its boast a bit more modest. City driving is what I’d buy it for, which raises this conundrum: for what earthly purpose would anyone need this elevated carriage, this wide and stately aspect, to tootle about between postcodes? To impress strangers; to breed dogs; that’s it.The interior I’d file under “practical-plush”. It’s not leather, there’s no walnut, but the people in the back feel chauffeured, not squashed, and those in the front feel as if they own the road. There is a lot of noise, though, which some might find a bit melodramatic: the reverse parking camera, for example, bleeps wildly. The first time it happened, I leapt out, thinking I must have crashed into something, since there is no excuse for a noise that loud unless a creature has been killed. I was miles clear of anything.Similarly, the brake noise (“BRAKE, BRAKE”, the beep implores, accompanied by a verbal warning) goes off every time any other vehicle is near you, which, in a city, is always. Otherwise, it shows off only in its size; everything else, it plays pretty cool. Endearing, because it has quite a lot to show off about.Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV 2.0 hybrid GX4hs automatic (petrol): in numbersPriceFrom £28,249 (as tested £34,999); inc government plug-in car grantTop speed106mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11 secondsCombined fuel consumption(min charge) 49mpgCO2emissions44g/kmEco rating(in EV mode) 10/10Cool factor7/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter.
Google manipulated its search results to promote its own services over those of rival websites in ways that led to “real harm to consumers”, a previously unpublished report by American regulators has concluded.The revelations were seized on by those calling for Brussels to challenge Google’s monopoly over search in Europe, and have sparked new claims that the search giant’s financing of Barack Obama’s re-election campaign swayed US regulators.America’s Federal Trade Commission (FTC) voted unanimously to end its investigation into Google in early 2013 after extracting concessions from the silicon valley company.But documents accidentally handed to theWall Street Journalshow the FTC’s own investigators claim Google’s “conduct has resulted – and will result – in real harm to consumers and to innovation in the online search and advertising markets”.The findings, contained in a report produced in 2012 by FTC staff to advise commissioners before their final decision on the case, claim Google also caused “harm to many vertical competitors”.Those who have complained that their businesses were damaged by Google include local directory Yelp, Microsoft and its search engine Bing, and the travel websites TripAdvisor and Expedia.Staff also found Google illegally took content from Yelp, TripAdvisor and Amazon to improve its own services. In one instance, Google allegedly copied Amazon’s rankings for how well products were selling, and used them to rank its own results for product searches. Reviews and ratings were also found to have been lifted from Amazon.Google was also found to have used its muscle to threaten sites that complained about their content being “scraped” or lifted without permission. When competitors asked Google to to stop scraping their content, they were threatened with removal from the search engine rankings, the FTC staff found.In its2013 settlement, the FTC ruled against Google on scraping. Rivals can now opt out of having their content lifted, without fear of being demoted in the search rankings.Google general counsel Kent Walker responded that commissioners concluded no action needed to be taken. He said: “Speculation about potential consumer harm turned out to be entirely wrong. Since the investigation closed two years ago, the ways people access information online have only increased, giving consumers more choice than ever before.”Europe’s new competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager is currently considering whether to adopt a new statement of objections – essentially a charge sheet – against the company. Brussels has been investigating Google’s dominance in search 2011 after a complaint filed by Microsoft, and has rejected three successive remedies put forward by the software giant.The revelations will fuel calls for Vestager to take action, and may dampen concerns that European action against a US company could be seen as protectionist.David Wood, legal counsel to ICOMP, which represents Microsoft, electronics comparison site Foundem and other complainants against Google, said: “These revelations demonstrate that this is not about national interests but about competition problems. It is a fascinating insight into Google’s practices. It’s made public things they didn’t want made public and highlighted discrepancies between what they said in public and what they actually did in the US.”It is claimed the staff report recommended bringing a lawsuit challenging three separate Google practices. But the politically appointed trade commissioners eventually decided to negotiate a series of voluntary concessions from Google rather than embroil their organisation in a costly and high-profile legal battle.Google was the second largest donor to Obama’s campaign for a second term as US president, and has been a leading silicon valley supporter of his administration.Scott Cleland, publisher of the watchdog siteGoogle Monitorand president of the Precursor research firm, said: “Public evidence concerning the sequence of events surrounding the FTC’s closure of its Google search practices investigation creates at least the appearance that politics, and not merits, drove the FTC’s ultimate conclusion.”The FTC said an unredacted copy of the report had been accidentally released, and that it was taking steps to ensure this did not happen again.This article was amended on 20 March 2015 to include a reference to Microsoft as a member of ICOMP and to reflect the FTC’s response.FTC report recommended suing Google for anti-competitive practices
Magic Leap, the “cinematic reality” startup that raised $542m of funding from Google and other investors in 2014, has revealed one of its work-in-progress games in avideo published on YouTube.Its release came as the company’s chief executive Rony Abovitz cancelled a planned speech at the TED conference in Canada, while colleague Graeme Devine pulled out of an Ask Me Anything (AMA) interview on Reddit.“Unfortunately, we couldn’t make it to TED, but we wanted to share one of the things that we’d planned to share at the talk,” explained Magic Leap in the description for its new video, which shows an augmented reality game called Dr Grordbort presents Victory.“This is a game we’re playing around the office right now,” added the listing, with the video indicating that the American firm produced the game with New Zealand-based creative studio Weta Workshop, which has worked on film franchises including The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit.The game is played with physical gun props and an (unseen) headset that overlays robot enemies on the real-world office, shot by pointing the gun and squeezing its trigger. “No robots were harmed in the making of this video,” quips the description.It’s based on steampunk brandDr Grordbort’s, which was created by Weta designer Greg Broadmore, and has spawned a book and several raygun models since 2007.Related:Magic Leap: startup promises a leap forward for virtual realityThe video is one of the first detailed glimpses at what Magic Leap is working on since itcompleted its $542m Series B funding round in October 2014. Google led that round, with its senior vice president of Android, Chrome and apps Sundar Pichai joining the company’s board of directors.Magic Leap is often described as a potential rival to Oculus Rift, the virtual reality firm bought by Facebook for $2bn in 2014.However, there’s an important distinction: Magic Leap appears to be working on augmented reality (AR) – overlaying characters and data on the real world – rather than the entirely-virtual worlds provided by the Oculus Rift headset.A recentprofile by the MIT Technology Reviewdescribed Magic Leap’s prototype product thus:“I’m staring wide-eyed through a pair of lenses attached to what looks like metal scaffolding that towers over my head and contains a bunch of electronics and lenses. It’s an early prototype of the company’s so-called cinematic-­reality technology, which makes it possible for me to believe that the muscular beast with the gruff expression and two sets of swinging arms is actually in the room with me, hovering about seven feet in front of my face.He’s not just visible at a set distance. I’m holding a video-game controller that’s connected to the demo station, and at the press of a button I can make the monster smaller or larger, move him right or left, bring him closer, or push him farther away.”Magic Leap is more of a direct rival forMicrosoft’s Hololens, then, although some observers of the AR and VR worlds think they’ll ultimately merge, if headsets capable of both are released.There remains the question of why Magic Leap pulled out of two planned public interviews before releasing its video demo. “I am unfortunately restricted from saying more than this right now,” the company’s spokespersontold Recode.As that site hints, one reason for pulling public appearances at short notice would be if Magic Leap were about to be acquired. If so, Google would be the prime candidate, given its investment and board-level involvement in the company.
Out, damn’d spot! Out, I say! One; two: why, then‘tis time to do’t. Hell is murky. Fie, my lord, fie, a soldier, andafeard? What need we fear who knows it, when none can call ourpow’r to accompt? Yet who would have thought the old man tohave had so much blood in him?”Lady Macbeth was a gamer. She saw in the feudal chaos of Glamis and its environs a chance to play the system and win. Her mission objective was to eliminate King Duncan and take his power, and with her husband she succeeded. But this game of thrones hid from her a terrible mechanic. Guilt.Remorse is something we rarely experience in video games. For the last 20 years designers have toyed with the idea of culpability and consequence, of getting players to consider their actions in moral terms. Fallout 3 had its karma system, which rated player actions as good or evil, affecting their reputations with any non-player characters they met. Bioshock famously provided us with a choice of whether to harvest or rescue the little sisters. And Mass Effect judged actions on a dual system which shaped lead character Commander Shepard as a “Paragon” or a “Renegade”. These systems are all flawed of course – morality is not a binary paradigm – but they at least attempted to frame player actions in a way that wasn’t purely systematic.However, asking a player to feel guilt, and recognising the consequences of that guilt in gameplay form, is much more rare. Action adventure games tend to be linear, both in environmental and narrative terms: they point forwards. Mechanically speaking, guilt is essentially retroactive morality. How can that work in a video game challenge system?This is potentially a big problem for designers hoping to create narrative experiences of true depth and meaning. Guilt is, after all, a defining human trait. For some of us, it is a sort of residual, a background hum. Guilt is emotional tinnitus. Whenever I’m idle for a few minutes, I have this Microsoft Paperclip-style voice in my head: “I see you are trying to relax; can I present you with some of the dumb shit you’ve done today?” And then I think about not kissing my kids goodbye that morning because I was angry with them, or that hour I spent trying to land a helicopter on the top of a moving truck in Grand Theft Auto V when I should have been writing something. Or I think of people I’ve hurt, or not been in contact with, or have let down. It spirals outwards and forever. A universe of guilt, lit by vast supernovas of self-recrimination. That’s normal right?I can remember a handful of times I’ve felt truly guilty in games, and it has been extremely powerful. In the psychological horror adventure Heavy Rain lead character Ethan is given a series of tasks by the unknown murderer who has kidnapped his son. One of them is to kill a lowlife drug dealer, but just as the player is set to pull the trigger, the dealer reveals that he has children, that he’s desperate, that he’s human. What do you do? I shot him, but felt bad about it – and my guilt was unconnected to the in-game ramifications.There are very similar moments in Telltale’s excellent Walking Dead adventures, where the player is often required to choose between two characters to save, or even to sacrifice certain people for the greater good. Moral and social consequence are also built into the conversation system, with the ominous textual warning that a character will remember something you’ve said to them. Those warnings would often haunt me through the rest of the chapter – just like the way that in real life, I tend to constantly replay conversations and events, looking for a better way I could have handled things.What’s really interesting about this is that players complain about how moral systems in games are too systematic. In games with morality gauges, like Fallout and the Fable series, players often find themselves thinking not “what is the morally correct thing to do in this situation?” but “what does the game require me to do in order to ‘win’?”. This is often seen as a failure of game mechanics: it’s not a true moral conundrum if there’s a victory state dependent on our choice. But then, is this really a failure? There’s a whole branch of moral philosophy, deontology, which considers how much our ethical systems are based on external sociocultural rules and duty. Do we avoid doing bad things because we’re inherently moral, or because we have laws? What’s the true imperative behind moral behaviour? Perhaps morality is just a rule system.Which is why guilt is so fascinating as a game component – it can exist both inside and outside of the mechanics, and it can permeate the whole experience. In the sci-fi strategy game XCOM, players can name the characters themselves, and many of us choose to use the names of friends and relatives. Almost by accident, this brings to the game an almost unconscious guilt mechanic – you feel bad about endangering the character named after your boyfriend, or pet dog, or mum; maybe you even protect that character, placing them at the back of the pack. And when you make a stupid mistake, or overlook a threat, and they’re killed, you feel a twinge of remorse that is greater than if the character had just been named, say, Dr Dirk Danger (apologies if this is, indeed, the name of your boyfriend).Guilt can add a framework to narrative and action. Macbeth is the obvious example of a story in which guilt is the driving force, and games could certainly learn from it. There’s the common joke about Uncharted – that Nathan Drake is presented in the cut-scenes as a loveable rogue, and yet during action sequences he’s effectively a sadistic serial killer. Even Joel in The Last of Us, a character racked with guilt from a narrative standpoint, is still a remorseless killer when the player takes over. That is of course, an efficient system. Gamers don’t really want a character who breaks down crying during a tense fighting sequence. But then, if we’re going to produce truthful narratives, that sort of thing should probably happen. And it would be sort of fascinating.One game that really does guilt well is This War of Mine, 11 Bit Studio’s gruelling strategy sim which gives players control over a group of civilian survivors in a war-torn city. There are moments where certain characters under your control will get the chance to steal from or even murder other people to get hold of vital supplies. However, that character may then become depressed and despondent, refusing to leave the shelter, refusing to answer to the player’s mouse clicks. Suddenly we’re in a moral universe where the player must consider the psychological effect of violence. Suddenly mental health is a system.Developed by Polish team 11bit Studios, This War of Mine seeks to simulate the civilian experience of war, including moral guiltPhotograph: 11bit StudiosMeanwhile, Papers Please, a game that puts you in control of a border guard processing immigrants to a repressive regime, is effectively a machine of guilt. Desperate people arrive at your desk, hoping to be allowed entry, and you have to deal with a certain number every day or your family goes hungry. The personal stories of misery and hope these people present you with soon become annoyances to your efficient bureaucracy. Furthermore, the arbitrary rules of entry, which change on a daily basis, render many applications doomed from the start. You just have to turn these people away, their dreams dashed, and you do it quickly to earn more cash. It is incredibly profound. It is about systemised inhumanity. It is about guilt.It wouldn’t work in all games of course. I can’t really imagine the concept of post-traumatic stress disorder working its way into a Call of Duty title (although Spec Ops: The Line certainly toyed with the concept in a very interesting and provocative way). But as narrative adventures continue to mature, it’s getting harder to reconcile the indefatigability of controllable characters with the resonance that designers want to achieve.As Lady Macbeth discovered to her cost, terrible actions weigh on us; they have a price and the debt echoes through our lives. Moral decisions are only truly interesting in a game if their consequences keep coming back. If your player character becomes less efficient with a weapon after every kill, if they become withdrawn, or slower, or fail to level up, how does this change how we play? What if the challenge isn’t just about accuracy or speed with a weapon: what if it becomes, “will there be psychologicalconsequencesif I use this weapon?”In a game that married This War of Mine’s remorse mechanic withShadow of Mordor’s Nemesis system, we’d have something approaching a moral universe in which individuals matter and lives have meaning – and in which, after the instantaneous pleasure of the action, guilt would stain like blood on the hands.
The weekly Android apps roundup has been on hiatus since the end of 2014 in favour of a monthly collection, but there’ve been plenty of comments on related apps articles requesting a return to a more regular column.Well, here it is: the revived best Android apps of the week (and the same for iOS) – it will be reverting to a weekly roundup from now on.As before, apps that use in-app purchases will be marked with (Free + IAP) rather than (Free). Prices are correct at the time of writing, but they can rise or drop at a moment’s notice, so if you’re coming to this feature late, be aware of that.On with this week’s crop!APPSStar Walk 2 (£1.96)While the UK recovers from watching this morning’s sky full of grey cloud eclipse, how about an app for stargazing? Star Walk 2 is a sequel to the popular astronomy app, helping you identify and learn about constellations, planets and satellites. And if your children are interested, there’s also the newStar Walk Kids app.Tinkerplay (Free)Tinkerplay is Autodesk’s latest app tapping in to the emerging market of 3D printing. It’s a creative app for creating “fun characters, scary creatures or anything else”, snapping body parts together using the touchscreen interface, then – if you have the necessary hardware – printing them out.Swipes - Plan Tasks (Free)I’m constantly in search of the app that will bring order to my work-life chaos. Swipes looks like a fighting contender: a to-do list app that includes a timeline for your daily plans and – uh-oh – the ability to “snooze” tasks for later.Connect (Free + IAP)There are quite a few apps trying to replace the default contacts app on your smartphone. Connect, the latest, looks interesting: aggregating your email, phone and social networking contacts, plotting them on a map, and pulling in their social updates too.Atari Fit (Free + IAP)Atari may be best known for its arcade games, but this is something of a curveball: a mobile fitness app. It encourages you to work out – with more than 100 exercises included – rewarding you with coins to unlock games like Pong, Super Breakout and Centipede. It’ll also connect to apps like RunKeeper and Google Fit, or activity-tracking devices from the likes of Fitbit and Jawbone.Dr. Panda’s Ice Cream Truck (£0.79)Dr Panda has become a familiar brand for tens of millions of children over the last couple of years. Now he’s back with a playful ice-cream-making game that gets kids concocting treats for an array of cartoon animals.Gojimo: GCSE, A Level Revision (Free)It’ll soon be exam revision time for teenagers in the UK, and this is one of the apps hoping to help them make the most of their swotting. It covers all the main subjects, maths and English included, with students able to choose their specific exam board to ensure they’re only revising useful information.Ultimate Fan Live (Free)This app combines fantasy football – the soccer kind of football, since you ask – and social networking features. Designed to be played along with English Premier League and Champions League matches, you choose players, trigger power-ups during real games and try to beat friends.Tradiio Music (Free + IAP)Tradiio isn’t the first app trying to help you discover new music by turning bands into a virtual stock exchange, but it’s good fun. You invest in songs, and earn virtual currency if they catch on with other players. Its long-term success will depend on the quality of the music that it spotlights.Montessori Math City (£2.49)Another educational app for children, this. It’s a maths app helping kids learn to count up to 1,000 using Montessori teaching methods. Children mark their progress by collecting items for their virtual city.Five Nights at Freddy’s 3 for Android.GAMESFive Nights at Freddy’s 3 (£2.39)The Five Nights at Freddy’s games are all excellent: spooky, inventive adventures set in a pizza parlour staffed by animatronic creatures. Horror movie fans will see the flaw in that plan. This latest version refines the formula well.Stick Cricket 2 (Free + IAP)The original Stick Cricket game remains a marvellous time-sucker, and while not all App Store reviewers love this sequel, there’s plenty to enjoy. Your job is to batter runs against increasingly talented bowlers, with a varied career mode to work your way through.Frozen Synapse Prime (£2.99)Sci-fi strategy game Frozen Synapse is a treat on any platform, including this new “Prime” version for Android. There’s plenty to get your teeth into as you explore its 40 solo missions, learning the best tactics to get the most out of your team.King of Thieves (Free + IAP)King of Thieves is the work of Cut the Rope developer ZeptoLab: an action-puzzle game based on stealing gold and setting traps to keep your own loot safe. It’s colourful and the asynchronous multiplayer is well-worked.Angry Birds Stella POP! (Free + IAP)Just like the Bubble Witch Saga games, this takes its inspiration squarely from classic console series Bust-a-Move / Puzzle Bobble. You fire coloured bubbles at other coloured bubbles to make matches of three or more, except here (obviously) there are pigs and Rovio’s Angry Birds Stella characters. Unoriginal, maybe, but nicely done.Dungeon Hunter 5 (Free + IAP)If swords, monsters and dungeon-crawling are your thing, Dungeon Hunter 5 is well worth a look – as long as you’re not harbouring fond memories of earlier games in this series that weren’t freemium. It looks good and there’s fun to be had, but it can sometimes feel a bit over-aggressive in nudging you to pay.MiniDrivers (Free + IAP)Sitting somewhere between Mario Kart and Micro Machines, this pocket-sized racer sees you speeding around 20 tracks grabbing power-ups to see off rival drivers. Neat graphics and unaggressive in-app purchases add up to a satisfying package.Lego Marvel Super Heroes (£3.30 + IAP)The latest in Legos line of branded action games is as fun as ever, with a host of Marvel superheroes available to play – from Spider-Man to Wolverine. There are 45 missions to explore, with pixel-perfect graphics and plenty of fun to be had.Dark Echo (£1.49)Warning: this game includes “a horrifying evil that devours both sound and souls”. Insert your own UKIP / Justin Bieber / Jeremy Clarkson joke here, obviously. But then explore what’s one of the most innovative Android games this year: 80 levels of creepy sound-visualised adventuring.Table Tennis Touch (£2.99)Finally, one of the most playable sports games on iOS makes its way to Android in the form of Table Tennis Touch, where your on-screen swipes translate beautifully to smashes and slices against a series of increasingly-tough opponents.Those are my choices, now tell me yours. What Android apps and games have been floating your boat this week and/or what do you think of the apps above? The comments section is open for your thoughts.
Yes, it’s back. The weekly roundups of iOS and Android apps went on hiatus at the end of 2014 in favour of monthly collections.However, after a number of comments on app-related articles asking for the weekly rundowns to come back, it’s clear there’s still a demand. So, this column is getting back in the saddle for both platforms.Here’s this week’s roundup, casting its net back to the beginning of March. The Android roundup will follow later in the day, and from now on, the roundups will be back to their usual Friday publishing schedule.As before (Free) means fully free, while (Free + IAP) indicates use of in-app purchases. Prices for paid apps are correct at the time of writing, but if you’re coming to the piece a few weeks (or even days) later, they may have changed.Related:The best iPhone apps of 2014APPSHERE (Free)Nokia’s HERE app has been on iOS before, but was removed from the App Store in late 2013 after falling foul of Apple’s iOS 7 update. Now it’s back and completely revamped: a slick maps and navigation app that gives Apple and Google’s offerings a run for their money – especially with its offline feature.iPhoneGoogle Calendar (Free)Talking of Google, the company has finally got around to making a standalone iOS app for its Google Calendar service. A clean, clear design and the ability to pull in your iCloud calendar data make it a handy replacement for the default iOS calendar app.iPhoneSnow White by Nosy Crow (£3.99)Nosy Crow has made its name with a series of beautifully-crafted fairytale apps for children, and Snow White doesn’t dent the run of form. It tells the familiar story in an engaging, interactive way with the emphasis always on reading, rather than touchscreen gimmicks.iPhone / iPadEnlight (£2.99)Enlight is one of the best photo-editing apps available for iPhone: simple to use to quickly tweak your pics, but with powerful features to dig in to if you want to spend a bit more time. Filters, double exposures, photo correction tools and simple social sharing are all impressive.iPhoneTinkerplay (Free)Tinkerplay is Autodesk’s latest app tapping in to the emerging market of 3D printing. It’s a creative app for creating “fun characters, scary creatures or anything else”, snapping body parts together using the touchscreen interface, then – if you have the necessary hardware – printing them out.iPhone / iPadYousician Guitar (Free + IAP)Yousician is the latest app hoping to teach you how to play guitar (or, if you already play, how to improve). It’s a comprehensive catalogue of lessons and songs to play along to with your real guitar, using the microphone to “listen” to you and provide feedback. A premium subscription for unlimited play-time costs £14.99 a month.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014Meerkat (Free)Meerkat is the buzz app of this year’s SXSW conference in Austin, but will it be an enduring hit like Twitter, the buzz app of SXSW 2007? Meerkat is an app for broadcasting video live from your iPhone to an audience drawn from your Twitter followers – who can comment as you film.iPhone / iPadAtari Fit (Free + IAP)Atari may be best known for its arcade games, but this is something of a curveball: a mobile fitness app. It encourages you to work out – with more than 100 exercises included – rewarding you with coins to unlock games like Pong, Super Breakout and Centipede. It’ll also connect to apps like RunKeeper and Apple’s Health, or activity-tracking devices from the likes of Fitbit and Jawbone.iPhoneWikiwand: Faster Wikipedia Reader (Free)Not that impressed by the official Wikipedia app, but want something beyond accessing its website from your iPhone’s browser? Wikiwand is worth a look. It’s a neatly designed interface to the popular online encyclopaedia.iPhoneElmer’s Photo Patchwork (£1.99)This is a brilliant app for getting your children out and about in the real world. Based on fictional elephant Elmer, it gets them to take photographs to use as the textures on a collection of 10 patchwork characters. Ideal for exploration to find interesting colours and shapes in the outside world.iPhone / iPadStick Cricket 2 for iOS.GAMESStick Cricket 2 (Free + IAP)The original Stick Cricket game remains a marvellous time-sucker, and while not all App Store reviewers love this sequel, there’s plenty to enjoy. Your job is to batter runs against increasingly talented bowlers, with a varied career mode to work your way through.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014Angry Birds Stella POP! (Free + IAP)Just like the Bubble Witch Saga games, this takes its inspiration squarely from classic console series Bust-a-Move / Puzzle Bobble. You fire coloured bubbles at other coloured bubbles to make matches of three or more, except here (obviously) there are pigs and Rovio’s Angry Birds Stella characters. Unoriginal, maybe, but nicely done.iPhone / iPadEpic War TD 2 (£2.29)This is one of the best-looking tower defence games on iOS, as you marshal your towers to destroy onrushing enemies across 50 missions. “No gimmicks,” promises its App Store listing and while a few more interesting gimmicks might be welcome, it’s still a rewarding play.iPhone / iPadSwapQuest (£2.29)There’s something truly charming about this pixelly cross between a puzzler and an RPG game. You have to guide your character through the kingdom of Aventana by dragging paths into place, while also battling monsters and looting chests.iPhone / iPadRyan North’s To Be Or Not To Be (£4.49)“William Shakespeare’s Hamlet has finally been restored to its original second-person non-linear branching narrative format,” chirps the App Store listing for this. The sharp humour runs throughout this narrative-led game, as fun if you’re a Shakespeare buff as for complete newcomers to the Bard.iPhone / iPadDungeon Hunter 5 (Free + IAP)If swords, monsters and dungeon-crawling are your thing, Dungeon Hunter 5 is well worth a look – as long as you’re not harbouring fond memories of earlier games in this series that weren’t freemium. It looks good and there’s fun to be had, but it can sometimes feel a bit over-aggressive in nudging you to pay.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Card Crawl (£1.49)Another game that may sound like a niche: a dungeon-crawling game where you slay monsters and collect gold by laying down virtual cards. But it’s very nicely done, and is accessible enough to appeal to a wide audience.iPhone / iPadTouchTone (£2.29)Get your NSA on with this stylish security-themed game, where you have to decrypt suspicious messages to “help make our nation safer and stronger!” The satirical intent is clear, but this is also an engrossing puzzler.MiniDrivers (Free + IAP)Sitting somewhere between Mario Kart and Micro Machines, this pocket-sized racer sees you speeding around 20 tracks grabbing power-ups to see off rival drivers. Neat graphics and unaggressive in-app purchases add up to a satisfying package.iPhone / iPadPixel Heroes: Byte &amp; Magic (£4.99)More dungeons in this excellent indie RPG/roguelike game, with more weapons, hero classes and random events than you can shake a massive, sharp axe at. It’s got humour, pixel-perfect visual charm and plenty of depth.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what apps have you been using for iPhone and/or iPad lately? All recommendations welcome in the comments section, as well as feedback – positive or negative – on the apps above.
The Chromebook Pixel is Google’s vision of what a computer should be like – with a high-resolution screen, excellent battery life and solid aluminium body, with apps and data stored in the cloud.But the Pixel is a contradiction – at £799 it’s an expensive machine that uses an operating system designed for cheap computers.Aluminium, glass and glowing stripsThe aluminium body feels solid, with no give anywhere giving you the confidence that it’s built to last.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMost Chromebooks cost under £250 and are made from cheaper materials and with low-end specifications.The Pixel is machined from high-grade matt aluminium similar to high-end ultrabooks, and using high-end components. The design is understated and minimal, with squared edges and subtle branding.A single light-up strip in the lid indicates whether the computer is on. Double-tap it with the lid closed and it’ll show you the current battery level.Open, it looks like any other high-end laptop, with a full-sized backlit chiclet keyboard that’s well-made with good responsive keys, a smooth glass multi-touch trackpad and a black glass touchscreen.It has speakers hidden under the keyboard that distort at maximum volume, but are quite loud and clear.The trackpad and keyboard match those priced at around £1,000.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe screen is excellent, with deep blacks and accurate colours. It is also higher-resolution than most other laptops, rivalling Apple’s retina displays and Dell’s new Ultrasharp QHD+ in pixel density, which makes text, objects and images pin-sharp and very easy to read.In common with Apple’s retina displays and modern smartphones and tablets, the Pixel defaults to a resolution that isn’t the maximum the screen can display, making objects on the screen tiny, but one that uses the extra pixels to render the objects in higher clarity with sharper edges referred to as a “HiDPI”.At 1.5Kg the Pixel is light enough to stuff into a backpack and is lighter than a 1.58Kg 13in MacBook Pro, but heavier than Dell’s 1.26Kg XPS 13 and Apple’s 0.92Kg MacBook. It’s also 15.3mm thick, which is thinner than both the 18mm thick 13in MacBook Pro and the 20mm thick Dell XPS 13. Apple’s super-thin 13.1mm-thick MacBook has it beat, however.SpecificationsScreen:12.85in 2560 x 1700 resolution (239 pixels per inch)Processor:2.2GHz Intel Core i5RAM:8GBStorage:32GB, SD card readerConnectivity:Wi-Fi (802.11ac), Bluetooth 4.0, USB3.0, USB type CCamera:720p wide angle web camDimensions:297.7 x 224.6 x 15.3mmWeight:1.5KgOver 12 hours per chargeChrome is stamped on the machine just above the keyboard and on the hinge on the back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe outside of the Pixel is more premium than any other Chromebook, but so are the components on the inside, which could be described as overkill for something that’s designed to live in the cloud and uses an operating system that’s basically just a web browser.The 2.2GHz Core i5 processor with 8GB of RAM make everything super smooth. Web pages load noticeably faster on the Pixel than most other computers I’ve tested, while apps from the Chrome store are snappy and responsive.Chrome OS doesn’t have any demanding apps, so it’s difficult to see why it needs to be quite so powerful. The touchscreen is also accurate and responsive, and comes in handy for pinch to zoom gestures, scrolling and simple taps.The Pixel has two USB C ports, two USB 3.0 ports, an SD card reader and a headphones port.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pixel is well equipped with ports and connectivity. The usual suspects of Bluetooth 4.0 and Wi-Fi 802.11ac are present, as are two USB 3.0 ports and an SD card reader. It also has two USB type-C ports, one either side of the machine. They’re used for charging as well as multiple inputs and outputs including connecting to external displays. A USB C to HDMI or DisplayPort adapter will be required, however.One of the criticisms of the previous generation of Pixel released in 2013 was poor battery life. The new 2015 Pixel has almost everything roundly trounced. It’s rated for 12-hours per charge, but I easily saw 13 hours plus in general usage.Charging via USB C and the very Apple-like charger is easy and fast, with a full charge taking about two hours or up to two hours battery life after charging for about 15 minutes. The Pixel can be charged from either USB C port, which is very handy.The touch-sensitive strip on the lid lights up to show current battery level.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe only thing Google skimped on for the Pixel was storage, fitting only 32GB of flash. Google intends for everything but a few local files to be stored in the cloud and gives users 1TB of space on Google Drive for three years with every Pixel purchase.Considering there are no real applications to download and Google Music stores it all in the cloud, 32GB will be enough for most. More can be added via the SD card slot or a USB flash drive if needed.Chrome, with a few Android appsChrome OS is essentially an operating system built around a browser, but it can also run a limited selection of Android apps.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pixel runs Google’s Chrome OS, which is essentially a whole computer based around the company’s Chrome browser. That generally limits the functionality to only things that can be done with a web browser, which people stuck using traditional computers might be surprised to find out is most things.Office duties, emailing, messaging, image editing, streaming music and video can all be done through the browser. The only thing I’ve struggled to do with the Pixel is edit video, but even some things can be done with a few web apps.Chrome OS can also run a selection of Android apps, which helps expand what can be done. Evernote and Wunderlist are a few of my favourites. But Chrome OS cannot run applications such as Apple’s iTunes or Adobe’s Photoshop.Generally speaking, Chrome OS can do 95% of what people need to do with a computer, easily and efficiently 95% of the time. The trouble comes when you need to do something it can’t that a regular PC or Apple laptop could.It is possible to install Linux on the Pixel, and the majority of developers who own one will likely do that, which opens up a whole other application ecosystem.USB C is the new smaller, reversible USB port that’s got support from the whole computer industry and is likely to appear on all new machines in the near future.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Google Chromebook Pixel costs £799. A more powerful version with an Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB of RAM and a 64GB SSD costs £999. For comparison, Dell’s XPS 13 with a similar display costs £1,099 and Apple’s 13in MacBook Pro costs £999.VerdictThe Google Chromebook Pixel 2015 is undoubtedly the best Chrome OS computer. It’s also a very good laptop, competing on hardware terms with the very best of them.But while Chrome OS is very capable most of the time, and makes for an excellent second computer for browsing the web and other light duties, it can’t run traditional Windows or OS X apps. That 5% of the time when a full application like iTunes is needed, or some video needs editing, or an image needs heavy editing in a powerful piece of software such as Photoshop, that’s where Chrome OS falls down.For £800 the Pixel is overkill as a Chromebook, but it is a fantastic Chromebook and if that’s what’s required, then the Pixel is perfect. For most people, that £800 is better spent on a PC or Mac laptop.Pros:fast, aluminium body, fantastic high resolution screen, 12+ hours battery, USB C, zero maintenance requiredCons:Chrome OS still limited for some things, three to four times the price of other Chromebooks, very little local storageThe Pixel is thinner and lighter than most of the competition, despite its blocky design.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLIVE on#Periscope: Chromebook Pixel 2015 - hands on - ask us questions!https://t.co/uXr3Q1ceSq&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)April 13, 2015Other reviews•Five best laptops to suit any budget•Microsoft Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet•Which £400 laptop for university?•Should I upgrade or replace my old Windows XP netbook?
Friday! Don’t look directly at the sun!
