Research company Gartner hasslashed its forecast for PC sales growth for 2011, cutting it to just 3.8% annual growth – a total of 352m units – after having forecast 9.8% growth only three months ago, and 15.9% growth at the start of the year.Ranjit Atwal, Gartner's research director, warned that PC manufacturers do not have any "compelling" reason for people to buy their products, and that the increasingly pessimistic outlook in the western economies is causing both consumers and businesses – which each make up about half of PC purchasing – to hold back from purchases.At rival research firm IDC, which in June cut its forecast from 7.1% growth to 4.2% growth, Eszter Morvay, its PC analyst for Europe, Middle East and Africa, agreed that mature markets are seeing a slowdown as budget-conscious consumers put off replacing their existing PCs, and opt instead for smartphones or "media tablets" – principally Apple's iPad.Gartner has been downgrading its forecasts for PC sales repeatedly this year: in December 2010 it was forecasting that there would be around 406.6m sold, representing 15.9% growth. By March, itchopped that to 387.8m, which would have been a 10.5% increase. The latest estimate means that it has wiped out an expected 54m PC sales in nine months.PC annual sales growth actual (1998-2010) and forecast revisions by GartnerIn March Atwal also warned that tablets would begin cannibalising sales of low-end PCs such as netbooks – a scenario that has begin to play out in the mature markets of North America and Europe, where between 80% to 90% of PC sales are replacements for existing machines. Speaking to the Guardian on Thursday, Atwal said: "PCs can now provide consumers and businesses with much more processing power than they actually need in most cases. Some manufacturers have been talking about video as driving the next big demand for new hardware, but a lot of that processing has moved to the cloud, so that's not really there."PC vendors need to be really innovative to attract new customers, but it will take an entire year if not more. They need Microsoft to release Windows 8 and Intel to get onto the same page." But with Windows 8 not expected until the fourth quarter of 2012, that leaves buyers with no strong reason to upgrade, he suggested. "It's a real indictment of the state of PCs," he said.Morvay said that low-end PCs were now seeing "budget cannibalisation" as consumers tried to choose between notebook machines and tablets at almost the same price. "In Europe, the average selling price of a media tablet in the second quarter was €445; the average selling price for a PC was €507. But 60% of portables sell for less than €499. So there's direct 'budget cannibalisation', as we call it: people have to make a choice between a €400 tablet or portable PC."The choice they seem to be making is for the tablet, she said – which has meant that for the first time, Euope is seeing a fall in portable sales, something which didn't happen even during the credit crunch and recession that began in 2008. "Currently the installed base of portables is fairly young, so people are looking for other devices. Computer renewals will pick up eventually, but there will be a shift to other devices."Atwal said that even in geographic regions where PC sales growth is robust, and only about 50% of sales are replacements, buyers were sometimes holding off PCs: "emerging market growth is OK, but isn't at the speed that might have been expected because users are looking at other devices before PCs," he said. "They're buying phones, smartphones and even cheap tablets."
A survey of more than 650 European business leaders conducted by broadcaster CNBC has found that the proliferation of news apps has reduced their use of news websites from their mobile devices in 2011.According to the Europe's Mobile Elite 2011 survey, accessing news websites from mobile devices has fallen by 10% compared to 2010. News apps, meanwhile, are the most popular application genre for the respondents, with 75% saying they use them – well ahead of weather (54%) and social networking (39%).CNBC thinks that websites will continue to lose ground to apps on mobile devices among business leaders. However, with the Financial Times nowfocusing on its HTML5 web appafter its native iOS app was removed from Apple's App Store, there is a case to be made for a potential resurgence in web-based news browsing from this demographic.The survey also looked at social networking habits, finding that 77% of the executives have Facebook accounts, down from 81% in 2010's survey. In the same time period, LinkedIn has climbed from 52% to 56%, while Twitter has grown from 30% to 38%. However, use of Twitter as a business and marketing tool has grown from 31% in 2010 to 61% in 2011, marking a sharp rise in its adoption by European companies.Of the individual executives using Twitter, the average executive now has 167 followers, up from 99 in 2010. Meanwhile, LinkedIn connections have increased from 88 to 145 in the same period.CNBC also looked at device ownership among the 650 business leaders. It claims that Apple's iPhone is now the most popular "personal mobile device", with 21% of respondents owning it in 2011, up from 19% in 2010. That means it is ahead of BlackBerry, although it's worth noting that 20% of respondents own RIM devices, up from 18% in 2010. Android rose from 8% to 14%, meanwhile.15% of the survey respondents own an iPad, with 77% of those saying they use it as a work and leisure device, and 49% saying they share it with their children."Europe's business elite is striving to keep up with advancements in technology, reflected with an uptake in mobile devices, apps, and use of social networks blurring the lines between work and home-life," says Mike Jeanes, CNBC's EMEA director of research. "They increasingly see the value of social media in business and are actively using these new technologies as an everyday business tool."
Russia's answer to Amazon,Ozon.ru, has raised $100m (£62.5m) in what it says is the largest-ever funding round by a Russian internet firm.The online retailer raised the fund from a coalition of venture capital firms, including Skype investor Index Ventures and Rakuten, the Japanese internet shopping giant.Ozon.ru is Russia's largest online retailer, shipping everything from CDs to books and clothing. The Moscow-based firm had 5.2 million registered users last year, and revenues jumped 34% year on year to $137m, according to the company.Maelle Gavet, chief executive of Ozon.ru, said: "We are [the] leader in our field, and as internet penetration rates gather pace we can expect to see our business expand further."Like Amazon, Ozon has expanded sales of physical CDs and books to ebooks and downloads. Gavet told the Guardian that Ozon is leading the drive to get people to pay in Russia, a country that has a "piracy endemic".Piracy of video games and music has long been considered a serious problem for Russia's internet economy. Mail.ru Group, Russia's largest internet firm,warned in May that illicit downloading could hold back the country's online ambitions, following its $1bn Wall Street flotation.Gavet said: "The only way to fight against Russia's endemic piracy is through wider choice and [by making music downloads] more easily available."With more than 60 million internet users, Russia is Europe's second largest online market, behind Germany. However, the proportion of Russian households with web access remains lower than other large internet markets, at just 43%.According to a November 2010 study by Google Russia and Citibank, Russians were expected to spend 600bn roubles (£12.7bn) online using credit cards – which relatively few Russians own – last year. That figure is expected to rise to 800bn roubles in 2012.Despite a string of Wall Street flotations this year from internet firms based in Russia and China, Gavet insists her firm is in no rush to go public."[After this $100m funding round] we won't need new money at least for another two months," she joked. "I'd be lying to say that an IPO was not on my mind, but at the minute we're focused on making the business work."The Russian search engine Yandex made its Wall Street debut in May in a flotation that valued the company at $8bn. Yandex shares have fallen 23% since the IPO, but the company's market capitalisation this week stood at $9.6bn.Gavet said she didn't understand the logic of the valuations attached to many newly public internet firms. She declined to say whether Ozon made a profit in its past financial year.The $100m funding round was led by existing Ozon investor ru-Net, along with Rakuten, Swiss venture capital firm Alpha Associates and Index Ventures. Baring Vostok Private Equity Fund remains the largest shareholder in Ozon.ru ,but did not participate in the funding round.Russian venture capital companies have taken stakes in a number of western companies. Moscow-based Mail,ru, formerly known as Digital Sky Technologies,is one of the biggest investors by value in Facebook, having put more than $300m into it.
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationPingMe MessengerRadiumOne's PingMe Messenger is the latest group messaging app targeting a number of smartphones, starting with iPhone, Android and BlackBerry. It includes location features, status updates and – competing with its rivals – is entirely free.iPhone / Android / BlackBerryGrand Prix StoryJapanese developer Kairosoft has made a name for itself with quirky, addictive business games: Game Dev Story and Mega Mall Story among them. Grand Prix Story is fresh out for iPhone, and applies the company's formula to... well, Formula 1. It has been available on Android for some time already.iPhone / AndroidVidRhythmVidRhythm is the first iOS app from Harmonix, of Rock Band and Dance Fever console fame. This isn't a music game, though: it's a music video creation app that splices your own footage with music and effects, then shares it on YouTube.iPhone / iPadNFL RivalsiPhone game NFL Rivals is a successor to developer NaturalMotion's Backbreaker Football games, except now with a full NFL licence. Eye-popping graphics and casual gameplay remain a beguiling combination, with a Gameday feature to play along with the actual NFL season.iPhoneOutnumberedTV sitcom Outnumbered has an official iPhone and iPad app offering video clips from the fourth series, soundboard quotes and a gallery of the family.iPhone / iPadSkillz for iPadSkillz is in many ways the iPad successor to console game DJ Hero, albeit made by a completely different company. It's a music rhythm game with mixing, scratching and cross-fading, with tracks from Diplo, Kid Cudi and other artists, and an in-game store to get more.iPadInterviewLifestyle magazine Interview was founded by Andy Warhol, but now it's hoping for more than 15 minutes of fame on iPad, with a new app. The app will offer new issues as they are published.iPadThe Ultimate Wedding AppWedding planner Sarah Haywood has worked with Grapple Mobile on an app for iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and Symbian. It offers wedding-planning features including a budget tracker, checklist, supplier contacts directory and wedding event schedule. Ideal for bridezillas and groomzillas everywhere.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / SymbianiReporter, Essex ChronicleAssociated Northcliffe Digital has launched a set of iReporter iPhone apps for local newspapers: besides the Essex Chronicle, there's one for the Brentwood Gazette and another for the Kent &amp; Sussex Courier. The idea: readers can submit their own news, with photos and videos.iPhoneTo-Fu 2Indie iOS hit To-Fu: The Trials of Chi has a sequel which offers more physics-based puzzling over 100 levels. There is also a new Time Trial mode and in-game store.iPhone / iPadReal Madrid Fantasy Manager 2012Jose, Cristiano and co have their very own iPhone game this season, and while the App Store description is in Spanish, the app itself appears to have English menus. Manage Real Madrid and try to do a better job of overhauling Barcelona...iPhoneTiny HeroesTiny Heroes comes from the same people that made popular tower defence game geoDefense. It's set in a dungeon, with the quirk that rather than playing the hero, you play the dungeon master, setting traps and monsters on them.iPhoneSI.com Fantasy Football 2011Sports Illustrated is running a fantasy football game this year – yes, that'd be American football – on Facebook, which now has iPhone and Android apps for players to log in while out and about.iPhone / AndroidMachinariumCritically-acclaimed adventure game Machinarium has been ported to Apple's iPad. Well, one of them: the iPad 2, since it doesn't run on the older model.iPad 2CheckIn RadioCheckIn Radio is a US-only app for now, but the concept is interesting. It brings Foursquare-style check-ins to streaming internet radio, enabling people to add their favourite stations and register for prizes and promotions.iPhoneSnood FreeEA has relaunched classic puzzle game Snood as a free download for iPhone, supported by ads. Players have to pay in-app for multiplayer features or to get rid of the advertising.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
The mobile apps industry is suffering from download-milestone overkill. Developers and publishers boast about how many times their apps have been downloaded on the various app stores, while analysts and the store owners themselves use downloads as a key metric to gauge the success of those stores. While these figures aren't meaningless, they're only a guide topotentialsuccess.There are two new pieces of research that illustrate the problem. First, research2guidance, which haspublished a reportcomparing the average daily downloads per app on various stores, taking Apple's App Store as the benchmark. The report claims that "apps on Nokia's Ovi Store had 2.5 times higher download numbers in Q2 2011 compared to apps on Apple App Store": 160% more average daily downloads per app.Microsoft's Windows Marketplace was 80% up on the App Store by the same analysis, with RIM's BlackBerry App World up 43%. Google's Android Market was down slightly (5%), while stores from Samsung, LG, GetJar and Palm were further down. Here's the company's chart:The calculations seem pretty transparent: divide the number of estimated daily downloads on each store by the number of apps. Yet this doesn't even begin to tell the full story."Despite all the hype around the major platforms Android and iOS, publishers are still overlooking the hidden potentials of the niche players," suggests research2guidance. Overlooking, or concentrating on an entirely different metric: how much money is being made on these stores? Not to mention how much it costs to develop apps for them.Download numbers are no guide to how much money is being made. They don't tell you how many apps are beingsold, and they can only give an indication of the potential an app has for making money from in-app purchases and/or advertising.This isn't a pro-Apple anti-everyone-else viewpoint. There are plenty of companies trumpeting iOS download figures with no indication of how many people are actively using their apps, or how much money they're making. Meanwhile, all the evidence suggests that while some apps can generate monster downloads on the App Store, many many more aren't being downloaded at all.The second current piece of research that filters into this discussion comes from analyst firm Ovum'snew report on mobile apps. It predicts that Android will overtake iPhone this year for the total number of app downloads – 8.1bn to 6bn – with the gap widening to 21.8bn and 11.6bn by 2016.These are big, meaty figures that are likely to fuel many more "Android overtaking iPhone" headlines in the days ahead. Yet downloads only tell part of the story again: Ovum thinks that in 2016, iPhone will generate $2.86bn of paid app revenues compared to Android's $1.5bn.Or, if we're doing the average-per-app thing: $0.25 per app on iPhone versus $0.07 per app on Android. A slightly nebulous calculation, since this is dividing paid app revenues by the number of total paid and free app downloads: and does not include sales of in-app purchases or advertising income.The point is this: boasts and comparisons based on download figures alone don't hold much weight. Perhaps it's time to phase them out.For developers and publishers, the key metrics should really be revenues, or at least active users, which provides a much better way of telling how well an app is actually doing.The Facebook applications world is measured by daily active users (DAUs) and monthly active users MAUs), so why should mobile apps be any different – beyond mobile social games, which already use these metrics. Companies like comScore – through its partnership with mobile industry body the GSMA – are starting to track this, but there is just as big a need for developers and publishers to start talking in these terms.And the App Stores? Developer payout figures are one useful stat, although so far it's only Apple that has announced milestones like its first billion dollars paid to iOS developers. But the truth is more complicated, taking in the ratio of paid to free downloads, the success of advertising models, the ease and resulting adoption of in-app purchases, and a host of other stats.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Hands HTC Patents to Use Against Apple &gt;&gt; BloombergAnd so it goes on: "Asia's second-biggest smartphone maker, is using nine patents bought from Google Inc. (GOOG) last week to pursue new infringement claims against Apple Inc."Why Carol Bartz was fired &gt;&gt; AsymcoCustomarily astringent analysis: "as Yahoo's traditional raw material has commoditized, so has its user behavior data. The patterns that are emerging from the data are 'unactionable' by advertisers. There is little insight that can be gained from data on patterns of reading generic news. People are differentiated through their reading of niche sites and that data does not reside with Yahoo!"Thus customers (advertisers) have felt that the product (user behavior from reading licensed content) is commoditized. There is much more value in looking at patterns in Facebook or search. But those rich fields of data are under the control of competitors."This is the core problem with Yahoo's business and it's been a problem for a long time. The question for a CEO should be how to fix this. The remedy is not better administration but either a change in the core business or innovation in terms of content sourcing (away from big media and toward blogs and niche media.)"Yahoo's dying, Jim.Exclusive: Facebook first-half revenue roughly doubles &gt;&gt; ReutersIntriguing. Has Facebook been flashing its financials ahead of IPO? Reuters: "Facebook's revenue rose to $1.6 billion in 2011's first half, a source with knowledge of its financials told Reuters."Net income in the first half of 2011 came to almost $500 million, according to the source, who wished to remain anonymous because privately-held Facebook does not disclose its results."Golden Cyberfetters: Paul Krugman on Bitcoin &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"In effect, Bitcoin has created its own private gold standard world, in which the money supply is fixed rather than subject to increase via the printing press."So how's it going? The dollar value of that cybercurrency has fluctuated sharply, but overall it has soared. So buying into Bitcoin has, at least so far, been a good investment."But does that make the experiment a success? Um, no. What we want from a monetary system isn't to make people holding money rich; we want it to facilitate transactions and make the economy as a whole rich. And that's not at all what is happening in Bitcoin."Bear in mind that dollar prices have been relatively stable over the past few years - yes, some deflation in 2008-2009, then some inflation as commodity prices rebounded, but overall consumer prices are only slightly higher than they were three years ago. What that means is that if you measure prices in Bitcoins, they have plunged; the Bitcoin economy has in effect experienced massive deflation."Windows Phone 7 apps, stats and future &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWriting"Justin Angel, a former Microsoft employee who worked on Silverlight, has posted his analysis of the 24,505 apps he found in the Windows Phone 7 marketplace, exploiting a loophole that lets you get the download links. A few highlights:"o 97% of the apps are not obfuscated, meaning that it is trivial (with easily available tools) to decompile the source."o 90% are Silverlight vs 10% XNA. This is not so much an indicator of the popularity of the two frameworks, but more an indicator of how many apps are graphic-rich games rather than some other kind of utility. Of course if you are making a very simple app, Silverlight is easier than XNA, so that may be a factor too."o 99% are C# vs 1% Visual Basic and a smattering of F#. A fascinating stat that makes me wonder what is the future of Visual Basic."Far better than the Silverlight-addled post, which forces its own UI on your browser. Jings.Twitter renews deal with Bing; Google deal remains MIA &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan: "At the very least, you'd expect Google at this point to relaunch Google Realtime Search with content from Google+ as a replacement. Not being able to search through content on Google's own social network, from a company that specializes in search, is pretty absurd."Google Realtime Search wasn't just Twitter search, and the ability to use Google to search through content on other social networks got axed when Google closed it. So bring it back, even if it comes back without Twitter -- and get moving on that Google+ search feature."As for Bing, search without Twitter isn't old news. It's old, old news. Bing's had a deal with Twitter since October 2009, and that deal hasn't really seemed to do much to attract visitors over to Bing."Can anyone think of anything that *would* attract visitors over to Bing, aside from Google's servers all dying? (And even then..)node knockout heatwave &gt;&gt; The Universe of Discord"This weekend I took part in node knockout along with Peteris Krumins, David Wee, and Josh Holbrook on team replicants."Our entry, heatwave, uses node-heatmap to draw a heatmap over your code in realtime to show the parts that are most active as the code executes."Heatwave accomplishes this trick using bunker to add hooks around every expression. When these hooks get called, the heatmap gets updated!"Smart.What the iPad changes &gt;&gt; James WhatleyJames Whatley didn't think the iPad had much utility. But he observed his behaviour once he got one.Motorola Droid Bionic hands on: the good, the bad, and the grainy &gt;&gt; GizmodoBrent Rose: "It's the thinnest LTE phone yet. Its curves, angles and tapering minimize extra bulk, and it feels smaller than it is--which it isn't, because it's got a 4.3-inch screen. The back is plastic, but it's too thin for my liking, and I would have preferred metal.The software side is a mixed bag of "Hey, that's cool!" with "Arrgh, please kill me!" On the cool side it has some robust security features, including onboard and SD storage encryption, remote wipe--why isn't this a standard part of Android yet?--and tons of control for your IT admin. Your office really has no excuse to not to let you use this phone. On the bad side, there is just a ton of bloatware on this. I'm not a fan of the MotoBLUR overlay, even if they're not calling it that anymore. That aside, they cram it will so much extraneous software it's ridiculous. Do you need Citrix or VZ Navigator? No, you probably don't. Can you get rid of it without rooting it? No.... (Oh, by the way kids, the bootloader is locked.)"Enterprise likes RIM's new BlackBerrys; consumers, not so much &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Checks conducted by Canaccord analyst T. Michael Walkley indicate strong initial upgrade sales for RIM's new BlackBerry OS 7 smartphones, particularly the Bold 9900 at Verizon. But demand for it appears to be concentrated among business users."'With the Bold 9900 the first compelling new BlackBerry in nearly two years for Verizon customers, we were encouraged that our checks indicated Verizon's large BlackBerry enterprise base appears to have strong demand for the first BlackBerry OS 7 device on Verizon's network,' Walkley writes.Yay BlackBerry!"'However, our more consumer-centric retail store checks indicated smartphone consumers continue to overwhelmingly choose the iPhone 4 or new Android smartphones versus the $250 Bold 9900.'"Oh BlackBerry. Remember, there are more consumers than businesses, and replacement markets aren't growth.iPhone 5: First Test Photo? &gt;&gt; PocketnowSo the EXIF data suggests the image, which identifies itself as coming from an iPhone 4, was cut down from a bigger-than-iPhone 4 camera (8MP rather than 5MP).OK. But: "Now you may recall that we were recently tripped up by an image that seemed to have been captured by an unannounced iPad, but was actually taken by an iPhone and then uploaded by an iPad running software that altered the EXIF data. We suppose that a similar scenario is also possible here, but there's one compelling piece of evidence which suggests that this is indeed a genuine iPhone 5 photo: it was supposedly shot by an Apple engineer eating his lunch at work."Umm, OK.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday, it's 7.30 in the morning and here's a NEW Chatterbox!
Three, the mobile phone operator, has taken its case to the European Commission after being cut out of a mobile commerce joint venture between its other UK rivals, describing the alliance as anti-competitive and designed to "freeze out" the market challenger.In June, O2, Everything Everywhere and Vodafone announced their m-commerce joint venture, to sell mobile advertising and develop mobile payment systems. Three, the only other network operator in the UK, was not invited to take part.Three's regulatory affairs director, Stephen Lerner, said: "The planned and explicit exclusion of Three from the proposed UK m-commerce joint venture is designed to weaken Three's ability to be a competitive force in the UK and denies the initiative's claimed ambition to be a 'one stop shop' for m-commerce."Three has made representations this week to the European Directorate General for Competition, saying that its rivals should not be allowed to proceed.The joint venture is likely to be viewed as a merger by the commission and will need its approval. It is understood the partners have begun discussions with the commission and will formally apply for permission this autumn.Three is fighting battles on a number of fronts from the larger operators. Earlier this week, it emerged that the auction of new spectrum for mobile phone carriers had been delayed after veiled threats of legal action from a number of operators including O2.As smartphone use explodes, Three and Everything Everywhere are likely to run out of spectrum before O2 and Vodafone, and a delay could harm business.Owned by Li Ka-shing's Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa conglomerate, Three was the last network owner to enter the market when it launched in the UK in 2003. Having struggled for years to rise above a 10% market share, it has in the last year begun to grow faster than its rivals.Three finally secured a contract to sell iPhones in the UK in May last year. It also pushed through regulatory changes which have allowed it to offer the cheapest unlimited mobile internet tariff, which means many smartphone users are transferring to the network.Analysts estimate it now sells 30% of new iPhone 4s, and four times as many customers transfer into Three's network from O2 as head the other way. It also claims to be a net importer of customers from Everything Everywhere and Vodafone.Lerner added: "Instead of competing for the benefit of consumers, the three operators that hold 90% of the UK market have engaged in a cosy collaboration and closed ranks against competition. The competition authorities in Brussels should not allow this type collaboration to go forward under any circumstances."We're asking the commission to take a clear view of what is at stake for consumers and the dangerous precedent this move could set across Europe for the incumbents to freeze out challengers."The m-commerce venture is designed to speed up the introduction of mobile advertising and payment services. It will act as a one stop shop for advertisers, marketing partners, retailers and banks, developing technology such as swiping mobiles on till readers to make small payments in shops.The m-commerce partners responded saying that although not a shareholder, Three would have access to its services on equal terms: "The services developed by the joint venture and the technology that underpins them will be available to third parties, including Three, on the same basis as the venture's three shareholders. In fact the success of the venture depends upon its technology being available so that anyone can create m-commerce services and reach the widest possible audience."Everything Everywhere, Telefónica and Vodafone felt it made sense to bring their expertise and experience together to get the venture up and running as quickly as possible, before turning to the industry for further participation."
Internal Google documents released in a lawsuit being brought by Oracle indicate that the search giant aimed to give preferential access to new versions of its Android mobile software to handset maker Motorola and US carrier Verizon.Documents made available in the case, in which Oracle is claiming that Android infringes its copyrights relating to Java software, show that Google engineers were also encouraged to keep development of the code for Android – which Andy Rubin, its chief, has repeatedly described as "open" – a secret until it was complete. "Do not develop in the open," the memo from an internal presentation warns.Google-Oracle court document showing favoured status for Motorola and Verizon(See a full-size version of the image. Red lines added by Florian Mueller.)Therevelations, by Florian Mueller, who has followed the twists and turns of the case, come from a series of presentations that Google fought to keep out of the public eye, but which Judge Alsup, the federal judge hearing the case, ordered to be made available.The advantage for Motorola and Verizon is outlined in page 83 of the 228-page filing, and says:Lead device concept: Give early access to the software to partners who build and distribute devices to our specification (ie, Motorola and Verizon). They get a non-contractual time to market advantage and in return they align to our standard.Mueller says that this is "definitive confirmation of what was previously suspected: the Android source code tree has 'private branches' and some OEMs were always more equal than others".Update:Google says that the document shows its "lead device strategy" which it has used for a considerable time. A Google spokesman linked to apart of the Android FAQ, which says: "the Android engineering team typically focuses on a small number of "flagship" devices, and develops the next version of the Android software to support those product launches. These flagship devices absorb much of the product risk and blaze a trail for the broad OEM community, who follow up with many more devices that take advantage of the new features. In this way, we make sure that the Android platform evolves according to the actual needs of real-world devices." Google insists that it has worked with a number of different partners - including Motorola, HTC and Samsung - to produce the "lead device" for new versions of its operating system.The revelation that some handset makers and carriers get favoured status in the development and deployment of Android has the potential to cause deep divisions among Google's partners – which could be exacerbated byGoogle's takeover of Motorola, which would yield a patent hoard – but also direct access to a handset maker."Can you imagine that a company like Samsung, HTC, LG or Sony could still trust Google in this regard if Google actually competes with them through a subsidiary?" Mueller asks.Update:Google insists that Motorola will not receive "favoured status" if it acquires the company. The company quotes Andy Rubin, the head of the Android division, who in the analyst call for the acquisition in August,said: "we have a Nexus program and we have this lead device strategy. That strategy has worked quite well to help focus the team. What we do is we select each - around Christmas time of each year, we select a manufacturer that we work very closely with to release a device in that timeframe. That includes also semiconductor companies and all the components that go in the device. And essentially, our teams huddle together in one building. They jointly work in these development efforts. They go on for 9 to 12 months, and ultimately, at the holiday season or right before it, devices pop out that are based on this effort."Motorola threw its lot in with Android in 2009, after Sanjay Jha, the chief executive, decided to focus on Google's mobile operating system as the basis for future phones. At the timeJha said that the improvement in Motorola's prospects with Android was down to "reviews, reviews, reviews"– of internal processes and builds.However, the new documents may imply that some of Motorola's success came at the expense of would-be Android rivals which lacked its early access to Android code.But Google may be making reparations with its partners. HTC, one of the largest Android handset makers, is suing Apple using patents that it acquired from Google at the beginning of September.Bloomberg reportsthat the nine patents – which came from Palm, Motorola and Openwave, and were transferred to Google earlier this year – are now being deployed in lawsuit in a federal court in Delaware. Apple already has a number of patent cases ongoing against HTC and other handset makers using Android.Yet paradoxically the transfer of patents and Google's acquisition of patents from Motorola Mobility may lead to fewer lawsuits between mobile companies, or even a near-cessation, says Richard Windsor, market analyst at Nomura Securities."The patent situation is clear. The have-nots in the world of handset intellectual property right will now enjoy the benefit of Motorola's portfolio of 17,000 patents," Windsor noted after Google's bid for Motorola Mobility. "Given the severity of the impact that this has had on Samsung's tablet business in Europe and HTC's share price, this can only be seen as good news."Now that everyone is fairly well armed when it comes to patents, we expect amicable arrangements to be reached with less recourse being made to contentious litigation."
It was once the world's leading search engine, its founders held talks about a merger with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation – and it even managed to fend off a $44bn takeover bid by Microsoft. But Yahoo has put itself up for sale, after firing its chief executive of 18 months Carol Bartz by phone.A fierce manager with a proclivity for swearing, Bartz was brought in to revive Yahoo's fortunes after the company rejected the Microsoft bid, but she was unable to match the pace of innovation of the new Silicon Valley giants – Google, Facebook and a resurgent Apple.Her dismissal prompted what Yahoo said was a "comprehensive strategic review" to "position the company for future growth".An insider speaking to the Wall Street Journal put it more bluntly, however, saying the internet business is "open to selling itself to the right bidder" – signalling the end to a 17 year history that parallels the emergence of the internet.In an email sent from her iPad Bartz told staff that she had been "fired over the phone" by the company's chairman Roy Bostock . Her short reign leaves Silicon Valley without a prominent female CEO – although Forbes had already concluded that Cheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, was already the most powerful woman in the technology industry in its list of the world's most powerful women.The company has hired a team of headhunters to find candidates to take over the job, having temporarily installed Bartz's deputy, the chief financial officer, Tim Morse, in the top role. But the mood inside and outside the company suggests Yahoo now faces the most serious challenge to its existence in its 17-year history.The problem for Yahoo is that it is being eaten alive by two upstarts, Google and Facebook, who are absorbing the advertising revenue it used to rely on. Yahoo's second-quarter results were its worst since 2005 and Henry Blodget, the former Wall Street analyst turned pundit, suggested on his Business Insider website that the firing of Bartz probably indicates that the current quarter is going no better – and possibly worse as companies chop their advertising budgets as the economic weather clouds over.When appointed, Bartz set about slashing costs and staff – a move that made her instantly unpopular among the long-time "Yahoos" – but she was unable to revive the company's revenues or profits. Since she joined, revenues have fallen more than 25%, and although profits have almost doubled, they are still below the peak seen between 2004 and 2006. Those are telling dates: Facebook had only just begun, and Google only went public in mid-2004. Since then, everything has worsened for the company as those two rivals take more of the advertising revenues it needs.Yet, despite all the problems, Yahoo still reaches an audience most websites can only dream of. It is the fourth most visited site on the web, with an estimated 590m monthly visitors, according to Doubleclick, behind only Google, Facebook, YouTube – and it remains second in search but well behind Google.In the US, Yahoo's strongest territory, its share is 16% according to Comscore, compared to Google's 65%. Net profits were $1.2bn – nearly double those of 2009 – but revenues of $6.3bn were marginally lower than they had been the year before.Bartz, a high-profile former chief executive of Silicon Valley software company Autodesk, had a tough reputation . She had few fans inside the company as she slashed staffing: the jobs and career site Glassdoor found that her recent approval rating among current and former Yahoo staff was only 33%, down from around 54% previously. By contrast when Jerry Yang, her predecessor, left  43% of the staff thought he was doing a good job. The average for chiefs on the site is 62%. Of course being chief executive is not a popularity contest, and Bartz, though, had little choice but to make unpopular decisions.Ironically, only two months ago Bostock said that the board was "very supportive" of her. Having dismissed her, he insisted that "the board sees enormous growth opportunities on which Yahoo can capitalise" – although the company has made similar claims before.When founder Yang was chief executive, he led the resistance to Microsoft's blockbuster all cash bid, made in 2008. Yang rejected the hostile takeover offer because Yahoo had devised a set of internal forecasts suggesting its business would grow, beyond what Microsoft was offering. Then came the financial crash, and Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft, walked away from the deal.Bartz came back to him to tie up a search deal in which Microsoft is paying handsomely to power Yahoo's search with its Bing search engine; but the deal is losing money for Microsoft, and bringing Yahoo no noticeable benefit.Microsoft's bid valued Yahoo at $31 a share. Though the stock rose by 7% initially, in response to Bartz's ousting, at $13.48 yesterday lunchtime it remained well below the spurned offer.Though the stock jumped at the news of Bartz's departure, rising by 7% and adding $1bn to its value, Meanwhile, despite the share improvement, the mood both inside and outside the company was not improved. Analysts were unimpressed by the temporary replacement of Bartz with Morse, whom she recruited from computer maker Altera when she joined. "We think this is the right move, but sadly a year too late – Yahoo's business has already been damaged," Global Equities Research analyst Trip Chowdhry wrote in a note to clients. "Both Carol and Tim should have been fired together as they both have damaged Yahoo's business and repairing it will be extremely difficult," the analyst added.As Rupert Murdoch found when MySpace was overhauled by Facebook, once an internet giant starts losing momentum – or just simply ceases to be fashionable – it is very hard to reverse the path of decline.Unorthodox firingsFired by textWhen The Accident Group ceased trading in May 2003, many of its 2,500 staff a text message reading "Sorry to inform you that you will not be paid today. Don't bother ringing the office."Fired by emailIn 2006, Radioshackemailed 400 unlucky employeesto tell them to leave. "The workforce reduction notification is currently in progress," the message said. "Unfortunately your position is one that has been eliminated."Resigned by tweetAs the chief executive of IT firm Sun Microsystems, Jonathan Schwartz turned to Twitter to announce his departure – in a haiku.Fired by faxAndrew Marr was  alsofired by fax – and then unsacked by phone – during his time as editor of the Independent, after refusing to make job cuts.Fired by FacebookLast year teenager Chelsea Taylor logged onto Facebook to learn she had lost her job in a local cafe.Graeme Wearden
According to his LinkedIn profile, Justin Moodie made his first website for money "in 1994 using Notepad and Photoshop 2". In 2011 as publishing director, digital at Dorling Kindersley, his role includes overseeing the team making apps using considerably more sophisticated technology. Not that there's anything wrong with Notepad, still.DK is part of the Penguin Group, which is in turn owned by Pearson. It has been making apps for about a year: a mixture of travel guides, reference works and console game guides. However, its digital heritage goes back much further."DK has been doing digital products for a long time," he says. "It was pioneering in the digital space 20 years ago with CD-ROMs. People think of book publishers as set in their ways and a bit fusty, but that's not the way with us at all. The difference nowadays is that the devices are so powerful and affordable, the possibilities open to us are unlimited, which was never really the case in the past."DK's Eyewitness and Top 10 travel guides have been doing well on the App Store according to Moodie, as have its guide-apps for games including L.A. Noire and Call of Duty Black Ops. The company's first big adult reference apps came out more recently though: DK The Human Body App followed by DK Quick Cook.The planning process that went into choosing those physical books to get the app treatment sounds fun, as DK's marketing, content, editorial, design and digital staff sat down in a room to throw ideas at one another."It was a very Darwinian approach: All the publishers were asked to bring an idea for apps they thought would be a success, and then we killed off the ones that weren't appropriate," he says."The first criteria was whether we had global rights for a property. Then whether we could add value by making it as a digital product - we got rid of the ones that wouldn't be great interactive experiences. And then it was the question of whether it had sold well in the past."Released on 12 August with a £9.99 price, it has performed well on the App Store: at the time of writing, DK The Human Body App is the 37th Top Grossing iPad app overall in Apple's UK store, and the second Top Grossing in the iPad Education category. In the US, it is 15th in the latter."We have tried to manage our expectations carefully, and so far we are really pleased," he says. "The consumer reception has been really positive."The Human Body app has also maintained its pricing, following a pattern laid down by Faber's The Waste Land and Touch Press' The Elements, among other premium book-apps. Moodie admits that there was a "massive debate" within the company about setting the price for this particular app."Everything we had seen showed a downward trend in app pricing, but that did not change the fact that we had spent a lot of time and money making this really superb product," he says."The initial price we set was quite high, a reflection of the cost and time it took to make the product, and based maybe naively on the print book price. We quickly realised that wasn't a smart thing to do, but the question is do we go really low to compete with massmarket products and potentially not get the returns we need, or raise the price and potentially lose some sales?"Moodie says that what is simultaneously exciting and terrifying about the App Store is the fact that hard data on pricing elasticity and other metrics is still relatively thin on the ground, unless gathered from your own apps."We need to pioneer and experiment," he says. "We are making products in the knowledge that some may not succeed. The academic side of my brain is happy as can be, because this is a completely open field. But the business side of me is terrified!"Moodie is certainly relishing the creative challenges of turning books into excellent apps, making use of the sensors and technologies within mobile and tablet devices. The Human Body, for example, includes haptic feedback for people to feel the device "beat" when in the heart and lungs sections.He says there is a strand running through all DK's products, however. "We have always been designing things for tablets, you could say, it's just that until now the tablets were made of paper!" he says."We design books for reluctant readers: anyone should be able to open any DK book at any page and be absorbed immediately, and it's the same with a tablet app."DK is hoping that social networks will help these people spread the word about its apps, once they've become absorbed. However, it seems the company is already thinking about how more detailed social features might be woven into its book-apps in the future."The next step, and it's difficult to do, is collaboration," says Moodie. "People using the same app and having some sort of shared experience. It's about playing to the strengths of the device, not just taking the things we already do and porting them over."DK has released apps for Android: a number of its city-guide apps are available on Android Market, but for now DK The Human Body App is iPad-only.Moodie says the publisher is looking for "a maturity in the marketplace", which goes beyond the pure number of devices being sold to how many apps the owners of those devices are actually buying. To that end, he says Google's efforts to use operator billing on its Android Market are "manna from heaven" to make it easier to buy. He remains cautious about tablet apps though."I've got an Android phone, and I love it: it's a great platform," he says. "But The Human Body is large-format and designed for tablets, and right now the tablet market in Android is tiny. There are a handful out there. Until Android tablet penetration becomes substantial, it will be difficult for us. But we are agnostic: we're not tied to any platform in particular."How about Amazon's move into Android - initially with its Appstore, but with strong rumours that it is preparing to launch a Kindle-branded tablet this side of Christmas?Moodie warmly praises what Amazon has been doing with its Kindle readers and e-books store, including its recent adoption of a print replica format. However, he also suggests that DK may have some issues with publishing paid Android apps on Amazon's Appstore."We operate on agency pricing, and they don't," he says. "We're not comfortable with the idea that we can't set our own price."We finish our conversation by coming back to the CD-ROMs from two decades ago. Is there a slightly worrying parallel between those products and modern-day tablet apps, given that many people in the publishing industry see CD-ROMs as having been a flop for digital book products?"The difference is that there is an established marketplace through which customers can buy the products and through which we can receive money for it," says Moodie. "That's really important. Making a great product is only half the story."
"Ding dong - the witch is dead."That was how former YahooBrad Garlinghousegreeted the news thatCarol Bartz has been booted outas chief executive of Yahoo. Amusing as that was, it demonstrates the expectation of failure that dogged Bartz's tenure at the helm of the sinking ship Yahoo, with just a sprinkling of sexism to boot. Shortly after that,Glassdoorclaimed that Bartz had seen her employee approval rating plummet from 90% when she started to just 33% this summer.It was pretty easy to join the pile and conclude that Bartz had been bad news for Yahoo, but would any other executive been able to do any better? Offloading Bartz might have temporarily, and modestly, boosted Yahoo's share price but it doesn't address the company's problems, and there doesn't seem much likelihood that any other executive could do more. Or could they?Photo bytilyckron Flickr.Some rights reservedWhat the analysts sayAnalysts' reactions are downbeat, but mixed.Given Yahoo's decline – its stock is back to $12.5, the same as when Bartz started in her chief executive role – it seems logical that Bartz should carry the can. But in all likelihood, Yahoo's problems are bigger than any one chief executive.Allan Weiner, Gartner's research vice-president, noted that it is only 75 days since Yahoo's board gave Bartz a vote of confidence, and surprising that the board chose to make thisunsurprising decisionat a surprising time of year – just before the traditionally strong fourth quarter and 15 months ahead of Bartz's contract expiring."Yahoo still calls itself a media-technology company but has a leader at the helm that had neither media nor web technology chops," Weiner noted. "Yahoo has yet to find a leader who has the vision to frame [its] pieces  into cogent opportunity that would lead a transformation resulting in a 21st century media-technology power."Morse is not likely to be more than a short-term solution. No successful media company in recent memory has been helmed by a finance guy. The company could look inward to EVP Ross Levinsohn, former president of Fox Interactive, or could begin the challenging search for a rare Steve Jobs-like leader who can spin the dials of the Yahoo Rubik's Cube and revive this once-iconic brand."No velocity of innovationGlobal Equities Research analystTrip Chowdhrysaid this change won't do any good because it's already a year late. "Yahoo's business has already been damaged," he said, noting that the cost cutting carried out by Bartz and Morse was the easy bit, while they lacked vision and 'the velocity of innovation'."Both Carol and Tim should have been fired together as they both have damaged Yahoo's business and repairing it will be extremely difficult ... We don't think Yahoo will be able to attract the top talent – and probably Yahoo will need to settle with the leftover talent that is available in the market today."Photo byYodel Anecdotalon Flickr.Some rights reservedCNET technology analystLarry Magidsaid Bartz had not succeeded in turning around Yahoo's business., particularly in the key areas of social and search. "Facebook is way ahead, and now even Google is way ahead of Yahoo in social networking. In terms of the potential for long-term revenue it's just not there. They've got some great sites, great information resources, news, stocks, sports, but that's not what bringing in the money."More change just causes more delayBarclays Capitalsaid the transition will just cause more disruption and further delay any turnaround in Yahoo's fortunes. "We believe Yahoo! is increasingly receptive to some type of financial engineering, including monetisation alternatives of its Asian assets and/or potentially aligning itself with other large portal players. The latter of which would add to the scale needed to effectively take advantage of the secular shift in advertising to online and better compete with Google, Facebook, and other newer Internet models."Regardless, we believe this leadership change extends Yahoo!'s turnaround timeframe and could further destabilize its sales force – which is also going through a transition – lead to more employee departures, and accelerate its share losses in display."Efficiency, at the expense of innovationAs for those on the ground, the perception of Bartz is more complex than Glassdoor's stats would suggest.Tom Coates, whodidvariousbrilliant things at Yahooincluding Fire Eagle, summed up the whole thing in one succincttweet: "Carol Bartz fired from Yahoo, leaving – IMHO – a more efficient company with less core infrastructure and product vision than ever before." Andlater: "Everything's been focused around cutting costs and driving revenue, without any sense of building for the future ... They've sold off or let collapse most of their data/service assets in favour of running eyeballs."Another former Yahoo said Bartz had the most balls to make the right cuts and put support behind the things that mattered. "She came in on the right foot &amp; did a bunch of good stuff, but faltered and moved to inaction... if she'd kept up it would have been good. I don't think anyone in that role was doomed, Yahoo *was* sort-out-able, she started but then didn't carry on."If Bartz should have dropped a lot of middle management, stripped back the company to its core portals and mail services – could it have solidified its core business? Is it too late to do that?Or, as seems increasingly likely, will it be impatience that prevails, with Yahoo's inevitable destiny to sell off its most popular assets and wring the rest of the firm dry to make maximum money for shareholders, but make the minimum of Yahoo's creative, innovative legacy and its chances for long-term survival.&nbsp;
Just in case you haven't seen all this yet, Japanese games magazineFamitsuhas revealed photos of a new controller add-on for the Nintendo 3DS. The device slides on to the side of the console, providing a second analogue control stick and another set of shoulder buttons. It seems the first title to benefit from the curious pad will be a 3DS version of Capcom's hit Monster Hunter.According to Japan-watching blog, Andriasang, the game will be an updated version of Monster Hunter 3 on the Nintendo Wii.The news follows rumours that Nintendo is set to launch a revision of the 3DS console next year. French news site, 01net,recently claimedthat the manufacturer was preparing an announcement about the refreshed console, which could well de-emphasise the glasses-free 3D feature that was intended as the device's key selling point, but which causedcontroversyimmediately after its launch for allegedly making a number of users feel ill.Edge magazine hasreceived confirmation from Nintendothat the controller device – known as the slide pad – is genuine, but the company has yet to comment on speculation about a full 3DS re-design. With the Tokyo Game Show kicking off next week, it could be that an official reveal is pending. Also, Nintendo is holding a 3DS-themed press conference in Tokyo on 13 September.In July, Nintendo announced that it was dropping the price of the consoleby almost a thirdto boost interest.So, the 'slide pad'... it's erm, it's not very pretty is it?More scans can be foundhere, courtesy of Develop.
Yahoo may be up for sale after firing Carol Bartz, its chief executive for just 18 months. Once one of the internet's most valuable properties – and the target of a spurned $44.6bn (£27.8bn) takeover bid from Microsoft in January 2008 – the company said in a statement it is carrying out a "comprehensive strategic review" to "position the company for future growth". But an insider speaking to the Wall Street Journal said the company is "open to selling itself to the right bidder".Although the company has hired a team of headhunters to find candidates to take over the job, having temporarily installed Bartz's deputy, the chief financial officer, Tim Morse, in the top role, the mood inside and outside the company suggests it faces the most serious challenge to its existence in its 17-year history.The problem for Yahoo is that it is being eaten alive by two upstarts, Google and Facebook, who are absorbing the advertising revenue it used to rely on. Since Bartz took over in January 2009, brought in to stabilise the ship after the debacle of its refusal to accept Microsoft's bid (which valued the company at 62% more than its stock price suggested). Itssecond-quarter resultswere its worst since 2005 and Henry Blodget, the former Wall Street analyst turned pundit, suggested on his Business Insider website that the firing of Bartz probably indicates that the current quarter is going no better – and possibly worse as companies chop their advertising budgets as the economic weather clouds over.The fact Bartz sent out her email telling staff of her abrupt departure from an iPad is telling: she would not have been using the web interface (where the company might have garnered some ad revenue) but Apple's own app, interfacing directly to Yahoo. The internet company that once looked like the future, while its Cupertino rival dwindled, is now seeing its business leak away.When appointed, Bartz set about slashing costs and staff – a move that made her instantly unpopular among the long-time "Yahoos" – but was unable to revive the company's revenues or profits. Since she joined, revenues have fallen more than 25%, and although profits have almost doubled, they are still below the peak seen between 2004 and 2006.Those are telling dates: Facebook had only just begun, and Google only went public in mid-2004. Since then, everything has worsened for the company as those two rivals take more of the advertising revenues it needs.And that also shows the key weakness of internet companies that unlike those with direct "customers" such as Amazon, eBay, Apple or Microsoft, must rely on fickle advertisers for their income: if the eyeballs stray elsewhere, the advertisers will go too. That has begun to happen to Yahoo, and there is no obvious reason why it should stop as Facebook passes 700m users and becomes the main site on which people while away their spare time.Bartz, a high-profile former chief executive of Silicon Valley software company Autodesk, had a reputation as a fierce manager with a proclivity for swearing. She had few fans inside the company as she slashed staffing: the jobs and career site Glassdoor found that her approval rating among current and former Yahoo staff was only 33% in the most recent quarter, down from around 54%. By contrast when Jerry Yang, her predecessor, left he had a 43% approval rating. The average for chiefs on the site is 62%.Of course being chief executive is not a popularity contest, and Bartz had to make unpopular decisions. But Yahoo now looks like the internet equivalent of a failed state. Perhaps the next person to be appointed chief executive of Yahoo should get a revolving door installed in the office. The successor to Bartz – fired ignominiously in a phone call made by her chairman Roy Bostock, who only two months ago said the board was "very supportive" of her – might wonder quite what they can possibly do that will satisfy the shareholders.The obvious answer – make the company grow its revenues, profits and market share – now looks out of reach. It's hard to think of anything that Yahoo does that isn't done as well or as simply by others. If Yahoo were a country, it would be Japan: a former economic superpower that is now seeing its power and influence dwindle, while it swaps leaders in an endless game.Japan is slightly ahead of Yahoo there, being on its sixth prime minister in five years; Yahoo trails, as the next one will only be the fourth in four years – after Terry Semel, who left in June 2007; co-founder Jerry Yang, who was the chief executive who oversaw the disastrous rejection of Microsoft's ludicrously overpriced bid; he was ousted in January 2009 in favour of Bartz. Yang rejected the bid because Yahoo had devised a set of internal forecasts suggesting its business would grow fabulously, beyond what Microsoft was offering. Then came the financial crash, and Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft, walked away from the deal. Bartz came back to him to tie up a search deal in which Microsoft is paying handsomely to power Yahoo's search with its Bing search engine; but the deal is losing money for Microsoft, and bringing Yahoo no noticeable benefit.Though the stock jumped at the news of Bartz's departure, rising by 7% and adding $1bn to its value, the mood inside the company, where Bartz had found little favour, was barely leavened. And outside, analysts were unimpressed by the temporary replacement of Bartz with Morse, whom she recruited from computer maker Altera when she joined. "We think this is the right move, but sadly a year too late – Yahoo's business has already been damaged," Global Equities Research analyst Trip Chowdhry wrote in a note to clients. "Both Carol and Tim should have been fired together as they both have damaged Yahoo's business and repairing it will be extremely difficult," the analyst added.Bostock said: "The board sees enormous growth opportunities on which Yahoo can capitalise, and our primary objective is to leverage the company's leadership and current business assets and platforms to execute against these opportunities."We have talented teams and tremendous resources behind them and intend to return the company to a path of robust growth and industry-leading innovation. We are committed to exploring and evaluating possibilities and opportunities that will put Yahoo on a trajectory for growth and innovation and deliver value to shareholders."But if Bostock can see enormous growth opportunities, he would do well to share them with the rest of the world. Nobody examining Yahoo's business at the moment can point to anything that it does better than anyone else, except possibly having a lot of people who visit its site.Bartz was brought in to steady the ship, as Yahoo struggled to stabilise its revenues and profits in the face of a rapidly changing internet landscape. Its problems, though, may be too deep-rooted to allow any simple solution. Like Japan, Yahoo is stagnant as rapidly growing rivals take over what it used to be able to call its own. In this scenario Google and Facebook are China and South Korea: more energetic, faster-growing.Yahoo has no obvious money-generating elements beyond its many advertising-filled pages; it is a billboard for the internet. Bartz struggled with this too. Whenshe visited the UKfor the first (and only) time as chief executive in April 2010, I asked her bluntly: "What's the point of Yahoo? What does it do that nobody else can?" She seemed to struggle with the question; everyone does. In another interview she suggested that Yahoo was "people's home on the internet". But Yahoo is 17 now. And that's the sort of age when people leave home.What can Yahoo do to change its fortunes? Some have suggested that it should try to be more like AOL, a content generator under new chief executive Tim Armstrong, and make a bid for the online TV company Hulu. But that is US-only, and won't transform Yahoo's fortunes elsewhere.
Four British males have been banned from using online nicknames after they appeared in court charged with attacks connected to Anonymous and LulzSec.The four men – Peter David Gibson, 22, Ashley Rhodes, 26, Christopher Weatherhead, 20, and a 17-year-old student – were released on bail after the hearing at Westminster magistrates court on Wednesday morning.The group's bail conditions mean they are prohibited from using specific online nicknames on sites including Facebook and Twitter.Gibson, from Hartlepool, is banned from using the name "Peter" on the internet. Weatherhead, from Northampton, is prohibited from using "Nerdo"; Rhodes, from Kennington, south London, cannot use "NikonElite", and the 17-year-old, from Chester, is also banned from using his online nickname.The four men are also banned using so-called "internet relay chat", the online forums where Anonymous members are alleged to have coordinated many of the attacks.The four men are separately charged with conspiracy to carry out an unauthorised act in relation to a computer. They were arrested earlier this year by police investigating online attacks by the notorious hacking groups Anonymous and LulzSec.Rhodes, the oldest of the group who was arrested in September, appeared in court dressed in a grey waistcoat over a black shirt, with short dark hair.Weatherhead, who was also arrested in September, wore a blue shirt under a short black jacket. Gibson has been on police bail since his arrest in April. He wore a smart grey suit, with a white open-necked shirt.They will appear at Southwark crown court on 18 November for a plea and case management hearing.Two other men, aged 24 and 20, have been released on bail following their arrest last week as part of the Metropolitan police investigation into Anonymous and LulzSec.The unnamed men were arrested in Mexborough, near Doncaster, South Yorkshire, and Warminster, Wiltshire for conspiring to commit offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 using the online identity "Kayla".The pair are due to return to a London police station in November.
A burst of 9 apps for your considerationPostman Pat SDSPostman Pat's modern incarnation gets his first iOS game, helicopter and all. P2 Games' app consists of nine mini-games designed for 3-5 year-olds, with in-game achievements using Apple's Game Center community – something not often seen in apps for children.iPhone / iPadAVG Security SuiteAVG is well known for its desktop security software, but now it's also mobile, with a Windows Phone application. It's mainly focused on web surfing, directing people away from phishing and malware sites.Windows PhoneShakespeare In Bits: A Midsummer Night's DreamThe Shakespeare In Bits series has a new iPad app today, with three hours of animation telling the story of A Midsummer Night's Dream – presented alongside notes, character biographies and the original text. It follows previous editions for Macbeth and Romeo and Juliet.iPadKinetikApps about apps? It's been a while since the last flurry of app recommendation apps, but Kinetik is a new effort launching for iPhone. It aims to provide "an easy way to share the apps you love" and serve up recommendations and trends in response.iPhoneMy Secret HideoutAndrew Plotkin's My Secret Hideout isn't a game, as such. "It is an interactive toy... or rather poem... or artwork..." according to the App Store blurb. It's an iPad app based around a virtual treehouse, with the text and imagery changing as people play with it. "No goal, no score, no trophies. Explore it, or play with it, until you find a result you like."iPadBanksy Bristol TourBook publisher Tangent Books and app developer Gravitywell have teamed up for a location-based guide to graffiti artist Banksy's early work in and around his hometown. It can be used in the city, but also remotely, with images and – in the Android version – Google's Street View.iPhone / AndroidCrack69Crack69's claim to be "the first ever interactive book for adult audiences" is a bit dubious, but the app is intriguing. It's sold as part dystopia, part black comedy, part parable and part mystery, with an anonymous author and, er, world leaders characterised as "marionettes dancing to the tune of a mechanism inside them".iPadGym Training by Weightplan.comFitness site Weightplan has launched its iPhone gym training app, which weighs in at a musclebound 538MB. That's because it has more than 600 photos and videos to guide users through its 30 gym routines.iPhoneSnap &amp; Share Kids CamChildren love messing about with the camera on an iPhone or iPod touch, but what to do with their snaps? Snap &amp; Share Kids Cam is a camera app designed for children, making it easy for them to take and send photos to their family members.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
'Normal' service will be resumed shortly...
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEditorial Independence &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMichael Arrington issues an ultimatum to his new employer: "We've proposed two options to Aol.1. Reaffirmation of the editorial independence promised at the time of acquisition. Given the current circumstances, that means autonomy from Huffington Post, unfettered editorial independence and a blanket right to editorial self determination. To put it simply, TechCrunch would stay with Aol but would be independent of the Huffington Post.or2. Sell TechCrunch back to the original shareholders."Popcorn?Chart of the Day: who Is the new YouTube of porn? &gt;&gt; Business InsiderObviously, you won't care much about this, but we include it for completeness.You just shared a link. How long will people pay attention? &gt;&gt; bitly blog"How long is a link "alive" before people stop caring? Does it matter what kind of content it is, or where you shared it? At bitly we see a lot of links, and while every link is special, we're learning a few general principles that we can share."Let's take a look at one particular story - Baby otter befriended by orphaned kittens - which was first shared by StylistMagazine on Facebook on Tuesday at 7:12am."Jeez, could they have possibly picked a link that wasn't going to be retweeted everywhere? Short of picking one about aliens landing, this is probably the tweet with the maximum possible life *anywhere*.What's new on reddit: Independence &gt;&gt; blog.reddit"When reddit was acquired in October 2006 by Condé Nast, it was receiving about 700k page views per day. Now, reddit routinely gets that much traffic in 15 minutes."Since you're wondering, 67m page views per day (assuming it's constant through the 24 hours.)Intriguing how this happened while TechCrunch is imploding over its ownership by AOL.Analysis: LG faces tough choices for mobile phone division &gt;&gt; Yahoo! FinanceFrom late August, but still relevant: "South Korea's LG Electronics hasn't been so smart with its smartphone business. Its mobile phone division has suffered five consecutive quarterly losses, cutthroat competition is pressuring it to overhaul the business and its shares have plummeted."The money-losing phone unit has also been a major value destroyer for LG shareholders. LG's market value is only $7.5bn, roughly one-third that of global rivals HTC Corp and Nokia, even though it also has sizeable TV and home appliances divisions."Where the PC is headed: Plus is the New "Post" &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogFrank Shaw, Microsoft's head of PR: "over the years some of the great experiences first delivered on a PC have been extended to smartphones, internet companions, tablets and, yes, even our cars. Today, the PC and these companion devices are all nodes on the network, connecting to cloud-based services to deliver real-time stock quotes, sports scores, and other updates we can't imagine living without."I'll be the first to admit that these new "non-PC" objects do a great job at enabling people to communicate and consume in innovative and interesting ways. That's not surprising, because they were expressly designed for that purpose. But even their most ardent admirers will not assert that they are as good as PCs at the first two verbs,create and collaborate.  And that's why one should take any reports of the death of the PC with a rather large grain of salt."We think there's a syllogism in that last bit.How to intepret analyst reports &gt;&gt; Mark SusterA useful guide, though roundabout. Anecdotal - but good.One on One: Cole Stryker, author of 'Epic Win for Anonymous' &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comInteresting interview with a longtime Anonymous watcher: "I think [Anonymous] will have a lasting effect. The power of Anonymous to generate media attention to a certain idea is way more powerful than their actual attacks. I think people will look back on the Anonymous era and see it more than just a way to generate interest and outrage around a certain social phenomenon or social injustice than the hacks that they are currently known for."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Yahoo's chief executive Carol Bartz has been fired, ending a rocky tenure in which she tried and failed to revitalise the online giant.In a statement the company said Bartz had been "removed" from her post and would be replaced by chief financial officer Timothy Morse "effective immediately" on an interim basis as the firm began the search for a new, permanent CEO.In an email sent to employees from her iPad and titled "Goodbye," Bartz wrote: "I am very sad to tell you that I've just been fired over the phone by Yahoo's chairman of the board."It has been my pleasure to work with all of you and I wish you only the best going forward."The combative chief executive had been under pressure to turn around Yahoo from the day she was appointed. Yahoo remains one of the biggest destinations on the internet but has lost ground with advertisers and audience to Google, Facebook and services like Twitter.According to research firm eMarketer Facebook is due to overtake Yahoo this year to collect the biggest slice of online display advertising dollars in the US.Bartz joined Yahoo in January 2009, replacing co-founder Jerry Yang who had returned to the helm of the company. When Bartz joined the firm its shares were trading for about $12 (£7). After news of her departure broke, the shares jumped more than 6% in after-hours trade to $13.72, from a close of $12.91 on the Nasdaq. In January 2000, near the end of the dot-com bubble, Yahoo's shares traded at more than $125 a piece.Bartz had also fallen out of favour with Wall Street investors, unhappy with her turnaround strategy and her handling of the firm's strained relationship with China's Alibaba Group, in which it holds a 40% stake.In June Yahoo chairman Roy Bostock gave his public support to Bartz at the company's annual general meeting. "This board is very supportive of Carol and this management team," he said in his opening remarks. "We are confident that Yahoo is headed in the right direction."Bartz, had previously been chairman of software firm Autodesk. She arrived with a reputation as a tough talker and reinforced it early in her tenure by telling Michael Arrington, founder of the influential Techcrunch website to "fuck off" during a staged interview at an industry event.Her management style came under fire after the company's apparent mishandling of its relationship with Alibaba. In May it was revealed that Alibaba had handed Alipay – one of Alibaba's crown jewels – to a company controlled by Alibaba founder Jack Ma, apparently without Yahoo's knowledge. Alibaba said Yahoo was fully aware of the transaction and the two sides openly bickered about the deal.Yahoo is conducting a strategic review of the company's options, including possible divestment of its Asian holdings. It cautioned that no decisions had yet been made.Bostock said: "On behalf of the entire board, I want to thank Carol for her service to Yahoo during a critical time of transition in the company's history, and against a very challenging macroeconomic backdrop. I would also like to express the board's appreciation to Tim and thank him for accepting this important role. We have great confidence in his abilities and in those of the other executives who have been named to the executive leadership council."The company said its directors had named five other senior Yahoo executives to an executive leadership council that is intended to help Morse, a former chief financial officer at Altera, a semiconductor makers, and General Electric Plastics, manage the company.
Thousands of celebrities and politicians have had their names permanently banned from the new .xxx adult pornography internet domain.The move means that cybersquatters will be unable to register domains such as Beyonce.xxx or MargaretThatcher.xxx to drive traffic to their websites.More than 4,000 celebrities, from Angelina Jolie to Donald Trump, have had their .xxx web address blocked by ICM Registry, the firm managing the new adult entertainment domain.The company has reserved 15,000 "dot triple-X" domain names on the request of international governments and child protection agencies.This includes commonly used underage sex terms and the names of cities and well-known politicians, such as the US president, the British prime minister, and former prime ministers, according to Stuart Lawley, the chief executive of ICM Registry."That would include David Cameron, Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher," he said.Lawley could not say whether all British MPs would have their names permanently reserved on the register. Nor was he able to confirm which celebrities were covered by the ban, or what the criteria for their inclusion was. But he said there would be a rapid take-down process for anyone targeted by .xxx cybersquatters."There's a prohibition on anyone registering a first or last name that doesn't belong to them," he said.Companies can register to avoid being associated with what has been dubbed the "online red light district" from Wednesday until 28 October. They will have to pay $200 to $300 to buy .xxx addresses containing their trademarks before they go on general sale.Lawley said: "The reason we banned the celebrities' names was because it's very difficult for them to trademark their names. We didn't want to have the embarrassment of AngelinaJolie.xxx coming up at the launch of the new domain."Around 1,500 .xxx domains have already been allocated to 35 porn companies, and many could go live ahead of the official general launch on 6 December. A preregistration period found nearly 900,000 "expressions of interest" for 650,000 names."We hope to sell 500,000 domain names by January/February," Lawley said.The .xxx domain was approved by the international Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which administers millions of internet addresses. It had been pending since 2003 and was resisted by the Bush government but progressed unopposed by Barack Obama's administration.Use of the domain name is voluntary and is designed to shut out child sexual abuse images and incorporate heightened security barriers, making it harder for children to stumble on sexual content online.
Groupon, the online discount firm, is reportedly close to ditching plans to go public in one of the biggest share offerings to date from the new generation of technology firms.The Chicago-based company was scheduled to begin a roadshow next week, visiting potential investors ahead of what was one of the most hotly anticipated digital flotations. The firm had been valued at as much as $25bn. But according to reports those plans have been put on ice.The company did not return calls for comment, but executives told the Wall Street Journal that recent stock market gyrations had led to the decision to put the initial public offering (IPO) on hold.Theleaking of a controversial emailin which founder Andrew Mason blasted Groupon's growing army of critics appears also to have caused trouble for the firm by angering financial regulators.Three-year-old Groupon offers daily deals for local businesses, and is, by some measures, the fastest growing company of all time. Google offered $6bn for the firm last year, only to be rejected as the valuation soared, driven up by its phenomenal growth rate and investors' increasingly frenzied appetite for new dotcom firms.But as Groupon prepared the IPO, which had been expected as early as this month, criticism of the firm's accounting and long-term prospects grew.The company was running out of cash, facing mounting competition from Amazon and others, and failing to make the grade in China, according to various reports.Mason fired back at critics in an internal email that wasimmediately leaked to AllThingsD, the tech site owned by the Wall Street Journal. The leak appears to have broken US financial rules that limit what executives in a firm planning an IPO can say ahead of the flotation.Sucharita Mulpuru, a Forrester research analyst and long-time critic of Groupon, called the decision "catastrophic".  "This has got to be the botch-up of the century," she said. "What most surprises me is that they have done this to themselves. They seem to have come undone, Icarus-like, because they flew too close to the sun – and not because they were asking for too much money," she said.Mulpuru said pressure would continue to mount on Groupon, and its chances of bringing an IPO or flotation in the near future were fading fast. "It's all to do with timing," she said. "It's all about what this company could be. Every day that goes by is another day that they have to hit their numbers. This is not a business that is humming along smoothly. The pressures on it look great."Mason founded Groupon in November 2008, and by last October the firm had 35 million registered users. But it has also burned through mountains of cash even as sales soared, losing $180m last year and a further $102.7m in the second quarter of this year alone.Scrapping the sale would be the biggest setback to date in the new dotcom boom. Companies including LinkedIn, the business-focused social network,  have successfully gone public, while Facebook is planning what is expected to be the biggest IPO in the sector next year. But Groupon would have been the largest social media IPO to date, making Mason a multi-billionaire.• This article was amended on 7 September 2011. The original said that Zynga, the gamemaker behind FarmVille and CityVille had also successfully gone public. This reference has been deleted because Zynga has delayed flotation plans.
We find out which products Google is choosing to shut down, and why ...We look at DNS hacking, after high-profile sites such as the Telegraph, Vodafone and Betfair were targeted by a Turkish hacker group.And ... the brand new Amazon Kindle, like no Kindle you'll have seen before. Why is it so good? And should Apple really be worried? We find out the details.
For years, Apple has taken a stern line on obscenity and other adult content on its App Store, with its approvals team rejecting apps for gratuitously sexual or offensive content. The company has even ended up in spats with satirists and a company that sold swimsuits over its policies.Now venerable British magazine Viz has sneaked beneath its radar with its new Profanisaurus app, based on the famously racy reference work fronted by its Roger Mellie character. With more than 12,000 definitions, the £1.49 app will introduce iPhone users to concepts including "Darth Vader's hat stand", "David Coulthard's chin" and "camper's kebab"."I know it's going to be hugely popular," said Felix Dennis, chairman of Dennis Publishing, which owns Viz. "It's not a dictionary, which is what everybody forgets. It's the longest-standing joke apart from Mornington Crescent, and it's all made up by readers. I think people are going to be getting this app out in the pub after they've had a few drinks."Apple's approval of the app may not come as a surprise, since its official App Store guidelines – published in September 2010 – make it clear that the company treats individual apps on their merits."We will reject Apps for any content or behaviour that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a supreme court justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it," explains the document, which is available to all iOS developers."We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate," explained the guidelines. "If you want to describe sex, write a book or song, or create a medical app."The Profanisaurus is unlikely to fall into the latter category. If it does, it would be the first medical app to include descriptions of a "quantum wank" and "undertaker's privileges".A previous version of the Profanisaurus was approved and released on the App Store in 2009, albeit at a time when Apple's approval policies were in their early stages.Dennis himself will be vindicated by Apple's decision not to ban the app, however. Speaking to the Guardian before it was approved, he vowed not to take any rejection lightly."If they turn it down, I'm going to war," he said. "There are laws in this country. No one is going to argue that this is pornography." Thankfully, no hostilities will be necessary now.
The phrase "less is more" is not one you often find uttered by game developers – they invariably tend more towards the "if in doubt, throw in the kitchen-sink" school of thought. But that's the philosophy behind Bodycount, according to Codemasters Guildford, which argues that spurious characterisations and plot-twists keep gamers away from the actual shooting that they crave above all else in first-person shooters. It's a refreshing point, but the jury is still out out on whether Codemasters' intentions match Bodycount's overall execution.Bodycount is undoubtedly minimal in many respects: you play a nameless character known only as the Asset, working for a private military outfit called the Network. Sent into civil war-torn trouble-spots (initially in Africa), you soon come across another shadowy organisation called the Target. Which prompts gun-battles in which you take on three different sides, and provides the excuse for two types of settings: colourful African shanties and Far Eastern fishing villages, plus Target bases, which are heavily influenced by the aesthetics of Tron. As the game progresses, you become an ever-greater thorn in the Target's side, but the storyline is utterly incidental to the gameplay, which the majority of first-person shooter fans will see as a plus.Bodycount's gameplay is very interesting. It tries to differentiate itself from other first-person shooters in a number of ways, the main being the cover system – which, with a pull of the left trigger, anchors you to the floor, letting you bob around with the left stick to peek out from whatever you are behind. A half-pull on the left trigger lets you strafe.Codemasters had to create a new take on the conventional cover system, since more or less everything in the game can be destroyed. Exploding barrels are liberally dotted around, so causing giant explosions is de rigueur. Indeed, you're rewarded from doing so, with an in-game currency called Intel: the more imaginatively you kill your enemies, the more Intel you get, and if you engage on a kill-streak, you receive more valuable Intel. Which, in turn, can be cashed in on four temporary upgrades: invulnerability, exploding ammo, a form of night-sight and an airstrike.The end result is gloriously over-the-top death and destruction which, allied with a super-smooth control system and well judged, although somewhat unspectacular, weaponry (the various assault rifles are the most useful guns), provides plenty of satisfaction. As does the ability to launch grenades that explode on impact by double-tapping the right bumper, or chuck three mines in front of you with the left bumper. If full-on, relentless gunplay, with moments when you aren't beset on all sides by enemies very rare indeed, appeals, you should love Bodycount.Bodycount exists at the opposite end of the spectrum to games such as Call of Duty, which minutely script the movements of all enemies: it uses procedural artificial intelligence, so that the enemies act in certain ways but retain some unpredictability.The tanks, for example, pursue you doggedly and like to get up close, so are susceptible to mines. Target operatives are nimble and can take a lot of damage. There aren't any boss-battles as such, but the more fearsome enemies, in combination with other troops, provide equivalent challenges. And even though it may resemble a run-and-gun game, it's clever enough to demand that you take a more strategic approach.Online, Bodycount should generate a decent following. There's a bespoke two-player co-op mode, which cranks up the difficulty level to the max, sending waves of enemies at you like Gears of Wars' Horde mode. Plus there are the usual Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes.Bodycount's determination to take a new approach to the first-person shooter genre is commendable, but unfortunately it isn't an unqualified success. At times, a bit of raggedness creeps in – the way-finding pointer disappears when you need it the most, the checkpointing is often erratic.There are periods when the gameplay varies slightly – for example, when hunting scavengers who have stolen crucial Intel from you – but in the end, it becomes a bit samey (which at least isn't a problem online, as that's what you expect). And it won't even appeal to all first-person shooter fans – only those who crave reducing their surroundings to rubble. Safe to say, it isn't the future of first-person shooters. But it is great fun.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Are you a five-minute walk from the bus stop, and wonder if you should run or just walk to catch the next one? If you were at the stop, you'd know because of the "countdown" systems in place. But now if you've got a smartphone, wonder no longer: Transport for London has made public its Countdown service, which indicates how long it will be until the next bus on any service arrives at a location.The service's existence leaked out after an internal memo was sent to all TfL staff telling them about it, atcountdown.tfl.gov.uk. Though it was meant to remain in private beta, news of the service rapidly leaked out and was spread around by open data fans. There is also amobile test version, though it's intended for developers only.(In this, it's being pointed out, London is catching up with Edinburgh, which has hadMyBusTrackerfor some time.)The interface is very simple, and doesn't ask for much: "Enter one of the following: street, postcode, route number or bus stop code", it says.Enter a postcode (the Guardian's is N1 9GU) and you getthis page, which offers the bus stops in the area; click on one, and you get a list of bus routes that stop there, and the timings of the buses.Jonathan RaperMalcolm BarclayofPlacr, who tweeted about it on Friday when it first surfaced, noted that there wasn't yet an API, andasked developersto "please don't kill it by scraping it to death" – through grabbing the code of the page and then repurposing it.The site went briefly offline, but not before Barclay – who has consistently called on TfL to make more of its data available – could note: "Tests prove it works, challenge now is to scale it out in both human &amp; machine readable versions. Just a Prague spring of joyous data release, snuffed out."TfL has nowissued developer guidelines for Countdown, noting that there will also be a new generation of countdown signs at bus stops.Once the system is fully in place, "you'll be able to send a text with your bus stop code to receive realtime bus arrival times for that stop", TfL notes. "Visually impaired passengers will be able to use the text-to-speech facility on their mobile phones to get this information Texts will cost the standard network rate, plus a 12p charge to receive the response. You'll also be able to get the latest service information using mobile web or the internet. Search by street name, area and postcode. You'll also be able to use a map if using a desktop PC."The ability to text for bus times won't sound new to Scandinavians, who have had similar systems for around a decade: the long walks to bus stops in cold weather mean that people try to time their arrival at the stop with that of the bus. Finland, home of Nokia, was particularly quick to see the potential of text messages about bus movements.TfL has also given developers access to its live journey planner (but not bus timings) API – the programming hooks that developers need to build apps, rather as Twitter does with its database of tweets to encourage the creation of thousands of Twitter apps. That is going to lead to the development of mobile apps, and that, in turn, should fuel a virtuous circle: developers write apps, people buy and/or download apps, people use apps to plan journeys using TfL services with confidence (because they know what connections to make, and in time will be able to see when the bus/tube/etc is arriving), TfL gets more revenue, TfL provides better service, provides broader API, devs write more apps, people buy more apps.Of course, it requires a subsidy kicked in at the start (those APIs and the cloud computing to run them don't come for free; TfL is one of Microsoft's successful demonstrations of its Azure cloud computing offering), but so did GPS: the US government still subsidises that to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars per year. That in turn fuels the virtuous circle of hardware makers selling GPS devices, people using them to not get lost (mostly) and arrive on time (or at least know what time they'll arrive), which leads to wider societal benefits from route planning. It's the open data catechism in its purest form.For those who have to have it on the command line or else it doesn't happen,there's a Ruby versiondeveloped by Adrian Short, who has been an enthusiastic user of all the open data that the London Datastore and TfL have managed to generate, especially relating to the Bike Hire scheme (aka Boris Bikes). (You can alsograb the code.)It's interesting when seen in the wider context of "open" in government: as pointed out by Rory Cellan-Jones at the BBC (ably assisted by FOI researcher Julia Ross), the government faces a number of hurdles in moving to open source, principally the extent to which Microsoft contracts, and more widely the custom and practice inside government,militate against using free software and for proprietary solutions. (You can download the spending data by department as CSV files directly from that article page. Let us know what you find.)
Dell plans to partner China's top search engine Baidu to develop tablet computers and mobile phones, targeting the Chinese market now dominated by Apple and the Chinese computer company Lenovo.China is one of the fastest growing markets for tablets and is home to more than 900 million mobile phone subscribers. Analysts said the tie-up could be Dell's way to revive its flagging tablet business.Baidu has already announced that it is developing versions of Google's Android mobile operating system which it has tailored to its own use. Android can be altered to remove Google's search and apps as the default – which Baidu, as the largest search engine in China and a bitter rival of Google, would seek to do.But analysts were not hopeful about Dell's prospects. "I suspect this is just Dell, who has a lot of problems on the mobile and tablet front, grasping at straws to get any kind of publicity that it can to make its product more attractive," said Michael Clendenin, managing director of technology consultancy RedTech Advisors. "Ultimately in China, I still think it is Apple's game, still for the iPad and iPhone."Dell declined to give a timeline for the launch of the devices, but local Chinese media on Tuesday quoted sources saying that it may be as early as November."We have a partnership with Baidu and you know we have the Streak 5 tablet, so the partnership will be in that space," a Dell spokeswoman told Reuters on Tuesday, adding that both companies were also cooperating on the mobile handset front.Dell's Streak 5 is a 5in Android-based smartphone-like tablet (or tablet-like smartphone) which was discontinued in the US last month.The Dell tie-up underscores Baidu's efforts to widen its product offerings and leverage its near-80% share of the country's search market, the world's largest.Baidu launched a new mobile application platform last week and offered a glimpse of its upcoming mobile operating system which it hopes will serve a growing number of users accessing the internet from smartphones and tablet computers.Baidu said it already had partnerships with Dell and other device makers and declined to comment on the new tie-up. Dell said the partnership with Baidu involved the company's new mobile platform.A Dell-Baidu tieup would be the latest in a series of developments re-shaping the mobile devices market.Last month, Google said it would acquire Motorola Mobility Holdings for $12.5bn (£7.7bn), in a move that could put Google into a lower-margin manufacturing business and pit it against as many as 38 other handset companies that use Google's Android software.Google has not said whether it will divest the manufacturing element of Motorola Mobility: it has indicated that its main aim is to gain patents owned by Motorola to fight lawsuits against Android coming from Apple and Microsoft."Dell has got nothing to lose, they don't have a big mobile presence, so by partnering Baidu, they will probably get some momentum for their mobile products," said Sandy Shen, a Shanghai-based research director with Gartner.Dell has chosen China to launch new products before. In 2009, Dell announced it will enter the smartphone market starting in China before moving into Brazil.Dell said in June it had chosen to launch its new 10in Android tablet in China this summer, passing up on a US and European launch, in a sign of the market's growing importance to the company.Dell's China sales grew 22% in the first quarter while its retail presence in China exceeds 10,000 sales points. The Far East is Dell's strongest growth market, reflecting general trends in the personal computer market where North America and Europe have seen slowdowns in sales of Windows PCs, a key market for Dell. Tablet sales are still seeing strong growth in those areas, but principally for Apple's iPad.The deal is unlikely to have an impact on Apple's quest for the hearts and minds of smartphone customers, analysts said. Technology heavyweights have failed so far to take a significant bite out of the iPad's success.Hewlett-Packard Co said it wouldkill its TouchPadafter just seven weeks on shelves, joining Dell's Streak 5 in the tablet graveyard. Weak sales for many offerings suggest others are likely to follow.
For the past six years, the Forza Motorsport series has been jostling its way to the front of the densely congested driving game starting grid.Mixing stunning visuals with wonderfully accessible handling, it has managed to forge itself a niche between the stark authenticity of Gran Turismo and the loose urban thrills of Need for Speed and Burnout.Heading towards its fourth instalment, Forza promises to push the Xbox 360 to its limits, while providing intriguing support for the Kinect peripheral.To find out more about developer Turn 10 Studios' approach to driving sim design, I spoke to creative director Dan Greenawalt. Here are some of the key concerns behind the leading racer series.The Forza titles have been seen as graphical benchmarks for Xbox 360 hardware. In what way is the fourth title pushing the machine? Is there anything left for the old architecture to give?Frankly, I think there's a big misunderstanding about how developers do what we do. Think about it like this, when you move apartments, you've got to pack up your van then unpack it all; and every time you move, you have to re-pack it and unpack it again. Over time you begin to find more space because you're better at packing it up – you optimise it better. Well, every time we ship a game and start on the next one, we re-optimise our code and we find more headroom.The other side to it is how you approach the problem. For this version, we hired a guy from Pixar, and we brought in some contract staff from Hollywood to work out how we should do the lighting, so even with the same amount of horsepower, depending on how you approach development, you can get wildly different results.The biggest thing is, we share stuff between different development teams. We talk with Epic, we talk with Lionhead, we talk with Rare, and when ever any of us learns a new optimisation, a new way of packing those boxes, it spreads throughout the industry. So we've benefited from the last two years of development since Forza 3 – even titles such as Gears [of War] 3 have helped.Forza seems to have carved a niche for itself between the simulation purity of Gran Turismo and the more forgiving handling of arcade racers such as Need For Speed. Was that always the intention or has it evolved through the development process?The vision behind the games is all about the passion for cars. It's not just about racing or simulation, it's about getting people excited about cars. It's a much broader vision than just making a racing simulator. That forces us to look outside of what other games are doing, and toward wherewewant to go.But also, innovation is a big deal to us. So, looking at user-generated content, the auction house, the store front, features that we brought to previous Forza titles – the green line,drivatar AI– there's been innovation throughout the series. And then when we see great ideas that other teams do, we borrow those too! Codemasters' rewind feature, for example. It's not always about innovating everywhere, but itisabout having the best designed overall package.Kinect was a huge boon to us as a creative team – to start exploring that vision. So we came up with the Autovista mode where you can move around the car, open the doors with your hands, accompanied by some of Jeremy Clarkson's trademark wit … that's a big part of the game. As well as Kinect head-tracking, we have Kinect Voice to navigate the UI and, of course, you can sit on the couch and play with your kids using Kinect driving. So innovation across the entire product has formed the personality of the game.In terms of handling, what's been your aim here throughout the series? How do you deal with the dichotomy between realism and playability? I do find Forza more fun to drive than Gran Turismo.The design philosophy of our team is to not compromise when it comes to physics – we always keep that as accurate as possible. And we're always pushing, pushing, pushing. So for this version we worked with Pirelli, we threw away all of our old tyre data to make the most up-to-date tyre simulation possible. There's a reason they invest so much money into tyre R&amp;D; tyres are not a completely known science yet. So if you base your in-game tyre model on five-year-old data it's simply wrong.It's like weather forecasting – if you look at some of the models meteorologists used 10 years ago, they're not nearly as accurate as they are today, but even if you watch the weather report tonight you don't necessarily believe it – the truth is, the science is still evolving. The maths models for forecasting will be much more accurate in 10 years.Driving simulation is the same. People may say, well, our physics is perfect, but simulation simply can't be. We're not at that point – we're not in the Matrix yet!So simulation is important to us and it's something we're continually updating. But in terms of fun – I'm very proud of that. It's not only how it drives and how it handles, it's also about having a game. There has to be XP, there have to be reward systems, there have to be gift cars – this is all just decent game design; it's what we've seen in games all the way through, from Mario to Oblivion to Halo.So we don't sacrifice the physics to make the cars easier to drive or more approachable. We add layer, upon layer, upon layer. This whole sim/fun divide … it's silly, it's like saying that a painting can't be real art if it looks nice in my living room. Real art must be ugly! It doesn't make any sense to me.The other thing I should mention is the power of assists in general. Take a car from the 1960s such as a GT40 – say I asked you to go and hot lap in one of those at the Hockenheimring, if you pushed it, you would die. But today's cars, such as the BMW M5, that's a 500 HP, it's extremely torque-y, the reason that car can be pushed so much by people like you and me is because of the traction control, TCS, ABS, advanced mapping on the throttle, the way the speed-sensitive steering works.A lot of technology went into that, and it's actually the same thing we're doing to make our simulation more driveable. People seem to think that a simulation has to be hard, but I tell you what, I drive a BMW M3, I take these cars to the track and they're NOT incredibly hard to drive.Talking about the cars themselves, how do you decide on your roster for each game? Do you go with team favourites, or fan requests, or what's hot at the moment?Yes, yes and yes. But it's really important that we pull ourselves away from the manufacturer lists and think well, who are we trying to reach now? We apply different ways of prioritising our lists . So yes, we have a list of more than 1,500 cars and that's compiled from people's passion – if people tell us they love a car, we throw it in.But then we put different lenses on – what are the current trends in automotive design? What's happening in the US and UK automotive scene? What's happening on Top Gear? And what's happening in pop culture? Which hot car was featured in which new movie? What cars are getting really good reviews and what cars are different manufacturers promoting?We use all that to reprioritise. And that all sounds very dry, but the goal is to divorce ourselves form the process – we need to make sure our passion doesn't blind us! What that's led to in this version is a heavier investment in American muscle cars, because of the global resurgence in this kind of hooliganism around gas-guzzling V8s.These cars have been around for a long time, we could have added them at any point, but the reason they've risen to the top in this version is that worldwide automotive car culture psyche these big V8s are a rebellion against the Prius! There's nothing wrong with the Prius, it's a great car…What's your relationship like with manufacturers? I mean, I understand the marketing opportunities that Forza must represent to them, but do they appreciate the design?For the first time, I would say yes – and it's because of Autovista. Honestly, that's the first time they've said "this is crazy!". They want to show it to their board of directors. The idea of seeing the car on a giant projector and being able to walk around it via Kinect, that has definitely got different departments within these companies interested.If you think about it, these are multinational companies and so generally most of us in the video game space deal with the licensing organisation. They have marketing organisations, they have design and racing organisations – and those groups don't necessarily talk to each other all the time, just like in any corporation. So for the first time, with Autovista, we reached the higher levels – the boards, the chief executives – we've got them thinking, "this has huge potential".All of a sudden, we're getting calls from manufacturers saying "hey, we want to talk to you about this" and we'll say, "well, you know, we've already spoken – we talked to your licensing guys. They're in the same building as you!"But for the most part dealing with the manufacturers has been fairly easy for us in that we're not making choices about gameplay, trying to make it arcade-y or silly. We can hide behind that we're a simulation. If they don't like something about their car in the game, we can say, well, you can not like it all day but that's what it does!If you don't like it, go fix it. If you fix it in the real world, guess what, we'll fix it in the game.So are all the in-game performance attributes genuinely based on physics? You don't just tap in the manufacturer's quoted top speed and the car model performs to that – you honestly program in the physics then hit the accelerator to check that your car can actually simulate those figures?Well first up, all the manufacturer data we get, we mostly throw away! This is because we're either getting it from a licensing agent or a marketing agent, we're not getting it from the engineer who knows the real data. So we research cars – we actually go find out what itreallydoes. We look at magazines such as Road and Track and Car and Driver, and we see what their test results are.And we often notice that their test results are different. A manufacturer may say, this car does 0-60 in 4.3 seconds, but Car and Driver says 4.6, Top Gear may say 4.5, so you can't really trust any of that. We look at the simulation output and ask if we're getting the same range as those figures. And we have actually found issues in cars, we've called up the original manufacturer of the suspension, rather than calling up, say, BMW about the suspension. We might call KAW or H&amp;R depending on who actually provided the springs, especially with older cars. We'll actually find out the real gear rations from the maker. We put all that stuff in and the car might understeer, it might oversteer, we've found some cars that just don't drive very well in the simulation. We don't fix it because that's how it really is.And how important is it to manage how players discover the cars? Driving sims are always structured to give you the little hot hatches first. Is that still really necessary?Well, in Forza – especially in Forza 4 – we give you multiple gift cars to choose from, not just at the beginning, but at every level. In the past we'd give you one gift car, now you get an option. We've selected those cars based on telling different automotive stories to people. So when you start off the game, you might have a Ford Ka or a small Citroen or a Chevy Spark, and those are great starter cars, because they're not fast enough to get you in to a lot of trouble. You need to work your way up to a Subaru STI or a BMW M3. I don't mean to be insulting, but novice drivers tend to over-estimate their driving abilities. They'll say, "I've played a lot of these games, I'm an expert!", and they'll select simulation steering, no ABS, manual gears, they spin out they hit a wall and then they go "That's not real". Well, yeah actually that happened because it's real. It's just like, if I took you to the track, I wouldn't want to turn off the traction control on a Ferrari 599 GTO – none of us should. Jeremy Clarkson did and said that the car was undriveable!•Forza Motorsport 4 is out on 14 October for Xbox 360
Mathew Key, the executive who won the iPhone for Telefónica and currently heads its European markets outside Spain, is to run a specially created unit based in London which will develop new applications and business models for mobile technology.Key's Telefónica Digital unit will build businesses around location based advertising, remote health services, mobiles as digital wallets, and SIM cards in machines such as gas meters and traffic lights.Employing 2,500 staff, the division will run Telefónica's Skype-style internet telephony service Jajah, the Spanish social network Tuenti and the Latin American internet broadcaster Terra.Initially based at the company's UK headquarters in Slough, it will eventually relocate to central London to be near the investment community, and will have research and development facilities in Spain and Latin America and regional offices in Madrid, Silicon Valley and Sao Paulo.The move is make or break for Key, who is giving up a position in which he manages 30,000 staff serving 57 million customers in the UK, Germany, Ireland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.Mobile operators have been exploring new technologies such as Near Field Communications, where phones can be swiped on readers to make small purchases, for years. But few have become ubiquitous, cash generating businesses in Western countries.In a statement released on Monday, Telefónica said Key's role would be to "enhance Telefónica's ability to operate in the digital environment, thereby increasing the company's growth potential".Telefónica has also reorganised geographically into two units. Latin America will continue to stand alone, while Spain is being folded into the European operation. José María Álvarez-Pallete, who currently heads Latin America, will oversee the enlarged European operation.Guillermo Ansaldo, who previously ran Spain, will head a global resources unit, running HR, group purchasing, IT and technology.In 2007, Key secured a major coup for Telefónica by winning the right to distribute the first iPhones in a number of markets including the UK, Spain and Ireland. As UK chief executive, he organised the rebranding of the Millennium Dome as the O2.He was rewarded with the position of European chief executive November 2007 when his predecessor, Peter Erskine, retired from the role.
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationViz ProfanisaurusViz magazine has brought its popular Profanisaurus database to iPhone, as Roger Mellie presents 12,000 "degenerate definitions". They can be browsed alphabetically or at random, with a favourites list and social features. Count this as "Surprising Apple Approval Of The Day", but fans will be delighted.iPhoneO2 AcademyO2 has launched an iPhone app for its O2 Academy music venues around the UK. It includes gig listings, news, videos and social features. However, select artists have also contributed their own video diaries and audio tours, accessed through an augmented reality feature. O2 worked with music company PIAS on the app. An Android version is coming soon.iPhoneUber50 Deluxe for UberSocial50 Cent has had a reskinned Twitter theme for BlackBerry for a few months now, but it's made the leap to Android. It's a Fiddy-branded version of existing Twitter app UberSocial, although the company behind it – UberMedia – should perhaps consider changing the "Bonus 50 Cent wallpapers for your BlackBerry Home screen" text in the app description on Android Market...AndroidConnect4BBM-equipped youths will soon be too busy playing Connect 4 on their BlackBerry phones to riot. Possibly. This is one of the first games to be released with BBM integration, enabling BlackBerry users to play against their messaging mates, while chatting in-game.BlackBerryFoodzyFoodzy wants to gamify healthy eating, rewarding its iPhone and Android users with badges for their eating habits. Users even check in to their meals, Foursquare-style.iPhone / AndroidTelegraph Rugby – World Cup 2011The Telegraph has released its latest spin-off iPhone app, this time focusing on the rugby World Cup in New Zealand. It promises news, live match coverage and statistics during the tournament.iPhoneThe Kooks Mobile BackstageUK band The Kooks have an official app from their label EMI, developed using the Mobile Backstage platform. That means a focus on sharing content – not just photos and videos from the band, but from the fans as well. Gig check-ins, Twitter features and exclusive competitions are also included.iPhoneGrays Anatomy Premium EditionThis BlackBerry PlayBook app brings the original version of anatomical book Gray's Anatomy to RIM's tablet, complete with 1,247 zoomable illustrations.BlackBerry PlayBookCollaborative PoetryAs the name implies, this is all about people creating verse together – designed for festivals and other public events. It enables users to create new poems, add new lines to those created by others, and read everything that people have been writing during an event.AndroidSonic 20th AnniversarySega's Sonic the Hedgehog is 20 years old, and the publisher has launched a new app to celebrate. It's a free download, and is mainly promotional, although it includes a new "Sonic the Sketchhog" game that turns Sonic into a pen-doodle.iPhoneLazyTown Smoothie MakerKids TV show LazyTown has another app, this time focused around healthy eating. Developed by Bigplay Studios, it teaches children to make smoothies and soups, with eight recipes related to characters from the show. Sportacus' Berrylicious Smoothie, anyone?AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamQR Codes &gt;&gt; GoComicsWhat life is like if your phone can't scan QR Codes.Anonymous's hackers are hypocrites, not hacktivists &gt;&gt; TechWebThe headline is over the top, but the article makes good points: "Ask yourself this: If Anonymous were to single out your organization for attack, what would you do? Would you search your soul for the source of whatever transgression might have elicited the group's animosity? Or would you spend a little extra on IT security and hunker down to weather the storm, while mobilizing your legal department to track down and prosecute the offenders? For anyone charged with running a business, the obvious answer is the practical one. Anonymous's tactics force an organization into IT defense mode, while doing little, if anything, to engage the organization's leadership in a meaningful dialog about the issues."Arguably, hackers with a cause are casting around for the best way to advance that cause. They've tried aggression and they've tried lulzing. Seems aggression is back. But it's not quite right.Michael Arrington's audacious venture &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe Arrington thing is beginning to carry the risk of poisoning TechCrunch's reputations permanently: "It's not the usual case of conflict of interest -- someone being sent a shiny new gadget and writing about how spiffy it is. This time, there are tens of millions of dollars in play. Coverage in TechCrunch can make or break a start-up, and what about those companies that are not F.O.M.'s (Friends of Mike)?"'David, honestly, don't be silly,' [Arianna Huffington] said. 'It is very, very clear that they are distinct entities and Michael will have no influence on coverage.'"Really? It's worth pointing out that earlier that day, Mr. Arrington told my colleague Claire Cain Miller, "I am TechCrunch and TechCrunch is me." It's now hard to know whether AOL is Mr. Arrington's partner, client, employer or banker."AOL, challenged on both business and editorial fronts, has enabled Mr. Arrington at every turn, allowing him to bestow his blunt brand of editorial favor or wrath as he saw fit."An iOS developer takes on Android &gt;&gt; Nick FarinaFascinating description of the good and the bad about programming for Android v iOS. (thanks @1723985 for the link.)Mouth Wide Shut &gt;&gt; Joel on SoftwareJoel Spolsky from 2003, but still relevant: "If your policy is Radio Silence, every employee understands it and can follow it. If your policy is in any way complicated, nobody is sure what to do and things leak."Doesn't advance buzz and publicity help? I don't know. A little, but not as much as nonadvance publicity. I'm inclined to think that publicity that comes out when you can't actually buy the product is 90% wasted. Remember that incredibly big burst of Segway publicity about a year ago? With Jeff Bezos and Steve Jobs talking about how "IT" was going to revolutionize the entire universe? Cities would be reconfigured. OK, so, we all talked about the Segway, but nobody could buy one, so it's not clear that it was publicity well-spent. And it certainly seems like the same amount of publicity would have helped more if it appeared when every Walmart has Segways in stock."Tools for the Tech Europe Tour &gt;&gt; WSJ EuropeBen Rooney of the WSJ Europe is going on a tour of European cities in search of tech. He's planning to try to write up what he finds entirely on an iPad, to see if it's possible to "cut the apron strings". But with a physical keyboard too.England riots: an interactive timeline &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukImagine this as a Guitar Hero challenge where you have to use all of your fingers and toes, plus your nose. Helluva tune.Deutsche Telekom begins offering IPhone 5 reservation - without date or price &gt;&gt; BloombergThe modern version of a pig in a poke?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The Dutch government says hackers who broke into a web security firm in the Netherlands last month issued hundreds of bogus security certificates that could be used on websites including the CIA and Israel's Mossad, as well as internet giants such as Google, Microsoft and Twitter.More than 500 fake certificates, including some which could be used to send fake Windows updates to computers, and others which could be used when connecting to the CIA's site, were fraudulently issued in the hack, which occurred in July.The Dutch government took the exceptional step of calling a press conference at 1.15am on Saturday morning to announce that it was revoking all trust in digital certificates issued by DigiNotar, which until then had been used for all online tax returns filed in the Netherlands.The government said that browser companies are now rejecting all security certificates issued by the hacked firm. Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google's Chrome will all reject certificates from the company. Apple systems require a manual update. Apple has not made any statement on whether it will revoke DigiNotar certificates.The fake certificates could in theory be used to monitor users' communications with those sites without them noticing, but only by an organisation that also has the ability to reroute internet traffic to servers they control – most likely a government.Iran's government has been suspected of involvement in the hack, which led to the creation of hundreds of fake security certificates used to create cryptographically secure links between users and sites. A handful of Iranian users of Google's popular email service are known to have been affected by the faked certificates, which would allow a "man in the middle" attack, where an apparently secure link could in fact be tapped by an intermediary. Security experts noted that earlier this year, Iranannounced that it was changing the setup for its domain name servers(DNS) used to make connections to sites – which would give it the ideal opportunity to insert faked certificates into the system.Roel Schouwenberg of the security company Kaspersky warned that the long-term effects of the DigiNotar hack could be more serious than Stuxnet, a computer "worm" that is believed to have been written by US and Israeli computer experts to attack Iran's nuclear facilities by destabilising computer-controlled systems in its uranium centrifuges."The attack on DigiNotar will put cyberwar on or near the top of the political agenda of western governments," henotedon the Securelist blog. "I remain with my stance that a government operation is the most plausible scenario."He added: "The damage sustained to the Dutch (government) IT infrastructure is quite significant. A lot of services are no longer available. Effectively, communications have been disrupted. Because of this one could make an argument the attack is an act of cyberwar."
The rumours are unstoppable: Amazon is going to unveil a tablet in the next few weeks, and if thehands-on description of an internal prototype by MG Siegler over at Techcrunchare even vaguely correct, then it's going to be a 7in device with a colour touchscreen running a forked version of Android, at a price around $250. (UK price still unknown).Note that "forked" bit, because it could be crucial.The expectation around Amazon and its entry to the tablet market has been building, partly because it is the first – and possibly the only – company that people think could pose a serious threat to Apple in the tablet space.Why, when there are dozens of different tablets out there – from Samsung to Acer to Asus to RIM to Motorola to HP's TouchPad (very limited stocks only!) to, I don't know, throw a stone and you'll hit someone making a tablet – why should it be that it's only when Amazon comes to the tablet table that people think it will make a difference?Two simple reasons: Amazon is a conduit to lots of content; and, just as importantly, it already has a way for you to buy content from it. Like Apple, it is one of the 10 biggest merchant holders of credit card numbers in the world (along with companies such as eBay, PayPal, Sony through the PlayStation Network and Microsoft through its Xbox Live system).Notice the company missing from that list? Google. It has almost no relationship in financial terms with the average person. Not surprising, given that it only really got its act together with AdWords to become profitable in 2001, and that all its business is done with customers who are advertisers, rather than "customers" in the form of its users. Yes, it has advertisers' financial details. But those are a tiny fraction compared to its huge number of users.By contrast Apple and Amazon are familiar as transaction handlers: Apple has 200m iTunes accounts, of which a very significant number have credit cards attached. Amazon isn't quite as big, but for people in North America and Europe, it's a company they trust with their details.Yes, yes, but what has this got to do with tablets? Simply that tablets lack what smartphones have: ready-made content. If you've got a smartphone then its obvious use is for making phone calls or sending texts – essentially, you create the content. The data-enabled stuff is a bonus.With tablets, though, that's reversed. A tablet is atabula rasa– a blank slate until you get something onto it. Yes, with the standard Android tablet you can do some browsing, and triage your email, and check what the weather is going to be tomorrow on a weather app, but truly, when it comes to content, Android Honeycomb is simply dire; it's no contest with what you can get in app terms on the iPad. I've been trying a Samsung Galaxy Tab 10 over the weekend and while it's a nice piece of kit, the call for apps that will show off Honeycomb to its fullest draws a silence as wide and deep as the ocean. Themost detailed suggestionI got the other day suggested 10 apps, including an office suite (already on the Tab), a Twitter client (there are literally a million already), a keyboard app (there's already a soft keyboard), Google Music (doesn't work outside the US), and a browser (Android has one already). So that leaves five more: Google+ (available on the iPad), Pulse (a newsreading app like Flipboard), a sketching app (there's a zillion on the iPad), a remote control for watching HD content (if you've got it on your home network) - and, last but not least, Kindle. From, as you know, Amazon.For the iPad? Ask and people won't stop – Keynote (for writing presentations), Garageband (for writing music), Flipboard, iPlayer (the Android Honeycomb iPlayer "app" isn't – it's just a redirect to the BBC website). And on and on.Why are apps so poor on Android? I think it's the classic problem: users find it hard to pay for apps, because there's no simple payment mechanism (is it credit card? Google Checkout? Carrier payment?), which makes them uneasy. So good developers can't get paid, so they don't develop good stuff, so the Android Market is overrun with rubbish made at the lowest possible cost, because there's no point killing yourself to not get paid.(Yes, I know people who have bought stuff for Android will be saying at this point "No, really, you can!" The fact though is that most people see the price and abandon the process because it's not clear who will be in charge; the stories aboutGoogle setting up payments systems with carriersonly confuses things, rather than helping.)Bringing Amazon in changes all that.Amazon is building its own app store(hence rows with Apple over whether it can call it an "app store") which means it will be able to sell apps. Sensible developers would want to be associated with it: that would be the way to get paid, at long last, for Android apps. Don't be surprised if it has its own payment system which uses your existing Amazon account to let you buy stuff - not just apps, but also music (Amazon MP3s) and video (Amazon now owns LoveFilm). And if you can't find the content you want digitally, you could always order it directly from, well, Amazon.Having all those credit cards logged on its servers is going to be fantastically useful for Amazon. But don't expect it to spread the love to other would-be Android tablet companies. Amazon is a ruthless competitor too, and forking Android is a smart move that means it can drive it in the way that it wants. I'd expect the Amazon app store to be the default on its tablet, perhaps using your Amazon credentials, and I expect that it will offer a far better experience than most Honeycomb tablets.The objection from Android tablet users at this point will be "but if Amazon makes us log in using its credentials rather than Google's, I'll have wasted all the money I spent purchasing apps. Both of them." Simple answer to that: you can download the apps using your Google credentials and then switch to the Amazon login. Second simple answer: most people don't have an Android tablet, which means that most people will be setting one up for the first time. So they won't have any "Android Market" labs apps to "lose".And what about Google? The danger there is that it is going to turn into Microsoft – that is, that despite having the most successful product (in terms of market share), that it will be disconnected from its users. Microsoft has Windows and Google has search; the problem in both cases is that though they can see what you're doing, they have to stand apart. They don't hold your credit cards, and have no easy system of transaction with you. Arguably, Google is further behind in this race, because at least Microsoft has Xbox Live, and the small but eager band of Zune Pass users. Sure, Google+ has millions of users, but I don't recall handing over my credit card number to get onto it.Without that ability to get people to hand over money directly to it, Google hasn't got a chance of building a financial relationship with the users of search or of Android. That's what's different about what Apple has done since 2003, when it started the iTunes Music Store. Amazon, of course, has been going even longer. Both are ready to accept your payments. Google, however, is still hobbled by having no obvious way to let you pay for quality products on Android.Amazon, by building its own app store, has the chance to overturn the established order; it's the first proper challenge that the iPad will face in terms of a rival that can offer not just a product, but also something to fill the product. If it really succeeds, it could even draw developers out of the wider Android Market and into the Amazon app store exclusively. Once that starts to happen, Google will have a dilemma: is it good or bad if more of the money being made out of Android app sales is going to someone else? Will Amazon lock out rival tablet makers such as Samsung from its app store? (I expect so.) Is that good or bad for Android on tablets? What should Google do?And there's Google's problem. Its relationship with its users is too like Microsoft's. Instead it needs to be more like Amazon. But competing there would cause problems too. Android for tablet sits on the horns of a dilemma: what it needs to succeed – a content retailer about to challenge Apple – might be what kills off rival makers. And if Google tries to change the rules of the game – say, by insisting that Amazon open its app store – then it could break everything.
Top 20 games, week ending 2 September 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (33)PC (6)22 (–)Driver: San Francisco(12+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (46)13 (2)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (2)234 (3)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)25 (4)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (30)Xbox 360 (23)DS (23)PS3 (14)176 (–)Madden Nfl 12(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)17 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (41)Wii (7)PC (7)408 (6)Cars 2(3+)Wii (33)DS (32)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (15)79 (7)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (30)PSP (12)Wii (11)4910 (12)The Sims 3(12+)PC (40)DS (16)Xbox 360 (15)Wii (13)4111 (9)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (41)DS (21)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (17)2712 (17)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (20)DS (18)Wii (16)2113 (8)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)1514 (10)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (41)PC (13)3515 (14)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (6)1716 (16)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)3917 (18)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (36)PC (6)3418 (–)Red Dead Redemption(18+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)3019 (19)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)720 (15)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)96UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Apologies for the late start, but now official Monday chatter can begin!
Google is to shut down 10 products, including the search company Aardvark, bought for $50m last year, as the internet giant focuses on new social network Google+ ahead of its public launch.The "fall spring clean" follows a pledge by Larry Page to rid the company of inefficiencies after he took over as chief executive in April.The products listed for closure includeAardvark,Desktop,Fast Flip, Google Maps API for Flash,Google Pack,Google Web Security,Image Labeler,Notebook,SidewikiandSubscribed Links.Alan Eustace, Google's senior vice-president for engineering, announced the closures onthe company's official blog."Technology improves, people's needs change, some bets pay off and others don't. So, as Larry previewed on our last earnings call, today we're having a fall spring clean at Google. Over the next few months we'll be shutting down a number of products and merging others into existing products as features," he said."This will make things much simpler for our users, improving the overall Google experience. It will also mean we can devote more resources to high-impact products – the ones that improve the lives of billions of people. All the Googlers working on these projects will be moved over to higher-impact products."Many of the Google staff are expected to transfer to Google+, the ambitious social network launched in invitation-only beta in June. According toindustry calculations, Google+ hit 20 million users within three weeks of its launch.Google has not said when it plans to open Google+ to all internet users, but is expected to do so before the first half of next year.Eustace added: "We've never been afraid to try big, bold things, and that won't change. We'll continue to take risks on interesting new technologies with a lot of potential. But by targeting our resources more effectively, we can focus on building world-changing products with a truly beautiful user experience."Although Google shied away from announcing "dramatic or immediate changes" after Page took the reins from Eric Schmidt in April, the closures are a sign of Page's determination to get things done.Product managers were asked earlier this year to pitch a 60-word explanation of their projects to the 38-year-old Google founder, with a view to slimming down the number.In July, Google closed down its experimental feature-testing suiteGoogle Labs.Max Ventilla, the co-founder of Aardvark, which was bought by Google for $50m last year,suggested in a blog poston Friday that the social search product will be folded into Google+."We've been excited to share these lessons within Google over the past year, especially as part of the effort behind Google+. It has been gratifying to see how well this project is doing – even in these early stages, Google+ has already become a great place to share knowledge online, eclipsing the originalvark.com! – and there is much more to come very soon," he said.
The amount of advertising inventory within mobile apps in the US has exploded in the last year, but does that mean developers and publishers are making a killing from ad-supported apps? New research from mobile analytics firm Flurry raises more questions than answers.The companypublished its researchon its blog, based on data from more than 100,000 iOS and Android applications using its analytics tools. Flurry calculated that the average app session lasts 4.2 minutes, during which an average of 4.3 adverts are shown.It then assumed a "conservative" cost-per-thousand impressions (CPM) rate of $2.50 for mobile application inventory – remember that assumption – to calculate a potential US mobile app inventory value of just over $1bn by the end of 2011, poised to overtake net monthly revenues from online display ads. By the end of 2012, Flurry's chart predicts US mobile app inventory to the value of $4.5bn.Or, as Flurry put it in its blog post: "US app inventory is not only growing at a staggering rate, but also poised to absorb the equivalent of the entire US Internet display advertising spend by the end of this year... Another way to look at this is that, in approximately two years, mobile app inventory is growing so aggressively that it could easily meet the demand of a mature, 15-year-old form of online advertising."Flurry cites as key factors in this growth sales of more than one million new smartphones a day; rapid growth in the number of available apps and the time users spend using them; and more publishers integrating ads into their apps.Well then. The first thing to say about these calculations is that they are comparing app inventory – the slots available that couldpotentiallybe used for ads that couldpotentiallybe worth a CPM of $2.50 – with actual online display revenues. Those ad slots might be filled, but they might not, and if they are, it may not be at those rates.Second, isn't there a concern that the explosive growth in mobile app ad inventory could be a bad thing, if demand isn't keeping up with the supply?I asked some mobile advertising companies for their views, and encountered a range of views. Millennial Media is the largest independent mobile advertising network, and its senior vice president of global monetisation solutions Matt Gillis was fairly positive."We think inventory growth is great, and developers should be excited that consumers are seriously gravitating towards content consumption on mobile platforms versus others," he says, before delivering a warning."In terms of pricing, all impressions are not necessarily equal, and the developers that can continue to drive premium value will attract the richest campaigns. This should continue to be the case, no matter how much inventory is out there. In the meantime, whenever possible, developers should focus on adding some of the key factors advertisers are often looking for, such as rich media capabilities."In the UK, 4th Screen Advertising managing director Mark Slade suggested that the stats and positioning in Flurry's blog post are "slightly misleading" due to the comparison."Advertising is driven more by demand than supply, ie, looking at the growth of supply of inventory and immediately connecting that to the demand for advertising is a stretch," he says. "As an ad network, if all we had to do was increase inventory to increase spend everyone would be in this space. If you applied the same methodology for online – assumed all page impressions were monetised at $2.50 – online would be gigantic."Slade also thinks that $2.50 is "way too high" for the majority of mobile app inventory, which is characterised by a long tail of apps that rise and fall quickly in the app store charts (or never rise at all)."The Shazam app commands a premium CPM, however a novelty random talking cat is less appealing to top advertisers," says Slade. "Very few applications reach sustainable scale on an individual basis."James Connolly, managing director of UK mobile advertising buying and planning agency Fetch Media, also points to the variety of apps on offer."Because mobile inventory is hugely fragmented, the quality and therefore the value of in-app traffic varies greatly, with game inventory differing hugely from that of a premium publisher," he says, before suggesting that the huge growth in US app ad inventory has a lot to do with the growth of Google's Android OS."With Android now leading the US smartphone market, it is much easier for a one man band developer to create an app , integrate an ad serving API and launch into the Android Market without too many difficulties, equalling new inventory which therefore drives the value of the inventory down," he says."The real indicator will be how app stores position applications and how important the usage of an app will play within this. The explosion of app inventory shouldn't therefore have a universal effect on all mobile inventory. However, low cost inventory, typically sold through blind networks or incentivised programs will become more available and therefore less valuable per unit."Slade claims that in the US and Europe alike, premium publishers and big applications are "pulling out of the blind networks" to either sell in-house or work with specialist mobile agencies – yes, that would include 4th Screen Advertising.Flurry's research is still useful in trying to gauge what's happening in the market: the company's analytics are used by a wide enough sample of apps to make it useful data. That said, the success of the mobile advertising market is clearly not about the amount of available inventory, but about how efficiently and profitably that inventory is filled.
A burst of 14 apps for your considerationPostSecretPostSecret is a popular website where people anonymously send in the "soulful, sexual and silly secrets" that they can't share in the real world. Now it has an iPhone app for browsing and submitting secrets, complete with a location feature to see the nearest ones.iPhoneWeiboThere's something of a buzz building around Weibo, which has been described as Twitter but for the Chinese market. Launched by SINA, it now has an official iPhone and Android app that its creator hopes will be "widely used, fast spread and it surely will be distinguished to the world".iPhone / AndroidIM+ VideoIM+ Video is a video-chatting app that ties into users' Facebook social graphs, so they can place video or voice calls to their friends.iPhoneAR.FreeFlightParrot's AR.Drone was the first (but surprisingly not the last) remote-controlled helicopter for iOS devices. Now it's making the leap to Android, with the AR.FreeFlight app helping Google-powered handsets pilot the copter.AndroidCancer Research UK ThemeBlackBerry users wanting a new theme for their smartphone could do worse than this one, since all proceeds are going to Cancer Research UK.BlackBerryPod OdysseyPod Odyssey is an iPad arcade game from developer Coffee Pot Labs, with an enticing blend of mazes, robots, space spiders and some very attractive graphics indeed.iPadIvor First BookThomas and Friends don't have the App Store to themselves when it comes to train-related literature. Ivor the Engine makes his second appearance on iOS this week, with an iPad book-app offering a tale from the very first TV series back in 1958.iPadZoolanderParamount Digital Entertainment's latest film-as-app for Windows Phone devices is a corker: fashion spoof Zoolander. As ever, the app includes the ability to watch the film, while also clipping scenes to share, taking trivia quizzes and finding out more on the actors and locations.Windows PhonePeggy: Storybook 1Another day, another iPad book-app for children with impressive production values. Peggy is the work of Keyframe Digital Productions, and is aimed at 2-5 year-olds. Part of a new series called "Pop In", sound and animation are key parts of the storyline.iPadKik MapsKik Maps is a location app for iPhone that works for users of the Kik Messenger application – one of a clutch of cross-platform BBM rivals. It aims to make it easier to share your current location with Kik Messenger friends.iPhoneNet-A-Porter The Window ShopFashion site Net-A-Porter has launched a "Window Shop" in Mayfair, London, where people can point their phones and tablets at items in the window display to buy them from the device. The iOS app has just gone live, and uses the Aurasma technology for its image recognition.iPhone / iPadPepe Jeans MagPepe Jeans has a London-based magazine, and now it has its own iPad app too. The app includes photos and videos from fashion shows, info on Pepe Jeans' Autumn-Winter 2011 collection, plus store-finding and music features. Oh, and a virtual drumkit.iPadMeFeediaThe MeFeedia video aggregation site has a new app for iPhone and Android, serving up content from YouTube, DailyMotion, Vimeo and other sites.iPhone / AndroidSounddropperSounddropper from Resonance Design is the latest location-based music app for iPhone. It wants to get people 'dropping' songs at specific locations, tying in to SoundCloud. As it explains: "Having a special song for your special lady in that place? Drop it there. You are a local artist that wants to audio graffiti your neighbourhood? Drop it there. A band releasing a special song just for the people at your gig? Drop it there..."iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI am asking Google to remove me from the Google+ suggested user list &gt;&gt; Robert Scoble - Google+"...Anyway, I totally understand why Google did this list. It just isn't a well curated list and so I don't want my name associated with it."Lost iPhone 5: Police 'assisted' Apple investigators in search of SF man's home &gt;&gt; San Francisco NewsFor those who doubted the original report was correct: "The bizarre saga involving a lost prototype of the iPhone 5 has taken another interesting turn. Contradicting past statements that no records exist of police involvement in the search for the lost prototype, San Francisco Police Department spokesman Lt. Troy Dangerfield now tells SF Weekly that "three or four" SFPD officers accompanied two Apple security officials in an unusual search of a Bernal Heights man's home."Police don't get involved in publicity stunts.The proliferation of mobile platforms &gt;&gt; AsymcoAn intriguing stack chart of the ever-growing number; the lifespans are interesting to compare.How much does your slow machine cost your company? &gt;&gt; Folding Air Blog"For example, you're doing TDD, you write a test, do some coding and hit run test but have to wait 30 seconds+ for it to run. This takes long enough to break your flow, you have a quick think about something else and then you realise the test has run and you need to switch you attention back. You might have a quick chat about something else with your pair."We know it's hurting our velocity but without numbers it's difficult to convince management of the true costs."So what did we do?"We took a stop watch, kept it with us all day and recorded all the time that where we were waiting for the computer to do something - from opening apps, running builds and tests, searches and refactorings in visual studio - any time at all where the developer had to wait for the machine to work, be it 5 seconds or 5 minutes the stop watch was running. It took quite a lot of discipline. The results were startling."Worth buying the fastest possible if the project lasts more than a month.Samsung: 'no plans' to launch Galaxy Tab 7.7 and Galaxy Note in the U.S. &gt;&gt;Gottabemobile"The Galaxy Tab 7.7 and Galaxy Note are two devices that are generating quite a bit of buzz here at IFA 2011 in Berlin. There's a lot to like about these devices, but unfortunately you might not be able to buy one stateside. According to Samsung, there are currently no plans to ship either of the devices in the U.S."Simplifies the questions of whether to stock or not for retailers.Amazon's Kindle tablet is very real. I've seen it, played with it &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMG Siegler, visiting Seattle, doesn't have pictures but has been trying it out - a 7in tablet with multi-touch.32GB and 64GB PlayBook prices at Best Buy: identical &gt;&gt; Best BuyThe 16GB version is $450 (save $50!), the 64GB is $550 (save $150!) and the 32GB version is... $550 (save $50!).Explanations for this pricing regime where 32GB of Flash memory costs nothing welcomed."Don't be a dick" - the golden rule of news website comment threads &gt;&gt; Martin BelamMartin Belam, writing in a purely personal capacity (you understand): "[if you're moderated] ask yourself, "Was I being a bit of a dick?"."I'd define dick-ish behaviour on a news site as including, but not restricted to: personal attacks, using 'amusing' clichés like EUSSR and Tony Bliar, making the same off-topic point day after day, being rude and grumpy and unwelcoming to newcomers, mocking other people's spelling, bullying and hectoring staff and journalists appearing in the comment threads, asking 'is this news?' on a story you are not interested in and which nobody forced you to read, hate speech, 'ironic' hate speech, anything that might now or in the future potentially land the publisher in legal hot water, and any comment which includes the phrase 'I don't suppose the moderators will publish this but...'"Labour pledges to reverse section 29A's three strikes... &gt;&gt; Stuff.co.nzThree strikes filesharing rule comes into play in New Zealand: "The three-strikes regime is not expected to be widely used by rights holders, however, because of the high $25 fee they must pay to internet providers to forward those warnings to internet users and a $200 fee for bringing cases in front of the tribunal."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The Guardian sent a number of questions to the Turkish hacker group, Turkguvenligi, whocarried out the domain name server hack that affected the Telegraph, UPS, Betfair, The Register and a number of other high-profile sites. Here are those questions, and the group's responses:Q. Who did you hack? Netnames.co.uk or Ascio? Or both? It's unclear.A. In fact both of them in addition with some other ones.Q. Was this planned for a long time, or did you just find a weakness by chance?A. We usually choose some big targets and find a way to access them. sometimes it takes months. but harder makes it funnier ;) .[It was] not by chance because we are expert of all kinds of web vulnerability holes.Q Why target them?A. we target big domains. which company owns them differs.Q Did you also do the South Korea hack atzdnet.comA. Yep. in fact we attacked there in the past but forgot some domains to hack :D so reowned it [hacked it again]. you can check other korean domain mirrors here :zone-h.orgQ. If so, what's so special about DNS hacking? Is it that it goes wider, or is it easier than hacking lots of sites, or ..?A. First we target site itself. if we can't find a vuln [vulnerability]. on the script of site we try accessing server or vps [virtual private server]. If none of them works we try domain company.The hardest one is reaching the domain company but if you can succeed there will be a treasure for you :D
A Turkish hacker group diverted traffic to a number of high-profile websites including the Telegraph, UPS, Betfair, Vodafone, National Geographic, computer-maker Acer and technology news site the Register on Sunday night, putting unwary users at risk of having passwords, emails and other details stolen.Industry experts warned people not to log on to sites such as Betfair because their details could be stolen.Some people viewing the sites thought that they had been hacked directly, with the sites appearing to show a message in Turkish by a group called Turk Guvenligi, whichlast month carried out a similar attackon a Korean company.But in fact the sites themselves remained unaffected. The group had instead attacked the domain name system (DNS), which is used to route users to websites. A list of the sites affected by the hack, including Microsoft in Brazil and Dell in South Korea, was posted on thezone-hwebsite, used by hackers to list their successes.Alex Norcliffe, a software engineer with Umbraco, said that the changes meant "the domain names are totally out of control of the owners until they can get the registrar to change them back to their own nameservers." Norcliffe also pointed out that email sent to the sites while the hack was live would be diverted to the hackers' site.When a user types an address, such as telegraph.co.uk, the request is first sent to a DNS server which translates the human-readable address into a computer-readable one known as a "dotted quad".In the case of the Telegraph, it would be 213.155.154.113 – controlled by Akamai, which spreads its content around the world.But the hackers changed the details recorded for the affected sites by hacking into the database for the DNS at the "domain name registrar" company which registered the site.DNS servers rely on each other to record and pass on updated details about the addresses of sites.Once the DNS records for a site is hacked at its registrar, the DNS servers around the world will start to copy and pass them on – meaning that more and more people will begin seeing the site as "hacked", although the site itself is still functioning.However, it can only be reached by typing in the original dotted quad address directly into a browser and that will remain the case until the registrar database is repaired; and it could take up to two days to replace the faked records.The DNS hack means that the hackers could direct users to any web page that they wanted.The Guardian's investigations suggest that they were being redirected to a single page owned by a customer of a US company, Blue Mile Networks. Contacted by the Guardian, Blue Mile Networks said it was investigating the situation.Update:Blue Mile took down the server being used to host the "hack" page at 17.22 EDT, just over half an hour after being contacted by The Guardian.The hack seems to have been carried out early on Sunday evening. The hackers appear to have targeted Ascio.com, which registers domain names, and Netnames.co.uk, among others.On a Twitter feed, the hacking group said that they did it for "entertainment" and told the Guardian via Twitter that the purpose was: "Millions of dollars, large systems, small weaknesses and what I could do. Just for fun."The hackersanswered a number of questions from The Guardian to explain why they carried out the hack and how long they had been planning it.
How things change. It seems only a few months ago that magazine and newspaper publishers, maddened by the fact that the Big Bad Web enabled readers to access their content for free (and sceptical about the effectiveness of paywalls), decided that Apple's iPad was just the ticket. Henceforth, they would publish their stuff not as web pages but as iPad apps. Not only did this offer them a shiny device that would display their wares in glorious living colour, but it would also force cheapskates and freeloaders to pay real money for the privilege of accessing them. This was possible because nothing happens on the iPad without going through Apple's iTunes store, and Steve Jobs knows your credit card details. Thus the "free riding" that was commonplace on the web would become a thing of the past.Accordingly, publishers fell like ravening wolves on the iPad, investing large amounts of money and effort in developing apps to run on the device.The Economisthas a particularly fine one – which I believe is actually superior to the paper version of the magazine (at any rate, the print editions now pile up unopened on my hall table). Rupert Murdoch set up an iPad-only daily that is published from New York. And even Condé Nast, an organisation that had hitherto been rather sniffy about electronic editions, started to publish some of its prime properties (such as theNew Yorker), via the iTunes tollgate.All of which was hunky dory. There were, of course, some minor irritations: there always are when dealing with Steve Jobs and co. For one thing, Apple levied 30% of the cost of every app sold. Then there was the issue of customer data. Most publishers desperately want to collect their customers' details for marketing and other purposes, but Apple firmly repulsed any attempt to obtain this information from iPad subscribers. All that data, said His Steveness, would belong to Apple.So publishers ground their teeth but consoled themselves with the thought that at least they were getting paid for their content, which was a vast improvement on being ripped off by the web.Then, last February, Apple dropped a bombshell.It concerned in-app subscriptions. For periodical publications on the iPad, publishers can set the length of a subscription – weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual. Users select a subscription period, then click to order; this then debits the credit card associated with their iTunes account. The bombshell was the announcement that henceforth publishers who sold in-app subscriptionswould have to pay Apple 30% of any resulting revenue. "Our philosophy is simple," explained Jobs. "When Apple brings a new subscriber to the app, Apple earns a 30% share. When the publisher brings an existing or new subscriber to the app, the publisher keeps 100% and Apple earns nothing." But Rule One of the Jobs rule-book is that Apple Never Earns Nothing. Publishers would therefore be required to remove any links within their apps to outside-iTunes purchasing options. And if they offered&nbsp;subscriptions and other digital content outside the App Store – thereby sidestepping the 30% cut – Apple would insist that the relevant&nbsp;app also include iTunes purchases.To call this high-handed is like saying that Hitler lacked tact. But it is the Apple Way. It has, however, led to a lot of muttering and plotting in certain corporate circles. The outfit most immediately affected was Amazon, which had produced a free Kindle app that enabled people to read Kindle ebooks on their Apple devices. Within the app is a "Shop in Kindle Store" link that, when activated, opens Amazon's home page in the iPad/iPhone browser.&nbsp;Prior to the Jobs announcement, 100% of the revenue from any ebook purchases made beyond that point would go to Amazon. The logic of the Apple move was that Amazon would either have to remove the "shop in Kindle Store" link, or pay the levy.Amazon's response to the challenge has been multi-pronged. As far as I can see, it has caved in on the issue of in-app purchases, because the "shop" link is still there. But at the same time it has launched a web-based"Kindle Cloud Reader", which offers one access to one's Kindle library outside of the iPad App but which enables Amazon to keep 100% of any purchases made from the Cloud Reader.Until recently it wasn't clear whether other iPad publishers would take the Amazon line. The first indications came in June when theFinancial Timeslaunched a web-based app similar to the Amazon Cloud Reader. Then, on Wednesday, came the coup de grace: theFTannounced that it was pulling its iPad and iPhone apps from the iTunes store. The message to Apple from major publishers is now clear: get real about subscriptions or get lost. Thus endeth Round One. Round Two begins shortly. Book your tickets now – on the web.
In 1995, I took an extracurricular workshop at my university library on the world wide web. The objective was to familiarise attendees with how and why to use this new cyberspace thingy – in the context of education and for general use. I appear to have picked up a thing or two.Admittedly, I spent most of that afternoon waiting for images of Jarvis Cocker to load on the Pulp fan page, but the ambient learning experience wasn't lost on me; I also learned about browsing, browsers and how to browse through sources that might be academically useful. Remember, this was before Google made sense of web content, before Wikipedia defined everything and before Facebook (and MySpace and Friends Reunited before it) made learning social. Jarvis aside, I sensed change within the hallowed halls of the ivory tower. I was not prepared for just how deep the revolution would be.In 2003, I returned to academia for my postgraduate degrees and the extent to which the web infiltrated the education landscape in the eight years since I'd first navigated to www.pulp.com became indecently apparent. Almost every article I needed (and many that distracted me from my thesis) was online. There were interactive resources for every subject under the sun. There were virtual worlds where people's avatars attended classes. And instantly I found a thriving community of researchers with similar interests – from students to emeritus professors – who were eager to connect and collaborate. It felt like an extraordinary new world. It continues to, with the ongoing opportunities the web provides."The big difference is the move from reliance on print-based to online learning, which offers students much more possibility both to access a range of resources and to work together with other students online," says Dr Mary Lea, chair of the Open University's postgraduate certificate in academic practice, which includes a section on design of learning environments. The OU is familiar with the kind of learning facilitated via distance, but Lea admits the web has opened new avenues for students. "In the past, a distance learning course was written and delivered and because it was in print, did not change much for the next few years," she says. "Now, we are talking much more about design, where there is an integration of a range of media which has implications for the course content, not least in the ways that it is possible to integrate student-generated content."The new technologies are as varied as the web itself, but the main systems used in classrooms range from virtual learning environments (VLEs) to commercial software such as wikis and social networking sites. The former are intra-network environments, closed to the outside world and often used as a bin for lecture slides, notes and other supplementary materials. The latter are used to encourage classmates to work together. A 2008 report byChildnet International, funded by the now-defunct education technology quango Becta, said that Facebook and similar technologies are valid educational tools. Yet a more recent report by Ofsted found that teachers weren't using these spaces to their full potential. The key lies in the design, it suggested.Dr Hamish Macleod, who lectures on e-learning at the University of Edinburgh, advises against using the technology solely for disseminating educational content. This model, he argues, leads to assumptions that online courses are less fulfilling than a campus course. "The online mode compels [teachers] to think more carefully about what one is doing and trying to achieve. I like the expression 'the orchestration of experience' as a description of what teachers do. I think this applies equally online and offline."The web throws an interesting lens on approaches to education in general. "We are often implicitly being asked to compare [e-learning's] effectiveness with the 'gold standard' of the didactic classroom approach. We really have limited evidence about just how effective these traditional approaches are," Dr Macleod maintains. Online resources allow students to explore around subjects and the evidence suggests that kids who have internet access at home do better in exams. But Dr Macleod is cautious about ascribing magical qualities to the web. "I wouldn't say there are any profound changes in the way we should be thinking about theories of learning."The web has saturated education. The internet established itself in academic institutions and is a vast library of information. It has transformed access to and production of knowledge, both factual and socially constructed. Yet our understanding of learning remains the same. It is still practitioners' responsibility to design spaces that push students away from the distractions of pop bands' websites towards outcomes that make the grade.
Chances are if you spot a man (and it is always a man) hunched over an iPad on the morning commute, he'll be playing a tower defence game. To the outside world, this rumpled suit feverishly working his tablet looks like any other worker drone. But in the private world on screen, he's a military genius, marshalling armies across the ruins of a virtual world andAnomaly: Warzone Earthis the stuff of his dreams.This excellent little game is a conversion of a PC title released last month, and at a mere £2.49 on the iPad it's an absolute steal. In tower defence games every second counts so, in brief, especially for those fingertip Sun Tzus, here's the simple version: in Baghdad, in the future, there's a comet, aliens are involved and, inevitably, conflict – portrayed in an RTS with precise, fluid controls and ingenious graphics. It plays brilliantly and not even a dodgy Jason Statham impersonator doing the voiceover can detract from the fun – unmissable.
Another outing for theTropicofranchise, beloved of power-crazed fantasists the world over. Players again assume the role of El Presidente, dictator of a small island tasked with building an economy and ruling using any and all means necessary. In doing so, El P must not only rule but defeat all sorts of threats, from natural disasters to internal rebellions and even invasion by a superpower.This fourth instalment has progressed from its predecessor with innovative graphics and an astonishingly good soundtrack of south American rhythms, while building on the core gameplay fans of the series have come to love. Be warned, however: the extreme level of micro-managing that goes hand in hand with this game offers newcomers a steep learning curve and a tutorial that doesn't quite cover it.Providing considerable depth of play, it's a very good title with few minor drawbacks – a tendency for the frame rate to drop at random and a frustratingly oversensitive camera, with no option to adjust in the menus, for example. There are, however, many hours of entertainment on offer here andTropicoplays as an extremely well put together RTS – thinkSimCityon Mojitos.
The very first iteration ofDriverin 1999 changed the way the genre was played. No longer confined to a track, nor simply a means of getting to the next checkpoint or mission à laGTA– the mission was the driving. Aside from the funky 60sBullittstyling and soundtrack,Driver's real joy was the car handling, with bouncy suspension, smoking burnouts and screeching drifts. Not that it wasn't without its faults, with a linear storyline and samey missions revealing a lack of depth. Fortunately, though, after some pretty awful sequels,Driver: San Franciscois truly worthy of the series.This time around, our hero cop, Tanner, has acquired a strange new ability while in a coma after a car crash, enabling him to "shift" out of his body and "become" any other driver on the road. ThinkQuantum LeapmeetsStarsky &amp; Hutch, but with worse acting. The premise is daft, even within the confines of a video game, but it does allow freedom to move around the vast virtual city and choose a path through the story rather than blindly following a linear plot.For instance, after being led through setpieces to learn the controls, you can shift at any time, taking on mini games such as becoming an ambulance driver rushing patients to hospital or a taxi driver. The trick also works within missions – high-speed chases, for example – into faster cars or to create diversions.As with the original, it's the car handling that brings the game to life, responsive controls allow weaving through traffic or spinning doughnuts to escape trouble. There are also plenty of glistening vehicles, each with their own attributes. The Ford Shelby GT has the grunt but feels heavy compared with the powerful but grippy Nissan 370Z and both are a world apart from the 4x4s available for off-road challenges, along with trucks, buses and other vehicles all clogging up the roads.Being limited to four wheels in single-player can feel a tad repetitive by the end, but there is longevity in the excellent multiplayer options, such as tag and trailblazer, the latter earning players points for following in a lead car's slipstream – a nice idea. There are occasional skippy graphics in split-screen but it's a minor niggle in what is an accomplished title that rekindles the enthusiasm gamers felt for the original.
Peugeot 508Price £19,050MPG 64.2Top speed 122mphLast month, Alan Clarke, a 49-year-old&nbsp;company director from Chesterfield, decided his Range Rover needed something to lift it out of the ordinary. He logged on to the DVLA's website where the personalised plate BO11 LUX caught his eye. He happily paid the asking price of £399 and set about entertaining the road-going public. But the DVLA doesn't share Alan's sense of fun and charged him with "causing offence". Odd, really, as it sold him the number in the first place. With thousands of plates released each year some are bound to slip beneath the DVLA's censorious radar – especially those that are, shall we say, a little more subtle than Alan's. National Numbers, a UK plate dealer, recently attended an auction in Harrogate where there was a lot of interest over the seemingly innocuous X351 ARO. The reason? It spells "oral sex" when glanced in the rear-view mirror.The Peugeot 508 that I've been driving this week wouldn't stoop to anything so vulgar, its number – A6 PEU – being little more than a&nbsp;genteel hint at its parentage. On the whole, the 508, and the people who'll be buying it, won't have much patience for vanity plates. They're too refined. And that isn't a word you often hear in the same sentence as Peugeot – solid, durable, workaday, economical, conservative, yes. But refined, no. Yet that is exactly what the 508 is. It's a&nbsp;posh Peugeot. It's fit and proper.The 508 heralds the great French marque's first foray into the premium sector in decades. Peugeot, which celebrated its 200th anniversary last year, is clearly fed up with our more recent perception of it. In 2010 it gave us sexy with its sensational buttock-backed RCZ, now it's bringing discreet luxury to the table.Brand analysts are obsessed with what they call "badge tests" – by which they mean: "the car says yes, but the badge says no." Will CEOs ever consider a premium-sector car that doesn't feature a German badge on the bonnet? The answer is yes. And because of the challenge of  cars like this, BMW, Audi and Mercedes are finding laurels aren't  as comfortable as they used to be.This new French saloon is undeniably handsome. It's large and roomy, which gives it an immediate presence on the road, yet it feels elegant and balanced. The car's styling fits neatly into Peugeot's new corporate look, overseen by head designer Gilles Vidal – the front grille has been made to look as it if is floating, giving the whole an impression of lightness, while the word "Peugeot" appears almost hidden under the bonnet lip – an allusion to the marque's pre-war classics. Inside, there is no sign of the brittle plastics and flimsy controls that dog so many downmarket motors. Here, it's all soft-touch leatherette and rubbery nubs. It feels top dollar. And it rides superbly – supple and assured.The 508 is defiantly eco-aware, too: none of its petrol-engine variants are larger than 1.6 litres and there is a&nbsp;choice of three economical diesels. The smallest, a 112bhp 1.6, produces only the faintest whiff of CO2– 109g per km – and it will do 64.2 miles to the gallon. Next year a hybrid version is planned which will knock this down to below 100g. Frugal luxury for the eco exec could be a reality.Rain-powered transport in WalesThere is one thing the Brecon Beacons does particularly well – rain! At the start of a week-long family holiday on the northern edge of Wales's spectacularly rugged national park I checked the five-day weather forecast and found it said: light rain, light rain, light rain, heavy rain and heavy rain. But what better way to find a silver-lining in the ever-present storm clouds than to use the rain to power a cool, eco-funky vehicles. Two local researchers, Alison and Peter, are determined to encourage visitors to get out of their cars and enjoy the Brecons in a more sustainable way. One of their ideas is to use the hydroelectricity generated at the Usk reservoir to power small two-seat cars and they have spent the summer powering up two bespoke "b-bugs" – Boris and Blodwin – as part of their ongoing project looking at car use in the park.Anybody staying in the area who has a UK driving licence and comprehensive car insurance can take part in the trial by borrowing the b-bugs for a few days in exchange for their views about a novel form of "green" transport. The b-bugs have a top speed of 30mph and a range of 20 miles, at a cost of about 2.5p per mile. The idea is that you can pop to the local shops for a paper or the pub for lunch or enjoy exploring the country lanes in a fun and environmentally aware way – and make the most of a growing network of "b-bug friendly" charge points if you find yourself more than a few miles from home on a low battery. The trial is being run by a local research company, the Prospectory, and has been part-funded by the Welsh Assembly as a winner of the 2010 Hay Festival Green Dragons' Den competition. Depending on the results of the tests and the feedback given, the idea is that there might one day be a fleet of little b-bugs swarming over the Brecons, reducing the size of vehicles on the road, emitting no tailpipe emissions and bringing people closer to nature than being stuck in the car.I was invited to take part and spent four happy days with Blodwin. She is certainly great fun and demonstrably cheap to run. But I wasn't convinced that a b-bug really counts as a "non-car". Either way, it provoked plenty of discussion about the future of transport. And, best of all, Blodwin, the rain-powered buggy, acted as a magic charm – we had a week of glorious sunshine in the Brecons. And very few people can say that.To read all about the research, see pictures and a video of Boris and Blodwin in action, or to take part in the project, go tohttp://beaconsbuggy.wordpress.com/. For information about the Brecons and holiday cottages, go tohttp://www.breconcottages.com/andhttp://breconbeacons.wordpress.com/Counting the caloriesBefore buying a Garmin you need to ask yourself one question: how much do you enjoy pain? Like a small and ruthless dictator, the Garmin bike computer crouches on your handlebars urging you to push yourself harder, faster and further than you ever would have gone before. Garmin makes a range of brilliantly innovative GPS-enabled gadgets which can be used in activities as diverse as aviation, golfing, motoring and hiking with the intention of stopping you from getting lost. Garmin's Edge 500, however, is aimed at cyclists, and it couldn't care where you go – it just wants you to suffer as much as possible on the way.It's about the size of a dinky toy and fits snugly on to a cradle which attaches to your handlebars. The easy-to-read and waterproof screen instantly tells you your speed, distance, time, altitude and descent – a barometric altimeter built into the Edge 500 records slight changes in elevation so it can project a more accurate analysis of your performance. It also, and I suspect this is the figure that anyone who is worried about there expanding waistline will focus on, tells you the calories you have burned. I was delighted to discover that my 7-mile commute to the office took care of 346 calories - that must have neutralised the croissant I ate at my desk.The Garmin Edge 500 is incredibly technical, but remarkably easy to use. In the week that I borrowed it I found I used it more and more to the point that a ride without it seemed a waste. When your ride is over you attach the Garmin to your PC which both charges the gadget (it will last for up to 18 hours on the road) and connect you to the Garmin Connect website where your efforts are presented to you for detailed analysis. It's all a long way from the old days of scrawling "40 miles, rain, hard" in your training diary.The Edge 500 bike costs £199.99 and is available from Currys (http://www.currys.co.uk/gbuk/garmin-edge-500-hrm-gps-enabled-bike-computer-10508893-pdt.html). Having tried the 500, I'd say that if you are serious and have the money to spend, it would be worth upgrading to the Edge 800 for an extra £150 as this offers all of the above but is also map equipped – so you can enjoy the pain of the training – and not get lost, too.Take it easyEarlier this month I had a week's holiday in Turkey – the first time I have visited that incredible country. I flew with my family to Dalaman airport on the southwest coast where we picked up a hire car from Sixt (sixt.co.uk) for the two-hour drive along the Turquoise coast to the town of Kalkan. It all started so well. The flight was a little late, but the Sixt representative was happily waiting for us in the arrivals hall. He helped us load up the budget Renault we'd hired and pointed me in the right direction. The last thing he said as we left the car park was: "Beware of the police, they catch speeders round here."An hour later, having snaked through the atmospheric foothills of the Taurus mountains, the road opened up into a glorious, newly laid two-lane highway. There wasn't a car on the road – except for the police speed trap parked around the second long bend. I was pulled over by two jovial cops and told to pay the 290 lire fine – about £135. I was doing 110kmh in a 90kmh area.I felt hard done by, as you always do - even though it was a fair cop, as they say, but when I read some of the latest research about driving abroad, particularly in France, I realised I'd got away pretty lightly.According to Parkers (parkers.co.uk), almost half of the estimated 7m Brits who drove abroad this summer deliberately broke the speed limit safe in the knowledge that they wouldn't rack up points and get a subsequent driving ban in the UK.In France, UK motorists who break speed limits face a maximum on-the-spot fine of £1,470. In Italy the largest fine for speeding is a whopping £3,000. In more extreme cases in France police can confiscate your licence if you have exceeded a speed limit by 25mph or more. Police can even confiscate the vehicle.Craig Thomas, 46, from Tooting, was caught at a speed of 108mph on what he thought was a French motorway, or "autoroute". "A police motorbike flashed me down and I had to go back two junctions to a van where they were collaring other speeders. They took me to a cash machine and fined me 750 euros. I was rushing to catch a ferry, and they told me that if I wasn't leaving the country they would have taken my licence. I missed the ferry anyway, and it cost me even more as I had to pay for the next crossing."If you were speeding this summer and got away with it, you were lucky. Next year you might not be, so slow down.
The browser gaming scene's greatest strength is its variety. The last month alone has seen enough wildly different browser titles released to rival the diversity of a year of console game launches.The End,Tanooky TracksandWonderputtare all free to play and run in an ordinary web browser, but what they offer as short portions of escapism is brilliantly diverse.Tanooky Tracksby Coolbuddy features a striking interactive painting of a house that has woven into its brushstrokes a mystery about several spirits haunting the building. This charming game presents a wealth of cryptic evidence that helps you oust the mischievous residents like a physic detective and is as visually bewitching as it is engrossing.Wonderputt, meanwhile, is a strangely captivating pitch-and-putt golf game. Set on a small world just one screen in size,Wonderputtis something of a piñata of a video game, which can be prodded and poked into revealing exquisitely animated, hidden marvels. Made by dampgnat, it unfolds like an elaborate pop-up book.Finally, there'sThe End, a game about death conceived to encourage young adults to ponder mortality, fear and notions of fate through the choices they make while playing. Made by the talented team at Preloaded,The Endserves as a thought-provoking piece of interactive philosophy; it also happens to be a very fine game packed with good ideas and tight design.
Xenoblade Chronicles, Nintendo WiiWhile remakes of Japanese role-playing games are commonplace, new ones are anything but, making Xenoblade Chronicles a rare specimen. Set in a world that has sprung up on the vast fallen body of a Titan, this features all the Final Fantasy fixtures, from tactical combat to the epic grandeur of its scenery and plot to the tousle-headedness of its hero. For fans of Dragon Quest IX or the far more venerable Chrono Trigger, this will feel like coming home; albeit one infested with increasingly powerful monsters.Nintendo, £39.99Driver: San Francisco, Nintendo Wii, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Driver: San FranciscoFollowing the all-out catastrophe of Driver 3, a game so broken it was scarcely playable, it's a relief that Driver: San Francisco actually works. It also returns to simulating the uproarious skid-prone muscle cars that made the series great in the first place and comes with a twist: following serious injury, hero, John Tanner discovers he can leave his body and "shift" into any car, bus or lorry at any time. That means ready access to a city full of dares, stunt challenges, races and mischief, from shifting into someone's car and taking them on a white knuckle ride, to takedown missions that involve beaming into oncoming traffic to give villains a nasty head-on surprise. It's stylish, witty and brilliant fun.Ubisoft, £39.99-£49.99Inazuma Eleven, Nintendo DSiInazuma ElevenMark Evans is captain of his school's football team, which at the beginning of the game can only muster a highly apathetic, untrained, seven-man squad. Your job is to rebuild the team, a process that demands exploration and a lot of talking to bystanders. That's right, it's a football-themed role-playing game. Although an unprepossessing prospect, the reality is deftly handled by developer Level 5 (responsible for the superb Professor Layton games), forging a broad and interesting set of missions and distractions off the pitch, while making the gently tactical and increasingly deep game of football unlike any you've played. It's spawned a clutch of sequels in Japan and playing it you'll understand why.Nintendo, £29.99Games newsWe DanceThose looking forward to a dose of controller-free lightsaber action this Christmas will be disappointed by LucasArts' announcement thatKinect Star Warswill be delayed until next year, although that may not be entirely bad news given the game's desultory showing at this summer's Electronics Entertainment Expo …Notch, the ebullient inventor of runaway download indie hitMinecraft, has challenged publisher Bethesda Softworks to a Quake 3 tournament to settle a copyright dispute over use of the word "Scrolls" in a forthcoming release …And Australia's notoriously sensitive classification board has refused a certificate for Sega'sHouse Of The Dead: Overkill Extended Cut, a title unafraid of bathing itself in cartoonish fountains of gore …Other games out this week includeDriver: Renegade 3Dfor Nintendo's black sheep, the 3DS, andWe Dance, the newest way to get out of breath using a Wii.
The Internet Movie Cars DatabaseOffering the same service as that other famous internet movie database (imdb.com), except for vehicles instead of actors and directors, here you'll find various makes and models listed alongside the films they have appeared in, even if it's just as an extra far off in the background. Users of the site enjoy a bit of detective work and are rarely fooled. Indeed, it's interesting how common it is for period films to use cars and vans manufactured long after the time they're set in. Naturally, entries for car movies such as Fast &amp; Furious feature dozens of screen grabs, but even films without chases are pored over. Great fun for discovering what movies your car has been in, settling arguments, and creating accurate re-enactments of Bullitt.Shady CharactersInterrobangKeith Houston is a software engineer, bassist and cyclist, but his website is a pursuit of his other hobby, "the secret life of punctuation". The history of question marks and their ilk turns out to be epic, particularly in the case of the ampersand, whose evolution takes in everything from Julius Caesar to a 17th-century typesetter called Amper (who didn't actually exist) and even Nazi Germany. There is also a deep look at the @ symbol's new-found stardom, the octothorpe (enjoying a new lease of life renamed as the "hashtag" in Twitter parlance), and the secretive pilcrow. Houston also highlights one punctuation mark that never quite made it, apart from on one model of typewriter: the interrobang, a mash-up of the exclamation and question mark, which has now become a bit of a cult.Blog roll: TumblrCreepy Ass DollsCreepy Ass DollsHorrific photos of nightmare-inducing, cross-eyed dolls.Sheep On MotorcyclesSheep – and some goats – enjoying motorised travel.Awkward Ed Miliband MomentsAll the Labour leader's interactions with the public in one handy place.I Like Looking Like Other PeopleEmbracing the times when you arrive at the office in identical clothes to your co-workers.Absolute BollardsHighlighting Britain's confusing random system of putting bollards everywhere.Street FoodThe poignant misery of food on the pavement.What we learned on the web this weekThe Killer BeesThe most ridiculousoutfits in wrestling historyThe physics ofSupermanThe swimwear choicesof vintage rock starsThe wonder ofcrappy bootleg DVD coversSwitzerland has themost expensive Big Macs in the worldHow to faila job interview21 betterGoogle+ circlesThe colour ofeverything is murky orangeThe most expensiveshot in silent movie historyHow the dinosaursdied
I'm going away for a long weekend, with the boys, to&nbsp;do outdoorsy things. My&nbsp;job is to provide appropriate wheels. That shouldn't be hard; after all I&nbsp;am a&nbsp;distinguished motoring columnist for a national newspaper. The main thing is that it needs to be big enough to accommodate three large men, food for several days, and lots of kit for outdoor pursuits."Which one is it?" they ask, coming outside to load up. I nod at a&nbsp;large Mercedes 4x4 that by chance is parked in the street. "Brilliant, Sam, you haven't let us down for once," they say, opening up the boot, which turns out to be unlocked, the reason for which soon becomes clear...Poor man. He's sitting in his car, probably waiting for his wife, when two big men open up the boot and start piling stuff into it. He thinks he's being carjacked, luckily he doesn't have a weapon. At least my so-called friends get a shock, too. And then another, when they see the extent to which I have, in fact, let them down. I don't have a 4x4 for the trip, I've got a Kia Picanto in&nbsp;lemon grass green.I think it's a good way of testing a&nbsp;car, trying to get it to do things it's not really designed for. And I think it's cute, no? Maybe not Fiat 500 cute but better than a Hyundai i10. My companions are unimpressed.Loading is certainly a challenge. It involves unpacking everything and essentially treating the car as a big (actually not so big) suitcase. The boot may look tiny but on the new model it's been increased to 200 litres and we use every single one of them. Every nook, cranny, pocket and compartment, too. Socks? Glove compartment. Cold meats and cheeses? Under the front passenger seat. When we're done and have squeezed ourselves in as well, the poor car is bursting at the seams and sagging in the middle. If it were an animal, the RSPCA would be here in&nbsp;seconds.There's a lot of moaning but you know what, it's fine. It's not even too sluggish going uphill because this has the bigger 1.25 engine. I&nbsp;wouldn't bother with that though. Or with the higher trim level, which gives Bluetooth, air conditioning and the lovely metallic lemon grass paint but which brings the price up to a not inconsiderable £11,195. For that you may as well get a Polo. Nah, a Picanto is about no-frills value for money, a cheap and cheerful city runabout with a seven-year guarantee. The basic version, with a one-litre engine, costs £7,995 and does all that fine. It also farts out less than 100g of CO2 per kilometere so you'll save on tax and congestion charges, too. Brilliant. Now I just need to get better friends. Better and smaller.Kia Picanto 1.25Price£11,195Top speed106mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11 secondsAverageconsumption60.1mpgCO2 emissions109g/kmEco rating7/10In a wordFresh
