Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; So, finally,Googlelaunched its Nexus One phone. Given the number of leaks and early reviews, there were no real surprises - except the fact that Google isn't just sellingunlockedphones through its website, but selling phones for its network partners too. That's a bold move that could irritate phone networks - but might help break their monopoly on customers. UK fans can buy now from Google's American site, orwait until later this yearwhen Vodafone promises to get them.Our liveblog covered most of the actionfrom the launch, but if you want to go deep, there are also detailed pieces atGizmodoandAndroid Central.&bull; I'm writing this from my hotel room in Las Vegas, the city where theConsumer Electronics Showkicks off on Wednesday with a speech byMicrosoftchief Steve Ballmer. What's he got to try and wow the crowds?Perhaps a tablet PC created in league with HP. The real question is how it moves on from theprevious tablet designsput out by Microsoft - particularly how it competes with the rumoured Apple tablet, whichreports now suggest will have 3G connectivity.&bull; Lawyers forconvicted American filesharer Joel Tenenbaum- who was fined $675,000 for putting 30 songs online -have filed an objection to try and get the ruling overturned. They argue that there were errors made during his trial, and that the fine is "unconstitutionally high". Probably worth reminding you at this point that Joel wrote a piece for the Guardianexplaining what it was like when the record industry came after him.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple has acquired the patent for a system that could create virtual 3D worlds on the tablet computer that the company is expected to unveil later this month.Thepatent, originally filed under the names of three French inventors, is called "Touch Screen Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Manipulating Three-Dimensional Virtual Objects" and describes "a portable electronic device with a touch screen display" which displays what looks to the user like a 3D layout.The key element here is that it's a multi-touch device - just like the Apple iPhone.The Baltimore Sun's Gus Sentementes has also done somefabulous detective workto show that the ownership of the patent is entirely in Apple's hands:"According to documents filed with the USPTO, Apple obtained the rights to this patent application from three French citizens: Fabrice Robinet, Thomas Goossens, and Alexandre Moha. The inventorsassigned the patent to Apple on Sept. 29, 2008. It's not clear if those citizens are Apple employees, per se. (Update: Actually, Mr. Moha is a product and engineering manager at Apple,per his LinkedIn profile; Mr. Robinet is a software engineer at Apple, again, per LinkedIn, and Mr. Goossens isan Apple software engineer(thanks to Baltimore'sBill Millfor digging up Goossens!) Regardless, searches under Apple's name in the patents database doesn't retrieve this patent, because the names of the original French inventors are still on it. (I wonder why that is? Hmmm. :-) "As Sentementes points out, the patent points out that the reason why weallneed 3D touch interfaces now is that "...[T]here is a need for electronic devices with touch screen displays that provide more transparent and intuitive user interfaces for navigating in three dimensional virtual spaces and manipulating three dimensional objects in these virtual spaces."Well, of course. Even if it does look a bit like that1980s game Battlezone(see below). Two steps forward....
If I have one gaming resolution this year it is to finish (single player only, of course) more games. Or at least get the "to-play" pile into a more manageable state. January and February, the calm after the Christmas storm, are usually the perfect times to do this.  Take last year for example. Dead Space and Mirror's Edge got swamped in the Christmas 2008 rush but were perfect for the early year lull. This year though things are very very different. Modern Warfare 2's November release scared everyone off, with Assassin's Creed 2 the only biggie to make the pre-Christmas cut. This means that January-March 2010 has become the Christmas rush that never was. Or, in other words, a bloody expensive 3 months.So what can we expect over the next 12 weeks or so? First up are the must haves:Mass Effect 2 (my most-wanted by a country mile)Bioshock 2Heavy RainGod of War 3Final Fantasy XIIIOk, Final Fantasy is still slightly niche so you could possibly remove, but I'd argue it's at least a must-try. Those five alone would be enough. But then there are a ton of other very interesting releases too.Splinter Cell Conviction (heck, this is probably a must-play too)Bayonetta (and this)DarksidersDante's InfernoArmy of TwoStar Trek OnlineMight &amp; Magic: Clash of HeroesThere's probably plenty more too – do let me know. But the point is how do publishers think we will find the time and money to play all of these. And that's before you think of all those gamers too busy playing Modern Warfare 2 online to even notice. Will hack n' slash fans want or even be able to afford Bayonetta, Darksiders and Dante's Inferno (albeit different takes on the genre) in Jan when we have the genre lead, God of War 3, coming so soon after?What do you think then? Happy to see such a strong release list for the start of the year? Or wish that there was a bit more breathing space between such potentially exciting releases?
Televisions enhanced with direct internet access and 3D displays will be among the most anticipated products unveiled when the world's biggest annual technology showcase kicks off in Las Vegas on Thursday.This year could see a revolution in televisions on high street sale as they converge with the web, allowing viewers to watch services such as the BBC's iPlayer and YouTube more conveniently.Manufacturers including Sony, Panasonic and LG are expected to launch sets with a broad range of new capabilities at the Consumer Electronics Show, including High Definition TV (HDTV) screens with the internet telephony service Skype built in, so people can use their TVs for video chats with friends and family anywhere in the world.The BBC launched a limited trial last month of the iPlayer on some high definition Freesat boxes – the free-to-air satellite service is increasingly integrated into  TVs – and is anticipating even more viewers being online when the next generation of sets emerges.There is a scramble to profit on the hype surrounding 3D after cinema hits Avatar and Up. A number of companies will be debuting their attempts at high-quality 3D screens. The Discovery Channel could even announce plans to launch a 3D TV channel next year.The Las Vegas show is where the world's most powerful electronics brands fight for top billing: launches in the past include the DVD, the Xbox games console and the puzzle game Tetris.Last night's launch of the Nexus One phone – Google's rival to Apple's iPhone – sought to upstage the start of CES and the next big moment will come tomorrow night  with a keynote speech from Microsoft's forceful chief executive, Steve Ballmer.The company has opened CES in the past by outlining a vision of where Microsoft believes the future is headed. Two years ago billionaire founder Bill Gates demonstrated a table with a built-in touch sensitive computer, the Surface, while last year Ballmershowed off Windows 7.Announcements likely this year include new mobile phones, concepts for home entertainment – perhaps even a launch date for Project Natal, the motion-sensitive video gaming systemunveiled last summer. Whatever Ballmer has up his sleeve, he will have to compete with announcements from rivals such as Sony, Samsung, and Google.Microsoft is not alone in looking for wow factor. Others include Nokia, the beleaguered mobile phone maker whose chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo,  will attempt to excite Friday's crowds with a new slate of gadgets. Alan Mulally, boss of car maker Ford, is expected to show off hi-tech concepts aimed at changing the future of driving."We expect them to say something fairly significant," said Gary Shapiro, head of the Consumer Electronics Association, which organises the show. "They are positioning themselves as a tech company rather than a car company."It is on the show's extensive floors that most surprises are likely. With more than 2,500 exhibitors and acres of floor space, weird and wonderful ideas have plenty of room to thrive. Exploding on the scene this year are tablet computers – touchscreen devices pitched between a laptop and a mobile phone. With Apple – which is not at CES itself – set to make an announcement later this month, rivals are hoping they can break into the market. Among these is Freescale, a US company which has announceda machine combining tablet and smartbook features. "We believe the tablet will emerge as a popular form factor for the next generation of smartbooks," said Henri Richard of Freescale.
Block 1Hello and welcome to the Googleplex in Mountain View, California - where in the next hour or two we are expecting the internet's most powerful company to unveilits own brand of mobile phone.Speculation's run rife over thepast couple of monthsabout a new handset from Google - just the latest in what seems like a never-ending about the company's plans to become a significant force in mobile.Why does an internet company want a piece of your mobile phone? Is it just hi-tech hubris? As I toldGuardian Daily podcast, Google craves data - and trying to make its Android mobile system ubiquitous is an attempt to place itself at the centre of the world's information. Phones are increasingly the way that most of the planet interacts with computers, and Google wants to be there so that it can sell stuff to us along the way.There's not a great deal we don't know about the Nexus One, at least in terms of hardware - particularly given that the blog Engadgetgot a review unitand posted detailed videos and a writeup. But there are still some unknowns: when will it go on sale? How much will it cost? Are there any other services included? Will Google be partnering with British phone networks? Will it only go on sale through Google itself?A lot of people have wondered why it's creating so much interest - after all, there have beenplenty of "Google phones" before, and the companyhasworked very closely with networks and manufacturers in the past.So is it a big deal? Well, in terms of the phone itself probably not. The handset is good, butjust another iteration of the Android system. But this is Google, and the important thing is their long-term strategy. Yes, the company had previously worked on other handsets - but it always took a back seat, publicly, and let its partners do the visible work. This time Google's taking the reins - and if you want any bigger signal that the company intends to be the boss this time around, then just remember that the press conference is being held at its headquarters.So. Does Google have any surprises up its sleeve? We'll find out shortly: the announcement starts around 10am Pacific time - that's 6pm in the UK - and is expected to last about an hour and a half.Internet connection willing, I'll be bringing you the details as they're announced.Block 25.34pm:We're now inside Google HQ, but the small gaggle of press that's turned up for the event - a mix of camera crews, reporters and gadget bloggers - are being held outside the press conference room. Five minutes until we can get in apparently.Block 35.35pm:I'm told that whateverisannounced today will be available in the UK soon.Block 45.40pm:And we're in. A fairly intimate gathering of media in a small room - plenty of cameras lined up to take a look at whatever emerges on the little stage. Still no word on the announcement itself, which is due to begin in about 20 minutes.Block 55.44pm:Sometimes at these events you try to divine what's going on by the music that they're playing. You know, a bit of Paint it Black by the Stones might indicate (shock) that whatever's being announced is BLACK. Smart, eh? It's like reading tea leaves, and just as accurate.Today's soundtrack? We've had a mix of Official Chart Hits - a bit of Cascada's dirgeful Evacuate The Dancefloor. Then something that sounded suspiciously like emo scenesters Fall Out Boy, and now Katy Perry's Waking Up In Vegas. A nod to Sin City's Consumer Electronics Show, where I'm heading this afternoon?Suggestions for how to read the runes on these tunes in the comments, please!Block 65.48pm:Scanning around the room, I can seeVic Gundotra, Google's vice president of engineering. He's masterminding the company's entry into mobile, as well as becoming the face of Google at anincreasingnumberof events. The twist? He was poached from Microsoft a few years back - something that the big boys in Seattle are probably regretting these days, but also a sign of how the balance of power in the technology industry is shifting.CommenterBauhaussuggestswaiting for the Nexus Six. Nice.Block 75.53pm:For anyone who didn't get the Nexus Six joke, give yourselves a slap on the wrist and go and watch Bladerunner. Immediately.Well, as soon as I'm finished this.Block 86.00pm:Now we're listening to the Killers. Because it's an iPhone killer, see? OK, I'll stop there. I hate the phrase "killer" anyway.Block 96.01pm:OK, it's officially past 10am here on the Pacific coast, and gone 6pm in London. A dribble of people are still coming in through the secret Google entrance, but hopefully things will kick off shortly.The media's been accused of hyping this event, but if you want excessive then take a look atthis comment by G00GL3L0V3R: "The Nexus One will change the way we think about Smartphones. I applaud Google, as I always have. Kudos."Erm... is that you, Eric Schmidt?Block 106.05pm:And the music fades out, the lights turn up and...Block 116.07pm:Apparently, we're about to hear "a series of short presentations". Mario Queiroz, a vice president of product management based in Britain, who has apparently been one of the forces pushing this project through."Today we'll unveil the next stage in the evolution of Android," he says. "But before that I want to take a quick step back." He's giving us a history lesson on Google's intentions towards mobile phones - theOpen Handset Allianceand so on.Block 126.11pm:Queiroz continues by saying how quickly Google's mobile ambitions are growing. From a single device -the G1last year, Android now boasts more than 20 devices n 58 carriers in 48 countries and 19 languages.Block 136.13pm:The blurb continues, but I'm not going to worry you with the details - it's really just Google saying "this is still an open platform... even though we're in charge of it".CommenterHobMcDsaysthere looks to be one major thing missing from the Nexus One, as we know it so far:"Wake me up when Google add Multitouch to the Nexus. Call me crazy, but I don't want a 3rd-party phone, and I don't want a interface that changes drastically phone by phone... which I why I stick to my homogenised iPhone..."It's certainly a big downside. Anyone else?Block 146.17pm:"What if we worked even more closely with our partners to bring devices to market which are going to help us showcase, very quickly, the great software technology we're working on here at Google. We've done just that, and today we're announcing theNexus One."Tada!It's "where web meets phone", apparently. And they're trying to coin a new term - forget phones, forget smartphones, this - they say - is asuperphone.Block 156.20pm:Peter Chou, the chief executive of HTC - which built the phone - has taken the stage to talk about how it was made. "We were actually very happy working with Google," he says. "It's one of the best designed phones... it's very thin, it feels very good in your hand and has a beautiful, gorgeous 3.7 inch OLED display."As we already knew, it's powered by a Snapdragon processor and runs Android 2.1 software.Block 166.21pm:After posing for a few pictures, Chou steps down from the stage. Queiroz returns to introduce some demos of the handset.Is this all we're going to see? On Twitter, enthuso-blogger Robert Scoble (who is here today) suggested thatGoogle may launch more than one device. I think they definitely need a surprise, given that the scoop on the Nexus One really came when theygave Engadget a review unit.Block 176.25pm:Somebody bring me coffee! It's nice enough to go through the specs (for example, it glows different colours depending on what's happening - blue for Bluetooth and so on) and hear how very thin and light it is. But there's a certain flatness to announcing something that everybody already knew.Thins you may appreciate, however: it's got active noise cancellation, a 5 megapixel camera with flash, and weighs just 137g - "less than a Swiss army knife".Block 186.31pm:"With the hardware, we think we have half the story - but it's not about hardware alone," says the guy who is doing the demo. "It's the combination that makes the package so amazing.""Nexus One is running on Android 2.1. Applications like Google Maps navigation, Facebook integration... but we've also included some new innovations."He runs through a number of interface adjustments that have been brought in for this handset; scroll sideways between different widgets and screens of information.Block 196.34pm:Seems like the idea of a "superphone" has got a few people sniggering. Analyst Michael Gartenberg wondersDo super phones need secret identities?, while MacWorld editorJason Snellcan't help but see the irony that superphones might need to change costumes in phone booths.Block 206.37pm:Now things are getting a little more snazzy. The Nexus One will sport a few different 3D viewing, . These things don't make a great deal of difference - the 3D helps you navigate a little, but doesn't significantly alter the overall concept. The company has worked withCoolIristo build some new viewing modes - they look nice.More interestingly, though, they've included some really good search options that will let you zip to the right picture by looking for date. That could be handy.Block 216.39pm:Now, perhaps, one of the more interesting areas of development: voice. "Voice is such an integral part of a phone," he suggests. It's amusing that smartphones (sorrysuperphoneshave ignored improvements in this area.Under Android 2.0, we hear, you can do the following: tell the phone something like "Ikea", and it understands what you say, does a Google search on the term and matches it against your GPS location to give you turn-by-turn driving directions to that location. Just two taps and you have the directions spoken back.Now, however, Nexus One will now have full voice enabling for every text field: so that you can write text messages, emails and other simply by speaking.The demo sentence comes out perfectly, in just a couple of seconds: "Check out this new voice keyboard! I just hope this demo works."Fast, and accurate - at least under these conditions.Block 226.43pm:Now they're giving a sneak preview of the forthcoming Google Earth application for Android. Simply speak a location to it (their example is "Mount Fuji") and the app will fly you, virtually, to your destination and display it back in 3D graphics.That gets a round of applause from the Googlers, though frankly it seems like window dressing.Block 236.47pm:"We're also pleased to announce a new, through a google-hosted web store. The objective of Google's new consumer channel is to provide an efficient way to link consumers with Android devices. A simple purchasing process, a simple offering of plans from operators, a simple worry-free delivery and startup of your device.""Through the web store you can choose to buy a phone without service, or with service from one of Google's operator partners.At launch, fromwww.google.com/phone, you can purchase a Nexus One with service from T-Mobile USA. We expect to add more devices and more countries to the programme."Block 246.48pm:This is an interesting move, and while not entirely unexpected, we hadn't expected Google to sell phones in partnership with phone networks.For British users, Queiroz says Vodafone are joining the programme in the near future.Block 256.49pm:The Google phone store, doesn't look particularly shiny. It's a website, largely text, where you select the handset and the deal that you want.The prices for the Nexus One in America are pretty much what was expected: $529 if you buy an unlocked phone, or $179 if you get a contract. This coming spring, we will be bringing the Nexus One to market together with Verizon Wireless [in the USA].""Vodafone in Europe will also be added to our site, starting again in Spring 2010. We're working as hard as we can to make sure that the store is ready for business, but also to make sure we offer the different flavours of the phone with these different operators later this spring."Block 266.53pm:Here's a fun little extra: if you buy the Nexus One through the web store, you can get two lines of laser engraving on the back of the phone - across the little metal bevel that sits about two thirds of the way down.And if you can't wait for Vodafone to launch the phone in Britain, you can buy the unlocked version through the US store and get it shipped to the UK, Singapore or Hong Kong."In the future there will be more operators, there will be more devices, there will be more countries."Block 27Block 286.56pm:They're preparing for Q&amp;A from the floor. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments - or tweet them to @bobbiejohnsonBlock 296.57pm:For a company that has always been proud of how it grew through non-traditional means, Google's been doing a lot of very traditional things recently: billboard advertising, TV advertising, sales and so on.Questions coming.Block 307.02pm:Why only 512MB for app storage?Andy Rubin: It helps protect applications against piracy. In the future we'll increase the storage space.If you order today, does it ship today?Yes.Can you put any SIM card in it?Queiroz: In the US, you have to use a 3G SIM. There are different 3G frequencies in the US, but in Europe the same frequency is more common.Are you telling iPhone users that this is an alternative? Is it an iPhone killer?Rubin: Choice for consumers is a great thing, but this isn't for iPhone users - it's for consumers.Chou: It's a great phone.Block 317.05pm:Why was it necessary for Google to design the phone? Couldn't it have just been designed by HTC?RUBIN: It's inaccurate to say Google designed the phone. We're just merchandising it online, similar to any retailer. Working closely with Peter, we were able to help them get the new software first.Will these new features soon be coming to the Droid (or other Android handsets)RUBIN: Everyone will get that software within a couple of days.What will convince users to buy a phone that costs $530?QUEIROZ: They have choice. This is day one, hour one, of operation. We've been very careful and very thorough.Block 327.09pm:Google is known for many things. Retailing is not one of them. How are you guys going to make that work?QUEIROZ: It's not about retailing. It's about working closely with our partners to bring out a great phone.Please clarify what the revenue opportunities are for Google. Do you get a piece of each phone sold on the website?RUBIN: Our primary business is advertising. The superphone category is a great way to access the internet, and along with that comes our normal business model of advertising on the internet. There is an opportunity to make margin on unit sales, but that's not what we're doing here.Block 337.16pm:Went a little quiet because I was queueing to ask a couple of questions:This is apparently your best phone - and it doesn't have a physical keyboard. Does that mean the keyboard is dead?CHOU: What HTC believes is that there are different people who have different preferences. Our strategy is to have a product portfolio to let people select what they want and what is the best fit for them. This design really focuses on the screen and the form factor that has one of the best on-screen keyboards - for those people who like this kind of product, this is the best choice for them. We also have keyboard designs for those people who are heavy email or text users.RUBIN: There's voice input too, it's a middle thing that gives consumers options.Is this going to lead to Google selling more than just phones online - what about other products?RUBIN: Small cars, lava lamps, electric vehicles.QUEIROZ: We're not going to comment further on that.Block 347.19pm:Why is this just a US play?RUBIN: We're shipping to three other territories outside the US. As soon as we can get the web store to .co.uk, .de, we will.Will there be multitouch on these phones? There is multitouch on the Motorola Milestone, but not on the Droid (which is the same phone, essentially)RUBIN: We leave the option open. It's a software thing... we'll consider it.Block 35This is a nice phone, but it's not a revolutionary step. Why put all your energy behind all this? Why is the pricing structure so boring when you've talked about rolling out an ad-supported phone in the past?RUBIN: Before we can revolutionise the world, you have to have a mechanism by which you're selling product. The first baby step is getting an online store going and putting best-in-class products on that store... then we can work out how to make it better.Block 36What's the difference between superphones and smartphones?RUBIN: The definition of superphone for us, it's the evolution of the platform - it's such that the openness of the platform and the applications, downloads and so on. The gigahertz processors, more memory, gigabyte storage - these didn't exist two years ago. We just thought the industry needed a new term to describe it; these are as powerful as your laptop was four years ago.Block 377.28pm:Some reaction in the comments, from different perspectives:Fleetwood Max:"The only innovation here is the voice control, which isn't really selling it to me. OLED &amp; 5mp cameras are all well &amp; good, but where's that killer feature? It's ugly as well."DavidAZ:"I am following this on my Verizon Droid (USA), which I like a lot. I am a bit miffed that I got this device on release weekend (November 5) and this is coming out TWO MONTHS later, and will be available soon from Verizon! But I am glad I will be getting Android 2.1 over the air soon."I think the big move here is really the idea that Google is selling products directly to the public. It could easily be the first step in a wider retailing strategy, but they didn't really want to answer that question, hence the (eventual) glib response.Block 387.32pm:Questions have beenflooding in via Twitter: I'll try and get them answered, either in this Q&amp;A or in the demos afterwards.Dude, I've been typing so fast my hands feel like legs of ham.Now I'm thinking about ham. Should have eaten some breakfast, I suspect.Block 397.34pm:What's broken with phone sales at the moment? What do operators think about handing over an important part of their businessRUBIN: In the same way that web stores revolutionised the sale of digital cameras, and now you don't need to go into the shop and look through the viewfinder - you trust the sites that review the cameras. We think that online sales of phones will work the same way.As far as efficiencies go, when you cast a wide net and have TV advertising and so on, it's expensive. That leads to increased device prices, increased service plan prices, and so on. We won't have some of those overheads.Block 407.35pm:Questions are starting to trickle away now. That's good news for me and good news for you: I'll get my hands on one,andgive my fingers a rest for a few minutes.Block 417.37pm:Commenter Wikipedia asks "So Bobbie, did they let you use the Nexus One to check out the nearby restaurants and shopping?"Not yet. But we're heading out of the press conference shortly, which should give me time to play and find some ham sandwiches. I'll write a hands-on later this afternoon as I head out to the Consumer Electronics Show.Block 427.38pm:Oh, and the questions are still going on - but I'm not going to inflict them on you because they're boring.Block 437.40pm:One useful clarification from Andy Rubin, who says that not all Android phones will automatically be upgraded to the latest version of the system - because some phones just can't handle it. "My old laptop won't run Windows Vista and Windows 7," he says.Block 447.41pm:Apparently, the brave few of us who ventured down here will get our own Nexus phones - which should give me a chance to play on it a little more outside the confines of the Googleplex.With that, the press conference is over - thanks for joining me and leaving your comments and questions. Always a pleasure, never a chore.
"Please keep quiet about this phone until January 5th", Google asked venture capitalist Fred Wilson when it sent him one of its new Nexus mobile phones.True to his word, Wilson did. But - ah - it's January 5th, even if Google's official launch for the Nexus isn't happening until rather later today, and soWilson has blogged his experiences.Meanwhile, Guy Kewney at Newswireless notes that thereal loser from the Nexus deal is Microsoft- because HTC used to be its BFF in mobile phones and now, clearly, isn't.First though to Wilson, who writes:"I'm at the gym on elliptical trainer typing this into the Android browser. I connected to the gym's wifi without hassle, something my security obsessed blackberry fails at regularly. Then I checked in with the awesome android Foursquare app. Then I put on last.fm "my library radio". Then I launched the killer android browser and went to typepad and started writing this."I could have done all of that on the iPhone except the part about running multiple apps the same time. Which is a big deal by the way."The Google phone isn't much different than the iPhone. Its basically an Android clone of the iPhone. I have to type on the screen on this phone and I'm struggling mightily to do that fast and well. If this post has errors in it I wont be surprised."He also makes the point that it still doesn't have "multitouch" - the gestural control that the iPhone does. And it's intriguing that he overlooks the phone functionality almost entirely - only adding it in a postscript to the original piece:"I don't really use a phone for voice very much. I've made a total of a dozen calls on this phone in the two plus weeks I've been using it, mostly to the Gotham Gal [his wife]. But the phone seems to work great."Meanwhile, Kewney observes that "you can expect some very excited reviews over the next week", and adds:"All this will be misery upon misery to Microsoft, which sees HTCs partnership with Google as the worst sort of treachery. Micrsoft, after all, pretty much created HTC's phone division - the company was High Tech Computers when Microsoft first approached them with an offer."The man who is probably laughing loudest, would be Sendo founder Hugh Brogan. Brogan had signed up with Microsoft to give Redmond its start in phones. "They didn't know how to make a phone. Neither did HTC. We told them how to do it, and they gave all our know-how to HTC" he complained when the first Microsoft smartphone, the SPV, appeared. A lawsuit was threatened."The Sendo-Microsoft lawsuit-in-threatening kicked off in 2002 andfinally ended in September 2004: Microsoft paidSendo an unspecified amount of cash as well as giving back the 4% stake it held in the British firm. Neither company admitted liability. When Sendo decided, in November 2002, to dump its plans for a Windows phone and go instead with a Nokia Symbian model,Jack Schofield commented"I can't see this as anything but bad news for Microsoft Smartphone 2002. And a coup for Nokia." Chickens come home to roost, perhaps.Kewney notes:"The close, chummy relationship that developed between Peter Chou, ceo of HTC, and the Microsoft mobile team, is well and truly over. They'll probably work together when the MWC exhibition gets under way next month in Barcelona, but behind the scenes, Microsoft phone staff can barely mention HTC without spitting.""Equally, HTC knows that if it plans to ever rival Nokia, it has to have a more successful partner than Microsoft and Windows. And if Google carries on delivering headlines like these, HTC will feel it backed the right horse..."This does leave Microsoft looking bereft. With Nokia, Apple, RIM and now Google all racing ahead on the smartphone front, the question really is: what has Microsoft got left in the mobile market?Finally, Forrester analyst Ian Foggobservesthat "What will matter most is how Google communicates the news and how it's received. This will set the tone for the Android smartphone operating system for 2010 and influence how other firms involved in Android - Motorola, LG, SonyEricsson as well as the operators - react and adjust their strategy."
Originality, as we're often reminded, is a modern obsession. Virgil, Shakespeare, Mozart - the term meant little, if anything, to them. Talent borrows, genius steals, as Oscar Wilde so memorably put it. Yet originality has become a cornerstone of criticism - and videogames are no exception.Released this week, Darksiders is a hack-'n'-slash action RPG in which War, one of the four horsemen of the Apocalypse, is tricked into kick-starting a war between Heaven and Hell, and bringing about the destruction of mankind. Oops. Now it is the player's job to help him fix things a bit by defeating an evil mega demon known as The Destroyer who commands vast armies of slavering hell beasts. Cue many levels of sword-swirling, button-pumping action, interspersed with some light puzzling, key finding and item purchasing.So yes, after three hours of play I've yet to find an original idea (apart, perhaps, from the grafting of a mythological plot into a modern, post-apocalyptic city environment). But this is also one of the most exhilarating and enjoyable gaming experiences I've had for a long time. And I know why.Developer, Vigil Games, has constructed this game with immense care and attention to detail. More than that, it has built an experience in which the player is continually rewarded and catered to. Everything is explained in detail, from the use of your Wrath powers (a sort of supernatural power-up meter) to the growing litany of special attack moves, which can be bought with the souls of your slain enemies. Importantly, as Mike mentioned inhis review, the array of powers and moves allows you to build your own playing style into the game: it's not about building an ever greater array of awesome offensive moves, there are plenty of defensive options too.And even within the combat items, you can choose to equip your chaos sword with extra powers, or load up on special melee moves, or save your money to purchase new ever-more destructive weapons. Sure, this is nothing new - all action RPGs offer this profusion of leveling up options - but in Darksiders, the inventory layout is wonderfully clean and precise, and the items well balanced and intriguing.There are bags of amusing references to older games, too. In one section you have to enter a sort of demonic version of your current location to track down shadow creatures - surely a nod to Crystal Dynamics' dual-dimensional Legend of Kain: Soul Reaver. Later, you take a ride on a large dragon-like creature indulging in a quick on-rails aerial shoot-out, a la Panzer Dragoon. Most reviewers are referencing God of War, as though Sony's admittedly engaging series was somehow the very first mythological hack-'n'-slash adventure game. You may as well go back further to Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance or Diablo, or Treasure's Saturn classic, Guardian Heroes - the lineage is ridiculously long.So nothing new here. Just a combat system that works and encourages the mastery and implementation of new moves, a cabal of enormous boss characters rippling with detail, lots of hidden stuff to find, and daft grandiose dialogue to chew on. It is all stolen from elsewhere. It all works beautifully.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.Quote of the day (Nominated by Office Pest):"My tactic was remove all my armour and equip Sword of Searching in my off hand and my +5 Longbow in the other. Warp into the Old Hero A/S then leg it back through the slug room, get to the bottom of the stairs and take down the reaper with arrows. Swap Longbow for Talisman of Beasts. Walk very,very slowly up behind the Black Phantom and Soulsuck him, then cast Evacuate back to Nexus."Davefalse puts in a strong challenge for the Gamesblog 'Most Nerdish Post Ever' award.
&bull; The Guardian's heading out to this year'sConsumer Electronics Show- I'll be meeting up with Jack there,where we plan to bring you lots of news, interviews and hands-on excitement from the show floor. But before that, there'sthe little matter of the Google phone. Due to be announced at around 7pm UK time, I'll be at the Googleplex in Mountain View for the news, and - with any luck - telling you what's happening live.&bull; As part of its attempt toreorganise MySpace and divest itself of a lot of its digital assets, News Corporation announced yesterday that it wasselling the popular movie siteRotten Tomatoesto rival Flixster. It's the latest in a series of relatively quiet moves that have left News Corp with a much smaller digital&bull; And here's one that gave me a bit of a laugh yesterday:hackers temporarily posted a picture of Mr Bean on the European Presidency website, dealing a minor embarrassment to the Spanish government and sending - one presumes - a fairly weak political protest.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google is expected to launch its hotly-anticipated new mobile phone today  in its most direct challenge yet to Apple's hugely popular iPhone.The Nexus One, which boasts a highly-developed touch screen and other enhancements, is due to be unveiled at Google's headquarters in Silicon Valley.Precise details of the launch – including final prices and information on when it will go on sale in Britain – are still unconfirmed, though speculation is rife that it will be priced at $530 (£328).The phone is based on Google's Android software, which it first launched two years ago as a way of moving sideways into the mobile market. Experts said that the phone was an improvement over other recent Google-based phones, particularly the Motorola Droid, which launched in the US before Christmas."The design and feel of the phone is better – much better, in fact – and it's definitely noticeably faster than Motorola's offering," said Joshua Topolsky, editor of technology blog Engadget, which posted video of the Nexus One in action over the weekend. "But it's not so much faster that we felt like the doors were being blown off ... don't get us wrong, the phone cooks – but it's not some paradigmatic shift for Android."While the handset may not be a radical departure from its predecessors, Google has worked closely with Taiwanese manufacturer HTC to make significant improvements that it hopes will help it break into the mainstream. The Nexus One boasts a 5 megapixel camera compared with the iPhone's 3 megapixels and has a 3.7in screen.The decision by Google to push forward on its own, rather than take a back seat to a more established mobile phone company, is perhaps one of the most significant steps. Despite a glut of Android handsets in the last year, developed by companies including Samsung and Motorola, Google decided to oversee the launch of the Nexus One itself. The project had been running behind closed doors for several months, but attempts to keep the launch secret fell by the wayside before Christmas, after thousands of Google employees were given the phones as gifts from the company.Early sightings of a mysterious new device led the company to issue a statement saying that staff were working to"test out a new technology and help improve it".While the iPhone remains the acknowledged market leader in the mobile world – more profitable and trend-setting than anything else in the mobile phone market for years – a rabble of challengers is closing in fast.The Nexus One is just the latest in a long line of challengers to Apple's dominance, including handsets from Nokia, Palm and Microsoft as well as new BlackBerry models.Google hopes that it can get a foothold in the lucrative mobile phone market – and by doing so build links to hundreds of millions of people around the world, and use the information they can provide it. As a result of these plans, the company has invested heavily in its Android mobile software, which it has been offering for free to phone manufacturers in an attempt to get them to use it.The timing of the event is clearly intended as a snub to the company's rivals. Apple is expected to announce its own new device – rumoured to be a touchscreen computer – later this month, while Google's chief rival, Microsoft, is due to open the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Wednesday.
Internet pirates are moving away from safe havens such as Sweden to new territories that include China and Ukraine, as they try to avoid prosecution for illegal file sharing, according to experts.For several years, piracy groups that run services allowing music, video and software to be illegally shared online have been using legal loopholes across a wide range of countries as a way of escaping prosecution for copyright infringement.In the last year there has been a significant shift, say piracy experts, as the groups have worked to stay beyond the reach of western law enforcement.The change is rooted in the evolution of "bulletproof hosting", or website provision by companies that make a virtue of being impervious to legal threats and blocks. Not all bulletproof services are linked to illegal activities, but they are popular among criminal groups, spammers and file-sharing services.Rob Holmes, of the Texas law firm IP Cybercrime, which has worked to close down several bulletproof operations, said successful hosts were now starting to get stronger. "Some of the more popular ones have become more strongholds than they were previously," he said. "It's an industry and it always will be. When you think about it, bulletproof hosting is just a data version of money laundering."Late last year a Swedish court found four men guilty of breaking copyright law through their links to thePirate Baywebsite, one of the internet's most notorious gateways for pirated films and television shows.That decision prompted many piracy services to seek jurisdictions beyond the reach of western law. Pirate Bay moved its web servers to Ukraine, while another popular file-sharing service, Demonoid, which started in Serbia, also relocated."Before going completely dark in October [2009], Demonoid physically moved their servers to Ukraine, and remotely controlled them," said John Robinson, of BigChampagne, a media tracking service based in Los Angeles. "Ukrainian communications law, as they paraphrase it, says that providers are not responsible for what their customers do. Therefore, they feel no need to speak about or defend what they do."Not every controversial service has fled beyond traditional jurisdictions, however. Some problematic hosts still exist in the US, such as the infamous host McColo, which was based in San Jose, California, and remained in operation until last year.Pirate Bay, after its brief excursion to Ukraine, is now run out of a Dutch data centre called CyberBunker, which is based in an old nuclear facility of the 1950s, about 120 miles south-west of Amsterdam.Research published last year showed that most bulletproof hosts are located in China, where criminals are able to take advantage of low costs and legal loopholes to avoid prosecution.Despite officials in Beijing talking in tough terms about computer crime – hacking potentially carries a death sentence in China – the authorities rarely co-operate with other countries to take action against hi-tech criminals. As a result, just a handful of firms in China are responsible for hosting thousands of criminal enterprises online.A study of online crime conducted by the University of Alabama at Birmingham, in the US showed that more than 22,000 websites which sent pharmaceutical spam were hosted by six bulletproof servers in China.Richard Cox of Spamhaus, a British organisation that watches spammers and monitors bulletproof hosts, said it was almost impossible to stop expansion of such services. "At the moment there are a number of individuals who are setting up bulletproof hosting sites in China," he said. "No matter how big a part of the Chinese network we block, the administrators there just do not care."Not every controversial service has fled beyond traditional jurisdictions, however. Some problematic hosts still exist in the US, such as – the infamous host McColo, which was based in San Jose, California, and remained in operation until last year.But the long-term impact of offshore hosting is becoming more problematic as investigators worldwide try to cut the links between criminal groups and protected internet servers.One notorious gang of hackers, known as the Russian Business Network, after disappearing for two years amid scrutiny from the authorities in Moscow, has also reportedly returned to action. The group started as a bulletproof host in St Petersburg but had connections to a wide range of criminal activities online. Widely known in the computer security community, it is being investigated by the FBI. The Russian authorities, meanwhile, have been keen to foster greater communication to stop the spread of criminal activity online.Some are hopeful that greater co-operation between international governments will help prevent the development of new piracy havens, but others suggest that it is unlikely that a complete block on such activities will ever be possible."There will always be a place to run to," said Rob Holmes, of IP Cybercrime. "Each time a law passes, or a new country creates some kind of stumbling block for them, they'll always find another place to do this. It goes back to the speakeasies in the 1920s – when one place got busted, they would just congregate in another place."
The Wall Street Journal isreportingthat Apple will ship its "iTablet" (that's not the name) in March, after unveiling it later this month - according to All Things Digital (another Murdoch property) on Wednesday 27 January, rather than the Tuesday 26th everyone had expected.According to the WSJ:One of the people briefed on the matter added that Apple was working on two different material finishes for the tablet, though it was unclear whether the Cupertino, Calif., company was just testing them or planning to come out with multiple versions of the device at different prices.Analysts currently believe an Apple tablet will be priced at about $1,000, possibly including a subscription to a nationwide Wi-Fi wireless service.So far, so Kindle. Except the WSJ says it will let you watch films and TV, play games, surf the net and read books and newspapers. You can't do films or TV or games or (much) surfing on the Kindle.Let's say that again. Read books and newspapers. But also all the other things. So far, so slate:People briefed by Apple also say that the company believes it could redefine the way consumers interact with a variety of content.Well, yes, it could. Or it could be a bit like having a laptop with a virtual keyboard.Weighing in too is BusinessWeek, with "Five Ways Apple's Tablet May Change The World" by Ben Kunz (er - who he? "Director of strategic planning at Mediassociates, a media planning and Internet strategy firm",apparently) - feel the new hand of Bloomberg's ownership on BW - who suggests that "Magazine and newspaper publishing will bounce back as consumers rediscover paid subscriptions"; "Television and radio ratings will continue to fall" because "Unlike print, TV and radio won't fit easily into the Apple tablet's format"; "Augmented-reality views of the world will increase" (how does the tablet do that? Oh, never mind); "Two-way video on tablets will push communication costs even lower" (wait, did we know that the iTablet would do video?); and "Telecommuting may finally take off". No, I'm not really seeing how the iTablet makes telecommutes happen more than a laptop and a second monitor, but anyway.Finally, since we're rounding up today's iTablet speculation, let's have Joe Wilcox's latest offering (one of a series, it feels like), who also happens to have a list of five: "five things I know about the Apple tablet" - which starts off unpromisingly with "it's mythical" but improves afterward. Though spelling fans may wince at No.5: "It meets the six tenants of good design."Ah, yes. Would they be Handy, Easy, Choosy, Picky, Nifty and Smarty?
If you are over 18, own a Wii and fancy something a little harder than Mario or Wii Sports then you may be out of luck in the future. Thanks to slow sales of its Madworld and The Conduit games, Sega are apparently scaling back development of more "mature" Wii games. Speaking to1UPSega US studio director Constantine Hantzopoulos candidly admitted that similar titles were unlikely in the future.Are we going to do more mature titles for the Wii? Probably not. I have to say that it was a space that was open and we took a gamble on it. It's like, 'Wow, there's no mature games on the Wii. Is there an audience out there?' We did some research, it said there was an audience out there.Hantzaopoulos hasplenty more to sayon the subject. Perhaps most interesting were his thoughts on Dead Space Extraction, the recent Wii title from EA.Look at Dead Space Extraction. We were stunned. That was my litmus test. Basically, it's like, okay, you got EA, who can put all the marketing muscle behind this, an established franchise that scored quite well on 360 and PS3. They should be able to actually hit this out of the park, right? We get numbers, real numbers aside from NPD, and I'm like, 'Woah.'Leaving aside the variable quality of all the games mentioned - Madworld and Dead Space Extraction are both fine, although the Conduit is a mess - a glance at the Wii sales chart shows that "core" games are rarely seen. Is the Wii simply not built for hardcore gaming? Do the motion controller and underpowered (and SD-only) graphics put gamers off? Or are gamers just too conservative and stuck in their ways when it comes to what they play and how they play it.What do you think? Use your Wii for "mature" games? Or leave them for the PS3/360 only? If the latter do you think hardcore games will ever work on the Wii?
The annualConsumer Electronics Show(CES) will be held in Las Vegas this week, and more than 100,000 people are expected to turn up to see 20,000 new products and even more old ones. It's still the main focus for the global electronics industry, though Google is expected to announce its Nexus One phone on Tuesday, before the show opens, and Apple will announce its iSlate/Tablet/oversized iPod Touch/whatever at a later date.One of the main battles will be the one I reported through the second half of last year: between Intel-powered netbooks (which are selling like hot cakes) and ARM-based smartbooks (which barely exist, yet). The Intel-powered netbooks will take some big steps forward with the use of Intel's newPine Trailchipset -- several dozen new machines are expected. But there should also be the chance to see some working smartbooks with ARM Cortex chips running one of the plethora of Linuxes.Touchscreen tablet computers are also expected to appear again. Firms have been trying to flog them since the GridPAD, which – pre-Windows – ran Microsoft MS DOS, and the WebPads of the late 1990s. Microsoft has had several goes at the market with PC Companions running Windows CE, the Tablet PC edition of Windows XP, and its Origami design, without selling significant numbers. But it might be an idea whose time has finally come.Following the success of Amazon's Kindle ebook reader – another idea that goes back more than a decade – I'm expecting to see lots of ebook readers. In particular, MSI is expected to show a twin-screen model. I'm also expecting at least a couple of companies to try ebooks with colour screens, which look attractive but can greatly reduce battery life.Yet another old idea, 3D, could also get some traction. There must have been some sort of 3D TV shown at practically every CES in the past decade. Thanks to the recent success of 3D movies, there should be even more this year. How many will reach the shops and be bought by grateful punters is another matter, but the market can't really get any smaller.But the real fun of CES is finding the oddball products you could never have anticipated. Of course, almost all of these disappear without trace. However, if you were only going to report the sort of Windows-based PC that's actually going to take the vast majority of the PC market, it would be hard to justify going to CES….
Censorship, the internet and the Australian government - that eternal threesome who never seem to tire of each other. Well, Australian internet users do seem to tire of the censorship, but the Aussie government seems to find it a constant, um, delight.From the banning of Manhunt (andever so many others) to attempts to throw a filter around the island (even though it is continent-sized, it's surrounded by water) - which go back to 2004, but wereshown there to be a waste of time (and money) as far back as 2007- the Australian government has shown an intriguing desire to raise the standards of its population by, essentially, not letting people see Bad Stuff.And, realising how effective that always is, a Melbourne-based games developer called Conor O'Kane, who (as Kotaku puts it) "is no stranger tousing games as a vehicle for political satire", has developed a Flash-based game where you can while away the hours trying to stop Bad Sites getting across the thin red line to Australia.Of course, you could always just watch the video. But if you really need that game - will it be banned in Australia? - then you can head over toBan This Game, where you can get versions for Windows or Mac.
SirIsaac Newton's birthday* is being celebrated today by a "Google doodle" that shows an apple falling from a tree: an event that inspired him to formulate his theory of gravity, and established him as one of the world's greatest scientists.Google frequently commemorates events by changing the logo on its search page. Newton's doodle is unusual in being the first to include an action – a falling apple – and in having a photographic quality.Newton's idea was that the force of gravity didn't stop at pulling apples to the ground, but extended into space; wouldn't it go as far as the moon? Newton was then able to show by calculation what he already believed: that the moon's orbit could be explained by the gravitational pull of the Earth.The theory of gravity andthree laws of motion, described in Principia Mathematica in 1687, went against traditional ideas that must have seemed "obvious" to many non-scientists. First, it was evident that the moon kept circling the Earth without any "motive power" beyond gravity to keep it going. This broke with Aristotelian physics, which assumed that some sort of force was necessary to keep things in motion.Newton's theory of gravity also explained the moon's influence on the tides, "for there will be a stronger attraction upon that part of the water that is nearest to the body, and a weaker upon that part which is more remote," he wrote.Second, gravity was an invisible force that extended over vast distances: its influence could be shown even on the planets in the solar system. To some, this seemed like a supernatural or even an occult idea.Newton's theory of gravity and three laws of motion enabled people to make mathematical models and therefore to predict or confirm physical observations, but how gravity works and what it actually "means", if anything, are different issues. "It is enough," wrote Newton, "that gravity really exists and acts according to the laws that we have set forth and is sufficient to explain all the motions of the heavenly bodies and of our sea."But the implications of this simple statement are profound. Newton is saying that the universe operates in a rational and predictable way, and its workings can be described mathematically without any reference to mythology, theology or religion. Many people still find this idea challenging more than 300 years later.*Newton was born on Christmas day, 25 December 1642 under theJulian calendarintroduced by Julius Caesar in 46 BC, and still in use in Britain. We changed to using the Gregorian calendar in 1752, which was after Newton's death in 1727. Google is celebrating the Gregorian date today, but it's not one that Newton would have recognised.
There are surprisingly few contenders for the first must-have game of the decade and, at a glance, Darksiders doesn't seem like changing that situation.Despite X-Men artist Joe Madureira contributing the main character designs, nothing much else strikes you as particularly new. However, if you're going to borrow, borrow from the best; and with a clear debt to games as accomplished as God of War, Zelda and Devil May Cry, developer Vigil deserves credit for fashioning a fast and furious action RPG studded with epic set pieces.Darksiders casts you as War, one of the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, out for justice with nothing but his trusty steed and a selection of ever more oversized melee weapons. Each of these can be upgraded by the Vulgrim, demon traders who occupy portals within the game. The Vulgrim fulfil much of the game's RPG element, allowing you to purchase upgrades or new weapons for soul energy and forcing you to choose which aspects of your personality to upgrade.As you might expect, Darksiders is mainly about combat. Much of the scenery can be destroyed or hurled as weapons, while other parts can be climbed, allowing your hero to demonstrate a wider variety of moves than his bulky frame might suggest. In play, you initially start using just the Square and Circle buttons for attacks with the X button for jumps and the joysticks serving their usual look and move functions. However, new moves are revealed by trial and experience all the controller buttons end up being used in some way, offering advantage to those with a good memory for all the combinations.Weapon upgrades and special powers can be mapped to the D-pad, allowing you to choose whether a defensive or offensive style suits you best. Despite some initially sluggish controls, particularly when defending against attacks or responding with a shoulder charge, initial frustration gives way to a satisfyingly steady learning curve. By the time you acquire later standalone weapons such as the projective-firing Fracture Cannon and Redemption, you'll be taking on bosses and juggling combination moves with ease.Although it's fun to play, Darksiders ultimately feels like RPG by numbers. Yes, the boss battles make exciting set pieces; however, what lies between is undeniably formulaic stuff. And what little illusion of freeform gameplay there is soon dissipates in the predictable challenges you face. Even the bosses, while impressive in terms of scale and design, are all dispatched using the same process of hammering away with blade or projectile until the creature weakens, whereupon it will wait forever until you administer the finishing move. That said, for a first game, developer Vigil deserves some credit for fashioning an eye catching, if formulaic, start to the new decade.
Monday's back to work edition of Chatterbox...
&bull; Welcome back, and hello to 2010. We'll get straight into it, by pointing out thatGooglewill be launching something - probably the Nexus One - on Tuesday. I'll be at the event to see what's happening, but all signs point to the launch of the handset.Engadget published a hands-on videoover the weekend, which tells you most of what you need to know. But withCEScoming up this week, does Google have even more up its sleeve?&bull; Latest pariah among the dedicated torrenters looks set to beBono, following apiece in the New York Timesin which he suggests that tackling filesharing is one of the great challenged of the next decade. Alongside the requirement to return us to a place where we see "the automobile as a sexual object", he derides the damage caused by piracy. "A decade's worth of music file-sharing and swiping has made clear that the people it hurts are the creators — in this case, the young, fledgling songwriters who can't live off ticket and T-shirt sales like the least sympathetic among us," he says. "And the people this reverse Robin Hooding benefits are rich service providers, whose swollen profits perfectly mirror the lost receipts of the music business".We've discussed the numbers behind this stuff before. Worth fisking?&bull; And other people seem to be picking up on my irritation atAmazon's failure to publish Kindle sales figures. Not longafter I touched on the issue in an article, and discussed it morehere on the blog, Reuters has joined in bywondering whether Amazon's coyness could cost it in the long term.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Conventional wisdom has video games maturing and adopting more serious agendas. Good for Sega, then, which has thrown a demon-slaying spanner into the works, subverting convention in the most entertaining way possible. Sporadically puerile and often perverse, this hack-and-slash adventure should be trite, but under a veil of outlandishness hides a&nbsp;masterpiece.A homage to every great action game before it,Bayonettapresents a strange universe where saccharine covers of swing tracks emanate from gothic cities, angels and demons do battle across otherworldly realms and everywhere normal expectations are teased with gleeful delight.But beneath the game's playful exterior lies a very accomplished combat game. The player is cast as a witch intent on clarifying the mysteries of a forgotten past and is led deftly through the twists and turns of a surreal narrative.Visually beautiful, Sega's violent fantasy is also a witty alternate reality. For many, the lingering cleavage shots will be too much, but as a refinement of the gaming form,Bayonettais unquestionably brilliant.
A strange thing happened at Christmas. Well, two really. Amazon.com reported that its Kindle eReader had become the "most gifted" product in its vast inventory; and on Christmas Day sales of eBooks on its site exceeded those of physical books. The phenomena are, of course correlated: all those recipients of Kindles needed to buy something they could actually read on the devices. But the combination of the two "facts" has further ratcheted up speculation that 2010 will be the Year of the Kindle and the end is nigh for the printed codex.If you detect a whiff of what philosophers call "technological determinism" in this, you're in good company. I have on my shelves a (printed) copy ofThe Myth of the Paperless Officeby Abigail Sellen and Richard Harper, a wonderful antidote to the irrational exuberance of Kindlemania. The authors conducted an ethnographic study of how people actually use paper in order to reach an understanding of which of those uses might conceivably be eliminated by electronics, and which might not. It should be required reading for anyone showing the early symptoms of Kindlemania.The central insight of their research is that technology-takes-all scenarios are likely to be simplistic because they ignore the complex roles information goods play in people's lives. The best bet is that new technologies take over some of those roles, while older technologies continue to fulfil others; in some cases the new technology actually boosts the older one. Thus Sellen and Harper found that the use of email in an organisation resulted in an average increase of 40% in paper consumption. Other studies showed that one reason employees tend to keep thousands of emails in their inboxes is because it's the easiest way of making sure they can find a document.In other words, new information technologies don't necessarily wipe out older ones but rather take their place alongside existing systems. So while it's quite likely that sales of eReaders will increase in the coming year – if only because they offer the only way of taking a reasonable amount of holiday reading on a Ryanair flight – it would be premature to infer from this that 2010 will indeed be the Year of the Kindle.There is, you see, a shadow on Amazon's horizon. If industry gossip is to be believed, 2010 will also be the year in which Apple releases its Tablet (variously christened the iPad, iSlate and iTab by fevered commentators; not since Moses has a slate been the subject of so much advance speculation). This is a problem for Amazon because while the Kindle is probably the best of the current eReader breed, it is actually a rather clunky and primitive device.Apple doesn't do primitive and it has shown what it can do when it chooses to disrupt established businesses. First it took over the music business with its iTunes/iPod combination of software and hardware. Then it took the mobile phone market apart with the iPhone, a device so far ahead of the competition as to be out of sight. If the industry speculation about the Apple tablet is correct, it suggests that the company has decided that the burgeoning Kindle market is the next target for its distinctive brand of creative destruction.Apple's success stems from a combination of design skill and fanatical control over everything connected with the operation of its products. For those of us who believe in open systems, the latter factor gives rise to serious long-term concerns; but there's no doubt that it creates very satisfactory experiences for consumers in the short term.If you doubt that, try doing – as I did – a comparison between the (open) Android phones and the iPhone; the Google devices are excellent in their way, but seem haphazard and unfinished in comparison with the slickly-unified and predictable Apple device.So if Apple does produce an iPad/iSlate, things will suddenly become very interesting. At present, devices such as the Kindle are like the Daimler "horseless carriage" of 1886: the only difference is that the nag has been replaced by the engine. For electronic reading to become more than a way of carrying lots of texts around, eReaders have to become devices that add significant value to the reading experience. The only company that stands a chance of bringing that off is Apple. Roll on 2010 – and happy reading, in whatever medium!
If you add wire like this, it makes the plaster stick better, but kills your Wi-Fi. Choices, choices... / Photo by Gnomedude on Flickr / CC BY licensedGot an old house? Got Wi-Fi? Discovered you can't get the Wi-Fi signal to travel anywhere in the house, so that you have to resort to HomePlugs to send the signal via the mains? Then you've got plenty in common with people in San Francisco and other parts of the US who have just the same problem.The culprit? Plaster-and-lath walls - specifically when the lath (or base structure) of the wall is chicken wire or similar corrugated wire, to which the plaster is added to create the wall. Such walls are sometimes internal, often external, but always death to Wi-Fi signals because the wire acts as a Faraday cage, killing the signal.Hence a long and interesting piece at the Wall Street Journal - entitledCulprit in Wi-Fi Failure: Chicken Wire- which looks at the problem, particularly in San Francisco, where the combination of desire to use Wi-Fi and wire lath is particularly high. Plasterboard (which Americans call "drywall"), which doesn't have wire components, doesn't block it to anything like the same extent.Mr. Pewtherer's 80-year-old building in the Mission District, like thousands of other old homes in the Bay Area, was built with the technological equivalent of kryptonite in its walls: chicken wire. Metal wiring inside old plaster walls blocks wireless signals, frustrating San Francisco residents as wireless-equipped devices like iPhones and laptops proliferate....Often, lath in Victorian and Edwardian-era homes was made of wood stapled with chicken wire, a cheap fencing material that also doubles as lightweight support. The problem occurs in other cities too, but San Francisco has an unusually dense collection of old homes and gadget lovers."It's the old bumping into the new," says Mike Scott, a technical media manager for network gear maker D-Link Corp., who fields many questions about chicken wire. "How were people 70 years ago supposed to know that we were going to have all of these wireless gadgets?"(By the same token, our present eagerness for double glazing is sure to frustrate all the people usingzero-point energybeamed down from space to heat and light their homes in 2100.)There's a paper withmeasurements of the comparative absorption at 2.4GHz of various building materials(PDF). If you have a look at figure 32 on p20, you'll see that wire-based lath has almost perfect absorption at 2.4GHz - the Wi-Fi frequency. Which is not what you want.So is that an "aha" moment for you (as it is for me, realising why the room built outside the wire-and-plaster lath wall doesn't get any Wi-Fi)? Though, of course, it gives those worried about Wi-Fi a place to run to...
Bad British BuildingsFancifully, following successful projects such as the Eden Project, The Wales Millennium Centre and the Swiss Re building (popularly known as the Gherkin), we like to imagine that the British Isles is awash with brilliant, well thought-out new buildings. Alas, that's not the case. As this blog succinctly puts it: "I hate how no one ever talks about how bad British architecture really is. I hate the bastards who make these buildings. So here I am, taking the piss out of them." From Ayrshire schools to Hampshire leisure centres to the bland monstrosities that litter Basildon business parks, no building is safe from the merciless, forthright put downs. Who knew a building with eyebrows could make someone so angry? Readers can join in too by voting buildings Normal Bad, Funny Bad or GBH.Who Sampled WhoThe Beastie Boys as featured in Who Sampled Who Photograph: Graeme RobertsonThe banner explanation "exploring and discussing the DNA of music" makes this sound like CSI: Pop Music. The object is to unpick the patchwork of samples that are a key ingredient of much of today's chart music. Jason DeRulo's Whatcha Say, for example, builds an entire track around 10 seconds of Imogen Heap. As well as unpicking music by contemporary artists, the site goes back to early hip-hop and is at it's most interesting when listing artists like Beastie Boys and Jay-Z; tracks are linked with YouTube videos telling you where the sample appears. On top of the samples they're also charging themselves with logging cover versions which, in our current era of ironic versions, is an unenviable task. Fortunately the site is built by its users who gain music geekery kudos for their submissions.BLOG ROLL: QIStephen Fry Photograph: Steve Forrest/RexQuite InterestingQI viewers pick fact bones with the QI elves in the Qibbles section. Did Hitler really have one ball?Palindromes"A man, a plan, a canal: Panama!" A crazy long list that reads the same backwards as forwards.Stephen FryBlackberry picking, Twitter feeds, the Dongle of Donald Trefusis and some interesting rhino newsFutility Closet"An idler's miscellany" containing thought nuggets on everything from submarines in the Thames to Latin anagrams.Wolfram AlphaCompare the mass of Pluto with Mars or analyse dopler shifts.Areas of My ExpertiseJohn Hodgman knows more made-up facts than any other American minor television personality.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKSome interestingthings to make in the snowAn A to Zof Captain Haddock's cursesAn appreciationfor the art of bed jumpingThe coolestmovie cars of the last 10 yearsAbout theGreat London Beer Flood of 1814The Lady GagaSims video that's weirder than the real thingThe badthings people do on planesThe futureof magazinesIt's funto mess with French loopsHow towatch YouTube undistracted
It's been a busy year on Technology - and you've responded by reading stories in your millions. And we've just had a look at the statistics showing which are the most-read stories and most-viewed galleries on the site. Between them all they've racked up millions of clicks. We hope to delight you in 2010, but for now here are the top tens of 2009...Stories1: In December, the Defence Research Projects Agency (they helped invent the internet, you know) hid some balloons in the US. Perhaps if they hadn't been weather balloons they would have been easier to hide. As it was, the result was summed up thus:MIT team wins Darpa's treasure hunt in less than one day2: Don't let people tell you that there's no point in playing with electricity: you might discover a new fundamental force, in the manner ofHans Christian Ørsted (1777-1851).3: The issue of who "controls" the internet is always contentious - an the US's retreat from its control of Icann was an important one in September, which we announced asUS relinquishes control of the internet4: And then there was the rumours in January 2009 of a Google initiative that would let you access your files from a special "Google PC" - clearly foreshadowing the Chrome OS that was announced later in the year. Is it a challenge to Microsoft? Certainly:Google plans to make PCs history5: In November there was the question of whether Google is simply a conduit, or whether it has control of what seasrch results it offers. Of course it controls them - that's why you don't see tons of spam all the time - but what if you get an offensive picture and caption at the top of the search results? Seems that Google might act:Michelle Obama 'racist' picture that is topping Google Images removed6: However there's much more to the internet than meets the eye. Have you been toThe dark side of the internet?7: And meanwhile there's the question of the satellite system maintained by the US government, which spends billions keeping it aloft so that your sat-nav will get you to the end of your journey. But as we showed in May, there's a problem:GPS system 'close to breakdown'8: Meanwhile, we annually offer you the pick of the crop, which is always popular. How many ofThe 100 essential websitesdo you use?9: And make sure you've booked your ticket if you're extremely rich:Virgin unveils Spaceship Two for tourists who want out-of-this-world experience10: And, finally, in the top 10 is a story that looks at advertising methods and promotion inOnline gaming: has Evony become the most despised game on the web?But as well as the stories that we write, there are also thegalleries- collections of captioned pictures.1: Microsoft headed the list with the series of pictures from May - because of the then-forthcoming release of the new version of its operating system:Take a look at Windows 72: But Apple is never far behind, and as Steve Jobs took a medical break, a gallery from 2007 (before the widely publicised stories about his illness) which is perhaps not as serious as it could be: witnessThe seven ages of Steve Jobs3: Meanwhile, another evergreen topic is the question of what's been invented this week that looks just like something out of the original series of Star Trek. (For some reason nobody cares about the later series' inventions. Holodecks can't hold a candle to a tricorder.) HenceScience fact: the technology predicted by Star Trek4: But now, a semi-commercial break: inTech-types strip for charitywe showed some of the pictures for the charity calendar, with proceeds going to Wateraid.5: And we're always keen to help fill your games shelves - if you got a Wii for Christmas, you might like to investigate theTop ten Wii games you may have missed6: By October, Windows 7 was a reality and seemed to be going pretty well - which led us to wonder about how it had evolved over the years since Windows arrived. Hence:Waking up Windows 1985-20097: For those who have had sleepless nights in which they've been watching falling blocks rotate and form solid lines, we could only offer a little comfort - and no relief - withTetris: the 25th anniversary8: Frankly, we have to say that if you haven't heard ofThe lying-down gamethen you have to go and see the pictures to understand it. And if you have heard of it, are you sure you've seen our collection of pictures?9: Games are always popular with Technology readers - and so we offer you the visual feast that is June'sE3 Expo in pictures10: For the heavy-footed petrolheads among you, what better than some sumptuous pictures ofThe world's first 1,000mph car?
Happy New Year! Feeling delicate? It's okay - just sit down with a glass of orange juice and lemonade and gently peruse this second selection of promising games grappled from the 2010 release schedule (you can see part onehere). I've also included ten titles that sort of haven't actually been confirmed for this year, but might turn up anyway...And don't forget to correct/criticise my glaring omissions in the comments section!Agent(Rockstar, PS3)Oops, missed this out of yesterday's list, which was a huge oversight as Rockstar North's seventies conspiracy adventure may well be one of the key new IPs of the year (if it does indeed make it this year). We know absolutely nothing except that the development team has been influenced by the likes of The Conversation, Parallax View and All the President's Men, and that Take-Two CEO Ben Feder reckons it will be "genre-defining".Lost in Shadow (Hudson, Wii)This idiosyncratic 2D-style platformer piqued the interest of many a jaded game journo at this year's E3. Players control a shadow boy who must navigate a Gothic tower by leaping between the shadows cast by scenic objects. On each screen, you're also able to control a fairy who re-directs light sources, thereby creating new paths and platforms. Vague comparisons are being made with Ico, so naturally there's a palpable sense of excitement around it.Here'sa trailer.MAG(Sony, PS3)It's 2025 and private armies are engaging in a covert war to control the planet. Zipper Interactive's ambitious online shooter promises huge battles involving 256 players - but it's not a total free-for-all as sides are divided into squads, platoons and companies, all with commanding officers and mini-objectives. Combatants also earn experience points as they fight and apparently the leveling up system is one of the most exhaustive available. Could be PS3's multiplayer showcase for the year.Mass Effect 2(EA, PC, Xbox 360)Commander Shepard is back on another suicidal space mission, filled with rounded-characters, narrative twists and exotic alien sex (well the odd interspecies snog, anyway). In December, Bioware co-founder Dr. Ray Muzykatold journaliststhat this could be the best game that his company has ever made - and he's one of those rare industry spokespeople whoisn'tprone to ridiculous over-statement. January 29 is the launch date. You might want to stick that in your diary.Medal of Honor(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)In December, EA officially announced its reboot of the massively successful but recently over-shadowed WWII shooter series. However, this time (no doubt in a nod to Modern Warfare) the action takes place in the modern day - Afghanistan to be exact - with players controlling a Tier 1 Operator: a spec-ops soldier who takes on the missions no-one else can handle. Which is ironic, as the task of usurping Call of Duty at the head of the military FPS table would seem to be a similarly challenging. EA Los Angeles and EA DICE are working on the project together, though - a sign that the publisher is taking this battle very seriously indeed.Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker(Konami, PSP)Set in 1974, at the end of the cold war, Peace Walker is the direct sequel to Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater and features a new story penned by series creator Hideo Kojima. It's typical MGS fare with stealth, gadgets and mad plans for world domination. The exciting addition is a co-operative multiplayer mode (or 'CO-operative OPerationS' as Konami would have it) in which participants can do stuff like create decoys while their pals are sneaking about. To say this is the mainstream bright spot on the PSP release schedule is something of an understatement. In my opinion. It's out on May 28.Metroid: Other M (Nintendo, Wii)Certain to claim prizes for the least exciting subtitle of the year, Other M was briefly showcased at E3 earlier this year, with Nintendo of America chief Reggie Fils-Aime suggesting that we can expect a more traditional Metroid experience from this combined 2D and 3D adventure. Set between between Super Metroid and Metroid Fusion, it's being co-developed with Team Ninja, the chaps behind the awesome Ninja Gaiden. Wii owners looking for more meaty gaming experiences in 2010 should put this straight on their pre-order list.Modnation Racers(Sony, PS3)Given the same 'Play, Create and Share' branding as LittleBigPlanet, this kart racer from Vancouver studioUnited Front Gamesallows players to customise every element of the experience from the characters and cars to the tracks themselves; creations can then be shared with the community and rated by other users. The look, inspired by urban vinyl art and the designer toy craze, has the edgy kawaii feel of LBP, while the handling and power-ups have drawn favourable comparisons with Mario Kart. It's due on the starting grid in spring 2010...No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle(Rising Star/Ubisoft, Wii)Anime-obsessed killer Travis Touchdown once again finds himself at the bottom of the international assassins' league table and must wage war on his rivals to reclaim the top spot. The original hyper-stylised action fest earned multiple awards and its wonderfully weird and talented creator,Grasshopper Manufacture, is unlikely to fumble the ball this time round.Red Dead Redemption(Rockstar, PS3, Xbox 360)The Old West is dying, the Mexican civil war is brewing and one ex-outlaw named John Marston has a few loose ends to tie up amid the chaos. Rockstar San Diego's open-world Western is drumming up plenty of excitement, not least for its absolutely beautiful visuals. GTA meets The Wild Bunch? Yee-harr!Split/Second(Disney, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Built around a futuristic reality TV narrative, this turbo-charged racer features a 'powerplay' dynamic which lets you set up scenic traps and obstacles for rival drivers: the higher your powerplay meter, the more extravagant and destructive your set-piece becomes. Voted Best Racing Game at the E3 Game Critics Awards last summer, it's an interesting hybrid, combining the feisty arcade-style urban driving action of Need for Speed et al, with the environmental destruction of a modern shooter.Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty(Activision Blizzard, Mac, PC)Blizzardreturns to the epic space war between the Protoss, Terran, and Zerg races in this keenly anticipated sequel. It's the same intricately balanced real-time battle strategy gameplay we all remember, but now with slick 3D visuals, lots of new units and of course, myriad multiplayer modes. The developer's Battle.net matchmaking system is also being totally overhauled for the release, so expect seamless online integration. Even better news - this isapparentlyonly the first part in a mammoth Starcraft II trilogy...Star Wars: The Old Republic(LucasArts, PC)Having already triumphed in the Star Wars universe with its much-loved Knights of the Old Republic, Bioware is returning with a hugely ambitious MMO, set thousands of years before the George Lucas movies. Expect a richly realised world (just check out the encyclopedic website) with a strong narrative element as players forge their own path between the Old Republic and the evil Sith Empire. Almost certain to be the game of the year for Jedi fanatics.Super Mario Galaxy 2(Nintendo, Wii)The arrival of Yoshi as a rideable charcater is surely NOT the main addition to Nintendo's sequel - it's just that we've not heard much else, and interest is fervid after the heartening brilliance of the original 3D platformer. It also seems that several classic enemies and gameplay elements will be returning from Mario's previous adventures...Super Street Fighter IV(Capcom, PS3, Xbox 360)Offering eight extra characters, an enhanced Ultra Combo system, extended online play (with Team Battle and Endless Battle modes), rebalanced gameplay and the return of the SF II car and barrel bonus stages, Super Street Fighter IV is more than just an add-on pack - which is why it's being delivered as a budget priced retail release rather than DLC. Among the fresh fighters are old faves T. Hawk, DeeJay, Guy, Cody and Adon, plus there's a brand new female fighter - Juri - the first in SF history to use Tae Kwon Do. Bet that's got you excited.Unconfirmed/possible/rumoured 2010 releases...The Agency(Sony, PC, PS3)Sony Online Entertainment's promising MMO thrusts gamers into the murky world of modern day espionage. Like APB it's effectively a multiplayer shooter taking place in a persistent online world - players can drop in and start taking out other superspies and mercenaries at any point, and there are co-operative options, too. We're promised a bounty of weapons, gadgets and exotic locations, but what still remains top secret is the release date. 2010 is being apprehensively whispered, but considering the teething troubles that Home went through, we'll believe it when we spy it.Battlefield 3 (EA, PC)While Battlefield: Bad Company and Battlefield 1943 have introduced console gamers to the delights of DICE's multiplayer-centric military shooter, Battlefield 3 is the next major leap forward for the series on its home platform, the PC. Little has been confirmed about the game, apart from that it's in development. We want more intel!Dead Space 2(EA, PC, PS3, X360)Announced in December this sequel to 2008's survival horror shooter will see everyman hero Isaac Clarke taking the fight to the Necromorphs as their infection spreads out across the galaxy. Expect new weapons of messy destruction and some big plot twists - though with no firm release date on the event horizon, you may need to wait til 2011...Far Cry 3 (Ubisoft, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Narrative designer Patrick Redding confirmed at August's Game Convention that a new Far Cry title was in the 'preliminary stages' of development and would probably retain the African setting of its predecessor (morehere). As 'preliminary stages' now effectively means 'the first year and a bit' in development parlance, 2010 might be a bit optimistic...Gears of War 3 (Microsoft, Xbox 360)We know it's in development, but on what platforms? Epic Games president Mike Capps seemed tohintat the Tokyo Game Show that it might be one for the next generation of consoles, but swiftly denied this later. Meanwhile, series designer Cliff Bleszinski hasimpliedthat it may contain RPG elements. But with no official announcements Q4 2010 is looking rather fanciful.L.A. Noire(Rockstar, PS3, Xbox 360)As the title subtly suggests, this is a Film Noir-style open-world thriller, seeking to recreate the Los Angeles of the '40s and '50s. It's being developed by Team Bondi, a studio headed by Brendan McNamara, the creator of Sony's gangsta shooter, The Getaway, and centres on a detective investigating a series of gruesome murders. That's about all we know, despite first hearing about the game in 2006. Rockstar has promised to reveal more soon, but the release date has already proved more slippy and elusive than an underworld crime boss.The Last Guardian(Sony, PS3)The much-anticipated follow up to Ico and Shadow of the Colossus is another mystical take on the third-person action adventure. You control a small boy who befriends a giant feathered creature and apparently must stealthily rescue it from armed guards, before using its abilities to thwart unnamed enemies. It's all very vague, but of course, the game looks beautiful and contains the elements of sensitivity and companionship that we expect from designer, Fumito Ueda. Given Team Ico's perfectionist approach 2010 is a probably a longshot.Mirror's Edge 2 (EA, TBC)Back in June, EA bigwig Patrick Soderlund,confirmedthat developer DICE had a small team working on this sequel to one of the most controversial releases of 2008. If the chaps can tame the original's quirky controls it's sure to generate the sort of unguarded excitement critics couldn't bring themselves to apply first time around.Resistance 3 (Sony, PS3)Not officially announced yet, but October sawan interesting teaser- a billboard on the set of forthcoming disaster movie Battle: Los Angeles. With such a prominent piece of product placement, the latest chapter in Insomniac Games' alien invasion FPS series is likely to launch alongside the film, which isn't due until 2011. But you never know.WarioWare D.I.Y (Nintendo, DS)http://www.nintendo.co.jp/ds/uorj/index.htmlReleased in Japan in April, but still without an official UK launch date (though the US will get it in March), the latest title in Nintendo's frantic minigame series allows players to create their own micro-challenges, designing the graphics and sound effects before sharing their questionable masterpieces with other DS users. There's a brief excerpt from the E3 presentationhere.And a few I wrote but didn't have space for in the Top 50...Just Cause 2(Square Enix, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The original sandbox-style shooter, set on a Caribbean island under the rule of a corrupt dictator, pulled in mixed reviews, but this sequel looks to be much improved by Swedish developer Avalanche Studios. Once again stepping into the shoes of deep cover CIA operative Rico Rodriguez, you must now take down a military regime on the island of Panau, using an array of weapons, over 100 vehicles and a vast selection of gadgets. The key USP is a grapple and parachute system that lets you tag a ride on passing aircraft - and the ability to take on missions in any order, from whatever direction you fancy, is extremely zeitgeist-friendly. You can grapple with it on March 26.Kane &amp; Lynch 2: Dog Days(Square Enix, PC, PS3, X360)Okay, the first title was a bit of a mess - but it was a mess with a decent premise and some fun moments. The sequel, billed as a 'raw and brutal crime shooter' set in the Shanghai underworld, looks to iron out its predecessor's troublesome control issues and graphical wrinkles, intriguingly opting for a visual style that references gritty documentary films and user-generated content. So lots of grainy, degraded footage of people falling off skateboards? I suspect not.Splatterhouse(Namco Bandai, PS3, X360)Namco's cult 1988 gorefest was a fast-'n'-nasty sidescrolling homage to slasher flicks like Friday 13th. The remake takes the original's plot (student hunts for girlfriend in monster-filled mansion) and adds a fresh arsenal of makeshift weapons, new acrobatic abilities, a wider set of locations and, of course, luscious 3D visuals. The development process has been troubled - original studio BottleRocket Entertainment was taken off the project some way in, only to be replaced by an internal team - but you can't go that wrong with a game that allows you to rip creatures in half while wearing a skull mask.Splinter Cell: Conviction(Ubisoft, PC, Xbox 360)Originally slated for a winter 2007 release, the latest covert-ops adventure from Ubisoft is finally slipping into shops on February 26. This time, Sam Fisher finds he's been betrayed by the Third Echelon agency and must defeat a major terrorist threat alone, while investigating the suspicious death of his daughter. Two new gameplay features 'Mark and Execute' and 'Last Known Position' promise to bring some fresh tactical elements to shoot-out set-pieces, while a separate co-op campaign provides a prequel to the single-player missions. It'll certainly be interesting to see how Ubisoft's old hero fares in a post-Assassin's Creed world...
New Year's Day edition of Chatterbox.
Over the last couple of weeks we've tracked thebiggest technology stories of the past 10 years, and the way the Guardian reported them.Now, with 2009 about to close, it's time to take a look back at the most recent year.The last 12 months saw a number of major developments and stories that we followed, includingMicrosoft's travails with European regulators, the launch ofWindows 7, the proposals to cutillegal filesharers from the internet, the ongoinghealth problems faced by Steve Jobs. There was, as always, much more besides.But perhaps a more interesting way to look back at the past year is not through our perception of what's big, but the prism of your attention. These are the 10 most read stories from the Guardian's technology pages for 2009: it's an often bizarre collection of stories that covers the weird and wonderful variety of stuff we've written about.&bull;MIT team wins Darpa's treasure hunt in less than one day$40,000 online challenge proposed by the US government was won just hours after it was launched&bull;Hans Christian Orsted gets Google DoodledGoogle celebrated Hans Christian Ørsted's birthday - but who on earth was he?&bull;US relinquishes control of the internetWashington relinquishes part of its control over the way the internet is run&bull;Google plans to make PCs historyReports suggest that Google is to launch a service that would enable users to access their personal computer from any internet connection&bull;Michelle Obama 'racist picture' that is topping Google imagesA blog hosting an offensive image of Michelle Obama with monkey features removed it and posted an apology&bull;The dark side of the internetHow the deep web allows users complete anonymity as they share viruses, criminal contacts and child pornography&bull;GPS system close to breakdownThe network of satellites that provides GPS for millions could begin to fail, worry experts&bull;Has Evony become the most despised game on the web?Bizarre advertising campaign leaves web users nonplussed&bull;How Boxxy brought the web to its kneesYouTube's latest sensation: a young woman with a secret identity who has managed to become famous without doing anything at all&bull;Scientist announces that she is call girl and blogger Belle De JourAmerican scientist announced she was the writer masquerading as call girl Belle de JourPhew. What a year, eh?With that, happy new year - and we'll see you in 2010.
If you like your games to be completely bonkers, you're probably aware that nobody does unhinged better than Japanese developers. Of which Platinum Games, formed from ex-Capcom guys with the likes of Devil May Cry and Resident Evil 4 on their CVs, is one of the newest – and possibly the nuttiest – of them all. Bayonetta, impressively, pulls off the feat of being completely off-the-wall, yet utterly brilliant to play.Bayonetta herself is destined to become an iconic character in the world of games – she makes Lara Croft, for example, seem dull and frumpy. She's an amnesiac witch – pretty much the last one remaining – in a gothic, steampunk world, with impossibly long legs, guns attached to her stilettos as well as in each hand, and magic hair, known as a Wicked Weave, which can arrange itself into a giant fist or stilettoed heel to administer devastatingly powerful attacks, or even, in the form of her so-called Climax move, giant animal-shaped demons which tear or bite enormous bosses into pieces.Bayonetta's moves form the core of the game. They are triggered by nailing sequences of button-presses, beat-em-up-style, which would potentially be frustrating if it wasn't for the responsiveness of the controls. Fill up her magic-meter and you can launch Torture Attacks, in which Bayonetta conjures up the likes of Iron Maidens and giant racks, boots an enemy into them and plays havoc with them. And she can take advantage of pick-ups, such as long pikes, which she employs for a deadly pole-dance, revolving horizontally while shooting. You can cash in the golden haloes you collect from defeated enemies for magic lollipops – which give, among other things, health boosts and periods of invulnerability, or even extra moves. The best of which sees Bayonetta breakdancing while shooting in every conceivable direction.Story-wise, Bayonetta is rich if generally confusing. Bayonetta flips between light, dark and limbo-worlds, and a journalist (who believes Bayonetta killed his father), rival witch Jeanne and a little girl called Cereza, who thinks she is Bayonetta's daughter, crop up frequently. The story, one suspects, is more than anything an excuse to create gloriously baroque enemies and bosses which appear to have emerged from the mind of a mediaeval, religion-obsessed equivalent of William Blake. Most of the creatures that Bayonetta fights are forms of angels, although they couldn't be less angelic. The frequent boss-battles are simply wondrous to behold – Bayonetta is one of those rare games that you would be happy to watch someone else play.As if there was any danger of monotony setting in (which it doesn't), there are plenty of extraneous elements to the main game, including an old school-style shoot-em-up between chapters and hidden areas which set you specific tasks. As far as Bayonetta is concerned, there's just one proviso: as soon as Hollywood sees the game, it will want to make it into a film. But it just wouldn't do as good a job as Platinum.
Last year, digital radio maker PURE began integrating DAB with internet radio withtheir Flow range. Now they've taken this one step further with theSensia, bringing internet applications to your radio.Shipping with two of what PURE says will be many applications, the Sensia's 5.7in capacitive touchscreen allows you to check the weather or update Twitter. Taking a page from the iPhone-inspired mobile phone app stores, PURE plans to open up their radio platform to external developers.You can see the weather forecast full-screen or watch a slideshow of images stored on your computer while listening to music. PURE's Flowserver software, a modified version ofTwonky Media'sUniversal Plug and Playserver software, allows you to stream media from your computer. And the Sensia easily recognised other UPNP software such as Windows Media Player 10 and 11.The Sensia has a timer and a clock and alarms so is useful in the kitchen or bedroom. It also boasts a light sensor to dim the screen when the lights are off.As with the other radios in PURE's Flow range, the Sensia is coupled withThe Lounge, a website that helps you manage stations, favourites, podcasts as well as add programmes from the BBC's catch-up radio service. When I last checked, The Lounge had 14,354 internet radio stations to choose from, too many to sift through on the radio itself.It's a good job there is a website, because you wouldn't want to have to rely on the touchscreen. Even after a firmware upgrade, the interface was sluggish. The radio has a lot of features, perhaps too many for its processor.The Sensia also suffers from the same problems that all DAB radios do. Reception can be poor in metal-framed buildings, unless you put the radio near a window. As DAB providers cram more stations on multiplexes, the lower bandwidth stations suffer poor sound quality. Many of the internet radio stations had higher bandwidth rates than DAB stations and provided better sound. That's not an criticism of the radio, but of DAB.However, for £249, sound quality on the Sensia could be better. In comparison to a PURE Evoke, the DAB sound lacked the rich bass and supporting mid-range on the Sensia.The Sensia has a lot of features and a lot of promise. More processing power, to ensure that the touchscreen experience is smooth, and audio that sounded as good on DAB as it does for internet radio would deliver on that promise.Pros: Multitude of sources including DAB, FM, internet stations and music stored on your computer; easily networked with home music collection.Cons: The interface is sluggish; it's expensive and, for the price, the sound should be better.pure.com
With 2009 seemingly being written off by many videogame pundits as a 'so-so' 12 months - all eyes must now turn to 2010. Are we in for a vintage year, in which developers really get to grips with current gen platforms? Or will it be another production line of largely lacklustre sequels, enlivened by the odd moment of explosive genius?Time will tell - but if you don't have enough of that, Gamesblog is here to help. Over the last day of this year and the first of next, we'll be listing 50 promising titles due out in 2010, covering the obvious 'tent pole' releases as well as some lesser-known treats hovering in the background.With Greg and Jack away, these are allmychoices, so this is an entirely subjective list, certain to boast several glaring omissions - but, of course, that's what the comments section is for...These are all retail releases, by the way - I'll be dealing with downloadable titles early in the New Year.Part two is tomorrow...Again (Nintendo, Nintendo DS)This supernatural murder mystery probably won't be on many 'most anticipated' lists, but anyone who's played developerCing's other DS titles - Hotel Dusk and Trace Memory - will surely be ripping open their detective notebooks in anticipation. The action follows an FBI agent who can re-live past events - surely a useful trick when you're investigating a decades-old unsolved murder spree... The case opens in the UK in March. See the Tokyo Game Show teaserhere.Alan Wake(Microsoft, Xbox 360)The psychological thriller for which the phrase 'long-awaited' was invented is due in the second quarter of the year. Finnish studio,Remedy Entertainment(previously responsible for the Max Payne series), is promising a riveting mission-based adventure following the eponymous suspense fiction writer as he tracks his missing wife. Elements of Silent Hill, Lost, the X-Files and Stephen King's The Dark Half are all detectable, and we can apparently expect a TV season-style roll-out of subsequent titles.Aliens vs Predator(Sega, PC, PS3, X360)Eleven years after the release ofRebellion's excellent PC shooter of the same name, the Oxford-based company is back with more horror FPS action. This time the narrative plays out on the planet BG-386 where colonists have discovered an ancient pyramid teeming with... well, you can probably guess. Players are able to attempt the solo campaign as a marine, alien or predator, plus there are multiplayer options ahoy.APB(EA, PC)An immense open-world MMO, pitching two groups - the criminals and the enforcers - against each other for control of a vast city. Players are able to create absolutely unique avatars before choosing a side and diving into 100-player battles. The real-time branching mission structure and high degree of customisation (you can modify everything from vehicles to sound effects) mark this out as an incredible technical achievement, but it's the enthralling street fights that'll have gamers addicted. Think World of Warcraft re-imagined as a Michael Mann urban thriller for the YouTube generation.Alpha Protocol(Sega, PC, PS3, X360)The fact that this modern day espionage thriller has been ricocheting around the Sega release schedule like a molten squash ball might not fill you with confidence, but developerObsidian Entertainmenthas solid credentials (Knights of the Old Republic II, Neverwinter Nights 2) and the set up, which sees highly customisable secret agent Michael Thorton traveling the globe extinguishing threats to national security, is promising. Now safely scheduled for a Spring 2010 launch, let's give it the benefit of the doubt.Army of Two: The 40th Day(EA, PS3, PSP, X360)The original divided critics and gamers alike with its formative co-operative shooting action. Due out on January 15, the follow-up sees 'private military contractors', Salem and Rios, blasting their way through Shanghai. The multiplayer element has supposedly been totally overhauled, featuring four new modes including 'extraction' which pits groups of pals against waves of enemy fighters.Battlefield: Bad Company 2(EA, PC, PS3, X360)The first game was a delightful mix of sandbox environments, squad-based shooting and destructible scenery. The sequel, due out on March 5, ups the ante on all of those (apparently you'll be able to bring down whole buildings as your enemies cower inside), as well as adding a weapon customisation system resulting in 200 different firearms, and a bunch of new vehicles including the UH-60 transport helicopter, which can transport your whole unit into the heart of the battle. This is going to be FUN.Bayonetta(Sega, PS3, Xbox 360)Hitting the highstreet on January 8, the latest hyper-kinetic brawler from Hideki Kamiya (the genius behind Viewtiful Joe and Devil May Cry) is a breathless Gothic masterpiece, sporting the most important female lead character since Lara Croft and a combat mechanic so intuitive and enjoyable you'll instantly re-discover your love of Japanese hack-'n'-slash adventures. Perfect scores from Edge and influential Japanese videogame mag, Famitsu, have added to the pre-release frenzy.Bioshock 2(2K Games, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Set for a global release on February 9, this hotly anticipated sequel, set ten years after the original undersea adventure, has a hell of a lot to live up to. Placing the player into the heavyweight boots of the the original Big Daddy prototype is an interesting place to start, and the plot, revolving around a new controller of the doomed Rapture kingdom, promises some typically intriguing twists.Blazblue: Calamity Trigger(pQube, PS3, Xbox 360)Best known for its hardcore fighting game series Guilty Gear,Arc System Worksis back with another cultish 2D pummeler, this time set in a distant post-apocalyptic future. The combat system looks to be one of the most complex game mechanics conceived in this genre for many years, producing a beat-'em-up of genuine depth. Released last summer in Japan and the US, it garnered enough praise to ensure a UK release (March 5) courtesy of lesser known publisher,pQube.Blur(Activision, PC, PS3, X360)On paper,Bizarre Creations' urban racer, complete with superstrength power-ups, pick-up-and-play controls and 50 licensed vehicles doesn't sound that awe-inspiring. But this is the company behind Project Gotham and Metropolis Street Racer; these guys tweak their driving engines to the absolute limit and playtest til their eyes pop out, so we can expect a smooth, thrilling mix of Burnout and Mario Kart - and who wouldn't want to give that a whirl? There's also a clever social networking interface allowing you to build friendships and rivalries with other drivers around the world.Castlevania: Lords of Shadow(Konami, PS3, Xbox 360)This cooperative project between Madrid'sMercury Steamand Kojima Productions is a big re-invention of the Gothic platforming adventure series, revolving around new hero Gabriel seeking to save his wife's soul - and the planet - from the evil Lords of Shadow. Fans fear that this is a mere hack-'n'-slasher and that Mercury Steam hardly has a glowing back catalogue (er... Clive Barker's Jericho, American McGee Presents: Scrapland...), but Kojima wouldn't put his name to any old franchise reboot would he?Crackdown 2(Microsoft, Xbox 360)David Jones' chaotic open-world shooter returns, this time in the hands of Dundee studioRuffian Games. Pacific City has been overrun by mutant freaks and the Agency is back to restore order. The single-player campaign should be vast and absorbing, while the multiplayer component seeks to exhume the spirit of Timesplitters with its exuberant OTT violence, offbeat modes and comic book visuals.Crysis 2(EA, PC, PS3, X360)Crytekhas revealed next to nothing about the second title in its trilogy of sci-fi first-person shooters, save that it'll be using the cutting edge CryEngine 3 technology, and it's the developer's first console title. Originally earmarked for a 2011 release on the next generation of console platforms, things have thankfully been brought forward. Allegedly.Dante's Inferno(EA, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360)Arriving on a flaming chariot next month, EA's God of War-beater (my words, not theirs) has taken Dante's allegorical masterpiece and converted it into a sword-swirling horror adventure. With a narrative penned by Will Rokos, responsible for the Oscar Winning script to Monster's Ball (and man, wouldthatmake a bizarre videogame), it is hoped this will be more than just a medieval hack-'em-up with a convenient 'nine circles of hell' level structure.Darksiders: Wrath of War(THQ, PS3, Xbox 360)While Bayonetta is getting a lot of the attention, it won't be the only potential must-buy released on January 8. This enthralling action RPG from THQ's Vigil Games studio puts you into the cloak and clomping blood-stained boots of War, one of the four horsemen of the Apocalypse, as he explores a post-Armageddon Earth. The game has rightly attracted a Metacritic score of 91 and may be an incredibly early contender for 'unexpected gem of 2010'.Dead to Rights: Retribution(Namco Bandai, PS3, Xbox 360)Leamington-based developerVolatile Gameshas been working on this reboot of Namco's cop adventure for a couple of years now, and with the company's high-end BlitzTech engine running the show, expect state-of-the-art 3D visuals. As for the plot, vice-cop Jack Slate and his AI dog, Shadow, must bring down a criminal empire currently dragging the dysfunctional Grant City into the slime. Prepare for lots of guns, unarmed combat and dog bites.Disney Epic Mickey(Disney, Wii)In an unexpected creative twist, Deus Ex creator Warren Spector (now heading his ownJunction Pointstudio) is conjuring a dark platforming adventure around the eponymous rodent, chucking him into a Cartoon Wasteland ruled over by the sorcerer named Yen Sid. Players can alter the environment by spreading paint or destructive thinner around using the Wii Remote, and must make individual choices about whether to help other 'toons or carve their own way through the world. Officially announced in October and slated for an autumn 2010 release, this could be Mickey's most groundbreaking appearance since Steamboat Willie.Fable III(Microsoft, Xbox 360)Apparently due in 'late 2010', the next instalment in Lionhead's fantasy adventure series is set fifty years after the second title and challenges you to claim the whole kingdom of Albion as its ruler. Inspired by the story arcs of Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan and Queen Elizabeth I it's all about revolution and the nature of monarchy. In other words, will you be a nice king or a naughty king? Or a bit of both?Final Fantasy XIII(Square Enix, PS3, X360)Shifting over one million copies within 24 hours on its Japanese release, the latest mega opus in the Final Fantasy series is a typically expansive mythological romp, this time with the floating world of Cocoon at its cavernous centre. A refreshed battle system allows multiple simultaneous attacks to be slotted in on each turn, while the new summon system lets characters combine their skills with those of their Eidolons to immensely destructive effect. Hardcore fans are concerned about the game's allegedly linear design, but FF XIII oozes atmosphere from every pixel. It's here on March 9th so adventurers can make their own minds up.Ghost Trick(Capcom, Nintendo DS)From the creator of the beloved Ace Attorney series comes another quirky mystery adventure, this time starring a ghost named Sissel who must use his supernatural powers to protect the innocent living while investigating the circumstances of his own death. Apparently, his key ability is to manipulate objects in the material world, which he uses to prevent the deaths of other characters - a sort of phantasmagorical logic puzzle, wrapped up in an adventure game. The visuals are lovely too.God of War III(Sony, PS3)The final instalment in the mightily successful mythological adventure sees Kratos returning just once more to wreak revenge on the gods and destroy Olympus. Boasts a massively overhauled graphics engine, new weapons, new combat mechanics and rideable giant creatures... Surely one of the key PS3 releases so far?Gran Turismo 5(Sony, PS3)Oh, you know the drill: the world's finest race tracks, 1000 of the most beautiful cars, online racing, night racing, aesthetic and mechanical damage, bleeding edge physics and visuals... And it's definitely, definitely arriving in March. No really.Halo: Reach(Microsoft, Xbox 360)Autumn will see the latest addition to the Halo mega-franchise, this time a prequel to the original title, apparently set at the fag end of the human-covenant war (specifically, the cataclysmic Battle of Reach). It's an FPS, of course, and the trailer hints that the game follows a squad of six Spartan supersoldiers, so a team co-op component is likely.Heavy Rain(Sony, PS3)From French studioQuantic Dream, previously responsible for groundbreaking adventure titles Omikron: the Nomad Soul and Fahrenheit this narrative-focused psychological thriller follows a group of disparate, damaged people as they hunt down a serial murderer known as the Origami Killer. With a dense, branching story structure and some intriguing control mechanics Heavy Rain is certainly going to be unlike any other title released in 2010 - make of that what you will...Part two tomorrow!
New Year's Eve edition of Chatterbox
Google is holding an Android-related press conference at its headquarters in California on Tuesday 5 January, presumably to announce details of the Nexus One phone that Googlers have been (as related here on 14 December) "dogfooding".But if Gizmodo's tipster is to be believed, the Nexus One will not be the revolution that some seem to have been expecting. Yes, Google could supply unsubsidised mobile phones directly to consumers at close to or less than cost price and try to subvert the mobile phone industry's business model. (The less-than-cost price would reflect the value of plumbing users into Google's numerous online properties, such as Gmail and YouTube, and feeding them adverts.)Alas, Gizmodo's headline blows that idea out of the water:Leaked Nexus One Documents: $530 Unlocked, $180 With T-Mobile.If so, the HTC Nexus One looks like just another Android handset at a competitive but not particularly different price. If you sign up for a two-year contract with T-Mobile, it's still not a cheap deal: Gizmodo says "There's only one rate plan: $39.99 Even More + Text + Web for $79.99 total".The total cost is pennies short of $2,100 (£1,300).If you cancel the plan in the first 120 days, you must pay $350 to keep the phone or send it back to Google. Since the Nexus One doesn't support CDMA -- popular in the US -- or AT&amp;T's 3G network, you may well be sending it back.Another possibility, of course, is that the story is wrong, and Google will after all use cheap hardware with Google Voice to try to redefine at least the geekier part of the phone industry. We will soon see.However, while accepting that Google's Nexus One price is competitive with other smartphones on the market from Apple, Nokia and RIM etc, it's still not clear to me why smartphones are so expensive. Smartphone fans argue that ARM chips are much cheaper than Intel chips and that Microsoft Windows is far more expensive than (free) alternatives such as Android.In that case, why does a smartphone cost $530 or $600 or so when you can get decent netbook with a 10 inch screen, Windows XP, Wi-Fi b/g/n, Skype and a 160GB hard drive for about $300?Shouldn't a smartphone be half the price of a Wintel netbook, not almost twice the price?
Troubled startup SpinVox - once a shooting star of the British technology industry - has been bought by an American rival in a deal worth $102m (£64m).After a difficult year that saw substantial losses and unrest among its investors, it was today confirmed that the company - which converts customers' voicemails into text messages that they can read more easily - has been acquired by US technology firm Nuance.In a statement Nuance, which makes the popular voice recognition program Dragon NaturallySpeaking, said it was buying SpinVox to help expand its reach into new countries."Around the world, the voice-to-text market has experienced tremendous growth over the last year," said Nuance vice president John Pollard. "With SpinVox's robust infrastructure, language support and operational experience, we will broaden the reach and capabilities of our platform."The deal marks a heavy loss on the investments made in the Buckinghamshire-based company, which had raised more than $230m (£145m) in recent years to fund its ambitious expansion plans -  andonce valued itself at more than $500m.While it boasted a legion of fans, however, the company had struggled to pay for major expansions around the world, while simultaneously fighting a series of claims that its automated voice-to-text technology actually relied heavily on call centre staff.Over the summer, it rejected aBBC report suggesting that humans – not computers - transcribed large portions of customers' messagesand held ademonstration of its system for journalists.The increased scrutiny exposed a series of fissures inside the company, however. The management team, led by chief executive Christine Domecq, came in forcriticism, and in August, recently-appointed director Patrick Russo – the former chief executive of telecoms giant Alcatel-Lucent -stepped down.With losses mounting, the company raised more funding in August – largely to service its debts – and began paying staff with stock, rather than cash, as a way to save money. But in September one of its backers, Invesco,wrote down its outlay by 90%and confirmed that SpinVox was up for sale.Rumours of the Nuance deal were reported earlier this month, around the same time that the company wasgiven more time to repay a £30m loanthat had placed extra pressure on its finances. However, early suggestions were that the company was closing in on a $150m price tag - significantly more than the $102.5m deal that was eventually struck.Investors in the company – who include Goldman Sachs, Carphone Warehouse chief Charles Dunstone and Peter Wood, the founder of insurance group Directline – will receive a total of £42m in cash for the acquisition, with the rest of the money coming in the form of Nuance stock.Shares in the Massachusetts technology company – which had climbed by more than 50% over the past year - were down around 1%, to 15.97, on the news.
"Jack from the first game wouldn't last long in this new Rapture," I am told, as I get my first glimpse of Bioshock 2. In which case it's lucky that you now play a Big Daddy – the huge, hulking baddies that made the first game famous – and are armed with a drillbit the size of Optimus Prime's arm and a boltgun that could take out a T-rex.But this is 10 years after the original Bioshock. Splicers are unsurprisingly easy to kill, but there are a hell of a lot more of them; and there are other, more powerful foes to contend with. These include the sinister Big Sisters, terrifying creations which hunt you as if you were a gigantic metal fox, making for a genuinely nerve-wracking, edge-of-the-seat experience.Getting stuck straight in, the combat is some of the most satisfying of any game I have played. Balanced and intuitive, it is serious fun, and more tactical than in the first game, too. For example, you adopt a Little Sister, but when you set her to work collecting ADAM mutagen for you, a rush of splicers will appear. There are a large number of tactical options: hack the bots – hacking has been streamlined – lay a minefield, prepare a fire plasmid to ignite an oil spill, or just power up the drill and fight them off the old-fashioned way; it's all up to you.The game's atmosphere, too, is outstanding. The mournful, ominous screech of a Big Sister stalking you is genuinely unsettling; radios play big-band classics in a broken-down theme park, with working attractions; you can sneak up on a pair of splicers and eavesdrop on their conversations. The attention to detail is stunning.The kitsch 50s artwork and music are juxtaposed perfectly against the Kubrick-esque ultraviolence, and if that sounded dangerously like literary criticism it's because this game has real literary aspirations. The original game was at the forefront of the games-as-art movement: the founder of the fictional city-state of Rapture, Andrew Ryan (his name intentionally recalls the philosopher Ayn Rand), and the disastrous dissolution of his underwater utopia was a work of exquisite satire, and the sequel goes even further.In the brief demonstration I played I spotted references to Jules Verne, Rand again, Ralph Waldo Emerson, some Shakespeare and Walt Disney, just to name a few; and satires so diverse as to lampoon American consumerism one minute and Russian socialism the next. Nor is the game merely a series of satirical and literary vignettes; the storyline is rich and intense, and the gameplay sublime.There is a very exciting multiplayer component, too, set back in the time-frame of the first game, which features several familiar locations. Plasmids carry over from game to game, and your character changes and improves as you win matches. This part is being coded by Ontario-based Digital Extremes, who were largely responsible for the fantastic Unreal Tournament series and know the Unreal engine backwards and inside-out, meaning that the gameplay is likely to be top-notch, though expect familiar modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag.By this point it will hopefully be clear that I liked this game. A lot. If it lives up to the promise of the demo level, then BioShock 2 is going to be a classic.•Bioshock 2is due for release on February 9, 2010
The Formula 1 licence must be a valuable one for the gaming industry. A decent Grand Prix sim has the potential to tick so many boxes.For the causal gamer, there's the foot-down racing element. For the more technically involved – it sounds so much better than "geek" – there's the engineering potential, the constant tweaking of your car to squeeze the maximum performance or the repetitive nature of practice laps / qualifying to perfect your racing line.More in-depth games are planned for the major consoles in March 2010. Until then, the licence only benefits Wii owners and an unexpected quarter of the gaming world: PSP owners. As it happens, the PSP interpretation – while not advised for commuting – is a solid game and Codemasters probably deserves a pat on the back for balancing pick-up-and-playability and the more challenging aspects the subject, and its fans, deserve.On the downside, this means that F1 2009 for the PSP is not a full simulation. There is no opportunity to change brakes or steering columns etc, to milk maximum performance from your car. The vehicle is what it is, and what it is, is a classic arcade style racer.That's not to say it's easy. Those seeking a greater challenge can turn off the racing assists, or add vehicle damage, fuel use and tyre wear, driver penalties, increase the opponents' skill, make weather conditions variable or even switch on a "component failure" option, which can see you seconds from home before experiencing a full loss of power and the like.The licence means that all details of the 2009 season are in place, from the teams to a choice of 20 drivers and the Grand Prix tracks. These you will get to know very well, particularly if you play the three-season long Career mode and play it properly. Before you race, you can take your driver and car out for two sessions of Friday practice, a Saturday practice and up to three Qualifying rounds before you go head-to-head with your competitors. And you can repeat that for every one of the 17 tracks, from Melbourne to Abu Dhabi.Can't be bothered with all of that? Not to worry. You can also jump straight into a race. You can also race a single season Championship and/or try to complete 75 challenges, which adds considerable depth to this decent value package.Each track conveniently comes with a pre-determined racing line and hints on where to brake. Too easy? Not a bit of it. You try holding it. Steering, both with the D-pad and the PSP's analogue joystick, is punishingly sensitive (and immensely Tube unfriendly). Of course, that makes it all the more satisfying when you eventually get to grips with it.Whether there's enough here to please the hardcore F1 nut is debatable, and load times – as is so often the case with the PSP – are slow. But there's a genuine sense of speed to the races, it looks good on the little screen, and there's enough variety to engage most casual players and GP fans.
There's lots to save you from the Christmas/New Year limbo with this week's Guardian Tech Weekly. It's the annual predictions show, where we're joined by Charles Arthur, Bobbie Johnson and Robert Andrews, who will spill the beans on what they're expecting from 2010.There's talk of the hardware over which we're set to drool, monetisation of our favourite sites, and even a touch of augmented reality - all recorded for posterity, so you can sit back and judge the accuracy of the statements in a year's time.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Mobile phone giant Nokia has stepped up its dispute with Apple by claiming that "virtually all" of the Californian company's products infringe its patents.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Finnish handset manufacturer said that Apple was unlawfully using proprietary Nokia technology to help power its best-selling iPhones, iPods and Macintosh computers."Nokia has been the leading developer of many key technologies in small electronic devices" saidNokia's Paul Melin. "This action is about protecting the results of such pioneering development."It is the latest salvo in an ongoing – and increasingly acrimonious - battle between the two companies. After licensing negotiations broke down earlier this year, the rivals launched a flurry of claims against each other in the courts.In October, Nokia filed a lawsuit in Delawareclaiming that Apple's iPhone was infringing a number of its wireless technology patentsand demanding payment for every handset sold.Apple responded earlier this month by launching its own countersuit,suggesting that Nokia had copied the iPhoneand infringed a number of its own patents in the process. Lawyers for the Californian company also claimed that Nokia had refused to license other technologies on fair terms.Nokia's latest complaint, made to US regulator International Trade Commission, marks a serious step up in hostilities since it covers almost all of Apple's major products."While our litigation in Delaware is about Apple's attempt to free-ride on the back of Nokia investment in wireless standards, the ITC case filed today is about Apple's practice of building its business on Nokia's proprietary innovation," the company said.Among the infringements claimed by Nokia in its latest complaint are elements of user interface, camera and power management systems – a broad set of allegations that strike at some of Apple's most popular and enduring products.Since it launched at the beginning of the decade, the iPod has become the market leader in digital music. Meanwhile the Macintosh computer brand, which isnow more than 25 years old, has been revitalised – with laptop range proving particularly popular.But the heart of the dispute is the battle for dominance in the high-end mobile phone market, seen by many industry insiders as the next major frontier in consumer electronics.As the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, responsible for around 40% of all handsets sold worldwide each year, Nokia has long held a position of dominance.The arrival of the iPhone in 2007, however, has upset the balance of power and forced rival manufacturers to develop their own touch-sensitive handsets.In addition, the iPhone's popularity with high-spending customers has given the Californian company a major boost – leading to the moment last quarter when, for the first time, Apple overtook Nokia as the most profitable mobile manufacturer, despite its smaller sales.The ITC usually takes up to 30 days to rule on whether it will pursue a complaint, indicating that the basis of Nokia's claims will be weighed up by the end of January. The court cases, meanwhile, are not expected to be heard until 2011.Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
Google could be preparing to launch its new mobile phone as early as next week, after the company called a press conference at its Californian headquarters.Speculation has been rife that the company is planning its own branded phone,known as the Nexus One, as it tries to tempt customers and handset manufacturers into using its Android mobile phone software.Earlier this month it confirmed that employees have been testing the device for some time, with reports suggesting that could be ready to launch early in 2010.But in an announcement sent to journalists today, the company said it would hold a "press gathering" next Tuesday to showcase Android and demonstrate new products - giving the strongest indication yet that the Nexus One's release could be imminent."With the launch of the first Android-powered device just over a year ago, we've seen how a powerful, open platform can spur mobile product innovation - and this is just the beginning," it said.While plenty of Android handsets have hit the market since Googlefirst launched the software two years ago, the manner in which the Nexus One has come together signals a distinct shift in the company's strategyIn the past, Google has worked alongside partners such as Motorola - offering assistance and advice to mobile makers and networks, but not taking a leading role. This time, however, the phone is being manufactured by Taiwanese technology company HTC - with Google overseeing design and development.Taking a stronger hand in the development of the Nexus One could help it to push its way into a market already crowded with more established rivals such as Apple's iPhone, the BlackBerry and Nokia.It is not yet known which networks the Nexus One will be made available on, but there are suggestions that Google could sell the handset direct to customers through its website, and the Guardian has previously reported that the company has held talks with a number of operators -including T-Mobile and Vodafone in the UK- about linking up for the launch.The event appears carefully timed to spoil announcements from its rivals, as it comes on the eve of the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas - where the world's largest technology companies unveil their forthcoming products and plans.In particular, the timing will prove an irritant to Google's greatest rival, Microsoft, whose chief executive Steve Ballmer is due to give the opening keynote at CES next Wednesday. With only a day between the two announcements, Google may be hoping to pile the pressure on the company it has targeted as its main competitor.An early January announcement also gives Google several weeks of breathing room before Apple makes its own major product announcement -believed to be a tablet computer- later in the month.
Chris Messina, photograph byThe Next Conference, used under CC licenseAs I wrote in this article headlined"Why 2009 was Facebook's year", it's clear that the site has had a tremendous 12 months - growing from 150m users around the world to more than 350m.But while it has been an incredible period for the world's favourite social network, the company is facing a number of challenges - in part preciselybecauseof its size and influence. How does it carry on growing at such a rate? How does it make money from new users in less wealthy nations? How does it tackle the growing sentiment of concern over privacy?I spoke to a number of people quoted in the article, but I thought it was also worth sharing at length whatChris Messina, a designer and open source advocate, told me. He's spent a lot of time thinking, talking and writing about Facebook's approach to these sorts of problems, and while he's got a personal interest in some of the issues as part of theDiso project(which is aiming to encourage and build decentralised social web services) he lays out things in a pretty lucid way. Here's what he said when I asked him for his thoughts.What Facebook is doing right"I think Facebook is continuing to both innovate and make good on their promise to 'make the world a more open place' — with the caveat that "open" means many things to many people. I think Zuckerberg has a vision and is pursuing it — just like Steve Jobs does. The mismatch is that people aren't used to visionaries telling them what they want, especially before they're ready for it. But I think the latest privacy stuff is like Apple's iPod moment — judged by the present and the past, it seems completely unintuitive; in hindsight, it'll turn out to define the new norm for the next generation."When I talk to people about Facebook, it's clear that they're on the one hand scared of Facebook while also benefiting immensely from its ubiquity. Even as people lament its apparent power, they relent to its utility and functionality."So, in general, what is Facebook doing right? They're providing leadership and changing culture — and scaling like mad."What Facebook is doing wrong"While I think it's really hard to do this well, Facebook isn't doing a great job of laying out their vision of the future — and what a more 'open' or transparent society looks like."In some respects, by making changes unilaterally, I think they're doing themselves a disservice and turning people away from trusting the brand. At the same time, I don't think sugar-coating and delaying changes would also work for Facebook. In some respects, there will always be haters when you're at 350M users... and it's much easier to complain than to create yourself."Facebook isn't doing a great job communicating to the world what it's doing and why. I'm sure it's trying, but in some ways, there's just far too much stuff coming out of them to be able to track it."Can it keep getting bigger?"Yes, if they push their energy into building out and making the web more social — which is what Facebook Connect is all about. I probably could have elaborated on the importance of Facebook Connect to this whole puzzle — but the privacy stuff is topical lately."I'll say one thing to tie these pieces together: in order for Facebook Connect to succeed and become a social, "identity medium" for the web, Facebook must change people's expectations about the content that they produce. This is why Facebook is moving forward with their"public by default" move. It has less to do with wanting to monetize your content on Facebook or violating your privacy — it has much more to do with facilitating your ability to take your data with you to other sites, thereby increasing the value and economic motivations for other sites to implement Facebook Connect."1 billion Facebook users by 2015? Totally possible if they get them to moveofffacebook.com."
To all intents and purposes, Amazon's continuing push into the electronic book market with the Kindle looks unstoppable. Its latest landmark? On Christmas Day, it said,Amazon.com sold more ebooks than paper ones for the first time ever. That well-timed announcement led to a number ofglowingmedia reports.It's good for Amazon that ebook sales appear brisk, but the company still isn't releasing sales figures - which means it's actually a pretty meaningless comparison. Christmas Day, after all, is not peak shopping season, but when you get an empty Kindle from Santa, you're going to need to put some books on it.Without numbers, it's impossible to determine whether or not the Kindle is firing up bookworms - did its record-breaking day involve hundreds, thousands, millions of book sales?Who knows.This is exactly the sort ofstatistical massage I wrote about last week, in a piece that detailed the guessing game over the Kindle's sales figures and how Amazon cleverly chooses its phrasing to make it sound like the Kindle is everywhere. That may be the case, but when I asked whether readers had seen a Kindle in the wild,sightings, while encouraging, were not overwhelming:Andrys:"[on a recent trip], 4 of the other 10 travelers owned Kindles and 2 more (a couple) had tried to order them from Amazon hoping they'd arrive in Israel where they were at the time."simonsomething: "Never seen a Kindle, but have spotted a couple of Sony eReaders on planes."Reggaestar: "I have seen one on the train on my daily commute."dgsweet: "A recent subway ride in New York -- I was reading a Kindle and my wife was reading a Kindle. As we got off the train, a woman getting on was carrying hers."It's hardly surprising that a company chooses to show itself in the best possible light. Kindle sales may well be very strong indeed. But Amazon has always made a point of trying to appear straight and honest (Jeff Bezos's forthright apology over the 1984 debaclewas one of the best I've seen, for example). Even Apple, the most secretive company I've dealt with, gives out sales figures.And don't forget: finding out how many Kindles are being sold isn't just about checking whether Amazon is telling us the truth. The fact is that the company's secrecy could also be hurting the wider development of electronic books.Forget all the fluffy press releases and "record-breaking" talk: if, after building up expectation so high, it suddenly becomes apparent that Kindle sales aren't as stratospheric as the company suggests then people might suddenly start getting cold feet. A publisher or manufacturer stung by the promise of some grand new Kindle-based success will think twice about diving into the ebook market again: something that could seriously impinge development.Releasing sales figures may be the easiest way for Amazon to manage expectations and calm a brewing backlash, fuelled by incidents such asmajor publisher Simon and Schuster putting the brakes on ebook releases, and e-paper manufacturers suggesting that"it is too early to tell whether the end users think these devices are essential".Amazon carries on talking a good game, but there are plenty of good reasons to back transparency.
It may have given the world the Kama Sutra and the Bollywood wet sari scene, but it appears that India is not yet ready to be exposed to the delicate subject of sex on the internet.A Guardian investigation has discovered that several internet companies have quietly introduced filters to prevent Indian users from accessing sexual content.The Yahoo search engine and Flickr photo-sharing site (owned by Yahoo) altered their sites earlier this month to prevent users in India from switching off the safe-search facility. The block also applies to users in Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea.Microsoft has also barred Indian users of its Bing search engine from searching for sexual content. Users who do try to search for sexual material receive a notice informing them that "your country or region requires a strict Bing SafeSearch setting, which filters out results that might return adult content".The clampdown is understood to be in response to recent changes to India's Information Technology Act of 2000, which bans the publication of pornographic material.That law, which is based on a 150-year-old statute (section 292 of the Indian penal code), defines obscenity as "any content that is lascivious and that will appeal to prurient interest or the effect of which is to tend to deprave or corrupt the minds of those who are likely to see, read or hear the same".In October, the scope of the 2000 act was dramatically widened to enable action to be taken against a wide range of providers, from internet search engines and internet service providers to cyber-cafes. Under the new law, they are obliged to exercise due diligence and disable access to any content which contravenes the act. Failure to do so carries a three-year jail sentence and a fine of up to 500,000 rupees (£6,690).Search engine reports suggest that users in India are responsible for more searches for "sex" than those in any other country. Its popular daily newspapers are packed with pictures of young women in states of undress and Bollywood oozes sexuality from every pore.But at the same time it remains a deeply religious country in which traditionalists regularly take violent offence at anything deemed to be too suggestive.The latest attempts to constrain internet users come at a time when the vexed subject of sexual behaviour is once again dominating the domestic headlines.Last week an Indian news channel broadcast video footage of a man said to be the 86-year-old governor of Andhra Pradesh, Narayan Datt Tiwari, in bed with three young women. He quit on Sunday, citing health reasons and still denying that the man in the video was him.Today there was also mixed news for the tens of thousands of fans of India's most popular – and only – cartoon porn star, Savita Bhabhi.The sexual antics of the energetic housewife won her website a daily audience of nearly 200,000 visitors, until it was closed down by the Indian government in June.Now the site is back at a new web address but already it has fallen foul of the Internet Service Providers Association of India, whose president, Rajesh Chharia, warned that it faced closure again because its content was "not acceptable to our culture".No one from Yahoo was available for comment today but a posting on the Flickr website explained that "Flickr is a global community made up of many different kinds of people."What's OK in your backyard may not be OK in theirs. Each one of us bears the responsibility of categorising our own content within this landscape. So, we've introduced some filters to help everyone try to get along."If your Yahoo! ID is based in Singapore, Hong Kong, India or Korea you will only be able to view safe content based on your local terms of service (this means you won't be able to turn SafeSearch off)."
Yes, we all know that New Year resolutions are a fundamentally flawed concept - why set ourselves up to fail so early in the year? But, just for a moment, let's pretend they're a reallygoodidea, and consider the following question: if you were to change your gaming habits for 2010, how would you do it?There are, after all, perennial errors we all make: buying too many World War 2 shooters, spending £60 on imported JRPGs then giving up 20% of the way in; not playing Dwarf Fortress... These are bad habits, erroneous cycles of behaviour, that we can maybe break if we identify and discuss them.To get us started here are my 2010 gaming resolutions...Buy and complete an epic RPGI shan't be put off when my inventory of spells hits triple figures, or when I realise that after 30 hours of gaming I'm barely half way through. With Final Fantasy XIII on the way, this could be the perfect opportunity.Stop playing first-person shooters on public servers - or at least cut downIt always seems like a quick, convenient option, but sadly, playing with complete strangers at three in the morning is often like tuning in to the 'Chatty Bigot' hour on Radio F**kwit. Also, they're usually much better than me.Buy at least three original gamesNot sequels, not tie-ins, not adaptations - original videogames based oncompletely new 'IP'. Alan Wake, Heavy Rain and Bayonetta it is then...Play even more independent titlesIt's always good elitist fun to discover, play and extol the virtues of innovative indie gems months before they crossover to PSN or XBLA.Give Wii another chanceThere's more to this machine than sports, fitness and family game compendiums, right? Right? Super Mario Galaxy 2 here I come!Now, what areyours?
Even by Facebook's standards, the past 12 months have been remarkable. The site cemented its position as the world's favourite social network, reached the verge of profitability and even exerted its influence over the race for the Christmas No 1.After an extraordinary year, experts say the site now faces a series of challenges – not least the problem of how to keep getting bigger in the face of government interventions and its own internal strife.With the astonishing landmark of 500 million users now in sight, internet insiders suggest that the pressure may bring more headaches to Facebook's 25-year-old founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and his team."It's definitely an interesting time," said Justin Smith, whoseInside Facebook websitehas tracked the network's ups and downs for nearly four years. "While 2009 was a year in which Facebook saw really incredible growth... we'll see how they manage that growth."There is little doubt that 2009 was the moment that the site truly exploded. In January, Zuckerberg announced the "milestone" of 150 million users worldwide. Less than a year later, the social network has more than doubled and now boasts that more than 350 million people log on each month.The biggest difficulty is how to manage the privacy of users while growing so fast. With so much personal information kept on Facebook's servers, it is coming under increasing scrutiny from governments and campaign groups. Earlier this year it spent $9.5m (£5.9m) settling a lawsuit over an intrusive advertising system launched in 2007, and last month it made a series of changes that exposed millions of people's information to the world.Thechanges angered privacy advocates– who called them "flawed" and "ugly" – and led to an official complaint to the US regulator. To combat such threats to its future, Facebook has spent the past year hiring a team of lobbyists in Washington and Brussels to push its cause with politicians.With no more than 1.5 billion people online worldwide, the company is already close to saturation point in many countries and is now looking further afield. Earlier this year Moscow internet group Digital Sky Technologies invested more than $200m in Facebook, with the explicit intention of making it the top social network in Russia and eastern Europe. And in August, Facebook's international manager, Javier Oliván, told the Guardian thatthe company was putting more effort into places like Brazil, India and Indonesia."We're trying to do things in countries where we start seeing traction," he said. "We want to make sure people understand what Facebook's all about."Such growth is crucially important to its business ambitions, and it has started cashing in on its popularity thanks to lucrative advertising programmes, brand campaigns developed with major TV, music and film franchises, and sales of virtual goods.Those have not always proven a runaway success – last month's live world premiere of a new music video from the Colombian singer Shakira, for example, took place exclusively on Facebook but drew less than 100,000 viewers – less than one in 3,000 users tuning in. But with advertising picking up, the company says it is in good financial health and on the verge of profitability.Rapid expansion into emerging markets is a double-edged sword, however, since the money to be made is smaller and harder to come by."There are challenges with making a profit in many places around the world where there's not as big an advertising market, or people have less disposable income," said Smith.And amid all of its other struggles, the site has to worry about how to handle its staff while coping with such rapid expansion. Like any company growing quickly, Facebook appears to be suffering from its fair share of friction.Testimonials on the employment websiteGlassdoor.com, where workers anonymously share their experiences from inside thousands of companies, suggest that some tempers are fraying."Burnout is more common, even as the company grows," said one comment."People are often not treated fairly, as egos get big fast when a company grows so quickly," said another. "You give up your life and soul with little career growth or monetary incentives."However unassailable Facebook's position may appear today, history suggests that even the largest websites can fall spectacularly from grace in just a few years. A decade ago AOL was one of the most powerful companies in the world, worth so much money that it was able to force a $162bn merger with media giant Time Warner – the biggest ever seen.After 10 years of struggling to make the deal work, the company is now an internet also-ran valued at less than $3bn."Any time you get to the point where you're talking about 300, 400, 500 million users, you're starting to touch on some of the larger, global institutions – you're starting to become relevant to governments and to politicians and to a variety of interests around the world," said Smith."I do think that will be a big challenge, and Facebook will need to navigate those questions."
So, after all the hurlyburly of the build up, another Christmas has slipped by in a bewildering fug of cheap sparkling wine, over-cooked turkey and insufferably self-indulgent TV comedy 'specials' (man, has Victoria Wood lost it). But did you get any gaming done? And did Santa stuff the correct games into your stocking?You've no doubt been discussing this in Chatterbox, but now is the time to regale the rest of us with your Xmas anecdotes. Go on, did some confused and disorientated relative buy you 50 Cent: Blood On the Sand? Did uncle Jeff smash a priceless vase playing Wii Sports Resort with a little too much sherry-infused vigour? Let us know!
Apple is expected to start the new year with the launch of its latest gadget: a tablet computer that will allow users to surf the web, watch TV shows and read the next generation in online magazines and newspapers.Speculation is rife that the Californian technology group will unveil the device, which has no keyboard and resembles a large iPhone, at an event on 26 January in San Francisco. Some technology bloggers have already christened the touchscreen device the iSlateafter it emerged that Apple has registered the iSlate.com internet domain name.Apple has used the month of January to launch revolutionary products before, in part as a way of diverting attention from its rivals presenting their latest inventions at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, which Apple does not attend, and that takes place the same month. In January 2008 Apple unveiled itsultra-slim MacBook Air computer, and the previous year sawSteve Jobs, chief executive, announce the first version of the iPhone.Apple has previously investigated the possibility of producing a tablet computer but shelved the idea at the last minute, and there are already tablets available in the market from rival PC manufacturers. France's Archos, which pioneered digital music players but saw its market lead stolen by Apple,has already created an internet tabletbased on Google's Android software. Microsoft's latest tablet prototype,codenamed Courier according to rumours, involves two 7in multi-screens side by side in the form of a booklet.But the explosion of legitimate digital content services, the rise of downloadable applications – fuelled by the iPhone – and the widespread availability of wireless broadband has created a market for a tablet PC that is more of a multimedia device than merely a "keyboardless" computer. It would essentially be a cross between the iPhone, Apple's TV service and an iPod.Apple refuses to comment on speculation about new products, but there is talk that it is working on two versions of the iSlate, one with a 10in screen and a smaller version with a 7in screen. Users would be able to download applications produced by third-party developers onto the device just as they can for the iPhone.There are also a number of content deals in the works that would make the iSlate a valuable platform for media groups. Apple is rumoured to be trying to cement a deal with American TV companies including Disney and CBS that would see top shows appear regularly on the device.Several American publishers, meanwhile,have got together to create an iTunes for magazines. Condé Nast, owner of Vogue and Vanity Fair, has teamed up with Cosmopolitan owner Hearst, Meredith, News Corp and Time to set up an open magazine platform that will allow readers to buy and browse titles on so-called e-readers. The iSlate would be a perfect device for the next generation of digital publications, not least because it will be in full colour, unlike the current generation of electronic books such as the Amazon Kindle.In a recent note on Apple, Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster estimated that there is "a 75% likelihood that Apple will have an event in January and a 50% chance that it will be held to launch the Apple Tablet … if Apple announced the Tablet in January, it would likely ship later in the March quarter."Speculation about the arrival of the latest Apple creation helped shares in the company close Christmas week at a new record high of just over $209 (£131), making Jobs' stake worth more than $1.1bn. The shares have gained almost 150% this year as the iPhone, and its success in persuading users to download applications from the iTunes store, has cemented Apple's position as the world's leading consumer electronics brand.The company has rented a stage at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco later next month. It is the same venue that the company used in September forJobs to make his first public appearance since his recovery from illness, when he launched a new range of iPods.
THE TEMPTATION, of course, is to sum up the decade in terms of brands. Thus the noughties could be seen as the period of Google's inexorable rise, of Apple's metamorphosis into a music and mobile phone colossus, of Amazon's increasing dominance, of mushrooming user-generated content (Flickr, Blogger) and social networking (MySpace, Facebook, Twitter), of the emergence of Wikipedia as the world's leading reference work, of YouTube and the BBC's iPlayer – and of corporate stumbles (Microsoft, Yahoo, eBay, innumerable record labels and newspaper groups).Or you could see the decade in terms of broad trends. It was the decade in which what Ofcom calls "online catch-up TV" went from an exotic preoccupation of geeks with fast internet connections to a domestic proposition. The key driver was the spread of broadband connections. By the end of 2008, 95% of UK households with an internet connection had broadband with a speed of 2Mb or more. This made it possible to have an enjoyable experience with YouTube (launched in 2005) and the BBC iPlayer (launched at the end of 2007) and in the process changed the media landscape in unimaginable ways.We moved from an era when "the computer was the PC" to the world of "cloud computing" – where John Gage's famous declaration that "the network is the computer" finally became true. We started the decade using expensive software packages for word-processing, emailing and doing spreadsheet calculations, and finished it using free services provided on the internet. This shift was also visible in the corporate world as companies began to shift their IT operations into the "cloud" by renting virtual servers from Amazon and others.In doing so, we crossed a threshold into uncharted territory. For one thing, nobody really knows how secure cloud computing really is. And although it may be free (ie ad-supported), the vast server farms needed to make it possible have significant environmental downsides.Optimists will see the noughties as a period of liberation and creativity – when the stranglehold of editors and media proprietors was finally broken. Blogging services made it possible for anyone to be published. Anyone with the inclination to do so could edit an entry in Wikipedia. Flickr enabled any photographer to create a gallery of online images. YouTube gave aspiring cinematographers a way of screening their work. MP3 audio compression enabled garage bands to get their music to potential fans. Twitter and Wikileaks made it much more difficult for governments and corporations to keep their secrets from the great unwashed, as Trafigura discovered.On the other hand, pessimists will view the decade as the period when the utopianism of techno-libertarians was exposed for what it was: naivety on stilts. In 2000, the UK Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) set the tone by illustrating the power of the established order to curb online freedoms. While it remained true that you could protect your documents with unbreakable encryption, Ripa enabled the home secretary to threaten you with two years in gaol if you declined to provide his officials with the key: suddenly the liberation provided by technology began to look less convincing. And while John Gilmore's dictum that "the internet sees censorship as damage and routes around it" remained broadly true, China demonstrated that if you throw enough people, resources – and western technology – at the problem, you can effectively erect a great firewall around 1.3 billion people. Even the technophobic Iranian regime found it relatively easy to throttle a flood of inconvenient truths after its grisly presidential "election".What all this suggests is that the noughties were the years when the internet went from being exotic to mainstream – indeed, to being a utility. No child under the age of 11 knows there was once a world without Google. Most teenagers cannot imagine a world without Facebook or YouTube. And even the proportion of adults who can remember travel agents is declining fast. Almost without noticing, we have become dependent on the network. Our task in the next decade will be to make sure it remains free and open, rather than the captive of the corporations and governments who would love to control it. Happy New Year!
MadworldNintendo Wii, Sega(developer)Stylised, violent, witty, innovative – sank like a stone. Available now on Amazon at the bargain price of £8.98, Madworld's foray away from the mainstream proved too much for most (the deserved 18 rating can't have helped). With an arty, monochrome design splashed with livid red, (Frank Miller'sSin Cityis an obvious influence), the game places the player as protagonist in a form of futuristic gladiatorial combat. But defeating opponents is not the only aim; one must also dismember them creatively, the more inventively brutal the better – a balletic battle royal. The visual style occasionally obscures the action and the content is difficult enough without the Wii's motion-sensitive controls adding another level of sinister realism and yet, for adults and especially in short bursts, Madworld is compelling.Best of the restMini Squadron(iPhone; MrFungFung) – a charming side-scrolling, dog-fighting shooter, with a fluid control system that makes it a pleasure to play – was highly rated but lost out among the number of apps competing for attention in 2009. Blast away at everything to a spot-on ("Ride of the Valkyries" of course) classical soundtrack.For a splendid slice of classic Nintendo,Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story(DS; Nintendo) offers the chance to play an RPG as the boss of the Koopa Troopas himself, while at the same time Mario and Luigi complete puzzles actually inside the spiky one's body (long story). The two types of gameplay mesh brilliantly making a quirky, whimsical triumph.Red Faction: Guerrilla(PS3, Xbox 360, PC; THQ) is a third-person action-shooter that deserves another look for the sheer joyous mayhem it unleashes. All the manmade structures obey real-world physics and so are  destructible and, although occasionally repetitive and a little uninvolving, it's the chaos and destruction that thrills in this Mars-set demolition derby.
