"Welcome to my first attempt at blogging. Admittedly, I'm three years behind the bleeding edge, but I had to get over the inherent arrogance of blogging: that people would give a shitake about what I have to say," writes marketing guru, author and entrepreneur Guy Kawasaki onhis new blog. His amusement value is evident from the definition on his masthead:"Blogger. n. Someone with nothing to say writing for someone with nothing to do."Providing a bit of 1980s history, Kawasaki writes: "When I saw what a Macintosh could do, the clouds parted and the angels started singing. For four years I evangelized Macintosh to software and hardware developers and led the charge against world-wide domination by IBM." He left Apple in 87 but returned in 1995 for a stint where he writes: "My job on this tour of duty was to maintain and rejuvenate the Macintosh cult."Guy more than anyone was responsible for turning the Mac into a pseudo-religious cult, for marketing purposes, and, via his Evangelist mailing list, for mobilising the True Believers who hounded journalists. Have your "errors" exposed there and you got mailbombed by loonies. (Not that it ever happened to me, of course.) Whether all this did more harm than good is another matter, but after Kawasaki, many other companies hired evangelists with far less insight, charm and wit.
Nearly there now? How are you doing? Is it fiendish enough? Let's first answeryesterday's questions:11. 128 bits. You would have known this at once, of course, because you carefully read our22 December articleabout the introduction of IPv6.12. Ted Nelson. Though quite a few others have tried to claim the title (including, rather laughably, BT at one stage which reckoned it hadpatented hyperlinks; it launched a series of lawsuits that everyone else knew would founder, which they duly did), he'sdefinitely its father.And now,today's questions.13) Software released under the GNU Public License is free (as in free speech, not free beer) to redistribute and use, but carries certain restrictions. What is this concept called?14) What is the term for a secret that a programmer has put in a computer program?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers (right back to thefirst), click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Well into the second half of the quiz now (there are 18 questions), so let's answeryesterday's questions.9) The Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company. Snappy, of course, but not as snappy as "International Business Machines". See the old logohereand marvel at how they managed to get so many letters into a small space and still didn't make it readable. That could never happen today, of course. (Examples of it not happening welcome.)10) 99AACC - that'sthis color. Quite why seems to be lost in the mists of the internet (though it pops up in many quizzes out there). The problem is that isn't guaranteed to display undithered on all platforms. Which isn't good.And nowtoday's questions: 11) Currently, IP addresses are 32 bits in length (IPv4). The next generation of addresses, IPv6, will be how long?12) Who invented the word 'hypertext'?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers (right back to thefirst), click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Your Windows PC can now be infected with the nastiest malware imaginable just by viewing an image, or just by (say) Google Desktop or Lotus Notes or some other software accessing the image without you even seeing it. Using a recent version of Firefox or Opera is an improvement on IE but does not guarantee safety. Worst of all, this flaw in Microsoft's WMF picture file and fax viewer is a zero-day exploit for which there is no fix, officially.Clip fromF-SecureMalware is now being distributed from an unknown number of websites, via email (Subject: Happy New Year; Body: picture of 2006; the WMF exploit is in an attachment called HappyNewYear.jpg); and via an MSN Messenger worm (a link to an image that ends with xmas-2006 FUNNY.jpg), asF-Secureexplains. Many more will follow.I published what I hope is the correct fix on the Ask Jack blog on Thursday, which is tounregister the Microsoft dll filethat displays the images. Some people find this means they can no longer view JPEG images in XP. If so, download an alternative viewer such asIrfanView. (However, avoid using this or any other program to view .wmf files.)Ilfak Guilfanov has writtena temporary fixfor Windows XP SP2 which may work on some other versions. Again,see the Ask Jack blog for details.I've been tracking this thing for four days now and in real terms, it's still pretty small. However, I can certainly imagine that several thousand professional malware writers -- real criminals, not just script kiddies and spammers -- are now working full time on exploits. And when hundreds of millions of Windows PCs are switched on after the New Year holiday, every single one will be vulnerable.Update:AsF-Securepoints out today [Monday], the WMF security hole is 15 years old -- it goes back to Windows 3.0 in 1990 -- and "probably affects more computers than any other security vulnerability, ever".A global disaster is not inevitable, but it is conceivable.
FromIlfak Guilfanov's HexBlog: "Browsing the web was not safe anymore, regardless of the browser. Microsoft will certainly come up with a thouroughly tested fix for it in the future, but meanwhile I developed a temporary fix - -I badly needed it. The fix does not remove any functionality from the system, all pictures will continue to be visible. You can download it here:http://www.hexblog.com/security/files/wmffix_hexblog11.exeSteve Gibson has explained how the patch works here:http://www.GRC.com/groups/securitynow:423At the moment that Ilfak's patch is loaded, it immediately seeks out and locates the specific function that we now know is "broken" in the current Windows GDI32.DLL program library file. When it finds it, it "patches" the defective code in memory so that it does nothing if any malicious image file attempts to abuse the file's defect. In that way we are all protected from the danger in this defective Windows file until Microsoft fixes if "officially".It's a very nice, elegant and clever solution to tide us over until Microsoft fixes it permanently.The fix works for XP SP2, and may not work on other versions. However, at this stage, I'd have to wonder why you might be using anything else.....As theF-Secure blognotes: "Some clown is spamming out "Happy New Year" emails which will infect Windows machines very easily. These emails contain a new version of the WMF exploit, which doesn't seem to be related to the two earlier Metasploit WMF exploits we've seen. The emails have a Subject: "Happy New Year", body: "picture of 2006" and contain an exploit WMF as an attachment, named HappyNewYear.jpg"F-Secure says there's also an "MSN Messenger wormsending links to an image file (link ending with "xmas-2006 FUNNY.jpg"). The link actually contains a web page with a malicious WMF file."My advice:unregister shimgvw.dll as described below. There are hundreds of other programs that can be used to display JPEG images, includingIrfanView. You don't have to use the Microsoft DLL, and in the current circumstances, you should not be using it.Update: However, avoid using IrfanView or any other program to view .wmf files.
"The theme of the final Mike Industries iPod Creativity Competition of 2005 is todesign a movie poster featuring Steve Jobs. Like all competitions before it, the rules here are loose. Just feature the man we all know and love in a cinematic role, keep your image exactly 418 pixels wide, and insert your entry inline in the comments of this post."There are already some great enries in a contest that continues until January 8, includng Kill Bill (pretty obvious), The CEO Who Shagged Me (pretty funny) and The iPodfather (pretty clever). Since Jobs is well known for his ability to create reality distortion fields there's a Matrix influence, but more than enough variety to keep you scrolling to the bottom of the page....
"Google is the most significant development in the 15-year history of the World Wide Web, according to a poll of CNN.com users," reportsCNN."Nearly 18,000 CNN.com users voted in the three-week online survey, part of Spark's look at the Web's defining moments since Tim Berners-Lee launched the multimedia branch of the Internet in 1990."Comment:You can still vote for one item from a list of 10 using CNN's Quick Vote panel. But just to spoil it for you, there are only three significant votes:Google 41% 7,515 votes Dotcom boom/bust 19% 3,479 votes 9/11, and the rise of citizen journalism 12% 2,173 votesHow times change: the launch of the Netscape Navigator browser didn't even make the list. Nor did Yahoo.
Entrepreneurs are cashing in on the craze for miniature motorcycles, known as minimotos, by importing sub-standard machines from China for as little as &pound;35 each and selling them for a substantial profit on eBay.Last week the bikes entered the top 10 most popular items being bought on eBay for the first time. Anyone can bulk-buy cheap versions from Chinese factories and sell them on the internet auction site for &pound;100 or more each.It may seem like a bargain for the buyer - quality minimotos, often imported from Italy, sell for &pound;800-plus in the shops - but serious questions have been raised about their safety.Julian Hayward, owner of Minimoto Racing, an official importer of minimotos, said: 'It is a get-rich-quick scheme. The Chinese companies will sell to any Joe Bloggs who distributes bikes from their garden shed. They are so cheap that they are sold like toys on the internet and children can afford them from pocket money.'The availability of the replicas - which can reach speeds of up to 60mph - is behind a surge in the number of people illegally riding them on pavements and roads. The government put out a warning about them after one council said they had been the subject of 10 per cent of calls to an antisocial behaviour hotline. On Christmas Day two dogs were knocked down and killed by children riding them.The Observer contacted a supplier in China and was told bikes could be imported immediately for $78 (&pound;45). The same kind of bike has been sold for &pound;115 on eBay.One eBay seller, who asked not to be named, said: 'I can make as much money as I want through doing this. It is an easy way to make money.' He said he used 'drop-shipping' where he advertised goods before buying them and when someone had successfully bid for them he ordered them directly to the buyer. Some people on eBay offer to sell lists of suppliers to other entrepreneurs.The flood of imports has angered minimoto enthusiasts who use the bikes for racing on supervised tracks. They say the quality of the Chinese bikes is too low and the new craze is not driven by more teenagers getting into the sport.Hayward said his company had bought 300 of the bikes to try to get involved in the market, but had been shocked by the poor quality. His company provides bikes for young people to race and he said that these bikes were not up to standard.He said he was concerned that the cheap bikes were undermining the sport by giving minimotos a bad name. Minimotos, he added, had helped train a number of professional motorbike racers.However, some defend the cheaper models, saying they allow people to try out the sport. If they like it they can then upgrade to a more expensive, sturdier bike.One 15-year-old said she had imported a bike for &pound;55 with &pound;40 delivery and then sold it through a local paper for &pound;140. 'During the time I owned it it was fine, until a few days before the sale,' she said. 'The exhaust came off and the gasket melted over where the pipe connects to the engine. They are dangerous and I wouldn't recommend them.'Dave Drew, a 22-year-old youth worker from Egremont, Cumbria, who is also a motorbike enthusiast added: 'A few of the young people there have these and from what I've seen the build quality is appalling. I have worked on one or two of the bikes for the lads, as they are always breaking and falling to pieces.'There is nothing illegal about making money in this way, but purchasers are warned that there are few guarantees and little after-sale support.Ray Holloway, of the Retail Motor Industry Federation, said: 'I urge people to be careful because with these grey markets everything looks good but the experience can easily end with broken equipment or more expenses. These are being sold as toys but they are not and can go very fast.'There are opportunists everywhere in life and in this case the responsibility is with the purchaser.'
Succeeding years of Big Brother have taken the low arts of duplicity, partner swapping and bed hopping to new levels of tabloid indulgence. But the housemates' antics are positively puritanical when compared to the promiscuity of the automotive world. Here, the interbreeding has reached such a pitch it's often hard to know who exactly is making your car. For example, BMW now makes Minis and Rollers; Ford knocks out its own-brand motors as well as Astons, Jaguars, Land Rovers, Lincolns and Volvos; Volkswagen builds VWs, of course, but also Audis, Bentleys, Bugattis, Seats and Skodas; while Saabs, Chevrolets, Vauxhalls and Subarus are all owned by General Motors.One of the most fruitful unions in the double-bed of car romps is between French giants Peugeot and Citroen. And if you look closely at the progeny of each of these manufacturers you'll see many similarities between their various models. Which is why it's such a relief to come across a totally unique addition to their family that is blissfully free from this cross-over blight.Peugeot's 1007 is one of the most unusual cars you'll see on the road today. In terms of pedestrian double-takes you'd have to walk down the street with a giant pineapple on your head to attract more attention. It looks like a cross between a children's toy and a large Dyson. It's a mixture of revolutionary design and eccentricity that makes you smile and marvel at the panache of the French.The 1007 - which confusingly has an extra 0 compared to all other Peugeots - is a city runaround that is less than 4m in length, yet somehow manages to be elastically accommodating. Its USP, however, are its giant doors. It only has two, but they are huge, electric sliding doors, which are operated remotely by the key fob or at the touch of a button when inside. Once activated, the whole side of the car slides out and backwards - leaving you as exposed as if standing in a skirt on a windy vent. After a day or so you get used to not having to open the door manually. In fact, you begin to marvel at how you ever used to cope with the hassle of actually using a door handle. The doors are more than a gimmick, however. Their extra height makes the interior light and airy, improves visibility and means you never need worry about the kids throwing open their doors and denting the precious paintwork of the chav wagon next to you.This all seems very jolly, but its merry face hides a car of serious intent. It's the safest car on the road, having scored the highest-ever Euro NCAP score - the Oscars of car safety, if you like. It has a useful 1.4 or 1.6-litre engine that trots along at up to 64mpg. It comes with a Santa's sack full of airbags, aircon, satnav and CD changer. And its level of finish is a match to anything from Wayne Rooney. And all this for a shade over &#163;10,000.Just one quibble. There are only two seat belts in the back, which is a shame as the 1007 is sure to follow in its parents' footsteps and appeal to greedy breeders everywhere.martin.love@observer.co.uk
There must be a Top 10 meme going round, like a bad case of flu, because the net is suddenly being overrun with the things. I've made a quick list. Feel free to add more via Comments....The top 10 stories of 2005Top 10 worst products of 2005Ten Failed Tech Trends for 2005Top 10 Tech Transformations of 2005The Top 10 interesting people in the Blogosphere in 2005Top 10 Google Search Keywords 2005Top 10 Words Looked-Up in the Merriam-Webster Online DictionaryThe Top 10 Podcast Episodes of 2005Top 10 Innovative Web 2.0 Applications of 200510 Issues Facing Web 2.0 Today going into 200610 Web Trends That Should Die in 2006*Top 10 web design mistakes of 2005AOL's 3rd Annual Top Ten Spam List for 2005The 10 Biggest Microsoft Surprises of 200510 worst public relations goofs of 2005Top 10 tech trends for 2006Top 10 predictions for 2006Top 10 Web Predictions for 2006My Ten "Converging World" Predictions for 2006Top-10 2006 Emarketing Tech PredictionsPredictions for 2006(Funny)*The Ten Best Top-Ten Lists* added
The US-CERT Cyber Security Bulletin has published a "year-end summaryof software vulnerabilities that were identified between January 2005 and December 2005," revealing that "there were 5198 reported vulnerabilities: 812 Windows operating system vulnerabilities; 2,328 Unix/Linux operating vulnerabilities; and 2,058 Multiple operating system vulnerabilities."However, you would need to do a lot of work to come up with any sensible conclusions from these numbers -- except one.First, the vulnerabilities were listed according to where they were found. A flaw in X doesn't mean it only affected X, since the same software may have the same security flaw on Y or Z.Second, the fact that CERT issued an advisory doesn't mean it had identified a new problem. For example, the entry forMultiple Vendors LibXPM Bitmap_unit Integer Overflowis followed by another 12 entries that readMultiple Vendors LibXPM Bitmap_unit Integer Overflow (Updated). That doesn't add up to 13 flaws. A very large number of the Unix/Linux/Mac entries are actually updates.Third, the crude grouping is not for operating systems but for operating environments. For example, the "812 Windows operating system vulnerabilities" run from1Two Livre d'Or Input Validation Errors Permit Cross-Site ScriptingtoZonGG Input Validation Hole in 'ad/login.asp' Permits SQL Injection, and include things likeApple Darwin Streaming Server Denial of Service. In other words, open source Unix code packaged by Apple appears in the list as a Windows operating system flaw. Any attempt to use the totals in a game of My OS is better than yours so Yah Boo Sucks is clearly stupid.Fourth, an advisory is simply an advisory: it doesn't tell you whether or not the flaw was significant, or whether it appeared in an important bit of software.Tofu Game Engine Arbitrary Python Code Executioncarries exactly the same weight as a gaping hole in IE or Firefox or Cisco routers. Nor does it tell you if the flaw was fixed.The only conclusion you can safely draw from the list is that all software has bugs. Take tomorrow off and do a back-up....
Let's get the answers toyesterday's questionsout of the way:7) Lift it about three inches and drop it. The reason: the lack of a fan (at the insistence of the Apple chief executive at the time - following a trope he seems to have repeated many times subsequently) meant that during normal operation the chips would pop slightly out of their guards. Dropping the machine reseated them. Read morehere.8) A muffer. It's a 1960s IBM concatenation of "memory buffer".And now,today's questions.9) IBM was incorporated in 1911, but what was it called?10) In web page design which RGB color value isn't guaranteed to look solid on all platforms?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers (right back to thefirst), click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Previous Ask Jack columns can be found as follows:December 2005December 22 2005: Clean feedDecember 15 2005Micro hi-fiDecember 8 2005Wi-Fi your hi-fiDecember 1 2005: Speed checkedNovember 2005November 24, 2005: The value of a megapixelNovember 17, 2005: Windows XP start-upNovember 10, 2005: Taken phishingNovember 3, 2005: Is it worth switching to a Mac?October 2005October 27, 2005: PC shoppingOctober 20, 2005: From cassette tapes to MP3October 13, 2005: Domain namesOctober 6, 2005: Backing upSeptember 2005September 29, 2005: Portable computersSeptember 22, 2005: Unsafe email,USB limitsSeptember 15, 2005: Plasma v LCD TVsSeptember 8, 2005: Move it, De-dupeSeptember 1, 2005: Green underlines on Web sitesAugust 2005August 25, 2005: Clear the airAugust 18, 2005: Kid-safe emailAugust 11, 2005: Text on railsAugust 4, 2005: Come togetherJuly 2005July 28, 2005: Email limitsJuly 21, 2005: WMA licence problemsJuly 14, 2005: Dell printer catchJuly 7, 2005: "Free" music downloads
The combined positive, negative and abjectly confused coverage of Xbox 360 shows videogames are finally approaching mainstream recognition. Lacking the broad content available in music, TV or film, and the accessibility of books, gaming is nevertheless breaking out of its twentysomething male stereotype. The fact that new releases are still dominated by driving, shooting and orc slaughter suggests evolution still has some way to go, but 2005 has been a watershed for hardware enthusiasts. The sheer volume of new toys coming out has been bank-breaking.Nintendo DS, &pound;90Following news that Sony was launching a portable gaming device, Nintendo went its own way, producing a handheld console with two screens (one of which is touch sensitive), a built-in mic and the ability to play online - wirelessly. Along with new releases like Wario Ware: Touched and Another Code: Two Memories, you can play all your old Game Boy Advance cartridges.PSP, &pound;180Sony promised a PlayStation 2 in your pocket, and PSP is exactly that, with crystal clear widescreen display built-in and the ability to play movies and music. Games so far have mostly been conversions of big budget console hits, which, while looking beautiful, sometimes don't feel at all right for the bite-sized moments that mobile gaming always has to occupy.Xbox 360, &pound;280Shops sold out and even those that got lucky felt the fear as reports of fatal problems with a number of Microsoft's first batch came out. For those with a working model, the world of HD (High Definition) gaming is here, and very slightly nicer looking than old-style gaming it is, too. Highlights are shape-shifting adventure Kameo, second world war shooter Call Of Duty 2 and Project Gotham Racing 3.Top five games of 2005Oddworld: Stranger's wrath Xbox (Electronic Arts)You're a bounty hunter in an alien wild west, where hoodlums need capturing to pay for treatment for your "special problem". Tactical fights, gorgeously dusty scenery and a real plot make this 2005's great undiscovered classic.Residential evil 4 GameCube, PS2 (Capcom)Survival horror reinvented with simpler puzzles, more ammunition and extended 20+ hour play time. Its action orientation at no time spoils the grizzly atmosphere, and the nimble, cunning "infected" make interesting foes.Mario Kart DS Nintendo DS (Nintendo)Not only a return to the awesome handling model of the timeless 16-bit original, but instant connection to wireless gaming, letting you take on fellow Kart racers across the world from home or any number of wi-fi hot spots. If you can stop playing Advance Wars DS, that is.Fahrenheit PS2, Xbox (Atari)A fascinatingly different approach to the rightly maligned interactive movie genre. You take turns playing both possessed psycho killer and hard-bitten cops on his trail, through a series of tense conversations and encounters. Indisputably thrilling.Nintendogs Nintendo DS (Nintendo)Small, playful puppies that live in your DS, waiting for you to come and play. Scratch tummies, throw Frisbees and teach pups a plethora of new tricks until they recognise and understand your voice. Enormously and universally appealing.
This is the time of the year when some of us vow to leave our ragged old selves behind and emerge in the new year as a more admirable individual. If, like most people, your resolutions last until the second week of January then here's a few places to inspire you. For those giving up nicotinegivingupsmoking.co.ukis full of information and help butwhyquit.com/whyquit/smokersbody.jpgis more convincing.Those seeking to lose weight should visitwww.weightlossresources.co.uk, while those who are also seeking to get fit might find encouragement of sorts fromthefatmanwalking.com, the diary of a fridge of a man who is walking across America in a spirited attempt to reach his ideal weight. While anyone keen on those Things To Do Before I Die lists will find all manner of nosey inspiration atmy50.co.uk.
Intel boss Paul Otellini will unveil Intel's new strategy, new products and new branding (the Intel Inside logo will disappear) at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on January 5 -- followed by a $2.5 billion advertising and marketing blitz. BusinessWeek has the story fromInside Intel.Otellini is tossing out the old model. Instead of remaining focused on PCs, he's pushing Intel to play a key technological role in a half-dozen fields, including consumer electronics, wireless communications, and health care. And rather than just microprocessors, he wants Intel to create all kinds of chips, as well as software, and then meld them together into what he calls "platforms." The idea is to power innovation from the living room to the emergency room. "This is the right thing for our company, and to some extent the industry," he says. "All of us want [technology] to be more powerful and to be simpler, to do stuff for us without us having to think about it."Later, the story says:Meantime, the famous Pentium brand will be slowly phased out. In its place: a troika of brands, two of them freshly minted. Viiv (rhymes with "alive") is the name of a new chip for home PCS, designed to replace your TiVo (TIVO ), stereo, and, potentially, cable or satellite set-top box. It will be able to download first-run movies, music, and games, and shift them around the home. Intel also will launch a set of notebook PC chips under the three-year-old Centrino brand, as well as so-called dual-core chips, which will put two processor cores on one sliver of silicon. The new brand "Core" will be put on products that don't meet the specifications of the Viiv or Centrino platforms.
Help me. Kill me. I'm obsessed with a Game Boy game. It's a cross between Tetris and Scrabble - a beat-the-clock wordsearch with cascading letters. And something about it clearly tickles the part of my brain that usually handles crack cocaine and pistachio nuts, because I can't put it down.I'm even playing it when I'm not playing it. I settle down to watch the news and a few minutes later realise with a jolt that I've not heard a word they're saying because I'm playing the bloody word game - in my head. They could cut to a live helicopter shot of a shirtless drunk steaming toward my front door with a shotgun in one hand and his dick in the other, and I'd scarcely notice. I'm too busy sculpting streams of scrambled letters into chains of coherent words, which wobble and burst and are replaced by yet more scrambled letters WHICH MUST ALSO BE FORMED INTO COHERENT WORDS NOW YOU BASTARD NOW NOW NOW.Don't want to do it. Don't want to. But I have no choice: I absolutely cannot stop.Hours I've given it - hours. And this is all I get in return? Callused thumbs and a brainful of anagrams. Once again, video games prove they're not my friend. Well up yours, video games. I wanted more.After all, games involve an immense whack of brain activity. Unlike TV, you can't simply point your eyes at the pictures and let your mind wander round numbsville. From the moment you enter gameland, you have to stay alert, no matter what you're doing - searching corridors, dodging bullets, punching nine-year-old girls in the face (if you're playing Blameless Kid Attack 3000, that is). Like novels, they demand an attentive state. Unlike novels, they don't reward you. Punch buttons for six hours straight, and when you finally switch the damn thing off - nothing. You've gobbled your way through a void. Nothing to do now but contemplate death and the time you've just wasted. Well happy new year.How about games start pulling their weight by teaching me something useful, such as how to stop living like a despicable pig? It's not too much to ask. Swear to God, if a game suddenly froze up, took a photo of my living room and said I couldn't start the next level until I tidied my shit up, I'd do it.The technology's closer than you think. Earlier this year I tried out a PlayStation game that purported to raise your fitness levels. It watched you with a camera and made you do exercises. It kept tabs on how often you used it - and if you missed a session, it gave you a bollocking. It made you its bitch.Of course, it was incredibly undignified - if anyone had walked in and seen me leaping around in front of that thing, I would have strangled them, set the flat on fire and killed myself. But for a while, it worked. These days I go jogging and everything. Well, sometimes. Point is, it's a step forward.How about more games with real-world applications? How about a game in which a man smacks his head against the wall until the letterchains stop twirling round his brain? How about THAT game? HOW ABOUT THAT?
As is becoming traditional, we begin with the answers toyesterday's questions.5) 1979. TheWikipedia entryagrees with many other sources, but it's the easiest to find.6) The Motorola 68030 - yes, in 1988 it steamed along at 25MHz. Read more at theold computers page.And now,today's questions:7) What was the Apple-endorsed procedure for the Apple III computer to ensure that the integrated circuits were properly seated?8) A cache is a place in your computer where frequently used information is stored for quick access. The cache was first developed at IBM, but what was it first called?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers, click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Sunbelt Software's security blog has posteda note about DEP. It says: "Based on preliminary research, we're finding that systems with software-enforced DEP will get the WMF exploit, but systems with hardware-enforced DEP will not. For those of you unfamiliar with DEP, Microsoft explains it well:Data Execution Prevention (DEP) is a set of hardware and software technologies that perform additional checks on memory to help prevent malicious code from running on a system. In Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) and Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition 2005, DEP is enforced by hardware and by software."DEP is installed by default with Service Pack 2. However, in order to get the full capabilities of DEP, you will need to have a processor that supports these advanced features (this is called hardware-enforced DEP). "Sunbelt explains how to check.If you have bought a PC this year, it may well have hardware DEP. Intel chips with this feature have a J in the designation.
Are companies that blog doing better than companies that don't? Since there's no good list of company blogs, it's hard to tell. To tackle this problem, Wired's Chris Anderson and Socialtext's Ross Mayfield have launched theFortune 500 Business Blogging Wiki, which "anyone can edit, adding new Fortune 500 blogs as they're found or revising existing entries. It's released under a Creative Commons attribution license, so anyone is free to use it any way as long as they point back to the wiki." Details are onAnderson's Long Tail website.Comment:There's very little to it at the moment. The Microsoft section, for example, has one link and only a few names, where there should be at least 50. It's the same story for Sun, except at least there's a link toSun's blogroller. There's no link at all for IBM, which also has numerous bloggers.Anderson says: "We found that only 3% of the F500 are [blogging]," but if the blogosphere pitches in, Wikipedia style, we could soon find it's 30% or even more.
Java became popular partly because it was easy (and sandboxed, so even if you were useless, your idiot coding wouldn't bring down the server) and then computer science schools adopted it because it was easy and popular, and featured in a lot of job ads. Teaching Java also avoided having to fail all the kids who didn't really understand pointers and recursive algorithms. However, it's given Joel Spolsky a problem. InThe Perils of JavaSchools, he writes:As an employer, I've seen that the 100% Java schools have started churning out quite a few CS graduates who are simply not smart enough to work as programmers on anything more sophisticated than Yet Another Java Accounting Application, although they did manage to squeak through the newly-dumbed-down coursework. These students would never survive 6.001 at MIT, or CS 323 at Yale, and frankly, that is one reason why, as an employer, a CS degree from MIT or Yale carries more weight than a CS degree from Duke, which recently went All-Java, or U. Penn, which replaced Scheme and ML with Java in trying to teach the class that nearly killed me and my friends, CSE121. Not that I don't want to hire smart kids from Duke and Penn -- I do -- it's just a lot harder for me to figure out who they are. I used to be able to tell the smart kids because they could rip through a recursive algorithm in seconds, or implement linked-list manipulation functions using pointers as fast as they could write on the whiteboard. But with a JavaSchool Grad, I can't tell if they're struggling with these problems because they are undereducated or if they're struggling with these problems because they don't actually have that special part of the brain that they're going to need to do great programming work.
"The Amazon Connect program, in beta for the past month, aims to increase the engagement between readers and authors, and between readers and Amazon.com. It provides authors with a channel to market new products to consumers who bought their books in the past, and gives them a reason to visit Amazon.com," reportsClickZ news.But ClickZ's headline, Amazon Hosting Author Blogs, looks misleading if not downright wrong.The Amazon page says:Amazon Connect is a new program currently open to a select group of authors. This program allows authors to post messages directly to their readers on a wide variety of subjects. Currently, messages will appear on the detail page of an author's book as well as on her/his profile page. As part of the program, authors may create a profile page with personalized information.From the Amazon demo page, it seems the "blog" is the users' Amazon home page, not the authors'. The users' home page then displays messages (or posts) from various authors, as and when they create them.It could be a good idea for Amazon to host authors' blogs, but this ain't it.
As usual, we'll begin with the answers toyesterday's questions.3) A mickey. (Seethis page.) Come on, you guessed it right away.4) The ! (exclamation mark) character. Read uphere.And now,today's questions, to be answered tomorrow:5) In which year did CompuServe become the first service to offer email to personal computer users?6) What was the model of the processor in the first NeXT Cube?As usual, answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers, click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Windows users are currently vulnerable to files downloaded from dodgy websites that exploit a hole in Microsoft's Windows Metafile (WMF) format for which there is no patch. IE executes WMF files automatically. However, users of other browsers still get infected if they are asked if they want to display the file, say yes, and the browser invokes the Windows Picture and Fax Viewer.I've posted more about this -- including the workaround -- on theAsk Jack blog, based on information from theF-Secure security blog.
Inernet Explorer on all Windows operating systems can currently be affected by what's known as a zero-day exploit -- there is no patch. Basically it uses a security hole in WMF (Windows Metafile) images which are displayed by the Windows Picture and Fax Viewer. If you go to a website that displays a WMF file, it can use the hole to download a file to your PC. So far it is being used to distribute Trojan-Downloader.Win32.Agent.abs, Trojan-Dropper.Win32.Small.zp, Trojan.Win32.Small.ga and Trojan.Win32.Small.ev.The exploit also affects other browsers such as Firefox, except that recent versions don't decode WMF files automatically. Thethe F-Secure security blog, on which this post is based, says:In our tests (under XP SP2) older versions of Firefox (1.0.4) defaulted to open WMF files with "Windows Picture and Fax Viewer", which is vulnerable. Newer versions (1.5) defaulted to open them with Windows Media Player, which is not vulnerable... but then again, Windows Media Player is not able to show WMF files at all so this might be a bug in Firefox. Opera 8.51 defaults to open WMF files with "Windows Picture and Fax Viewer" too. However, all versions of Firefox and Opera prompt the user first.Using Firefox is recommended but provides no protection if uses click to open the WMF file.It's unlikely most people would go to any of the sites distributing the exploit. However, F-Secure has provided a list today:toolbarbiz[dot]biztoolbarsite[dot]biztoolbartraff[dot]biztoolbarurl[dot]bizbuytoolbar[dot]bizbuytraff[dot]biziframebiz[dot]biziframecash[dot]biziframesite[dot]biziframetraff[dot]biziframeurl[dot]bizMicrosoft has released asecurity bulletinthat provides a simple workaround: just turn off the service that reads WMFfiles.1. Click Start, click Run, type "regsvr32 -u %windir%\system32\shimgvw.dll" (without the quotation marks), and then click OK.2. A dialog box appears to confirm that the un-registration process has succeeded. Click OK to close the dialog box.You don't actually have to type it in, of course: just copy and paste it into the Run box. It only takes a few seconds. For convenience:regsvr32 -u %windir%\system32\shimgvw.dllAlthough the exploit is not much of a threat at the moment, the sites that make money by distributing malware -- eg by dropping Trojans as a way of selling dodgy anti-spyware programs -- are likely to adopt it. People who frequent some of the darker parts of the web are duly warned.Update:Some people have reported in comments (Hi, George!) that unregistering shimgvw.dll meant their PCs "no longer displayed any JPEGs!" Sorry about that -- I did try it first and my systems did not have this problem. However, if this happens, you can re-register the dll simply by leaving out the /u parameter:regsvr32 %windir%\system32\shimgvw.dllThe Microsoft Knowledge Base has anExplanation of Regsvr32 Usage and Error Messages.
Marissa Mayer, Google's Vice President, Search Products &amp; User Experience, has been explaining the AOL deal in general terms. She's talked toJohn Battelle at SearchblogandDanny Sullivan at Search Engine Watch.The two basic points are that the Google home page is not going to get banner ads, and that in general, Google is not committed to helping AOL's search results in ways that it wouldn't help other companies. It certainly sounded otherwise from the press info. Danny Sullivan raises the point:So why put this in the agreement at all? Why, if it's something Google would do anyway, allow it to go into a business document that caused questions to be raised of impartiality?Ultimately, it was a pragmatic decision, Mayer said. AOL especially wanted reassurance in the contract. Since Google was going to do this type of work irregardless of the contract, including it simply was being practical.Mayer added that the provision AOL asked for was virtually identical to one Yahoo wanted when Google became its search provider back in 2000, before Yahoo shifted to its own technology. Yahoo naturally wanted to ensure that if it was going to have a search engine powered by Google, that search engine would include its own content.For background, the best one-paragraph summary of the deal was inBumpy Road, the Wall Street Journal article:Under the terms of the deal, Google will buy a 5% stake in AOL for $1 billion. AOL will continue to use Google's search technology and to share the revenue generated by ads that are displayed with search results. But in a change important to AOL, the online service now will have the right to sell those ads directly to advertisers instead of directing advertisers to Google. AOL also will be able to sell some ads that appear on Google's network of affiliated Web publishers, and Google will promote AOL's content when it displays search results to its users.
Five more big events from the Gamesblog year...Film Critic accidentally starts 'are videogames art?' debateIn early December I posted about Roger Ebert's review of the Doom movie (Film critic dismisses videogames), in which he stated that he had no intention of finding out more about the source material, because videogames were an inferior form of entertainment compared to movies or books. Naturally, this provoked a lengthy, interesting, but tragically unresolved 'games as art' debate. I suspect it won't be the last.Emotion in GamesBack in september, Alekspostedon a theory put forward by EA Studio boss Neil Young at the Tokyo Game Show: "The thesis was that games, in order to become truly mainstream media, must succeed in making players cry". Quickly, emotional readers were relating their most tearful gaming moments with the Final Fantasy titles cropping up time and time again. As if on cue, a company named Bowen Research then released the results of a study into emotion in games (More news on weepy gamers). It was discovered that, scientifically, the death of Aeris in Final Fantasy VII was the most blub-inducing game moment ever. Personally, I cried more when I found out about 50 Cent: Bulletproof...Massively multiplayer online weirdnessThe MMORPG genre provided a deep and really quite scary well of human interest stories throughout the year. In June, AleksinterviewedDavid Storey, the chap who purchased a piece of virtual land in the game Project Entropia for $26,500. This was not the only tale from the bizarre new virtual economy - back in March we also heard of aRomanian sweatshopwhere youngsters were paid a pittance to work up powerful MMORPG characters who could then be sold to lazy players.From MMOG finance to MMOG murder, summer saw the story of Chinese gamer, Qui Chengwei, who received a life sentence for murdering a fellow Legend of Mir 3 player - the victim had borrowed then sold Chengwei's powerful virtual sword. World of Warcraft was by far the most talked about MMOG of the year, however, with itsdiseases,sex offersanddomestic breakdowns. Who can possibly guess what 2006 has in store...Adverts in gamesThe burgeoning world of in-game advertising split Gamesblog readers throughout the year - some viewing it as the evil commoditisation of virtual worlds, others a necessary element of environmental realism. Aleks brought the subject up in April (Adverts are the new music), and earlier this month Ibloggedabout a report co-sponsored by Activision which claimed that peopledefinitely really lovein-game ads. Whether we like it or not, the fact is, there's money to be made in virtual ad-space these days.Xbox 360 launchThe next-generation was heralded in on a tidal wave of salty hype, featuringsurreptitiously photographed hardware,MTV specialsandostentatious E3 conferences. Then, finally,Greg got his hands on one. He then switched it off for long enough to comment on theUKandJapanese launches. Since then we've had plenty to talk about (power usage,eBay sales, etc), but not too many must-have games to play. Oh well, you can't have everything.
Europe's best-laid plans have a depressing habit of not working out, but one of its biggest ambitions got off to a flying start yesterday with the launch of the first demonstrator rocket for the Galileo global satellite navigation system from a Kazakhstan cosmodrome.By 2008 this &pound;2.3bn project will comprise 30 satellites that will help consumers in countless areas of daily life. Car satnav systems - a big hit with consumers this Christmas - are an already familiar example. But there are huge implications for safety-critical systems such as trains and aircraft as well as for emergency services and land and road use, including pricing schemes. Galileo, managed by and for civilians, will end the monopoly held by the military-run American GPS system, which is liable to be switched off for security reasons. As with Airbus and the Ariane rocket, there is a political impulse for an EU of 25 countries and 450 million people to punch at its weight. The European network - compatible with GPS and Russia's Glonass - will significantly improve the accuracy and reliability of location and timing data receivable on earth. Cover will be better in forests and built-up areas. There are massive opportunities for innovation, business and jobs here - a Galileo chip can be integrated into mobile phones. The Galileo project has already weathered rows over funding and a spat with the US about signals. It is on track - 15,000 miles above - to succeed as Europe blazes a vital new technological trail.
"The new Xbox 360 has been a big hit for Microsoft Corp this season -- but for now, it's also contributing to pain in the games industry. The reason: Supplies of the new videogame console have been short, and many consumers have held off buying games for it until they can get one next year. Some also have stopped purchasing games for their existing systems -- because they may soon be obsolete," reports Nick Wingfield in The Wall Street Journal (paid sub required).In November, the month the new Xbox hit stores -- and in many places quickly sold out -- videogame sales were down 18% from a year ago, according to NPD Group Inc, a research firm that tracks retail sales figures of consumer electronics. Two of the biggest game publishers, Electronic Arts Inc and Activision Inc, have warned they will miss financial forecasts for the current and upcoming quarters.As I pointed outin the Technology section, the games console business is cyclical and always goes through the same sort of shift between generations. This is awkward because it means switching from sales of cheap, profitable systems with a large user base -- and hugely profitable games sales -- to sales of initially more expensive, unprofitable systems with very small user bases, ie not too many buyers for new games.The need to shift from the unusually profitable PS2 to the unusually expensive PS3 is one reason why Sony has been somewhat desperately trying to trash-talk the Xbox 360.Both Sony and NIntendo have new handhelds that should reduce the financial impact of the transition period. However, the WSJ article claims that: "sales of portable consoles haven't met expectations, particularly for Sony's PlayStation Portable. With a price starting at $249, the game may be too expensive for some consumers, analysts say, though Sony and Nintendo say they are happy with sales. Each portable system -- Nintendo's is called the Nintendo DS -- has sold about three million units in North America."At least games company THQ takes a more philosophical view of the transition:"I will take one flat-to-down year every five years," says CEO Brian Farrell, "if we can get to 1% to 20% growth for four or five years in between."
"There is no MSN Messenger 8 yet. Not in public beta anyway. However, there's a new virus going around pretending to be "MSN Messenger 8 Working BETA," reports theF-Secure blog."There's two ways to catch it. First, by downloading it from a fake site where it has been supposedly "'leaked':If you download and run BETA8WEBINSTALL.EXE from that site, you won't get a new chat client. Instead, your existing MSN Messenger will start to send download links to everyone in your contact list. It also connects your machine to a botnet server. The download link always contains the recipients' email address. For example, if you'd have a friend with email address huuhaa@foobar.com, he would get a download link like msgrbeta8.com/im.php?msn=huuhaa@foobar.com".The F-Secure post also has screen shots.There is a new verion of Microsoft Messenger on the way: it's called Microsoft Live Messenger. It is being beta tested at the moment, and you can follow its progress on the team's blog,Inside Windows Live Messenger.
Yahoo's high-profile takeovers of Flickr and Delicious have attracted a lot of geek attention, but Yahoo has always bought companies. One of the cover stories I did in Online (Google fights for top spot, October 30, 2003) gave a reasonably comprehensive list of some of the bigger ones:It bought Overture Services Inc, the market leader in pay-per-click search advertising, for $1.6bn, completing the deal on October 8. Along with that it got two big search engines: All The Web (Fast) and Alta Vista. Earlier this year, it also bought Inktomi Corporation, which is a leading supplier of search engine technology, for $235m. Yahoo had already taken over a long string of companies to add features to its portal, including GeoCities, eGroups, Broadcast.com, RocketMail, Four11, WebCal, ViaWeb, Log-Me-On.com, and Yoyodyne Entertainment. But its latest purchases send out the clear signal that Yahoo plans to compete in the search engine market.Now William Slawski is assembling a more comprehensive list ofYahoo! Acquisitions since Overture, and come up with 3721 Network Software Co (November 2003), Kelkoo (March 2004), Oddpost (July 2004), Musicmatch (September 2004), Stata Labs (October 2004), WUF Networks (November 2004), Ludicorp (for Flickr, March 2005), TeRespondo (April 2005), Dialpad (June 2005), blo.gs (June 2005), Pixoria (for Konfabulator, July 2005), Alibaba (August 2005), Upcoming.org (October 2005), WhereOnEarth Unlimited (October 2005) and Del.icio.us (December 2005).This isn't quite in the Cisco class (Cisco seemed to buy a company almost every month for a couple of years), but impressive none the less.
First, the answers toyesterday's quiz questions. They are:1) Doctor. That's right. (If you happen to have an Apple machine running OSX, then you can see the bit of source that confirms the answer by going to your Utilities folder, starting the Terminal program, and typing or copyingopen -a "TextEdit" /usr/share/emacs/21.2/lisp/play/doctor.eland hitting return. Textedit will open the source of the program; then do a search on "bill". You should get two results - it's the second.)Oh, and the bonus question, about why and when it was censored? 1996, because of the Communications Decency Act. Read morehere.2) Those wild and wacky Babylonians. Yes, it'strue(though html, the page contains a 500K PDF).Now fortoday's questions.3) Which unit measures the resolution of mouse movement?4) In Unix terms, what character is a bang?Come on, now, neither of those requires Google, does it? You'll kick yourself if you do. Certainly with the first one.
Next week is the 2006 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the annual orgy of technology that draws the biggest names from around the globe. One of the big talking points will be the battle for the next generation of high-definition video storage; between Sony's Blu-ray and Toshiba's HD-DVD. Both want to be the successor to DVD - neither is willing to let the other one gain ground.But the latest round of oneupmanship is already beginning, according toReuters:Pioneer Electronics on Tuesday unveiled a high-definition Blu-ray DVD disc drive for personal computers in the latest twist in a multibillion dollar battle over next-generation DVD standards.Pioneer is part of the Blu-ray consortium, led by Sony Corp, which is vying against a rival high-definition format known as HD-DVD, championed by Toshiba Corp. Both camps are hoping the next-generation discs and players, set to be introduced to consumers in 2006, will help offset a slowdown in the $19 billion prepackaged disc market.Everybody's betting the farm on whether they can force one standard or the other to the top of the market. But here's a problem: What if shoppers don't like either of them? Perhaps it's those post-Christmas blues, but I'm increasingly unsure that anybody will prove the winner here. What if the indecision continues? After all, a lot of it relies on the vast takeup of high-def television. That's a sizeable investment for anybody, let alone those who have just spent hundreds migrating to DVD. Maybe people will buy HD-DVD because it's cheaper. Maybe they'll buy Blu-ray because it's better quality. Maybe they will see the dithering and wait until thenextnext generation arrives.It can take years for mass adoption of a new format - if it ever gets taken up at all. Right now people have just got over the move from VHS to DVD. Could they stick two fingers up to the whole concept of moving further forward?
Microsoft's chief technical officer Ray Ozzie takes a look back at the past year on his blog - and then points towhat might happen in 2006:The response to the 'disruption' memo has been frankly overwhelming, in a very positive way. Having worked with Kevin, Jim, Jeff and Robbie this month to finalize ownership of the key services scenarios, I now look forward to engaging these individuals and their teams who will lead this user-focused transformation to service-enhanced software. As a certain core group of people are well aware, we're now in execution mode; it's going to be a fascinating year indeed!  Separately, I look forward to working with my brother Jack and his nascent "concept development" group to rapidly incubate many ideas that have been spinning around in our minds  some for years. These won't initially be 'products' per se: they'll range from fun hacks testing out a concept, to highly useful solutions. We're talking about potentially setting up a website where you can download some of these things as they emerge; stay tuned.While I'm always left in the cold by jargonistic phrases like "user-focused transformation to service-enhanced software", I'm interested in Ozzie's ideas for making the company innovative. How do you it? Looks like Redmond is using a familiar technique: small groups of people working on ideas that interest them (something that Google, now considered the biggest rival to MS, is au fait with). But Microsoft's not a young company: it's the establishment. Personally I don't think it can overcome the lethargy of success - but at the very least I'm interested in watching it try.
Well, it's been another tumultuous year for the videogame industry with some major hardware launches (PSP, Xbox 360), some minor hardware launches (Gizmondo), plenty oftruly excellent gamesand someabmominable turkeys. And in the background, throughout the year, Gamesblog has probed the key news stories like a grimly fascinated schoolboy, gingerly poking at roadkill with a stick.Before we get started on 2006, here are the key Gamesblog moments of the current year, taking in everything from all-female gaming clans to the rights and wrongs of in-game advertising. Why not sit back, relax and take a nostalgic journey through the last twelve months? After all, the Christmas TV has been rubbish this year, all your presents are broken and you've completed the Grand Prix mode in Mario Kart DS - what else is there to do?Part two tomorrow!The New Games JournalismSadly, my most controversial post of the year was a list of other people's writing - the infamousTen unmissable examples of New games Journalism. This response to Kieron Gillen's NGJ manifesto (commented on by the man himself,here) was taken far too seriously by a lot of inexplicably angry videogame writers - who went on to exhaust themselves uncovering new synonyms for 'self-indulgent'. The list was evenparodiedby videogame comedy site, UK Resistance. Most sensible people, including Kieron himself, soon tired of the eventually counter-productive NGJ label and moved on. But it got people talking about videogame writing and therefore did its job.Frag Dolls and women gamersAleks kept the whole 'gender in gaming' debate very much on the agenda throughout the year with several posts, including three from the Women's Game Conference in Austin (Women's Game Conference part 1,Austin day 2andGaming "grows up": digital ladies hit the centrefold). Her reports on both theUKandUSFragdolls also drew lots of contrasting opinion - some of it from the Fragdolls themselves... Central to the whole topic is whether the 'women gamers' category need exist at all - aren't we all just gamers now? It's like the hand-wringing Radio 4 has been doing over Women's Hour for the past decade - and equally unlikely to be resolved.Hot CoffeeRockstar's failure to remove some unused sex scenes from San Andreas sparked really the only videogame controversy of the year to interest the tabloids. The fact that a few moments of consensual sex (which you had to actively unlock through a time-consuming and fiddly process) enraged governments throughout the world said volumes about how videogames are perceived by non-gamers. Yes, it's okay for people to shoot, run-over and kick in the heads of virtual humans, but have sex with them? Unacceptable. How very, very weird. Anyway, we covered all this in a series of posts, starting withHidden sex shame of GTA, continuinghereandhere, and then culminating in my dismissive,Videogame controversies are boring.Xbox 360 vs PS3Aleks' earlyattemptto compare the specs of these two next-gen heavyweights drew plenty of comments, many of which added real insight and valuable detail into the comparison. A few days later, I commented on Sony's PS3 hype-mongering at E3 (Has Sony's PS3 really beaten the Xbox 360?) - you know, just to wind people up again. This one is set to run and run and...DS vs PSPGreg stoked the fires of handheld rivalry this year with a couple of timely posts -DS UKandPSP problems- the latter attracting some memorably sharp intellectual debate ("PSP STINKS AND IS OBSELETE IT HAS ONLY ONE SCREEN AND NO TRUE D-PAD OR ANOLOG YOU CARNT CONTROL THE GAMES ON IT ITS EVEN WORSE THAN PS2 CONTROL PAD," wrote someone called Belly Boy). It's interesting to look back on these arguments several months later - after a string of fabulous DS games (Nintendogs, Mario Kart, Advance Wars...) and a relative paucity of must-have PSP titles.
We promised you an online quiz in the last issue of Technology, and now here it is. It has been set by Huw Pryce of Cherwell School, Oxford who chose the questions (mostly) to be difficult to answer even if you do use Google - which of course you won't need to..So here are the first two. We'll give the answers along with the next questions tomorrow.1) Which famous program, written in LISP, says it will send departing users an electronic mail 'bill' when run on the Unix operating system? (Bonus question: why and when was it censored?)2) Who were the first known users of a floating-point algorithm, which had conditional branches and iterations?From tomorrow onwards if you need to find questions and answers, just choose the "Challenges" category (in blue above) and click on it.
Podcasting (personal on-demand audio) benefited hugely from the ubiquity of the MP3 file format, which almost every desktop computer and portable autio/multimedia device can play. Unfortunately, there is no similar file format in the video world. This is already a problem for Apple iPod with video and Sony Portable PlayStation (PSP) users, as an article in The Washington Post points out.Portable Video, Just Not Always Convenientsays:For example, Apple's iPod is not compatible with Apple's own Quicktime video format. A wide range of movies can be viewed online using iTunes or the free Quicktime player. But many of them can't be saved for later viewing, unless you purchase Quicktime Pro ($30, http://www.apple.com/quicktime). And even then, movies from Apple's Web site in Apple's Quicktime format that play in Apple's iTunes can't be loaded onto Apple's video iPod.To make this happen, you first have to run through a process in Quicktime Pro to convert the files to the video iPod format, then copy them to iTunes and finally download them to the iPod. Even after this cumbersome process -- a stark contrast with the rest of the sublimely intuitive iTunes experience -- the process still may not work with all videos on Apple's site or in iTunes.There are programs to help both iPod andPSPusers, of course. And there are portable devices that don't have the iPod's limitations: Creative's Vision M, for example, has "a built in FM tuner and voice recording, plus support for video formats such as MPEG-4, WMV, DivX and XviD," as I pointed outbelow. But it's still a problem for anyone who wants to provide the video equivalent of a podcast.This is obvious from theLes Blogs 2.0 Video Archive, orhere, which is offering clips in three formats: iPod video format, Apple's QuickTime and MP3. Of these, only MP3 is anything like ubiquitous. Luckily Maarten Schenk has saved the day by providing clips in Windows Media Video, which even if you don't like it (and I hate it), can be played by around 700 million Windows PCs.(According toCacheLogic, Microsoft video formats represent 46% of aggregate worldwide peer-to-peer traffic, and, they tell me, 75.95% of video traffic.)The three obvious solutions are to provide videocasts in Macromedia Flash, RealNetworks' Real Media, or Microsoft WMV. Of those, Flash would seem to reach the widest potential audience.Less obviously, why not useDivXor evenXviD? XviD is an open source MPEG-4 codec, and works pretty well, though nothing like as common as DivX. If vloggers are going to use formats that force users to download codecs or even bloatware media players, and/or run conversion software, they might at least do it for a good cause.
"The new space race has touched down in Kent, where Amazon.com billionaire Jeff Bezos is building a rocket-ship complex set to open early next year," reports theSeattle Times."Blue Origin, Bezos' aerospace company, will use the facility to design and build spacecraft and engines. The company's near-term goal is to develop a vehicle that can take passengers on a thrill ride to the edge of space."Test launches will be conducted in West Texas, where Bezos recently bought a 165,000-acre ranch near the small town of Van Horn, about 110 miles southeast of El Paso. Long-term plans for that site include a spaceport where three-person space-tourism flights could blast off once a week.The article mentions other rich men interested in space, such as Paul Allen, co-founder of Microsoft, Richard Branson of Virgin Galactic, and John Carmack of Doom and Quake fame, who "founded an aerospace company and is testing a rocket called theBlack Armadillo".Oh, and that's thecity of Kentin the state of Washington, not theEnglish county.
"Tech execs say the darndest things. And so do shuffling presidents, and disgraced scientists, and Wikipedia fakers. It's time to relive 2005's biggest spoken gaffes" atWired News. You can also readWorst Tech Moments 2005....
A couple of months ago, I was contacted by the US mobile games publisher, Jamdat, now owned by EA. Their PR person explained that John Carmack hadbeen contractually obligedkindly agreed to answer a few emailed questions from selected games writers - mostly about the Id legend's work on well-received cellphone title,Doom RPG. But time is limited, I was told, so I needed to be quick.Obligingly, I rattled out about 15 questions and sent them back immediately. A month later ( a month!) I received an apologetic email from the same PR person - John would only be answering seven questions from each journalist, so please could I get rid of half my initial collection? Unfortunately, I felt duty bound to ask at least two or three about Doom RPG, leaving me four questions to cover the rest of Carmack's career, and future projects. Oh, and this all happened during a particularly nightmarish magazine deadline for me, so I didn't get quite as much time to think about all this as I might have wished for.So anyway, this is a rather long-winded way of introducing a very short interview with a coding genius.On your blog you talked about getting into Java programming as a means of resetting some assumptions and habits after working on Quake III. So did Doom RPG help? How?It wasn't so much the Java aspects as the mobile platform that is the diversion. It has been worthwhile, but I didn't get to go all that far down the detour before my primary responsibilities asserted themselves. I did three major blocks of coding on the project and regular design review meetings, which was all I could spare the time for. The crew at Fountainhead did a great job of following up on the direction and turning my rough project into a polished product.Was it strange returning to the very origins of Doom - in terms of graphics, CPU, memory restrictions? Did it bring back any memories of your work on the original game?I'm really not the reminiscing type. Capabilities wise, everything I was able to do back then, I can do a lot better now, but the mobile platform isn't well suited to tight optimization because of the incredible range of performance you are expected to support. From our low-end Java platform (which is really a mid-range java platform, we don't support the real low-end) to the high end BREW platform there is a performance difference of well over 20x.I did take some value out of looking at the extreme simplicity of implementation that the tight resource limits required. I do feel that modern games are often abstracted a lot more than is really necessary, and it leads to robustness issues.Having worked with mobile gaming and experienced its many limitations, what do you think we can expect from the format in the future? What are the best type of games we can hope for?It is clearly a bad idea to try to just move games from other platforms directly over, but I'm sure we will see a lot of it, especially as the handsets surpass the hardware capabilities of previous generation consoles.High-end BREW phones aren't nearly as limited a gaming platform as you might think  they are a lot more powerful than an original Play Station, for example. Java phones, however, are saddled with a huge disadvantage for gaming. With 3D chipsets coming into mobile parts, it won't be too many evolutionary steps before you can get a cell phone with more guts than an Xbox.Better input for gaming (analog stick, shoulder buttons, etc) is something that will probably be addressed on some phones, but I am dubious about it changing across the board, so I'm not sure how much of a difference it will make for the platform as a whole. That will remain the largest factor effecting good mobile game design.It is looking unlikely that network packet latency will dramatically improve in the foreseeable future, but network games could be dramatically improved if interfaces were put in place to allow isochronous circuit switched data for gaming.As for your PC work, Doom 3 was a sort of one-stop shop for anyone wanting to know about cutting edge visual and physics effects. Do you use your games to test the latest developments in hardware and programming, or do you start at the game and only use technology to facilitate your design ideas?In the past, we have clearly bent the game around the most impressive technology we can produce, but that is changing to a degree. There is so much flexibility and power available now that there aren't a whole lot of beneficial trades that we can do to make something radically better by restricting the game design in a particular way, so the game design is a lot less technology driven than it used to be.So what can we expect to see from the next generation of PC games, in terms of interesting new visual effects and physics features?At this point, I'm not saying, but we have something in store!I interviewed Peter Molyneux recently and he argued that the videogame industry is too cautious and brand-obsessed these days - he theorised that if things had been the same when Id started out, Doom might never have been published - at least not through traditional retail channels. Do you agree? Has the 'two guys in a garage inventing the next big thing' dream really been killed off by the big publishers?Well, Doom wasn't originally published through traditional retail channels, it was shareware. The tremendous success there led to the retail release of Doom 2. A similar thing could certainly still happen today, but probably not with a media rich triple-A game title that takes tens of millions of dollars to develop. An independent breakout needs to be clever and cost effective.What challenges do you think there are left for you in games programming? What are you learning about next?If it weren't for Moore's law changing the playing field continuously, I would have been long gone. The rapid pace of hardware evolution still keeps things fresh for me. I am having a fine time working on the Xbox 360 graphics architecture right now, but I would be bored out of my skull if I was writing the twentieth iteration of user keyboard configuration code.Outside of game programming, I have been getting a lot of satisfaction from the engineering work atArmadillo Aerospace.CommentNotice how some of my questions were actuallylongerthan the responses? That probably breaks some kind of fundamental interviewing rule. New Year's Resolution: think more carefully about email interviews with leading industry figures.
So, how did Christmas 2005 work out for you? Did Santa accidentally bring Shadow of Rome instead of Shadow the Hedgehog? Did gran neck half a bottle of sherry then beat your personal best lap time on Project Gotham 3? What was the game that really drew your family together this year? Buzz? SingStar? Resident Evil 4? Come on, it's time to share...
This is, as PC World says, the age of the gadget. I therefore applaud its "official (and entirely idiosyncratic) list ofthe top tech gadgets of the last half century". I'd probably even agree with giving the top spot to the Sony Walkman TPS-L2 (1979). But anyTop 50 listis an invitation to fight: the quesion is, Could we do better?Which items are on the list that shouldn't be? Which tech gadgets has PC World misssed? (For example, there's no MiniDisc player, no DAT machine, and no DAB radio, just for starters.)If the Walkman is No 1, where is theSony Walkman Professional WM-D6C, the best portable cassette recorder every made? (I still use one.) Some Polaroid cameras are included so why not theMinox "spy camera", theCanon Dial(as used by Number Six in the Village -- I still have one of those, too), and theCanon A-1?Some computers are included, such as the Commodore 64, so why not theAmiga 1000or theApple eMate? Where's theTandy 100? Where's theVectrex? Where's the classicHP-41Ccalculator?Since PC World is US-based, there'sno point in asking about things like thePsion OrganiserorSeries 3, of course, let alone theSky+.I could go on for some time, but now, I think, it's your turn....
"The bug, which was made public Tuesday by researcher Alex Wheeler, is in how Symantec's AntiVirus Library, part of virtually all the Cupertino, Calif.-based security giant's programs, handles RAR compressed files. RAR files are created by the WinRAR compression utility, developed and sold by RarLab," reportsTechWeb News."In an advisory released Wednesday, Symantec listed 48 enterprise titles and 15 consumer products that used the flawed Library. On the consumer side, the 2006 versions of Norton AntiVirus, Internet Security, SystemWorks, and Personal Firewall are open to attack. Corporate titles such as Norton AntiVirus for Microsoft Exchange, BrightMail Antispam, and AntiVirus for Handhelds are also on the list."There aren't any patches but Symantec is sending out a "heuristic detection" system via Live Update. This is not a problem at the moment. as there are no exploits known to exploit the security hole.
"Feel free to visit any of our affiliate links if you want to buy some Eco-Friendly Flip-Flops," saysGraywolf, an SEO, at Wolfhowl. This is now the top Google hit for the term, following the demise ofhttp://www.ecofriendlyflipflops.co.uk/.If this post doesn't make any sense, seebelow.
Condemned: Criminal OriginsXBOX 360You're a cop whose gun is stolen and used to shoot two fellow officers and are left with about six hours to clear your name. Although played in the first person, there's not much shooting to be done, as your investigation of murderous junkie-infested alleys and slums forces you to use anything you can find to defend yourself. Guns only ever have a few rounds in them, rapidly turning into small metal clubs, to be replaced by broken pipes, lumps of wood with rusty nails in them and other blunt instruments used for both attack and defence. Combat is lumbering, heavy and nasty; your criminal investigation is limited to pre-scripted events and at a maximum of six hours, it's all over with indecent haste.&#183;Sega, &pound;50Prince Of Persia: The Two ThronesGAMECUBE, PC, PS2, XBOXThe poor old Persian Prince never has it easy, with his quest to find love once again interrupted by inadvertently ending the world by releasing the Sands of Time. On the plus side, putting things right again is very enjoyable. Dismissing the thrash metal, relentless combat and stinging difficulty level of last Christmas's Warrior Within, this time we get a more balanced approach harking back to the remade series' first outing.Sword fights are mixed with engaging and satisfying spatial puzzles that demand an awareness of how your surroundings can be combined with the Prince's expanded repertoire of wall-running, curtain-sliding skills. An exquisite blend of mental and physical challenge that is a non-stop joy to control.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40Sonic RushNINTENDO DSAny creature whose defence mechanism against being run over by heavy goods vehicles is to sit in the middle of the road is clearly in possession of extraordinary levels of self-confidence. Sonic The Hedgehog fits comfortably with this description, which is odd, given the esteem-sapping quality of the majority of Sonic games since their ill-advised move into three dimensions.Lucky, then, that Sonic Rush returns to its 2D roots with wonderfully large levels that contain the most variegated cornucopia of spirals, loops, bungie-cords, pinball bumpers, jumps and cunningly placed power-ups. It's a shame there are so many moments where you have to pre-learn levels to avoid running headlong into unseen enemies, serving only to break the spell repeatedly and without mercy. Note to Sega: restarting levels again and again is unrelated to fun.&#183;Sega, &pound;30
If you're enjoying theGuardian Ricky Gervais podcasts- currently No 1 in the iTunes podcast chart - here are a few other comedy downloads you might enjoy listening to.Harry Shearer played Derek Smalls in Spinal Tap and voices Ned Flanders and dozens of other characters from The Simpsons. He also hostsLe Show, an hour-long romp through media, sport and mysterious music. Fellow American Larry David is the most recent guest ofSit Down Comedywith David Steinberg a chat show where comics discuss their work and spin a few yarns.Elsewhere Brian Luff atwww.comedy365.co.ukis going on a tour of Britain in search of 10 pairs of pants andwww.littlebritainonline.comis a podcast inspired by the works of Matt Lucas and David Walliams.
MondayWorst game of 2005'Tis the season... to clamp down on your kids' play timeTuesdayHow coffee nabs top blunder awardChristmas No 1World growsWednesdayGay gamingMore filmingThursdayTechnologyGamesblog 2005 - your favourite bits
The European commission significantly raised the stakes yesterday in its protracted legal battle with Microsoft by threatening to fine the world's biggest software group &euro;2m (&pound;1.4m) a day for non-compliance with anti-trust sanctions.The commission, which fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m in March 2004, chose the first anniversary of the decision by the court of first instance (CFI), Europe's second-highest court, to demand the group immediately enacted "interim remedies" (the sanctions), pending a full appeal.Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner, said: "I have given Microsoft every opportunity to comply with its obligations. However, I have been left with no alternative than to proceed via the formal route to ensure its compliance."But Ms Kroes, who has held informal talks with Microsoft executives, including Steve Ballmer, its chief executive, to reach a deal, stayed her hand in the legal battle. She could have threatened fines of up to &euro;5m a day - and may yet do so.Condemning the move as "unjustified", Microsoft accused the commission of shifting the goal posts and making new demands. It insisted it was committed to complying with the March 2004 decision.Brad Smith, its lawyer, said: "We've shipped a new version of Windows &#91;operating system&#93;; we've paid an historic fine and we've provided unprecedented access to Microsoft technology to promote inter-operability with other industry players."In total, we have now responded to more than 100 requests from the commission. We continue working quickly to meet the commission's new and changing demands," he said, adding that it had submitted revised proposals only a week ago.The commission says these are mere formatting revisions. Brussels, which is using new powers to impose daily fines, thinks Microsoft is using every trick to avoid giving rivals "complete and accurate" interface documents to let their technology inter-operate with Windows.The commission, which last month gave Microsoft until December 15 to comply, bases its "preliminary" views of non-compliance on the findings of Professor Neil Barrett, an IT specialist and independent monitor approved by the US firm.He says any programmer relying on technical documentation provided by Microsoft to enable inter-operability "would be wholly and completely unable to proceed" and the information is "totally unfit at this stage for its intended purpose"."Using the documentation is an absolutely frustrating, time-consuming and ultimately fruitless task. The documentation needs quite drastic overhaul."This devastating critique rests on a fundamental clash. Brussels insists that all it is asking for is that Microsoft make available the protocols - not the source codes - behind Windows. Microsoft counters that the commission wants to lay bare and license to others the internal workings of Windows, paving the way for clones.The two are also at loggerheads over the royalties Microsoft wishes to impose on rivals, with Brussels insisting the proposed fees are exorbitant. This issue has yet to be concluded by Ms Kroes, laying open the prospect of even steeper fines.There could be yet more penalties if she deems unacceptable the version of Windows without MediaPlayer audiovisual software provided by Microsoft to comply with the second sanction.The group has until January 25 to respond and Mr Smith made it clear it would demand an oral hearing, attended by national regulators. If its loses, the full commission can then impose daily fines - and Microsoft can appeal to the CFI again.
"Sound should be more than just heard. It should be felt, pulsing through your body like a grenade exploding at your six or the rumble of heavy turbulence. Your doctor will probably disagree, but what does he/she know about gaming anyway!" enthusesBiosmagazineon the AudioFX Force Feedback Headphones. "With build-in force feedback drivers in each earphone, the AudioFX pulsates and vibrates the sensations into your skull that you used to only be able to imagine."Although news to me, MMORPG.com publisheda reviewon March 1, saying:The AudioFX's force feedback is less of a kick-back/resistance style than a vibration feature. It works more like a bass boost, implementing a rumble when loud, bass-like sounds are generated. What is surprising is how well it works and how it enhances certain gaming experiences. Explosions are a perfect example. If a grenade explodes nearby, the vibration is significant. The further away the explosion, the lighter the feedback.Similar products have been around for a while. For example, here's a review of Evergreen'sRumbleFX Force Feedback Headphonesfrom June 2001.Ian Johnson at the Globe &amp; Mail has tried both.Reviewing the AudioFX, he writes:While I often wished the force feedback effect was stronger, the fact that the headset doesn't jiggle your eyeballs in their sockets is a good thing for the most part. Back in 2001 I reviewed a similar product, the RumbleFX force feedback headphones from Evergreen Technologies. The RumbleFX headset delivered significantly more punch, but the force feedback effect often overwhelmed the rest of the audio. The eDimensional Audio FX's overall sound quality is better, because the force feedback is balanced with the rest of the audio and won't overload your ears.
TrustedReviews has had a brief look at the Evesham version of theAOpen Mini PC Plus, which bears more than a passing resemblance to the Mac Mini. It costs 699 inc VAT with no monitor, no keyboard, no mouse, no speakers, no wireless and no remote control (with a Windows Media Center machine!), so it's hard to understand TR's Value rating of 6 out of 10. Looks more like a 3 to me....
