Headhunter: RedemptionPS2/Xbox, &#163;39.99 Sega,&#42;&#42;&#42;The original Headhunter game was released at the end of the Dreamcast console's short life. This meant that approximately five people bought it, probably in the vain hope of prolonging the DC's existence. Sadly, they failed, but it was obvious to those who played it that Headhunter was a decent game. For a start, the hero had a beard, rode a motorbike and was called Jack Wade.He was a man's man in a videogaming world increasingly dominated by females (Lara was still relevant then). But in this sequel, he is accompanied by a ballsy lady sidekick called Leeza X. Players get to play as both characters, especially Ms X, which adds some variety. The changes in style aren't subtle - Jack tends to punch his enemies, while Leeza does intricate cartwheels to avoid bullets.As before, this is a third-person game that sees each of your characters attempting to save the world. Yes, it is yet another gaming plot seemingly specced out on the back of a memory card down the pub. But at least the music is good, lending gravitas to the poorly translated dialogue and movie sequences.The plot of the original game involved a deadly virus called Bloody Mary. Attempting some of the later sequences in Redemption may require one, as the action gets incredibly frustrating. Wobbly control makes a sniping section appalling, while some of the puzzles are ridiculously obscure. But Redemption has its moments.Greg HowsonAura: Fate of the AgesPC, &#163;19.99 Streko Graphics, The Adventure Company&#42;&#42;&#42;The fact that it's published by The Adventure Company could fool you into thinking this is an adventure game. Actually, it is more like a string of puzzles with a loose plot draped around them. Nor is it particularly adventurous, unless you lead a markedly unexciting life.The story revolves around a young man called Umang, who is on a quest to recover a series of magical artefacts before the obligatory bad guys get to them. This means travelling to various dimensions and, basically, pulling knobs, levers, switches and a variety of other oddments.The puzzles themselves are quite good and combine elements of music, colour, shapes, basic arithmetic and a healthy dose of luck. Umang also has a notebook of sketches offering hints for the various puzzles, but while some are helpful, others are practically puzzles in their own right.The developer has certainly taken some care with the graphics, which depict steam-punk landscapes and contraptions. It's just a shame you can only move where the game wants you to go, rather than being free to roam around.Rhianna PratchettThe Case of the Silver EarringPC, &#163;29.99 Frogwares/Digital Jesters&#42;&#42;&#42;Digital Jesters is the newest UK publisher on the block, but its first offering belongs to a resolutely old-fashioned genre: the point-and-click adventure.As such, The Case of the Silver Earring's gameplay consists of piloting a character who can speak to other characters and collect and combine objects. At least, in this case, that character is the legendary Sherlock Holmes. At times you get to play Watson, too.The plot, dialogue and visual atmosphere are commendably authentic. As well as wielding his trusty magnifying glass, Holmes can analyse evidence in his study at Baker Street.Like all such adventure games, this is likely to appeal to a more mature audience, involving, as it does, brainwork and patience, rather than action or instant gratification. But it is well-written, has been expertly assembled and will run happily on PCs of a certain vintage.Hardly essential, but if you are a fan of Conan Doyle or just like your games soothing rather than adrenaline-inducing, you should find it pretty meaty and satisfying.Steve Boxer
Search me!With thousands of emails received and sent, I sometimes need to search the whole database for a specific word. Can this be done with Outlook Express 6?John RoycroftJack Schofield replies:If you were using Outlook, Microsoft's professional email program, this would not be a problem:LookOutdoes the job well.  Outlook Express is a bit trickier. The most popular options includeX1and Odyssey Development'sISYS: email.search. X1 has some rough edges and is expensive at $99, but works with most email software. ISYS:email. search is cheaper at $29.95 and works with Outlook, Outlook Express and Eudora. There's alsoStata Labs' Bloomba Personal, which claims to be "the world's first search-based email" program.However, mail programs were generally not written to store large volumes of email, and do it badly, so the best solution could be to move your email to a proper database with Boolean search facilities. I started this a decade ago withaskSam, which was the   only thing I could find with filters to import my CompuServe email. One advantage of this approach is that you can import mail from different email systems and any number of different email addresses into the same database, and it makes taking back-ups very easy.However, keeping the database up to date requires more effort than I can usually muster, so the reality is not as good as the theory.Other alternatives are to change your email address or your email software. You could switch to Google's Gmail, which is based on letting you search your email, though Gmail accounts are still not freely available. You could also switch to the impressiveMozilla Thunderbirdmail program. This has better search and better spam blocking than Outlook Express, but it is still in development, and you might want to wait until it reaches version 1.0.MP3 converterCan you let me know of any freeware or cheap MP3 converters, to convert WMA files to MP3? My Nokia 6230 plays MP3s but not Microsoft's WMA format, and I need to convert them.Gregg ClarkeJS:I was going to suggest the Shuffler Music Converter, which works well but only in real time (ie converting a 10-minute track takes 10 minutes). When I wasn't looking, this seems to have metamorphosed intodBpowerAMP Music Converter, which could be even better. In any case, the website says it is "100% free, no nags, pop-ups, hidden spyware or bundleware", so it must be worth a try. If you ever want to spend money,Goldwaveis great.You will, of course, lose quality converting one "lossy" format into   another. However, for mobile phone playback, this is unlikely to make any difference.iPod fillerDo you foresee a time when anyone will actually put 10,000 tracks on to an iPod?Chris PurnellJS:You could fill an iPod with random tracks from WinMX and just delete the ones you don't like, and I'm sure a classical music fan could already fill one with favourite symphonies and operas. Indeed, one day, portable players might be sold fully loaded. The Complete Bach Edition comes on 153 CDs - roughly 100GB uncompressed - which would stretch an iPod, and we haven't even taken the (for me) essential step of moving to a lossless hi-fi file format.Broadband reachCan you please advise what, if anything, is being done to broadband-enable those of us who have the misfortune to live some distance from our BT exchange?Graham GoddardJS:Broadband is usually delivered by ADSL, and the performance declines with the length of the connection from the exchange and other factors, such as the number of joints, and the quality of the wiring. Following user trials, BT is changing its settings to allow for higher noise levels on the line - 75db for a 512kbps service, and 60db for 1Mbps. This will make ADSL available to about 95% of the population. If you are still too far from the exchange or have a bad line, you still won't get broadband, but you could see if you can find an acceptable deal for an ISDN digital connection.
It's the beginning of September which means the games industry gathers in London, checks out the Christmas blockbusters and scuttles off to the nearest bar. This year though, things are a bit more complicated. The traditional show - ECTS (European Computer Trade Show) – is still going ahead at Earls Court but has been usurped by the brash new EGN trade show/Game Stars Live consumer event in the Docklands. The latter has all the big names, save Sony, while ECTS is restricted to niche publishers and trade services. Both events started today and it is clear that Game Stars Live is the winner, despite the DLR to Custom House smelling worryingly like a teenage boy's bedroom. The variety of visitors is interesting. While the largest demographic is late teen to 20- something male there were enough females and older men to highlight the widening demographics of the industry. Plenty more on these events to follow in the next few days.
You wait a week for some interesting mobile gaming news and then three stories come along at once. Well, almost at once. At the end of last week,Manchester-based mobile developer iFoneannouncedthat it had secured the rights to create Java titles based aroundLemmings, the legendary puzzle game created by DMA (the studio that later went on to launch the Grand Theft Auto series).Today, we heard that the really quite good gaming platform/PDA known as the Tapwave Zodiac will get aEuropean release, and that the Nokia N-Gage has now shippeda million units. Quite impressive for a format that everyone had written off a few months ago. It would be interesting to know how these figures divide between the old style N-Gage and the new QD version. Did sales drastically improve when gamers realised that they wouldn't have to hold the phone sideways to their heads to make a call? Or that they could swap games without having to disassemble the whole unit? I'm going to ring Nokia to find out.
Develop Magazine held its annual videogame awards last night at London's Royal Garden Hotel, hosted by newsreader Krishnan Guru Murthy (who admitted to knowing little about the subject, but did jestingly mention how the Daily Mail/Manhunter debacle had kept him busy). The only slight surprise of the night was Swordfish Studios walking away with Best UK developer for its World Championship Rugby title. More predictably, Peter Molyneux picked up the first ever Development Legend award.You can check out the full listhere.
Now we've seen the FlatMac, the interesting questions are (a) how long will this one last before it is made obsolete; and (b) what sort of shape will replace it?It now seems clear that Apple's strategy is to make dramatic changes to its designs -- the iMac has already had three -- perhaps as a way of selling new Macs to fans who already own three, but who are far too cool to be seen using last year's model. But what comes after the Jetsons-inspired Plastic Mac, the LampMac and the FlatMac?You can probably forget about a MacCube -- Jobs has tried that twice, and failed both times.Any suggestions?An even flatter Ultraflat Mac might be interesting. Apple could use it to reach new distribution channels to replace the independent dealers it is putting out of business. Fridge manufacturers and furnititure suppliers could easily build a UF-iMac into, say, a fridge door, as LG Electronics and Ericsson have done.The most obvious option is to bring back the TV Mac idea. Quite a few PC suppliers -- including Dell, Gateway and HP -- have moved into the flat screen TV market, and many more are selling Media Center-style PCs that also function as TVs, PVRs and entertainment centres.Clearly, smart TVs and multimedia Windows PCs are converging, so the fact that the new FlatMac doesn't have a built-in TV tuner, at least as an option, could be considered surprising.How long before that dawns on Cupertino, or is a new TV Mac already on the way?
The Blu-ray Disc Association has followed the HD-DVD and adopted the same video standards for the next generation of DVD players: MPEG-2, MPEG-4, and Microsoft's WMV in VC-1 guise."In a replay of the battle between VHS and Betamax, two different types of high-definition discs — Blu-ray and HD-DVD — are expected to start competing for sales in the US as early as next year," reports theLA Times[free reg req'd]. "And with support from both camps, Microsoft will stay in the game regardless of which standard wins in the marketplace."Comment:Microsoft is making steady progress in its efforts to get WMA available on most audio products and WMV available on most video products. The bigger battle is getting people to use them....
"Microsoft, hoping to take a bite out of Apple Computer's highly popular online music service, is gearing up to launch its own Web site for selling songs over the Internet," reportsAP."With Thursday's planned debut, the software maker will become the latest competitor in a market experts say is still in its infancy — but one that is expected to grow considerably more popular in the coming years."
This morning I presented theELSPAwomen in games White Paper titled "Chicks and Joysticks: An exploration of women and gaming" to a rapturous crowd of journos and other press. OK, I say rapturous, I mean caffeinated. It was 9am, after all. The good news is that it kicked off theEuropean Games Network's conference in London's Docklands, which should prove to be a rather marvellous event with much coverage on this gamesblog by myself and Greg (the absent Keith is sadly stranded in Bath). The bad news is that you're going to have to wait to download the full text for free until the Paper is debuted in full at next week'sWomen in Games Conferencein Austin, TX. However, keep reading if you'd like a sneaky peek run-down of what's inside...This text is taken directly from the presentation I made at the EGN:The Paper covers seven major areas: The history of women in computing, past and current inclusion initiatives, current demographics of the worldwide female games playing market, gender-inclusive design considerations, current demographics of the female UK games industry workforce, success stories that herald the beginning of the mass market of computer gaming and directions for the future. I'll work through the contents of each of these in turn, but be assured that I'll simply be gleaning over much of the information, simply for the sake of time. Women's contributions to the computer games industry have a long and involved past, and the current and historical roles of female gamers and games creators is explored in detail within the 40 pages.Much of the information within Chicks and Joysticks was taken from interviews with female games industry luminaries and UK- and internationally-based makers and players, publications like Sheri Graner Ray's practicalGender-Inclusive Game Designand Henry Jenkins' and Justine Cassell's historical examination of the girl games movement,From Barbie to Mortal Kombat, existing research conducted forELSPA, theISFEand statistics compiled for the audio-visual industries. There is a smattering of academic research in there as well, particularly in the sections dealing with women's use of leisure time and their reactions to contemporary games marketing techniques. I also conducted some bespoke research for the paper, interviewing and surveying UK-based companies about their female employees.I also received the support of theKorean,Japanese,TaiwaneseandUS-basedtrade organisations, who assisted in providing an international framework for the research conducted, if you'll excuse the expression, on this side of the pond.However, now the meat.The history of women in computingcovers both women's roles in computing in general, from the days of Ada Lovelace and the programming language she developed to support Charles Babbage's Analytic Engine, and the history of women in computer gaming, from Donna Bailey's Centipede.Past and current inclusion initiativesconsiders the girl games movement of the late 1990's, propelled forward by Mattell's Barbie Fashion Designer of 1997 through to its current iterations in the form of veteran girl games companyHerInteractive's Nancy Drew adventure series, gameLab's tongue-in-cheekSISSYFIGHT 2000and the extremely successful Powerbabes, developed by Scandinavian girl games companyPink Floor Interactive. What the latter two share is a design based upon manipulation, negotiation and conflict resolution. The former emphasises depth of character and storyline. These and other design aspects are considered in the section ongender-inclusive design, which highlights that grown women and men enjoy similar things in their computer leisure; they simply use play differently.The current demographics of female computer games playersreflects the increase in age of games players in general, and the large number of UK female gamers in particular. According to ELSPA's 2003 GameVision report, female gamers skew older, and sit in an age bracket of 30-35. This section further breaks down their ages, the amount they play and what types of games they are interested in, with special sections on online browser-based gaming and massively multiplayer gaming, both of which feature up to a 60% female games player base.The reasons behind the numbers are explored within the contexts ofleisure,economicsandsocial interaction, with the first examining time constraints and their effect on the choice of game, the second examining financial issues associated with the choice of game and the last looking in-depth at one aspect regularly considered key in developing games for the female bracket.The demographics of the UK's female games industry workforcelooks at the numbers of women involved in the creation of games, and the universally positive response of both industry professionals and gamers to their contributions. It also explores entry avenues for potential female employees, and communities of like-minded women which greet them when they are there.Special sections focus on thesuccess storiesof three titles,The Sims Online,EyeToy PlayandSingStar, which have attracted a previously under-tapped segment of the female audience, and feature greater-than-average numbers of women on the development team.In relatively brief, ELSPA's commitment to the examination of women in gaming, as represented by the publication of Chicks and Joysticks heralds a new stage in the industry's embrace of this target demographic. Key to their future inclusion as consumers and contributors to gaming futures is not to treat us as a separate beast, but to recognise our uniqueness in terms of aspects of gaming we enjoy, methods of positioning gaming within our frame of reference, and outreach programs to incorporate women into the burgeoning computer games market. Diversity in gaming can only be positive, for everyone.
If you're female and interested in getting involved with the computer games industry and the thought of more schooling doesn't put you off your mortgage, there's some fantastic news.The Guildhall at Southern Methodist Universityin Dallas, TX (land of many games companies) andWomenGamers.comhave announced a scholarship to send successful applicants through 18 months of intensive art creation, level design and software development with their Game Development Scholarship for Women. More details will be announced at the forthcomingWomen in Games Conferencein Austin next week where yours truly will be talking lots to ladies in gaming about the ELSPA Women in Games White Paper.For more information on the scholarship, headhere.
Apple today unveiled the latest incarnation of its iconic iMac computer - a sleek all-in-one machine, barely 2in thick, which the company is describing as "the world's thinnest desktop".Apple executive Phil Schiller, standing in for the chief executive, Steve Jobs - who is recovering from surgery for cancer of the pancreas - made the announcement at the start of the Apple Expo in Paris.The machine, which was spun out of the stage at the Palais des Congr&egrave;s at the end of Mr Schiller's 90-minute presentation, was greeted by huge cheers from the packed auditorium.The new computer is as wide and a little taller than the size of its screen - either 17 or 20in - and sits on a slim aluminium base. The smaller model is less than two inches thick, while the 20-inch model is slightly deeper.Noting that the machines were around the same dimensions as some flat panel displays alone, Mr Schiller said: "I think a lot of people will be asking: 'Where has the computer gone?'."Speakers are housed on the underside of the unit, reflecting sound off the table on which it sits, and there is enough space under the machine to stow its keyboard and mouse.The third generation iMac is a return to the all-in-one principle Apple popularised with its Macintosh computer, launched in 1984. The first iMac, introduced in 1998, quickly became seen as a design classic, bringing a colourful and quirky look to computer design for the first time.Its huge sales helped save California-based Apple at a time when it had only a tiny share of the worldwide PC market, and its looks helped the manufacturer regain its reputation for innovative design - something on which it has subsequently capitalised with iPod music players and laptop computers.The second-generation iMac, launched in 2002, incorporated a flat panel display for the first time, balanced on the end of a chrome arm on top of a domed base. However, it failed to catch the public's imagination in the same way as its predecessor, and its replacement this year had long been expected.The entry-level iMac is priced at £919, including VAT, and has a 17in widescreen display, 1.6GHz 64-bit processor, 80Gb hard drive and a "combo" DVD playing, CD read/writing drive built in.A mid-range model, at £1,049, adds a "superdrive" that can write as well as play DVDs. The top-end model, costing £1,349, adds a 20in display and a 160Gb hard drive. All prices include VAT.During his speech, Mr Schiller also revealed that more than 5m songs had so far been downloaded from the company's new iTunes Music Store Europe, and that Apple now had a 70% market share of all legal music downloads. Overall, he said, the company had sold more than 100m songs.He also previewed a new version of the company's OSX operating system, due out in the first half of next year, which will feature:&#183;Much improved hard disk search facilities&#183;Enhanced video conferencing&#183;A new version of the Safari web browser, including support for RSS and Atom web feeds for the first time&#183;New means to automate repetitive tasks using an easy-to-program "visual scripting" application called Automator.
Neil McIntosh, our man in Paris for the day, just called in to wax lyrical on the new iMac. Hopefully we'll have some more information and pictures for you soon.The Apple store seems to be back again:take a look.MacWorldalso has a few more details.Update:Neil has now put together a report for Guardian Unlimited:"Apple today unveiled the latest incarnation of its iconic iMac computer - a sleek all-in-one machine, barely 2in thick, which the company is describing as "the world's thinnest desktop"."Read it in full.
"APPLE EXPO, PARIS; August 31, 2004; Apple today unveiled the new iMac G5, featuring the high-performance G5 processor and a stunning new design that integrates the entire computer right into the flat panel display. The iMac G5 packs a complete computer system into a mere two inches of depth—the world's thinnest desktop computer. The new line offers 17- or 20-inch active matrix widescreen LCDs and G5 processors running up to 1.8 GHz starting at just £919 (inc VAT)" says Apple's press release.Comment:The £919 price only gets you 256 megs of RAM and an 80GB drive, with a 1.6GHz processor.TheApple Storeis offline, but says "We'll be back soon."
More musical hi-jinks now, with the announcement that LA hip hop collectiveBlack Eyed Peaswill be providing the licks for the forthcoming Sims urban spin-offThe Urbz. The group will be providing nine tunes to the game from their upcoming album for the digital world, where rep is everything and the action happens 24/7 (when you're not working in the Sushi Bar, that is...).There's a nice twist to this tale, however. Group frontman will.i.am has gone back to the studio to re-record his lyrics from the original tracks in "simlish", the game's residents' native tongue. The band members will also make appearances in virtuality.The game is due for release for PS2 and XBox on 19 November 2004. The albumMonkey Businessis due around the same time.Definitely an interesting era for the relationship between games and music.cheers togigexandgamesindustry.bizfor the info
"Billed as the "world's first" Wi-Fi wall outlet, the Wi-Jack includes Aruba's wireless access-point radio technology built into a standard data wall outlet. It will reduce the cost of installing a wireless access point from $1,500 or more to around $125, the vendors say. That will let businesses install more wireless access points, creating a "wireless grid" that will result in a network with a greater data-carrying capacity than a conventional wireless network, says Merwyn Andrade, Aruba's chief technology officer. A wireless grid can also provide more-accurate asset-tracking and location-tracking services than a regular wireless network, he says." Information Week has the storyhere."Each Wi-Jack will include a radio that provides 802.11a (54 Mbps) or 802.11b/g (11 Mbps and 54 Mbps) service."
"Twenty years from now, everyone's going to be getting all their video mostly from the Internet," says Steve Shannon, founder of Akimbo Systems. "You see it happening with music. You see it happening with phone service. Video is next," according to anAPstory."It'll be the nirvana of video on demand," Shannon said. "And the only architecture that can bring that is the Internet."But will consumers, many of whom already have tall stacks of electronic boxes by their TVs, open their wallets? Akimbo subscribers must first buy a $229 Akimbo Player set-top box, then pay a basic monthly service fee of $10.Comment:Akimbo reckons that people will pay for this kind of content if they can't get it any other way, according to the AP story. Hm, like hard core porn for couch potatoes who are not much good with PCs?
Tesco enters the broadband market today by launching its own-brand internet access service at &#163;19.97 a month.The 512 kilobits-per-second service is designed to lure customers away from rivals such as BT, Wanadoo and AOL which offer high-speed access. Tesco also hopes free customer service for the first 30 days will entice people to try broadband.Unlike similarly priced offerings from Wanadoo and BT, Tesco's broadband service, available on CD-Rom in stores and on the company's website, allows customers to download as much data as they want.BT's &#163;19.99 basic broadband package is capped at 1 gigabyte (Gb) of data a month - roughly equivalent to surfing up to four hours a day or sending 200 emails a week - while Wanadoo's 1 megabit-per-second service is limited to 2Gb a month and costs &#163;17.99.Tesco Telecom's chief executive, Andy Dewhurst, believes the service will be popular with families and people who have so far been confused about the benefits of fast, always-on internet access."Just because the term broadband has entered our everyday vocabulary does not mean to say that everyone understands it," he said.Tesco's broadband service is the third "leg" of the supermarket's telecoms offering, making it the first high street name to have an all-round serviceAlongside its existing dial-up internet service provider business, Tesco has a residential telephony offer and a deal with O2 just over a year ago took it into the mobile phone market.The company is understood to be looking at offering customers incentives to subscribe to more than one service.That would give it an edge over Homecall, which offers broadband and residential telephony but not a mobile phone service, and Carphone Warehouse, which owns mobile operator Fresh and the Talktalk home phone service but has yet to launch a broadband offering.
Thefirst reviewof Peter Molyneux's new game Fable, has come through. It looks good so far and I can't wait to play the game properly. A press event last week only whetted my appetite. Unlike the over hyped Black &amp; White it seems that the developer of Populous and Syndicate has come good with this one. Fable is an RPG (role playing game) set in the fictional fantasy world of Albion. The game has numerous interesting features that let you totally customise your character. Also, don't tell the Daily Mail, but your character can have numerous marriages, both straight and gay. The UK release is mid October.
The local lads - all sports hoods and asymmetrically razored beards - gathered around the faded 12-year-old Ford Mondeo as if they were in the presence of Michael Schumacher's F1 Ferrari. One of the men caressed the huge batwing spoiler that had been added to the back of the car and now perched there like a giant insect. Two others dropped down on their knees to inspect the super-low wheel arches. Above them, red-and-yellow flame decals whipped along the sides of the car before curling up to the badly tinted back window where glittering 3D letters announced: '2fast 2furious'.The car didn't look too fast, and it only looked furious in a sort of bored, toothless way. More than anything, though, it looked loved. These youngsters standing around their prized vehicle in the vast car park of Purley's Tesco had obviously spent months, years even, tinkering, honing and 'modding' their faded fleet wagon. And in these want-it-now days of instant gratification, their car craze seemed quaintly old-fashioned.For boy racers, however, who aren't prepared to put in the hours and the elbow grease, there's always the Seat Le&#242;n Cupra R 225 PS - a car which is defiantly fast and furious. Since VW took over at Seat (pronounced 'Say at'), the ailing Spanish manufacturer has left its slightly wobbly past and produced a range of sporty pocket rockets which are fast becoming the pride and joy of speed freaks up and down the country.The Cupra R hits the road at £18,000. Not cheap for what is basically a five-door hatchback.   But everything about it shrieks 'performance'. First, there's the engine - a 1.8litre, 20-valve turbo-charged powerhouse that will take you from 0-62 in less time than it takes to get hooked on Trisha - in fact the engine is the most powerful yet found in a Seat production vehicle. There's a six-gear speed box - which gives you a chance to remember 60 miles down the M4 that you shouldn't be in fifth after all - and a top speed of 150mph (though, as always, you'll never be able to experience that, so you'll have to take Seat's word for it). But it isn't the engine which gives the Cupra R (which presumably stands for Racing - or maybe Rampant) its king-of-the-road feel, it's the trim.Scooped-out bucket seats in black leather with red piping, white instrument dials and a stitched-leather steering wheel all match the car's external styling of side skirts, twin exhausts, extended wheel arches and bright red 'four-pot' callipers winking through the 18in alloy wheels. If that's not enough, the specially lowered suspension and aggressive front grill give the whole thing a mean, hungry look. If the Cupra were a footballer it would be Wayne Rooney - agile, powerful, but a little squat.The Cupra is a car that's always going to attract attention, but not always of the right kind, so it also comes complete with a dealer-fitted Tracker Retrieve anti-theft system.&#183;Would the boys in Tesco's car park approve? Definitely, but only after they'd bolted on the batwings.
Apple ran out of iMacs earlier this year, which suggests the next model will be a different design, rather than an extension of the odd LampMac format. Various Mac sites have been speculating on the possibilities, as described in a CNet article,Apple fans abuzz over new iMac. One prospect seems to be to stick the electronics onto the back of a flat screen. This is an idea that was tried a few times in the last century by firms such as IBM, Gateway, Toshiba and Sun, plus numerous obscure Asian suppliers. The idea has never been very popular, but there are a few current models, such as theOnyx. It's a pretty obvious ploy if you already make portable or tablet PCs, but the relative difficulty of upgrading the systems, plus the higher prices (relative to conventional desktops), seem to put buyers off. These are not such problems for Apple since Mac buyers expect to pay more and anyway don't have a choice.
Just re-read theBBC's reportthat virtual gaming worlds now have a higher GDP than Namibia. Two things struck me. Firstly, I thought the economies of games such as Everquest and Star Wars Galaxies were worth MORE than that. Secondly - how can developers get these games to appeal to a wider base of players? More emphasis on trade and item creation, rather than combat, would be a start...
The postman was kind yesterday. In amongst the bills and offers of loans was a jiffy bag containing preview code ofPro Evolution Soccer 4for PS2. Pro Evo is the best footy game around, far eclipsing the glossy FIFA series. After 3 hrs solid play it is clear that this is not going to change. PES4 is superb.With every iteration, Pro Evo gets further refined. 4 picks up where 3 left off, especially in the speed of the game which seems faster. Combined with this is even greater control over the players and a real feeling that they are doing what you want them to do rather than the PS2 deciding. A classic example was when playing as Saints - yes, the mighty reds are included, plus most of the other premiership teams. A long ball up to Crouch was flicked on to Phillips. Shaka Hislop was favourite to get it but a swift tap of the x button saw Phillips lunge with the boot and hook it over the keeper. The point is that it felt right, looked realistic and was incredibly satisfying - far more so than the 30yard screamers routinely knocked in when playing FIFA.This was only preview code so hopefully Konami will iron out the niggles, which are mainly presentational. The menu and option screens seem to have finally been edited by someone who speaks English, but they still look amateurish. The licenses are still lacking for English teams - so expect Soton, North East London etc - but this may change before release. Also the on-pitch ref - a first for the series - doesn't seem to add very much.Overall though, PES 4 looks incredibly promising. You'll be able to play if you are going to Game Stars Live, otherwise release is due late October. All Konami have to do now is confirm online play for Xbox Live.
Hewlett-Packard duly unveiled a raft of new products yesterday, including a Digital Entertainment Center and an Instant Cinema Digital Projector.According toIDG News Service: "The Digital Entertainment Center is designed to be a hub for managing digital content such as music, movies and photos from a single device located in the living room. The four-inch tall device, scheduled to ship in the fourth quarter, contains a personal video recorder, a digital video recorder and a DVD, and is managed with a remote control. 'It is a couch potato's dream,' Fiorina quipped. No pricing information was given for this product."Fiorina also introduced the HP Instant Cinema Digital Projector ep9010, which combines a projector, DVD player and a stereo/subwoofer sound system, which she described as 'a boombox for movies'. Estimated retail price for this product is $1,999. It will ship in the third quarter."While these and other products might be interesting, they were overshadowed by the long-awaited unveiling of HP's version of Apple's iPod. IDG reports that this "will begin shipping in early September in two versions: a 20G-byte version costing $299 and a 40G-byte version costing $399. The Apple iPod from HP will be available at major consumer electronic retailers and at www.hpshopping.com, Fiorina said."Further, next month, "HP will launch what it calls iPod 'tattoos' for users to dress up their iPods. The self-sticking paper will be preconfigured to fit the iPod, allowing users to print either premade designs or self-made designs, she said. 'One thing we know about today's consumers is they want to connect emotionally to their products,' [Fiorina] said. The so-called HP Printable Tattoos will be easy to apply and remove and be water-resistant, she said."
[Off topic]For step-by-step instructions, with pictures, seeOtherpower.com
With XP's Service Pack 2 out of the way, Microsoft'sJim Allchinhas finally turned his full attention to the next version of Windows, code-named Longhorn. What Allchin does is decide what Microsoft can ship, and when, then drive the process so that things get done. Anything that's still mushy gets chopped, and the most obvious victim in this case is the futuristic WinFS file system.This will not come as a surprise to anyone who has been following the saga. Microsoft has been working on this stuff for more than a decade, with Allchin showing slides of the OFS (Object File Store) in the Cairo version of NT way back in 1992. In fact, Allchin has been working on it for even longer. Before joining Microsoft, he designed Banyan Vines (Virtual Integrated Network Service), a distributed network operating system, now owned by Cisco.CNet has an interview with Allchinhere.
Björkwww.bjork.comIf you survived to the end of the Olympic Games opening ceremony, you may have been surprised to see Bj&#246;rk performing her new single to the assembled athletes, dignitaries and a global TV audience of 4.5 billion (no figures on how many were awake). Despite the mainstream exposure, her new album, Med&#250;lla, is her oddest yet - with human sounds taking the place of instruments and a couple of songs the Observer Music Monthly    compared to a cat coughing up a fur ball. You can hear samples of every track along with a veritable landslide of PC screensavers, interviews and kooky photos at this admirably value-packed site. There's also lots of videos - including the classic Spike Jonze-directed song and dance number for It's Oh So Quiet.Defamerwww.defamer.comReporting from the frontline of celebrity sludge, Defamer is a Hollywood gossip blog that holds no punches in its daily diet of bitching. It's also very funny - reporting on Disney boss Michael Eisner's visit to survey the lack of damage Hurricane Charley did to his Florida theme parks, they mourn a missed opportunity for the CEO to drag a "waterlogged Donald Duck out of the overflowing waters of Splash Mountain". More importantly the site is upfront with the latest word on Paris Hilton's missing Chihuahua, Billy Bob Thornton's rhinoplasty nightmare and Madonna's weird backstage requirements. As an interesting sideline the website's author has also declared war against Ugg boots and, as a consequence of that, the entire nation of Australia.Walford Webwww.walfordweb.co.ukThis EastEnders fansite has been going since 1997 but is currently on its uppers and looking for donations to help it stay online. Certainly, if you haven't watched the soap for years, then there is no finer place to fill the gaps as they've got scene-by-scene episode capsules of every single show since 1997. There's also a handy Albert Square map, lowdown on the new family (the Millers), character biographies, an EastEnders wordsearch and far too may photos of Ian Beale (that'll be more than one). For Walford aficionados it's also home to a buzzing forum where members can argue about Leslie Grantham acting/sighing ability.
According to the fashion conscious website Hats Of Meat (www2.eviltim.com:3000/HatsofMeat/) "one always looks neat in a hat made from meat." To this end various attractive young folk model variously a baseball cap made from fine flank steak, a cold weather cap that features a helmet of bacon plus sausage chinstraps and, of course, that all-time classic - the porkpie hat. 
More cerebral offerings await atwww.pottedmeatmuseum.comwhere you will be taken on a magical mystery tour around an impressive collection of canned hams and delicacies such as pork brains in milk gravy.If that sounds appetising go towww.meatshake.comfor details of a tasty poultry-based beverage, then visit a couple of disturbing individuals (www.feralweb.com/meatshakes.htm) who decided to replicate the meatshake recipe in their own home with some Tesco Wafer Thin Roast Chicken and a tub of Nesquik. Mmmm.
Namco II: Ms Pac-ManConsoleIn the days before videogames became a multi-billion global industry, when Nintendo was still making playing cards, if you wanted to play a game it was more than likely made by Waddingtons or MB. Then, in the 1970s, TV games arrived, allowing you to plug in and enjoy the awesome power of bat and ball in the comfort of your own home. In the 21st century we naturally expect a bit more, and the    latest battery-powered no-nonsense 1980s arcade simulators feature five classic games and no need to mess about with cartridges or DVDs. This one features Ms Pac-Man (easily the best Pac-Man variation); the excellent Galaxian-style Galaga; good, but tendonitis-inducing Xevious; sorely ageing Pole Position; and poor old also-ran Mappy. Batteries not included.&#183;Namco, £25ShellShock: Nam '67PS2, XBox, PCSetting out to communicate the harrowing life of a grunt in the Vietnam war, ShellShock goes out of its way to present a warts and all view of the conflict and the American and North Vietnamese armies. What emerges is harrowing only in its lumbering awkwardness. Your team mates are not only indestructible - able to walk about amid machine gunfire without injury - but also ineffectual, shooting for hours into groups of suicidal VC without any perceptible result. Meanwhile, missions around your marine fire base offer little more than excuses to listen to your colleagues swearing. So unsatisfying in every way, you'll be getting flashbacks long after you've binned it.&#183;Eidos, £40Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Black ArrowXBoxIt's hello again to Tom Clancy's team of slightly Germanic-sounding special forces soldiers as you once more step into the boots of Ding Chavez looking for terrorists to shoot dead. Using the same game engine as last year's instalment, this sees the return of its mildly clumsy controls and occasional artificial intelligence daftness (observe your men ignoring the door you've asked them to breach in favour of running round repeating their orders like the demented parrots of a retired drill instructor). Despite its glitches and faintly tired looks, there's a lot of game here for &#163;20, including new maps, extra guns and fresh multiplayer modes.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server . . .Current Host:Zoran1Current Topic:New-style smart chip credit cards have reduced card fraud for the first time in nine years, leading to warnings that "identity theft", already rising, will become more attractive to fraudsters. Are our identities safe anymore? What do you think?capitalistpiglet:it's getting easier to lose your identity these daysPashmina:not if u beleive in urselfcapitalistpiglet:our credit cards are more sophisticated, but the documentation on which our identities are based remains vulnerablePashmina:just keep saying i am menameless:A NATIONAL ID CARD WOULD SOLVE THE PROBLEMLadeezMan has entered the NewsRoomLadeezMan:morningPashmina:hi ladeezman u still at the airportcapitalistpiglet:I'm not sure it wouldLadeezMan:yesHost_Zoran1:sticking to topic plizLadeezMan:whos zoran1Pashmina:hes from slovankiaHost_Zoran1:helo. topic is identity thefnameless:OF COURSE IT WOULDLadeezMan:weres Chris2Pashmina:on holiday. is yr flite goin soonLadeezMan:dont know dont careHost_Zoran1:sticking to topic plizPashmina:?????LadeezMan:I like it here. The bars open v earlycapitalistpiglet:even if ID cards did work, would it be worth the loss of freedom?Pashmina:u r instatutionalised!!!Nameless:FREEDOM IS JUST ANOTHER WORD FOR BEING A SOFT TOUCHcapitlistpiglet:did you make that up?Pashmina:no its a word!Host_Zoran1:not sticking topic is geting kick outcapitalistpiglet:not you pashPashmina:maybe I didnt spell it rightLadeezMan:sometimes u wanna go were eveybody knows yr namePashmina:me spellins terriblenameless:A SOFT TOUCH FOR FREELOADING IMMIGRANTSnameless has been kicked out of the NewsRoomHost_Zoran1:he was not saying topic so he banPashmina:Zoran1 u r soooo funny!!!!Bronco has entered the NewsRoomHost_Zoran1:I thankBronco:yoPashmina:hi bronc how was yr month in corfuHost_Zoran1:all saying topic now plizBronco:not corfu. curfewPashmina:I ALREADY SAID I CANT SPELL&gt;connection to server has been terminated . . .
If you're a PC fan, this is your lucky week. We console kids are close to out of luck in the lazy days of sunshine with the latest crop of games to hit the store shelves. Except, of course, for the lovely role playing gameSudekion the XBox. For more info, plus scintillating details of beach-landings, a feudal-era Popbitch, terrorist-battling, sky-based fisticuffs, detective-style snooping and farmyard hilarity, read on...Definitely the winner of the week isSudekifor the XBox from the UK-born and bred Climax studios. It's the first role playing game from the studio, and it fares pretty well against some of the big boys, definitely offering a more mainstream, action-packed gaming experience than EverQuest or Baldur's Gate. The control system's good too; swapping between the four playable characters is a piece of cake, and combat is absolutely lovely. Although the story falls down a bit towards the end, it should provide hours of interactive entertainment in these long, languishing summer months of not-a-lot on the shelves. Check out Greg's more extensive reviewonline. Only £39.99. The game, not the review.Crusader Kingsis a popularity contest in strategy game clothing, set in the era of King "Lion Heart" Richard. Instead of the traditional feudal frag-fest or asset hoarding oft associated with this genre however, the player's got to get on the sweet side of local bishops and Feudal Lords. Top marks to the guys who get on the good side of the Pope! Sadly, you can only reprazent Christian monarchies, principalities and empires. Getting under the skin of those pesky Mongol hordes is not an option. For historical romping, it's available now for £19.99. A bargain for all that power.Sherlock Holmes: The Silver Earring: Put on the cape of the master detective or don the wry wit of his smug sidekick Dr. Watson in this mystery adventure title, also out for the PC. Seek out the truth and perhaps ye shall find. It's £29.99 to solve the crime.Another Disney movie, another kiddie friendly tie-in. As Home on the Range hits the silver screen for hilarious farmyard antics, the merchandise lands on the Gameboy Advance's small display. It's typical fare from this one, including maddening adventures, comedy capers and a very silly storyline. Get lost in the Wild West for a modern price of £24.99.If you're feeling land-based and fancy taking your action to the skies, Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors brings the latest in the brand's franchise to the GBA, but this time in the sky. Quite cool is the multiplayer mode, available for two players via Game Boy Advance Link. Single player offers the same maddening button-bashing as other beat-em-ups, but if you're a fan, it's a good little title to round out the collection.If you're a whirligig fan, check outFair Strike, a helicopter fighting simulation set in the near future. Kick terrorist butt, if you will, in a variety of lifelike machines and then paint your face with mud and pretend you're in 'Nam.Perhaps you'd rather fight them on the beaches. Well, to those budding Generals with some time on their hands and no chess set (or simulation) at hand,D-Day, a historical Real Time Strategy game will do the trick. It looks great, and should teach young, digital-savvy whippersnappers a few things about World War 2 history. Out for the PC for £29.99.Also out is Football Generation for the PS2.
It seems veteran games publisherAcclaimis in big trouble. Industry news siteGames Industry.Bizreported this afternoon that staff were being sent home from the Manchester office, while those at the Cheltenham studio have not received their salaries today. The company has been in dire financial straits for several months and this would appear to be the culmination of those problems.Ironically, this comes at a time when the publisher is producing some of its best work for years. Old skool blast 'em up Red Star has been drawing positive preview coverage, while The Last Job and Emergency Mayhem both look extremely promising. The urban racing game Juiced is currently with reviewers, and is set for an Autumn release; it looks to be a great addition to the street driving genre. More news when we get it…
The New York Timeshas a feature about how iPods "prefer" some artists to others in shuffle mode, though this doesn't seem to stop them playing the "wrong" track from time to time. See alsopathetic fallacy.
...appears to be the same as the Apple iPod from Apple, according to thisCNetreport.All will be revealed later today in Miami, "where CEO Carly Fiorina will announce the beginning of a broader consumer electronics push for the holidays."PCWorld.comhas some details.
Zoiks! We've had an overwhelming response to theblogabout our massiveGame Stars Liveticket give away. Sorry gang, the lines are all closed.Those lucky 50 who'll be hobnobbing with games-like people and celebs in Docklands weekend after next will be informed very soon.Cheers to all who responded!
Another amusing, albeit slightly tabloid-y, titbit out this week is the"official"news that UK men would prefer to go on a date with digitally buxom lady Lara Croft over surgically-enhanced glamour girl Jordan. The poll was conducted on theGameStars Live websitein the run up to the big show next week.Greg? Keef?I'm more concerned that boys prefer silicone to flesh and blood...
As gamers we have grown fat on the visual banquet in our games and it's all too easy to salivate over the graphics in Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 or the power of Epic's Unreal Engine. But as we approach photo-realism, the importance of visual technology must surely be peaking. It is hard to imagine just how much better graphics can get, short of projecting a character into your living room.Now developers are searching for something more substantial to feed gamers by offering more fulfilling games that try to captivate players in the way the film industry has been doing with audiences for decades."We can learn a lot from other entertainment media," claims Charles Cecil, the boss of York-based Revolution Studios. It's one of the few game studios that has managed to ride the years of all-too-similar first person shooters and keep the spirit of adventure alive with its world famous Broken Sword series.At the recent Edinburgh International Games Festival, Cecil explained that, although the games industry has mastered conveying fear and excitement to players and providing adrenalin rushes and frustration, when it comes to portraying more complex emotions and character depth, it is sadly lagging."There's a lot we can do, from simple facial and body animations that can stir the senses and make characters more emotive. But our objective isn't necessarily to make our characters - human or otherwise - more realistic, but instead to make them more believable, and it's something the movie industry has managed to do extremely well from the days of Steamboat Willie."But giving games a creative brush-up is not just about keeping up with the movies. Giving players a deeper experience in their games makes financial sense too, explains David Freeman, the founder of the Freeman Group, a design/writing team, and the author of Creating Emotion in Games."If you want your game to reach a mass   market, be competitive and garner great press and player buzz, then it must be emotionally gripping," he explains. "By making games seem like a relevant investment of entertainment time for those who have previously shunned them, we help expand the player demographic, create brand loyalty and gain the competitive advantage. All of which is worth a fortune!"Like Cecil, Freedman - who invented the term "emotioneering" to describe the process of emotionally enriching games - believes creating good games is not simply a case of writing better dialogue, although that plays an important part."The non-linearity and unique structure of many games means that it's ... about creating a fully interactive experience through a combination of design, plot, dialogue and visuals that immerses players in an experience and world."Arguably, fostering a more intelligent and imaginative approach to games wouldn't go amiss in these mud-slinging times. Although the games industry is financially booming, it is still relatively immature in scope and breadth of vision compared with other entertainment forms. Yet games have the unique ability to transport people to virtual worlds and not only take them on wild adventures, but make them an intrinsic part of them - whether they're a rock star or a New York cop on the edge.If the games industry is to build on its potential and add to the wonderful graphics it already produces, then creating more emotionally gripping games will be an important step in capturing new audiences.
Parlour games were once the preserve of Victorian dinner parties. Over the years, families have spent countless Sunday afternoons engaging in a few rounds of charades or an epic bout of Monopoly. But as technology pushes traditional games on to computers and consoles, a new generation of digital parlour games is taking root.One of those leading the charge is SingStar for the Sony PlayStation 2. At first glance it seems a lot like karaoke - players sing in time to a range of popular hits that play without the original vocals. But unlike the original Japanese concept, the game combines singalong interactivity with software that can assess a singer's pitch and timing through a microphone. In a game of SingStar, the PS2 compares your voice to the original vocal track and awards you points for good singing.With both Sony and karaoke originating in Japan, you would be forgiven for thinking SingStar is Japanese. Not so. SingStar was devised and produced in London by a bunch of twenty-somethings in Sony's corporate headquarters in Soho. The team, whose oldest member is 29, spent four-and-a-half years developing the game - the longest ever gestation period for a PlayStation title.For the first two-and-a-half years, one person worked on the project - Sharu Gupta, a 27-year-old computer engineer from Hammersmith. In 1999, fresh out of college, Gupta realised the sound processors in the original PlayStation could be used not just for output, but for sound input, too."I was asked to develop software for pitch detection," she explains in a   replica living room on the seventh floor of Sony's London offices. "I started taking recordings of piano scales and wrote some software that would analyse each note and tell me what it was." It was, she says, a modest breakthrough - but one that eventually led to SingStar.The game features 40 licensed hits from the premier league of pop. SingStar players go on an eclectic excursion through mainstream pop history, taking the place of Madonna, Ricky Martin or even Lemmy from Mot&#246;rhead. Microphones allow players to sing solo, in a duet or battle head-to-head with friends. "It is perfect for anyone who has ever sung into their hairbrush," offers Gupta.Somewhat surprisingly, given karaoke's global popularity, Sony insists that SingStar has little to do with the clunky, back-of-the-pub karaoke experience redolent of drunken nights. "Karaoke has been a fast, dirty and cheap product where the graphics are crappy and nobody cares," says the game's 27-year-old Canadian producer, Paulina Bozek.SingStar is just the latest example of the "21st-century parlour game" - a diverse, but growing, category of games that use peripheral accessories such as microphones instead of traditional joystick control. Konami's Dance Dance Revolution (DDR), a hyperactive dancing game, uses a dance mat and has even been responsible for part of a new fitness fad in the US. One man in Hawaii claimed to have shed more than 30 pounds after months of daily DDR.The Sony EyeToy - developed by the same studio as SingStar - uses motion capture software and a camera to track the physical gestures of players. Nintendo, Sony's arch-rival, is set to join the fray with its take on   the genre. Donkey Konga, a frantic drumming game, was previewed at this year's E3 show in Los Angeles and will be in shops for Christmas.What these games also share is their appeal to a wider demographic than traditional video games - particularly women, who are keen on the social nature of games that take place in real space."With DDR, people who would not identify themselves as videogamers saw the value of spending $150 on a console," says Dr Ian Bogost, a lecturer in games studies at the Georgia Institute of Technology, in the US. "They began to see the value of the games console as a device for the whole family. It's a new kind of card table for the family."Even so, Sony has taken something of a gamble with SingStar. The game retails for the price of a standard PS2 title, yet comes bundled with two microphones. There are also music publishing rights to pay for every game sold.Sales have been steady, but Sony insists the game is more of a slow-burner than one-hit wonder. A range of follow-up compilation discs will ensure the game has a bright future. Just don't call it karaoke.
Jonathan Schwartz, Sun's new chief executive officer, has created a lot of controversy by posting provocative attacks on Red Hat and IBM on his blog. Still, he has scored one palpable hit by pointing out that what customers really value is not openness per se, but the ability to substitute one product for another.Rather than arguing about whether different versions of Unix are open, he says we should look at how hard it is to move from Sun's Unix (Solaris) to IBM's (AIX). "It's not particularly easy," he confesses. "There are features in Solaris, like the Java Enterprise System Directory Service, N1 Grid Containers, dTrace or ZFS, that don't show up in AIX."Both meet the Posix (Portable operating system) standards   derived from Unix, but both suppliers have added huge numbers of enhancements, and anyone who has used those enhancements will find it hard to move."Open as in door, is different than open as in source. Unix, Linux, Windows - none are open, I'd argue. There is no agreed upon specification, no neutral test to determine validity, and no guarantee made by vendors other than rhetoric," says Schwartz.He also argues, far more contentiously, that moving from one Linux distribution to another can also have problems, and accuses Red Hat of managing to "dupe the Linux community with their proprietary distro". Red Hat, obviously, disagrees.But you don't have to agree with Schwartz to get the point. What actually benefits customers is not   just the observance of a standard - which the supplier may have, in Microsoft's famous phrase, embraced and extended - but the ability to replace one product with something better or cheaper, without penalty. That stops you from being locked in to one supplier and held to ransom.That benefit can also come from market (de facto) standards rather than ones formally agreed by independent committees. For example, Intel's x86 processor design is not in any formal sense a standard, but you can usually swap a PC with an Intel Pentium for one with an AMD chip without being aware of the difference, and the "penalties" may be that it costs less and runs faster.The widespread availability of compatible PCs has enabled substitution on a grand scale, driving down prices and delivering huge   benefits to customers. It even offers the ultimate substitution: if you don't fancy any of the PCs on offer, you can easily assemble your own.It would clearly be a Good Thing if customers also had an alternative operating system they could easily substitute for Microsoft Windows, and GNU/Linux is the leading candidate. But it would be a Bad Thing if the hundreds of different Linux offerings diverged enough to make it hard to substitute one distro for another - or, as Schwartz implies, just SuSE for Red Hat.Unix's history shows that it's not the kernel that matters so much as the add-ons and enhancements. Has that lesson been learned? If not, we'd better hope that things like the Free Standards Group get a lot more recognition and support.Jonathan's Bloghttp://blogs.sun.com/jonathanFree Standards Groupwww.freestandards.org
Rings of fireEvery so often someone inspires the wrath of bloggers by trying to control their lifeblood: links. This time around it's the official Olympic Games site. Those linking to it are told they must "use the term 'ATHENS 2004' only", "not associate the link with any image" and, most ludicrously, that anyone wanting to link to the Athens website should "send a request letter to the Internet Department". Apparently they don't use email - strange, but given their inability to understand how the web works, hardly surprising. The backlash has already started.www.athens2004.comwww.metafilter.com/mefi/35036Terrace talkThe Premiership football season is in full swing - and ballsy bloggers are coming out of the woodwork. At the top of the table, the hugely popular Arseblog gives a visceral taste of the Highbury terraces, while Chelseablog follows the studious approach of new Blues manager Jose Mourinho. Those interested in a non-partisan viewpoint can check out BlogFC's opinions on the gamut of the game.www.arseblog.comwww.blogfc.comwww.chelseablog.comIraq the voteGeorge Bush and John Kerry might have millions of dollars at their disposal, but Iraq's blogging brothers Ali and Mohammed Fadil are putting their money where their mouth is. The duo, who write the well-regarded weblog Iraq the Model, has decided to form a party and take part in Iraq's December elections. "Through our writings in our weblog and communication with different opinions and view points we find ourselves committed to reconsider the way in which we can serve our nation," they say. "We also saw that our somewhat daring opinions were accepted by people, whether westerners or Iraqis." Good luck to them - who says blogs can't boost democracy?www.iraqthemodel.comenglish.iraqdemparty.orgWhite heatThe gloves are finally coming off in the race for the White House - and even the usually turgid official candidate weblogs are getting in on   the act. As the accusations fly from the Kerry camp about Bush's links to the Swift Boat Veterans lobby group, Blogs for Bush is doing the president's dirty work and drumming up support for the incumbent. For worthwhile left-leaning commentary, try tuning in to Josh Marshall's Talking Points Memo, a daily dose of wisdom and razor-sharp analysis.http://blog.johnkerry.comwww.blogsforbush.comhttp://georgewbush.com/blogwww.talkingpointsmemo.comBackslappersCorporate blogs are nearly always half-hearted attempts to piggyback on the blogging community. Now Yahoo has dipped its toes in the water with Jeff Weiner, the senior vice president of Yahoo search and marketing, picking up the blogging baton. It looks unlikely to surprise - the only content appears to be a festival of backslapping and "Go Yahoo!" nonsense - but at least it allows reader comments. Unfortunately, those seem to range from "Cool! Yahoo has a blog" to the snarky "I can't wait until Google buys you guys", but you can't have everything.www.ysearchblog.comCleaning windowsGeorge Formby has a lot to answer for. Behind that cheeky exterior, Lancashire's favourite four-string strummer has helped spark a whole world of uke on the web. First stop for anyone doing a tour of duty should be Ukulelia - the self-proclaimed "world's greatest ukulele weblog". Who are we to argue? Then there's the highly regarded Ukulele Orchestra of Great Britain, whose website doesn't seem to offer audio clips but at least quotes daytime TV great Richard Madeley: "They are HOT!"http://ukulelia.comwww.ukuleleorchestra.com
Repeat a slogan often enough, and people start believing it. "Technology is not the issue" is one favourite. It's become a truism, even when trotted out by computer suppliers whose systems frequently fall over for technical reasons.Another one often heard in government IT projects is: "This is not a contract - it's a partnership." Here the hope is that because successful IT projects rely on a bit of flexibility between customer and contractor, relationships between the two should be painted in language normally reserved for romantic fiction.As a result, hard-headed executives and sceptical public servants gush about "cultural synergies" and "lasting relationships" that will soon be hearing the patter of   little feet (or "delivering benefits to all concerned").  Up to a point, of course, partnerships are a good thing. No government IT project could work as a totally adversarial relationship - each side would be reaching for its lawyers every five minutes. But to have all parties yearning for true love can be just as dangerous.First, as in human romance, there is the danger of disillusionment. A break-up between two long-term partners is a lot messier than that between parties involved in a straightforward commercial contract - especially when one party decides that the other was never sincere. Connoisseurs of government IT fiascos will recognise two recent cases of this syndrome.Second, like teenage sweethearts, organisations in search of true love are apt to forget everyone else   around them. Swansea City Council seems to have made this mistake when it advertised for potential partners to run its service@swansea e-government project without consulting existing IT staff first. They're now on strike - the first dispute of its kind specifically over an e-government project. This week, both sides seemed to be moving towards a conciliation.A final danger is to public acceptability of big IT contracts. Over the past few years, a consensus has grown in government and industry that public and private partners should be hopping into bed before marriage. We've now got to the stage where industry executives say openly that they should be involved in helping decide government policy where complex IT systems are involved. Nowadays, this means   almost anything to do with public services and national security.Again, this works up to a point. The idea of industry experts assessing ministers' ideas for "concept viability" is a good one. But the idea that this government isn't already listening to the IT industry is absurd. Two IT companies had representatives at the Downing Street seminar that launched the &#163;6bn NHS National Programme for IT in February 2002. It is inconceivable that the national identity card would be going ahead in its present high tech form without enthusiastic can-do lobbying by the industry.Government and the IT industry should certainly be on speaking terms; good friends, even. But when they get smoochy, they should remember that the reaction of many taxpayers is to reach for a bucket of cold water
While swimming might keep you trim, ploughing through the lengths can be boring. Like most swimmers, I have long hankered after a little water music to speed me along.Oregon Scientific claims to have the solution in the &#163;100 MP120, the first pool-friendly player, compatible with MP3 and WMA files. I dragged and dropped tracks on to the player and headed off for the lido. I attached the player to my goggles, using the straps to ensure the earbuds stayed in, and took the plunge.While not the last word in high fidelity, the MP120 delivers a reasonable rendition of MP3s and radio stations via its FM tuner. Bizarrely, it seems to sound better underwater than above it.The downsides were that it does not play loudly, and to keep the earbuds in place I had to adjust the goggles' strap every few lengths. The MP120 isn't the iPod with water wings - it only has 128MB (two hours of MP3s) of storage - but for serious swimmers, it is &#163;100 well spent.www.oregonscientific.co.uk
Two years ago, mobile phone networks in the UK launched photo messaging, which enables users to attach images and sounds to messages. They had high hopes it would prove as successful as texting.Although the networks have not proffered usage figures, Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi believes the revenue from MMS has been disappointing. "Early problems such as not being able to send images between networks have been resolved. So the only reason for the lack of growth has to be to do with cost - or possibly the networks offering a service that people don't actually want to use."Instead of sending low-quality images to each other, it appears phone snappers like the idea of taking images and displaying them on their phone.The arrival of one megapixel camera phones such as the Sharp GX30 and Nokia 7610 is likely to heighten demand for services that enable phone users to print out their reasonably high-quality images. Kodak is offering an Order Station, where users send images via infrared or Bluetooth and receive instant prints, while Nokia is working on a range of solutions.The breakthrough could come in November with the arrival of Bonusprint Mobile, which provides phone snappers with a simple way of turning phone images into prints.After downloading software to the phone, users can specify that each image they take is automatically uploaded to a personalised website. They can also order prints for around 12p per image.Unlike MMS - which compresses the image, leading to a reduction in quality - services such as Bonusprint deliver the image as it was taken.Bonusprint, which uses a system developed by the British company Cognima, claims its system works out cheaper than MMS. "While networks typically charge up to 50p for a large image, with Bonusprint Mobile, the only fee is for GPRS," says its managing director, Anthony Ward. "Even a one megapixel image would cost around 30p to upload," adds Cognima's chief executive Simon East.Bonusprint Mobile is likely to cost around &#163;1.99 per month, for which users will get 100MB of storage space - enough for more than 300 megapixel images."For people who don't want to bother with storage cards and USB cables, Cognima and Bonusprint are offering a fantastic solution," adds Milanesi.Yet if the solution is so obvious why have the networks not yet adopted it? "Perhaps it's that commitment to MMS. The networks invested a lot of money in it and are desperate to see some return," suggests Anthony Ward.www.bonusprint.co.ukwww.cognima.com
Over familiarIn Public Domain (August 19), Michael Cross reports on Microsoft's successful operation to keep the London Borough of Newham on the Microsoft plan, based on a "persuasive" report by Capgemini, commissioned by Microsoft.Capgemini's report may not be quite as persuasive as Cross implies. Asking Capgemini to prepare a report on the cost benefits of staying with Microsoft is like asking Dick Cheney to report on the benefits of a second term for Bush. Capgemini is elsewhere celebrating the expansion of its seven-year relationship with Microsoft and promoting Microsoft solutions.When asked if he was concerned about using Internet Explorer - one of the major entries for attack - Richard Steel, the head of ITC for Newham, remarked that: "I have technical people to worry about that." With that attitude, Steel had better worry himself. His technical people cannot fix the staggering number of security issues with Windows regardless of how much they worry - Microsoft can't. And, given that Capgemini's other speciality is outsourcing, his staff might just be worried about other things.Dr Michael D FischerUniversity of Kent at CanterburyTiVo devoteeDavid Jones (Feedback, August 19) feels that timer recording a TV programme on a digital channel using an analogue TV is beyond a non-technical user. Maybe, but my stunningly easy-to-use TiVo manages   to handle the Freeview digital box automatically, and the resultant recordings look just fine on my analogue TV. Just one more thing that TiVo does perfectly. I'm still baffled why everyone didn't buy one when they had the chance!Duncan LangfordMini miceRobert Sausman (Feedback, August 19) bemoans the lack of different size mouses and wonders how young children cope. When my small children took an interest in my computer, I saw there was a problem, and obtained a Millennium Award to enable me to create a website to help young children learn mouse skills with their parents or carers.The result is atwww.mousing.co.uk, a website on which young children can develop their mousing skills through several free games. Small hands will be catered for in the next few weeks when parents will be able to purchase a new, specialist child's-sized mouse that will both assist and stimulate a child's mousing and enable me to continue to improve this fun-filled and free web resource.S&#233;amus BradyHoly grailIn What's New (August 19), you wrote about the new Road Trip from Griffin Technology, saying "the FM transmitter can be removed from the cradle and connected to a PC or Mac, to transmit music from a computer to radios around a home". This is amazing news - to be able to have internet radio that streams through my hi-fi. It's the holy grail. Why would anyone who can afford &#163;20 a month not have broadband now?Tom CorcoranOne call onlyAs a computer professional I have recommended to many people PCs, including Tiny/Time computers from The Computer Shop. A friend who bought one complained to me that the internet did not work and the   modem was locked into dialling only one number - Supanet, so that you would have to use them as your internet supplier.I phoned them up and yes, it is true. It is like buying a phone that will only ring one number. There is a method of signing up to Supanet and "de-optimising" (unlocking) the modem. However, this involves numerous phone calls (&#163;1 per minute) and they want to sell you a &#163;60 CD to do this. New modems cost far less.The solution? Do not go anywhere near The Computer Shop or Tiny computers.Jonathan Watkins(Editor's note: Customers unwilling to pay to unlock their modems can do it free:www.itreviews.co.uk/forum/2498)Average spam?I have had a gradual increase in spam over the past year. The major change appeared to coincide with the new spam filter my ISP introduced. I direct this to a dummy folder and then delete every day.How much spam do people receive? I am getting about 80 spam emails a day. Is this number high or low? How much spam does the person in the street receive? ISPs with spam filters must have good data by now.Dai BickhamFoiling this fakeI would like to call to your attention this sitehttp://hsbc-validate.info/.  It is a very slick, fake version of the HSBC bank site, which tries to get people's user ID from them. It has many pages and even links to the proper HSBC site to remain convincing. When I took the email to my local branch of the bank, the cashier thought the email was genuine. I had a look at the UK police website, but the only identifiable link there to report IT fraud was to the FBI.Simon Browne
Michael O'Leary's threat to make Ryanair passengers pay extra to put bags in the hold prompted disbelief this summer. But not from Charles Keisner."O'Leary was right," says the head of sales atFirstLuggage.com, an internet start-up which promises to pick up your luggage and deliver it to the hotel. "I feel sorry for them. But they're in the passenger business. Airlines shouldn't handle any baggage. It should be left to professionals."Travellers examining British Airways' latest lost luggage statistics might well agree - the airline has one of the worst records in Europe, with 5,000 bags disappearing permanently last year. BA is unlikely to follow Ryanair's example - BA is a full-service airline, after all. Nonetheless, the airline must be a little envious of O'Leary's willingness to shrug off the troublesome and time-consuming business of handling passengers' suitcases.Baggage handlers, after all, are notoriously willing to strike. They slow down turnaround times. And the amount of compensation that passengers whose bags have been lost can claim has just tripled to more than £800 thanks to the Montreal convention, which came into force last month.What's more, if BA ever decided to crack down on cabin baggage allowances, business travellers roughing it in economy would revolt. You don't think you take that much on board? Think again. The new Apple iBook G4 boasts that it's the lightest notebook on the market: the 12.1in model weighs just under 5lb, the 14.1in almost 6lb. That's almost half the 13lb allowance BA permits in its economy cabin.Bmi British Midland is slightly more generous - 15lb within Europe - and Ryanair has just increased its allowance to 10kg, or 22lb. But it has also put up the charge for excess weight to £4.50 per kg. Three days after Ryanair's announcement, easyJet abolished weight limits altogether. As long as you can remove a case from the overhead locker without dropping it on your colleague's head, it can measure up to 55cm x 40cm x 20cm.What Keisner wants is to take away the calculation entirely. Ship a suitcase or sample with FedEx or UPS and they will demand the weight and probably ask you to repackage it. While bigger companies usually have an account with a shipper, SMEs often don't, and you can't just visit the website, type in your details and have the bag collected - both require pre-registration.Keisner is hoping the relatively transparent charges - £80 one-way for a suitcase sent to western Europe, £179 for a return trip to the newest members of the EU - will encourage business travellers to have their cases picked up from home rather than taking them into work, checking in early at the airport and waiting for them at the baggage carousel.FirstLuggage.com, which uses FedEx itself, has a few drawbacks. They won't collect or deliver at weekends, and each piece of luggage is only insured up to a maximum of £250 - you pay £15 for each additional £1,000 worth of cover. The company can't yet estimate what time bags will arrive on a particular day, though it will send a text message when they've arrived.Keisner says FirstLuggage.com will begin shipping bags to the US when he's confident they will arrive on time. The US Transportation Security Authority recently warned that locked passenger bags risked being forced open by screeners. I asked him if enhanced security would hinder his business. "Nothing is loaded on to a FedEx plane that isn't x-rayed, and that is that," he insists. He hopes to begin shipping to the US at the end of this year.The cost seems high. Yet if you add up the price of a taxi to work, another cab to the airport, a long wait at each end of the journey, and a tip to the hotel porter, you might find it worthwhile to entrust your samples and suitcase to someone else. At the very least, it removes that anxious moment at check-in as you watch your baggage roll away towards the innards of the terminal building, possibly never to return.Access all areasHungarian-owned airline Wizzair (wizzair.com) - not to be confused withWizzair.co.uk, a site belonging to the Travelbag agency - is now selling flights from Luton to Budapest and the Polish industrial cities of Katowice, Gdansk and Warsaw. Wizzair will compete with easy Jet, which departs twice daily from Luton to Warsaw, Budapest and Krakow from November 1. Expect fierce pricing. Easy Jet will also fly from Budapest to Newcastle and Bristol. Visit the website atwww.EasyJet.com.TheTrainline.com- now the only player in the online rail ticketing market - has introduced through bookings to Europe on Eurostar. Less impressive is the discovery that the site is run by the French national railway, SNCF, and the booking engine is decidedly shaky - declining a request for a journey to Madrid, and with no through ticketing from stations to Waterloo. Also, the site is in the habit of issuing unhelpful warnings.Midland Mainline has introduced "meet the manager" evenings at which travellers can let off steam. The next is at St Pancras from 4pm - 8pm on August 4; sessions at Chesterfield (August 2) and Market Harborough (September 29) follow. More information can be found atwww.midlandmainline.com.Unlike GNER, Virgin hasn't yet introduced at-seat internet access, though the company has equipped its first class lounges with broadband Wi-Fi. It's free until September 1 - which, given the price of a Virgin first-class ticket, it should be. The company has lounges at Euston, Stoke-on-Trent, Manchester Picadilly, Birmingham New Street and Coventry. More information can be found on the websitewww.virgintrains.co.uk.BMIbaby, the no-frills offshoot of bmi, is opening a new base at Birmingham International next year. Twice daily routes to Belfast and Edinburgh will begin on January 7. More information can be found atwww.bmibaby.com.
This month: Eric and Chris Tweddle from architects Tweddle Associates turn a contract around completely using their IT system.GC: Tell me about Tweddle Associates.CT:We've been established for about 10 years and there are two of us here, myself and my father Eric. We are primarily an architecture firm but we're property developers as well.GC: You had an established installation of AutoCAD &#91;CAD meaning computer-aided design, a standard technology for architects&#93; and wanted to upgrade to Autodesk Revit. Why?CT:Initially, we bought Revit to run primarily alongside our existing AutoCAD systems as a marketing tool for the developments we were about to release on to the market. This was purely to allow us to do three-dimensional visualisations, so we could show our properties before they were finished.GC: OK. But has this made any material difference to any project in which you've been involved?ET:We had a charity project, part of which was in dispute with the planning authorities, and closing the detail and layout of each individual part of the project wasn't happening. It consisted of something like four or five units within a barn conversion, quite a large area, so what Chris was able to do was to put a three-dimensional approach to it, with aerial views and views from every aspect of the scene.GC: And this made a difference to the planning authorities?ET:That was the convincing argument; it turned the decision around.GC: So that's work you wouldn't have had without this particular piece of software?ET:Absolutely. Planning was about to be refused and we would have been out of the scheme, so, certainly, it gave us an edge. One of the other aspects that came out of it after the meeting was the planning department asked to use our laptop and projector for their planning meeting, so that was interesting! We thought if that occurs with other planning authorities then it's a good marketing tool for us.GC: So, how did you actually come across Autodesk in the first place?ET:Imass Ltd, an IT dealer in Newcastle, was our prime connection. I was looking around for a system for a project 10 years or so ago. I was working with some Russian and American companies and I contacted Imass because we were in the market for some systems and training. They gave me initial training, because I'd been used to mainframe systems until that particular point as chief architect for one of the larger local authorities. So I was planning my practice at that point in time and did a fairly swift training process on AutoCAD - and from there we had a close relationship with Imass and Autodesk products.GC: And when you wanted to upgrade to Revit, the three-dimensional product from Autodesk, did you look at any alternatives?ET:No, we were sold by Imass. We went to the demonstration and we were convinced, as one or two of the other architects in the area were, too.GC: So, you decided to make the upgrade. How long was it between making that decision and actually getting the system up and running?ET:No more than a week. It was absolutely brilliant.GC: Including training?ET:Yes. Chris went off on a training course for three or four days and we were up and running the following week. There was a lead-in period beyond that, but, nevertheless, it was up and running the following week. The best way of training on these things is actually to do schemes, so that's what we did.GC: How much did the software actually cost?ET:It was about £4,500. That would include maintenance as well as software.GC: And what would you say have been the deliverable business benefits so far?ET:Obviously, we're using it as a marketing tool. Initially, we put it in as part of our overheads. Since then, we've had business coming in as a result of it, people coming in and saying "oh, can you put this up on a three-dimensional visualisation for us", and we've tried to sell the scheme to others, so from that point of view it's brought a bit more business in. And for our existing schemes, which we've been able to convert to the system, it means our clients understand what they're getting. Although most clients say they understand two-dimensional drawings, very few of them actually do. It's not until you get the actual scheme built and they say "oh, we didn't realise it would be like that - isn't that great".GC: Have there been any drawbacks or practical issues with moving to the new system?ET:Not really. In fact, we're looking at going a little further. I think, as the system develops, AutoCAD will die away and this will take over. I think that's clearly what's happening, because you can do most of the things on Revit that you can do on AutoCAD. Two-dimensional systems are clearly there on AutoCAD, but it's handy to be able to do a lot of detailing work on AutoCAD, but even those things we can do better in three-dimensions.GC: Have you done any formal measurement of your investment in the system in terms of payback and return on investment?ET:Not yet. I think you've got to leave it for a year, look back on that year and then decide what the financial benefits have been. This went in in October. We're probably one of the first ones in on Revit. We're delighted with it and we've done some presentations in the offices of Imass so it's benefiting them as well.
After a three-year slump, the economy is finally showing signs of picking up again. A slow loosening of the company purse strings is now translating into new IT spend.While many finance managers are keeping much tighter control over budgets compared to during the internet boom years, the signs are encouraging, especially for all those IT manufacturers anxious to influence the new technology wish lists of smaller businesses - which, combined, represent 80% of the corporate market. So, what's on those wish lists?A recent Microsoft survey found almost half of all UK small businesses - companies with fewer than 25 PC users - expect their IT budgets to increase over the next 12 months. "The internet has made IT a 'must-have', even if it's just for filing tax returns electronically," says John Coulthard, head of small business at Microsoft UK.According to Microsoft's findings, 60% of budgets are being allocated to hardware, and, while the market is now almost saturated with desktop PCs, future growth will come from sales of portable systems and wireless technology. "Portables have yet to pick up steam in the UK small business market, with a total installed base of 2m, compared to 8m desktops," Coulthard says.Indeed, many industry watchers claim that if there is to be a "next big thing" in IT again, it is likely to be in the area of mobile computing, as companies seek to make their staff more productive when they are away from the office.IT retailer PC World Business's sales figures certainly confirm this. The company, which has 111,000 business customers, the vast majority SMEs, reports a 66% growth in the volumes of wireless products sold over the last 12 months compared to the previous year. With huge advancements in 3G and Wi-Fi technology, and its availability, it sees this as the major growth area for the coming years.The decision to "go mobile" is, of course, much easier for the small or new business, which is, typically, agile enough to be able to embrace new technologies if the price and business case are right. Also, since fledgling firms often operate with a skeleton staff, the need to get the most from them is paramount.Take specialist management consultancy 7days. The company, which has a full-time team of 12, and turns over £2m a year, has an IT budget for the current financial year of £24,000. While its primary goal for the short term is to develop a stable and secure IT infrastructure, and an intranet-based knowledge management system, marketing and IT director Keith Gupwell notes that a medium-term goal is to achieve a "true, wireless, location-independent, fast and secure wide-area network".This would embrace the company's offices, client locations, airports and hotels, and would also include an option to integrate telephony into the infrastructure. "As a growing consultancy, access to our shared knowledge base - from anywhere - will be critical," says Gupwell.The growing adoption of wireless technologies has spawned another trend too: a need for better integration between disparate systems. Traditionally, a problem that has bugged the large enterprise market, this is now gradually becoming an issue for smaller firms too as staff, and systems, become more mobile and, therefore, disjointed.According to the Integration Consortium (IC), an international, non-profit organisation that promotes best practices in integration, 40% of a company's budget is now allocated to integration, as it seeks to keep control over its dispersed company assets, ensuring it has a single, accurate view of critical business data.As a result, Steve Craggs, IC's vice chair, argues that web services are more likely to be the next big thing in IT. "While these have been discussed for a couple of years, they have yet to be implemented on a large scale. This is the make or break year."Matthew Hopkins, managing director of software consultancy Dunstan Thomas, agrees: "The next big thing is applications that talk to other applications over an internet connection. This is what we mean by web services and it is changing the way applications are being built, and, ultimately, how businesses work together."This will foster greater integration between applications inside the company and will encourage interoperability between companies - enhancing supply chain integration, for example."As companies seek to address issues of data integration, to ensure all staff are looking at the same, up-to-date contact details, for example, another "boom" in spending is likely to be in the field of Customer Relationship Management (CRM).While the large enterprise market's disappointment with early-generation CRM systems has been well documented, the need for a good customer management solution has not gone away. While smaller businesses tend to be closer to their customers, they too need a way of tracking customer contact so they can maintain high levels of personalised customer service - and grow repeat revenues."Over the next five years, the main focus for companies will be on re-engaging the customer, rather than seeing automated customer management as a way to cut costs," claims Nick Ogden, founder of internet payment system WorldPay, and now OnInstant, a business communications and voice over IP service.Key to achieving this is the convergence of voice and data on a single network, something which is now finally becoming a reality thanks to advances in technology and the backing of industry heavyweights, including BT. Such support is helping to boost the technology's credibility, achieve a critical mass and bring costs down.Rob Coyne, general manager, UK and Ireland at network manufacturer 3Com, says: "For the smaller business, features such as call routing and unified messaging - the ability to access and manage emails, phone messages and faxes all in one place - can be invaluable when it comes to CRM."What's making this easier is the availability of CRM capabilities as a pay-as-you-go service, sourced as a hosted service over the internet. Here, your firm doesn't have to stump up vast amounts in advance for the software and systems to support this new functionality, and your internal IT person - if you have one - doesn't have one more package to support. Salesforce.com is enjoying great success with its on-demand CRM solution, which is still customisable, even though the companies using it don't own it outright. Many of the big names in CRM, such as Siebel, are also adopting this kind of delivery model as they seek to attract small business customers.According to the likes of PA Consulting, IBM and HP, utility computing - sourcing IT as you would a utility like electricity or a telephone service - could have the biggest impact since the birth of the internet, developing into a $50bn industry.As staff increasingly need remote access to business applications, a centralised, hosted model makes even more sense. Peter Gradwell, founder of internet service provider Gradwell dot com, says: "Our customers want to be joined up with their corporate information while travelling, so if there's one area where small businesses will be spending over the next year, it's telecoms.He adds: "The 'next big thing' will be the integration of 'presence' in telecoms and computers, so that when I look at 'John' in my address book, it says, 'Don't ring John now, I am in a meeting all morning'."The IT wish listOther top IT priorities for small businesses:&#183;Security - whether protection against viruses and spam, or to complement the expected growth in mobile data access&#183;Broadband communications and IP VPNs - so that remote workers can access and share sensitive company data quickly and securely&#183;Power over ethernet - technology that allows low power consuming equipment, such as IP telephones, wireless access points and CCTV video cameras, to be powered over a standard data network&#183;Digital conferencing - a step towards videoconferencing, allowing remote co-workers, staff and customers to add value to phone calls or conferences by sharing documents electronically&#183;Business intelligence and search technologies - these tools will grow in importance as a means of managing critical business information&#183;Storage, backup and business continuity/disaster recovery solutions - these will have growing importance as companies grapple with new regulations concerning how data is managed
If you're not already a committed user of a credit-card sized smartphone, the chances are you soon will be. Sales of Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) are falling, say analysts, while advanced mobile phones are soaring off the chart. But will the worlds of portable computing and mobile communications converge to a point where one type of handset will ultimately wipe out the other?If you're a company director, you could be forgiven for feeling confused about where this whole mobile technology thing is heading. You want your staff to be more productive and less tied to the office, but which route should you take? Snazzy camera phones with fast net connections? The dedicated Blackberry devices that have seduced the corporate worker? Or a more powerful device, providing almost everything you could have on a laptop, but with far less bulk to carry around?The decision doesn't end with the hardware either. There's the type of applications you'll want staff to have access to, which means you need to consider the operating system. And do you need a company-wide GPRS or 3G contract, or are WiFi and Bluetooth more appropriate in a business context?Compounding the problem, you'll also need to consider any other devices your staff may be carrying already for personal use. If they're already having a longstanding love affair with a particular camera phone or deluxe paper-based organiser, you may have a hard time persuading them to embrace something else.According to recent findings from Datamonitor, smaller businesses, while not traditionally big users of mobile devices, are likely to start embracing the technology as costs come down.Blackberry devices have done much to put mobile gadgets on the map for the business community, and this looks set to continue. Initially, these dedicated devices, now five years old and used by 1.3 million subscribers around the world, were designed simply to "push" emails out to busy executives on the move.Blackberry's reach is now growing too, as its inventor, Research in Motion (RIM), has licensed the technology so it can be used on other devices, including phones from Nokia, Siemens and Samsung. It is also broadening the range of applications that can be supported, which can only enhance its appeal to the business community. RIM's European vice-president for commercial operations, Rick Costanzo, says: "The server software now talks to any application that's HTTP or XML addressable, which applies to 99% of corporate applications, including customer relationship management and enterprise resource planning applications."This, along with RIM's decision to open up its technology to other handset manufacturers, will be critical to the company's long-term success, since Gartner statistics suggest that, by 2007, 67m of the 103m data-centric devices shipping globally by then will be smartphones, compared with a more modest 36m PDA or hybrid PDA/phones."That doesn't mean the PDA market is dying, but that it is growing at a slower rate," says Simeon Payne, UK product marketing manager for Windows Mobile at Microsoft, an interesting company to watch because of its heritage in traditional computing. If Microsoft, champion of the PC, PDA and tablet PC, sees the smartphone stealing the market, there must be something in it.The Microsoft marketing message is that if you choose a device based on Windows, you'll be protected from having pockets of information and contacts on different machines which can't be synchronised.But will companies buy into the mobile phone as a device for business data? Payne concedes that this will depend to some extent on how quickly software developers bring "must have" applications to the market."There are already some very simple applications that whet the appetite," he notes, pointing to an RAC information system which feeds critical traffic information to mobile phones for a one-off annual subscription of £40. This could save companies a fortune in wasted business time spent in traffic jams.For businesses like IT outsourcing consultancy ihotdesk - which has no offices, working from home, on the move or from a client's site - advances in mobile technology and applications are critical. Its staff are dependent on wireless connectivity and smartphones to pick up emails and communicate with colleagues and clients.So what does the future hold -  will we be downloading our business data on to a wristwatch in a few years' time?"Many people now have several mobile phones, just as they have several pairs of shoes. At the weekend, they might choose a mini-mobile, and for work a maxi-mobile, and simply switch the Sim card between them," says James Stewart, a senior researcher at the University of Edinburgh studying the social aspects of IT. This, however, relies on standards being developed which allow these multiple devices to work together as a virtual device. "This is likely to be very difficult as different industries try to set standards to suit themselves," Stewart notes.In the meantime, the exciting space to watch is the role of the car in the mobile experience, he says. "The car is the main mobile device for many people, and can overcome the limitations of the small handheld. BMW and Renault have some interesting plans in this area that are worth keeping an eye on."Gadget guideSome of the "sexier" devices available today or coming soon...&#183;The Orange SPV C500 claims to be the world's smallest smartphone today, measuring 108 x 46 x 16mm and weighing just 100g. It runs Windows Mobile and has a colour screen and versatile keypad. Prices vary by contract. Other Orange phones to check out include the PalmOne Treo 600 which runs a Palm OS organiser, supports web and email over GPRS and can be used with an existing Vodafone or Orange Sim card. The Treo costs £525.&#183;The Motorola MPx, billed as the first Wi-Fi-enabled phone, has two guises. Open it one way and it's a phone, open it another and there's a full computer keyboard. Based on Microsoft Pocket PC, and described by some analysts as the nearest thing to a converged device so far. Other Motorola devices of note: the V400P and the V80. Prices not available.&#183;The new Nokia 9500 Communicator, comparable to the Motorola MPx but not due to ship until Q4, supports GPRS, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, and runs a range of Symbian-based business applications. Built-in camera and multimedia messaging, 80Mb of memory and two colour screens. Weighs just over 200g. Likely to cost more than £500. Other notable Nokias: the 6800 series.&#183;The Sony Ericsson P900, available from £100 on a pay-monthly contract, offers full PDA functionality but looks and feels like a phone. Provides email and internet via GPRS, and has a car kit solution. Also worth a look: the P800.&#183;The Sendo X from Sendo is causing a stir at the moment, supporting up to six email accounts and recording up to 30 minutes of video. Sendo claims the Symbian-based device is the most powerful multimedia smartphone currently available. Cost: £335.&#183;The Samsung D710 business phone, running Symbian, supports full multimedia and video, and has an integral camera, with flash.
It is now over a decade and a half since someone invented the idea of a "paperless office" - an idea that turned out to be one of the great false dawns of the IT age. People like their paper. Lawyers and accountants are often very fond of hard copy signatures and generally there's more paper around now than there was before this "paperless" idea was ever raised.Which leaves the problem of how to dispose of it. Many companies take different views on what to do. The bin is a possible answer, while the local recycling facility is a greener thought (unless, of course, you drive to the facility and use lots of petrol in the process). But what, then, about the security of data? Have you ever put a bank statement in the bin - and if you have, even if it was truly out of date, did it have your bank details on it?If the answer is "yes", then it's worth considering the other option, which is to buy a shredder. Depending on the volume of documents you're likely to want to destroy, the prices can come in at under £100, and the paper remains fully recyclable afterwards. You can find - for a little more - tougher shredders butch enough to shred CDs.And don't assume there isn't really a problem worth looking at. Research from Fellowes - which, admittedly, sells shredders - suggests that identity theft, the most likely outcome from someone appropriating unwanted papers, is costing the UK £1.3bn per year. In conjunction with Camden borough council, the company looked at both commercial and business papers that could be found in bins and came across the following:&#183;one in 10 households had discarded receipts with complete credit card details on them - number, date and signature;&#183;most companies discarded information about customers or employees without attempting to destroy the data;&#183;a mortgage broker had discarded intact details including financial information on clients;&#183;44% of companies threw away whole invoices;&#183;21% threw away customer details without attempting to destroy them.The sources of difficulty weren't just obvious ones like credit card statements - junk mail such as pre-approved credit card applications also carries financial information. Tyron Hill, Fellowes' senior European marketing director for shredders, says a lot more people are shredding than were doing so a couple of years ago. "When people become aware of the issue, we see surges in sales," he says. "Generally, once you've become a user, it makes you conscious of the kind of thing you used to throw away or keep under your bed - once you've become a shredder, it would be rare that you would stop."An associated problem is knowing what you can and can't shred. "We issue guidelines. We have a record management booklet that tells you how long you have to keep certain documents, whether it's for three months or years."But managing documents legally and properly needn't mean keeping a physical copy. Taking an image of it and retaining it on your computer is an option, and there are people who can advise on the most cost-effective way of doing so. Xerox's Alan Williams points to alternatives other than shredding, such as pulping, which means a document can't be reconstituted, even with infinite patience. But he also stresses that people should take advice on what they discard. "There's no one size that fits all - if you're a paediatrician, you keep records until the child is 25, for example." People should be aware of the times they need to keep documents within their own industries, he suggests.The information age, however, is introducing grey areas. "What about emails? If I mail someone and ask how they are, and they're a business colleague, do they have to keep that?" Xerox's answer, frequently, is to get customers to turn a document into an image from which a few key phrases can be extracted when necessary. It would be essential to take advice on what's acceptable in terms of electronic copies before starting.Legalities aside, it can be worth looking into shredding from purely an environmental point of view. "I tend to shred everything I would otherwise have thrown away," says Hill. "It takes up a fifth of the space in your bin, so you can put a lot more in your recycling bin." And, as he points out, if you haven't got a recycling bin, there's probably a pet rabbit somewhere that would welcome your old memos, once shredded.
When Business Solutions started publishing in 2000, the average IT set-up of a small to medium-sized business was very different from anything that might be expected now. People would have their computers, certainly, and some of them might be networked. The small and micro-business was waking up to the idea of computerised accounts, but people were still recovering from the scare over the 2000 bug.We fast forward to the present day, and broadband, not even spoken about half a decade ago, is all but pervasive. The thought of doing VAT returns by hand is alien to all but a handful of small businesses - and IT is seen overall as part of what enables someone to run a business.All of which adds up to the inescapable conclusion that many readers will be at the stage of upgrading their systems about now, if they haven't done so already. "Upgrade" is an interesting word in IT circles. It can, of course, mean adding more memory or storage to an existing system, or making the thing run faster somehow, but an awful lot of the time it means "get another one".This raises the issue of what to do with the original system and how to dispose of any surplus items cleanly. And in case anyone thinks this doesn't matter because you can always take things down to the dump if you no longer need them, there's a European directive, the Waste, Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, on the way which specifies that you may not use a landfill to get rid of computer equipment.After August 2005, it will be the manufacturer's problem to handle a computer's ageing and disposal but, for the moment, it's down to the owner.This is why a lot of suppliers will offer some sort of advice on what can be done with old computers. Richard Harrison, head of commercial services for PC World Business, says the first thing his customers get asked is whether they actually want to be rid of the systems in question. "There might be secure information on them that they don't want out there," he says. There are software tools that will overwrite that sort of information, but it's important not to fall for the idea that hitting the delete button is enough - deleted data can be recovered in the same way an audio cassette can be listened to with the record tabs still in - only once the information is actually replaced by something else will the data be gone.As for disposing of the kit afterwards, there are a number of options: "Our customers redeploy their information resources and technologies to schools, charities or give them to staff."If it can be done as easily as that, fine. It's not always as straightforward, though. "In the light of the WEEE directive, small and medium enterprises that have probably been quite slow off the mark in terms of recycling and re-use are being forced to take those things into consideration for their policies on disposal," says Tony Robert, chief executive of ComputerAid, a non-proÞt organisation that gets computers to schools and developing countries. "An increasing number of them have been working with us."Robert cites examples in the press in which the rich and famous have come famously unstuck when someone has come across an old hard disk of theirs. Stephen Fry and Paul McCartney have both had personal details put at risk, for example. "What ComputerAid has done is to partner with a data erasure software company, Blancco, and we use that software to permanently and unrecoverably erase all of the information."This is a reassuringly complex process that would satisfy the current regulations about deleting to government standards. Kim Valsanen, managing director of Blancco, explains that even formatting the hard drive isn't going to do the job of erasing all the data as well as an owner might hope: "If you format the hard drive, it's mostly like taking the index pages out of a book - you can still find everything. Awareness isn't at a peak yet, and I keep saying that every single office has a file shredder for the papers that they don't want, then they give away or sell away the electronic copies and nothing is done." Valsanen's belief is that the data protection commissioner should step in and draw attention to the issue, since awareness isn't where it needs to be.Andrew Tanner, of Life Cycle Services, advises on managing the whole life cycle of IT. He admits the larger companies have an advantage to begin with when looking at services like his, because they have more money to spend on managing their technology. "The other thing is that corporates tend to have large responsibilities in terms of protecting their brand, data protection issues and ethics. They have to write a chairman's report including a section on waste and corporate social responsibility."Some of those messages are not so relevant to smaller clients who are more financially focused, he says."The sort of education programme we do in the corporates would simply not be going on in those smaller companies. It's not economic to do any sales and marketing of the ideas to a small to medium company because the margins are so low, so the education is going to be limited, if at all."This leads to an enormous amount of wastage at a small to medium level, says Tanner. It's not just the wastage that's going to hit the SME community when WEEE hits, though. Everyone contacted for this article was keen on stressing the importance of the data on a computer that might be designated for the scrap yard, a school or a charity. As PC World's Harrison points out, that actually means knowing where all the information is on your network.Given the way in which a lot of SMEs have grown and extended their IT systems ad hoc rather than in planned phases, it's difficult to imagine this sort of organisation of data being in place. And that's where the whole principle could come unstuck.Disposable computers: a radical approachIn among all of the exhortations to get rid of IT kit cleanly and re-use it where possible, at least one major consultancy is advocating that this need not be done. PA Consulting has just published a white paper in which it suggests that whereas large computers - mainframes and the like - require technical consultancy and expertise to install and decommission, the smaller end - the PC for example - is increasingly commoditised and doesn't require anything more than the ability to plug it in before it will work. By moving into the world of disposable computing, larger companies would save 25% on their IT costs, says the consultancy.Paul Clayton, senior consultant at PA, comments that although a dud computer retains some intrinsic value, too much time can be spent working on finding the reason it's gone wrong. "The biggest cost of computers is the re-engineering around them when they go wrong. It's the physical time it takes to try and fix a problem." This hasn't actually fed through to the commoditised nature of the PC - if you have a pen going wrong you don't spend ages trying to find out why, you go and get another one, he says.This will be noticed in the corporate world much earlier than in the SME community, he suggests. It's not economic for a small business with no dedicated support to think through an IT policy like this when it's going to be stretched enough."Because of the reduction in the price of computers, it might become more prevalent for SMEs to nip down to PC World and buy a £300 PC when something goes wrong rather than pay for someone to come and fix it," he suggests. The difficulty will then be the lack of planned back-up of information in the small business market; the £300 replacement only works if all the vital information can be put on to it immediately, and that only works if everything has been backed up before there's a problem.
Britain may no longer be able to boast that it is the workshop of the world, but thousands of small businesses are doing brisk trade overseas. In fact, recent research by Lloyds TSB found the UK export market is in its healthiest state since 1996.So what steps do you need to take when you want to expand your company's horizons? The main issues to consider when looking at becoming an exporter fall into three categories: cultural, logistical and financial.Firstly, you need to identify which markets you will be able to sell your goods in and gain a thorough understanding of any cultural peculiarities that could help or hinder your business. It goes without saying that every country in Europe is unique - the Eurovision Song Contest is incontestable proof of this fact - so fieldwork is essential. Visit the country or countries you intend to sell to. Speak to companies which are already operating in the same area. The same goes for countries further afield.John Beaney, head of international invoice finance at HSBC, says: "It's crucial you understand the culture. Problems can arise from something as basic as the name of your product and whether it makes sense in a foreign language." Other resources for advice include the government's Business Link service (www.businesslink.org) and UK Trade and Investment (www.uktradeinvest.gov.uk), which has information on more than 200 countries and 34 market sectors. If your bank has an international presence, it too could provide useful advice. Export clubs are also worth considering. These are regional teams which get together to discuss exporting, and are led ultimately by the DTI (www.dti.gov.uk).Official trade missions are a good way of making contacts in new markets and exploring unfamiliar territory. They are especially useful if you are considering exporting to an emerging market, such as eastern Europe or China.Beaney says: "If you are a first-time exporter, going on a mission is a good investment. They take on challenging markets, but you get the chance to meet other people who have exported before. Trade missions tend to get a better reception because they are official - they open doors. They are well organised and there are more of you - if you are on your own, it's harder to get people interested in your business. If there are a variety of different businesses represented, it will draw more interest." Details of trade missions and country information can be found at the British Embassies website,www.britishembassy.gov.uk.Newer markets need not be daunting - in fact, they are receptive to British trade, according to Beaney: "Places like China are becoming more prosperous, and people have more disposable income. British brands and products are attractive."Once you have identified your target market, you need to decide how you will distribute your goods. Ask yourself whether you want to deal directly with the end consumer or use a distributor or local agent.This is the single most important issue in setting up an export operation, according to Siva Sivaraman, financial director at urban streetwear brand Boxfresh. Exports account for about 20% of the London-based firm's £12.5m turnover through sales in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Japan and Australia.Sivaraman says: "You need to go out to the country you are exporting to and get a reliable distributor. You end up spending a bit more on discounts, but you save in terms of not having bad debts and a credit controller chasing after them."A small company like ours can't afford to be chasing debts, given that we work with 100 retailers in Italy alone. It's better to use a reputable distributor and let the bank collect the money."How do you go about finding a reputable distributor in a foreign country? "A lot depends on how you go out and market your product," says Sivaraman. "We rely on word of mouth, contacts that our MD and sales people have made, and the trade shows we attend. Your bank can also carry out credit checks on potential distributors."Having the correct documentation is another important factor, Beaney says: "Many people regard this as a chore, but it is fundamental to success. The terms of purchase and sale need to be set out clearly, the laws governing transactions must be specified, and delivery terms need to be nailed down. It's worth investing time in making sure your terms of sale are understood".On the financial side, the currency you use and the trade cycle of the country you are dealing with are the two main areas to consider.Inexperienced exporters tend to sell in sterling, according to Beaney. This means buyers have to make a mental calculation of the cost in their currency and have the extra worry of fluctuating exchange rates. The key is to make it easy for people to do business with you.You must also ensure your cashflow can accommodate a lengthened trade cycle. In northern Europe, the cycle is usually about 30-60 days, which is comparable with the UK. In southern Europe and further afield, 120-150 days can be the norm. This can have a profound impact on your company's profitability. HSBC has a trade cycle calculator on its website -www.ukbusiness.hsbc.com- to help you calculate how your cashflow will be affected, as well as information on international trade.
