There was a rash of blog stories last week along the lines of "Microsoft announces Joost killer" which I ignored for a few simple reasons: it wasn't new, it was misleading (it isn't a Joost-killer), and it was wrong (ie it wasn't a Microsoft launch). But that's not the end of the story.Long Zhengpointed out the basic error and commented: "something like this clearly demonstrates how susceptible blogs can become to misinformation spreading like wild fire and how that problem can be compounded by the Chinese-whispers effect." True -- but it's not confined to blogs, of course.Ed Bott (at Ed Bott's Windows Expertise) added: "And not only do they not bother to get the story right in the first place, they rarely do corrections either." Then he cited a few examples.What seems to have got this particular rubbish off the ground is a story in Ars Technica, which not only got the headline wrong (see above) but started with the sort of hypocritical twaddle that could, perhaps, appeal to some A-list bloggers. It said: "Sometimes it seems like Microsoft just can't be happy with improving its current software lineup. Instead, the company feels the need to reinvent, or flat-out buy, what someone else has already done." My theory is that by playing to their prejudices, Ars Technica simply bypassed their brains. However, I'll bow to pleas of incompetence as being the more obvious explanation.Ars Technica has now given its storya new headline, a rewrite(so the opening has vanished without trace), and an update. No doubt they are deeply embarrassed about the quality of their original story, but would have been too much to add an apology as well?In case anyone cares, the piece was aboutLiveStation, a peer-to-peer approach to deliveringliveBBC TV over the net, which Joost doesn't do. The British company behind it is calledSkinkers, and it's using Microsoft's Silverlight plus two technologies (Pastry and SplitStream) licensed from Microsoft Research in Cambridge. They're partners, but Skinkers obviously isn't Microsoft.Sure, there's a "rush to be first" on blogs and online sources in general. But the story seems to have come froma Skinkers interview posted by Steve Clayton on[corrected]June 20, following up something on the LiveStation beta, which heposted on June 13. Clayton works for Microsoft, and he also posted aLiveStation demo video on Microsoft's Soapboxthree weeks ago.We all make mistakes when rushing to do a story -- I've made plenty -- but what was the rush in this case? When Ars Technica ran it,the story was already three weeks old. Would another hour or two really have made a difference? Well, apart from reducing the number of readers attracted by a headline that didn't stand up.....
On 5 March this year, an ad appeared on the spectacularly popular video-sharing website,YouTube. The person who posted it identified him or herself as 'ParkRidge47' - the place where Hillary Clinton grew up and her year of birth - but the video did not appear to have originated anywhere near that presidential candidate's camp. An updated version of Ridley Scott's famous Apple Macintosh ad from 1984, it took the Orwell-inspired original, in which armies of grey-faced workers are lectured to from a vast television screen by a fearsomely Nazi-like dictator, and replaced the face and voice of Big Brother with those of Hillary Clinton. 'One month ago I began a conversation with all of you,' she says from the screen, addressing the masses she refers to as 'hard-working'. A digital subtitle appears across her face: 'This is our conversation', before a colourfully clad sprinter races up to the screen and smashes it with a mallet.The ad sought to show how little like an actual conversation Hillary's one-way mode of address is, and its brilliance was that the form and the content were beautifully entwined: the anonymous posting was itself the equivalent of the girl with the mallet - a way of smashing the old order of demagoguery and spin by surreptitiously democratic digital means. The ad, entitled 'Vote Different', ended by transforming the Apple logo into an 'O', underneath which was written: barackobama.com.Negative advertising is a popular sport in American politics (in 2000, George Bush did it subliminally, by flashing the word 'Rats' over Al Gore's promises). Yet the new '1984' ad, while conceptually ingenious and technically accomplished, hardly seemed in keeping with Barack Obama's gentlemanly modus operandi. Where had it come from? No one seemed to know. The Obama campaign denied any involvement, and Clinton's claimed to be equally clueless.Within days, the 'Vote Different' ad had, as the digitally savvy world likes to say, 'gone viral'. It was picked up by progressive blogs, by conservative blogs, by advertising blogs - and then by the mainstream media. The San Francisco Chronicle hailed it as 'a watershed moment in 21st-century media and political advertising', and every time the ad received any kind of coverage from then on, it would send viewers to YouTube to look at it. As of last week, 'Vote Different' had been seen by more than 3 million people and discussed ad infinitum, making an ad that was disseminated for free and apparently independently of a political campaign far more effective than any official ad made by the presidential candidates in the 2008 race so far. 'ParkRidge47', who remained anonymous, became an instant YouTube celebrity, a poster child for the idea that anyone can have a widely heard voice. Interviewed onTechPresident.com, a new website designed to track the 2008 candidates' use of the internet, ParkRidge47 proudly said that 'considering Hillary Clinton's biggest video has only received 12,000 views on YouTube, I'd say the grassroots has won the first round'.Still in the dark as to the identity of ParkRidge47, by now the most famous anonymous political commentator since Joe Klein wrote Primary Colors, Barack Obama was asked about the ad on Larry King Live. 'In some ways,' he said, 'it's the democratisation of the campaign process, but it's not something we had anything to do with or were aware of and, frankly, given what it looks like, we don't have the technical capacity to create something like this. It's pretty extraordinary.'As it turned out, that couldn't have been further from the truth. The ad was made by a young political nerd in his living room one Sunday afternoon, using an editing programme called Final Cut Studio on his MacBook. Phil de Vellis, aka ParkRidge47, was outed by Arianna Huffington, the influential editor of online magazine Huffington Post, who sent a team of journalistic gumshoes out to find him. When she rang De Vellis and asked point-blank whether he had made the ad, he did not deny it, and Huffington asked him to write a column explaining the story ('Hi. I'm Phil,' his column began, 'I did it. And I'm proud of it'). De Vellis, it transpired, was a senior strategist at Blue State Digital, an internet consulting firm that had been involved in Barack Obama's online campaign, and he had composed the ad without their knowledge. Not wanting to get his employers or his preferred candidate into trouble, he resigned from his job as soon as his identity was revealed.Despite his sadness over this particular turn of events, De Vellis was keen to encourage others to do the same. No high-end equipment was involved, he said when interviewed: 'This shows that the future of American politics rests in the hands of ordinary citizens.' He made 'Vote Different', he said, because he was 'frustrated by the way politicians in general are using video, treating it just like they treat TV, and I wanted to make a statement saying that you have to do more - you have to actually interact with your audience out there, and a pretend conversation is not enough'. He declared triumphantly that 'the old political machine is over. This ad was not the first citizen ad, and it will not be the last. The game has changed.'It has indeed. 2008 has already been repeatedly referred to as 'the YouTube election', and candidates are all trying to keep up. During the last presidential election, bloggers were the new digital phenomenon to contend with; now YouTube has taken precedence, and it has the potential for much more dramatic effect. The site was founded in February 2005, not long after George Bush had won a second term. (In November last year it was bought by Google.) Because its content is largely unregulated it has, in the course of this first presidential race since its founding, come into its own by giving citizens an outlet and a function. Where blogs offer commentary, video-sharing provides a way for anyone to judge a candidate for themselves, with their own eyes.Though the site is not a political one, its sublimely rogue influence on national politics was clear before the race began. Last summer, George Allen, the Republican Senator from Virginia, publicly addressed a campaign operative from the opposing side who was videotaping him (as is traditional) in the hope of finding negative material for an ad. He called the campaign worker, who was of Indian descent, 'macaca'. The racist epithet flew onto YouTube in no time - why bother to spend time and money making an ad when you can bring down a politician instantly with his own gun? Allen lost his campaign for re-election.Now - perhaps inspired by De Vellis's stark depiction of politicians' 'pretend conversations' - YouTube has teamed up with CNN to host a debate with all the Democratic presidential candidates on 23 July. Instead of the usual format of presidential debates, which involves carefully vetted people in suits asking questions that have been prepared long in advance, the YouTube CNN debate, which will be moderated by CNN's star anchorman Anderson Cooper, is inviting all American citizens to submit questions via video, and to be 'creative' in their concoctions. Among the questions already posted are: 'Hey, Hillary, who's going to run the White House? You or Bill?'; 'Will you allow congressional hearings into alien landings?'; and 'Which is more dangerous, alcohol or marijuana?' Keen that the debate should not be limited to YouTube aficionados, the website's news and politics editor Steve Grove made an announcement encouraging viewers to go out with their cameras, seek people who do not have access to the internet (a quarter of Americans don't) and videotape their questions.Andrew Rasiej, co-founder of TechPresident, feels the organisers of the debate aren't going far enough. Why, he wondered when I spoke to him, do the questions still have to be filtered through CNN? 'It's a backhanded compliment by mainstream media to the internet,' says Rasiej. 'If we're really going to start thinking about better ways to have less sound-bite politics, then we should be looking at the entire ecology of this. The notion that you can keep the tools of the internet out of the hands of voters who will influence the campaign among themselves is preposterous.''You wouldn't have guessed, would you, that so many interesting controversies turn on video,' says Michael Kinsley, founding editor of the first serious online magazine,Slate. You think a quote's a quote, he muses, but no: what can be shown has far more impact than what is merely said. 'And it's amazing how many things are being videotaped,' he adds wryly. 'You're sort of afraid to go outside.' Thanks to the lesson of George Allen, candidates are wary of being caught in their own 'macaca moments'. Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate who most closely resembles an inhabitant of Stepford, told the New York Times last month that he was unable to let his guard down because 'running for President in the YouTube era, you realise you have to be very judicious in what you say'.'The candidates still think that every time a video camera is on them, it's television,' Andrew Rasiej explains, 'so they start acting the part. They don't realise that video on the web is an entirely different medium that requires a different set of sensibilities, and it's easily recognisable to the viewer when the candidate is not being authentic. Unfortunately there are still going to be these "gotcha" moments, but my argument is that the way to fight the gotcha moments is not by being defensive but by embracing the technology and producing lots of high-quality authentic content yourself.'The media research firm PQ Media, which has reported that campaigns spent $29m on web ads and email marketing in 2004, now estimates that the 2008 figure could reach $80m. But even that figure is perhaps less relevant than the advent of the random element - the impact of the web activity that candidates don't pay for. 'There's something naturally dissident about it,' says Kinsley, with pleasure. Rasiej thinks it's a mistake to suppose that only 'viral' videos such as De Vellis's 'Vote Different' ad can have an effect. He suggests, rather, that if one person who lives next to a lake whose high-water mark is 20 feet lower than it was 20 years ago makes a video showing that and saying he'll vote for the candidate with the best environmental policy, all he has to do is send it to 10 friends, who'll then pass it on, to make an impact. 'What the internet has done,' says Rasiej, encapsulating the change, 'is it's taken the conversations over the backyard fence, or around the water cooler, and put them on steroids.'Now every citizen can be an advertiser or an auteur. You can see, at the click of a mouse, John McCain's or Mitt Romney's trail of self contradictions or 'flip-flops'. Another popular video is of John Edwards, who famously spent 400 campaign dollars on a haircut, styling his hair before a TV interview. The video unfolds to the tune of 'I Feel Pretty', harking back to Paul Wolfowitz's horrendous spit-combing in Fahrenheit 9/11 and making its author something of a home-made Michael Moore. In fact, YouTube may well put Michael Moore out of business - documented events and their instant dissemination could simply move too fast for him to keep up.The notion of a 'citizen ad' is an intriguing one, suggesting as it does both a citizen's arrest - the idea of doing something without pay for the public good - and Citizen Kane. You can, from the privacy (and affordability) of your own home, have an effect akin to that of a mogul. Professor Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Centre at the University of Pennsylvania, and one of the country's leading experts on advertising in political campaigns, considers this development and says: 'There's a saying in the United States, "The press is free for anyone who owns one." That's no longer true. You still have to have some income, because you have to have a computer, but the cost of getting access to the public has dropped dramatically - and that goes back to the early days of the republic, when there was more capacity to simply post things. The American revolution was fed by individuals who could easily get things into circulation, in part because the public was so small. When we moved to mass channels of communication, the ability of the individual to affect politics dropped, and to some extent that's been regained now. It changes the rules, and I think it's healthy.'Is YouTube the ultimate form of democracy, then, a means by which voters can have their say and politicians can really listen? Or is it something to be feared, a kind of anarchic 24-hour surveillance? You can imagine a scenario along the lines of The Manchurian Candidate, in which moving images are inserted into one's brain and reappear, unbidden, at intervals: the entire voting process would be made of up rewind and replay, and the election would unfurl like a bad dream - or a good music video, depending on your YouTube tastes.Early last month, just as Hillary Clinton was asking her web followers to vote on which of her preferred tunes should provide the theme song for her campaign, a mysterious music video appeared on YouTube under the name 'Obamagirl'. By the time Hillary announced on her website that Celine Dion's 'You and I' had won the campaign song vote - with a clever and much-publicised spoof video of the final scene of The Sopranos, starring herself as Tony and Bill as her 'wife' - Obamagirl's contribution had already become the song of the summer and effortlessly added cool and kudos to Barack Obama's campaign.'Hey, B, it's me,' a beautiful, pneumatic girl whispers into a phone, in a brilliant parody of every faux-soul pop song ever produced. 'If you're there, pick up. I was just watching you on C-Span.' Then, against various backdrops of Barack Obama looking like a Men's Health magazine cover, she sings (or, as it turns out, lip-synchs) the following: 'You seemed to float onto the floor/Democratic convention 2004/I never wanted anybody more/than I want you'. The painfully catchy chorus is: 'I've got a crush on Obama', and certain lines, such as 'you can Barack me tonight', will surely prove as immortal as Obamagirl's bright red 'Obama'-labelled hot pants.The people behind the ad were nothing to do with Obama himself (note how Obama attracts the most talented renegades to his side) but a 21-year-old undergraduate named Leah Kauffman, who sang the song and wrote it with her 32-year-old advertising executive friend Ben Relles and her producer Rick Friedrich. The team found a model called Amber Lee Ettinger to play the part. Kauffman and Relles had previously made a hilarious music video skit for Saturday Night Live that both parodied and starred Justin Timberlake (title: 'My Dick in a Box'). But this time they were short of a filmmaker and eventually found one by placing an ad on Craigslist. Some volunteers replied and they all hit the streets of Manhattan with a DV camera two hours later. The video had more than a million hits on YouTube within four days - something of an internet fairy tale.During the 1956 presidential campaign, the Democratic party hired Dore Schary, the head of MGM studios, to try to mould the image of its candidate, Adlai Stevenson. Stevenson, a sharp-tongued intellectual who eventually lost to Eisenhower for the second time in a row, found the entire process humiliating. 'The idea that you can merchandise candidates for high office like breakfast cereal... is the ultimate indignity to the democratic process,' he complained.In The Hidden Persuaders, a seminal book published the following year, Vance Packard sought to show how we were all affected by subliminal advertising, and how politicians also used this to their advantage. In the YouTube era, though there is less spin, the 'hidden persuaders' are arguably even more hidden: anonymous posters on the internet. How can we avoid the sinister implications of negative advertising from indecipherable sources? Phil de Vellis addressed this question when he said he thought the system regulated itself: 'If someone put out an ad that was untruthful or underhand, we'd find out who it was,' he said. 'An ad generally only goes viral if there's some truth in it.' Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who aside from her academic duties also runsfactcheck.org, a non-profit organisation dedicated to checking the accuracy of US campaign ads, suggests that this new surreptitious threat is small because the same risk applies to TV ads anyway. 'There never has been any way of ensuring that the ads that you see are reliable in the United States, because bona fide political candidates have protection against any form of censorship. So as a broadcast station, you must air an ad for a candidate if you've aired an ad for the alternative candidate.'If Packard had more foresight than Stevenson, even he did not predict the developments of the Sixties, which began with the first televised presidential debates - four exchanges between Kennedy and Nixon, seen by an extraordinary 70 million viewers - and which continued with what is still considered the most effective political ad of all time, Lyndon Johnson's 'Daisy' ad of 1964. The ad, which cut from a young girl counting the petals on a daisy to a mushroom cloud, implied that Barry Goldwater would lead the nation into a nuclear war. It was shown only once - and that once brought Goldwater down. (You can find itonlinetoo.)The advent of YouTube in the 2008 election is, Jamieson believes, a watershed moment comparable to these because, as she puts it, 'it changes the structure underlying the political discussion'. Chuck DeFeo, who ran the Bush-Cheney online campaign in 2004 and who describes himself as 'the old man in this field', having been involved in online politics for the past 12 years, remembers a time when 'those of us who were doing this were waiting for the 1960 moment: the moment television became the dominant medium candidates used to communicate to the electorate. We were excited about that, because it was traditionally seen as a positive moment. But the more I look back on that, it was the moment in which broadcast - that one-to-many model - became the dominant way in which campaigns communicated, and that probably wasn't a healthy thing. Because candidates started to look at the electorate as an audience to talk at, rather than to talk with. Prior to that it was really grassroots effort. That's how campaigns were run for centuries. And now with the rise of the internet there is the ability to have a true dialogue with the voter.'Of course, what effect all of this will really have on votes remains to be seen. An example often cited to suggest that the possibilities of the internet may have been overblown is that of Howard Dean, who in the run-up to the last election built an unprecedented community of online supporters, and then failed to win the Democratic nomination when it came to actual votes. Dean raised more money than any other Democrat last time around and did so primarily through an entirely novel method that is now being taken up and extended by Barack Obama: instead of turning to the wealthy few, as candidates traditionally have, he raised funds online from a collection of ordinary citizens who each gave an average of $80 (the legal limit for donations is $2,000 per person). The method itself was inexpensive, and the average donation size so small it meant that Dean built up an email list of donors whom he could continue to tap for money throughout the election season.So what went wrong? Andrew Rasiej regrets the fact that 'everyone's trying to point to the internet as the linchpin for the success or failure of his campaign. The notion that online prowess is automatically going to deliver success offline is a mistake, but it's also a mistake to think that offline traditional politics can ignore the power of the internet. Our site exists as a way of keeping track of the pulse or the pace, but we're not saying that just because Barack Obama has three times as many YouTube viewers or Facebook friends as Hillary that means he's going to be elected as the nominee. You need a whole bunch of things to work.'Still, what Obama is doing with the internet - regardless of what people on the internet are doing independently for him - is very smart. He has begun with the Howard Dean model - a large number of small-scale donors - but he's asking them to do more than contribute. He's encouraging them to build networks of friends, to meet other supporters, even to date each other. 'They're being solicited in a different way,' Rasiej explains. 'It's the psychology of the message as well as the techniques used to deliver it that are important. He uses language that promotes voter-empowerment. Look at his site: you can have your own blog, you can create your own social network. They're not afraid of having extraneous people on their site - there aren't a lot of angry people attacking Barack Obama on the web leaving nasty notes on his website - as opposed to Hillary Clinton, who's not in a position to open herself up that way.'Obama has hired Chris Hughes, the 23-year-old co-founder of the social networking site Facebook, to run his online campaign. John Edwards has hired a 19-year-old whiz named George Stern. Of all the Democratic candidates, these two have been the savviest and most successful at harnessing the power of the internet. Republicans, Rasiej suggests, 'have a much harder time with the culture of the internet, which encourages openness and collaboration, because for decades they've been so successful at delivering messages in a top-down format. It's almost as if you're trying to get one operating system to work with another - like trying to get Microsoft to work with Macs. It's a cultural disconnect.'But Chuck DeFeo is highly knowledgable and delighted by what's going on now. 'We circulated several web videos attacking Kerry's record or putting out the President's positive message,' he tells me, 'but there was no site like YouTube for us to be able to distribute a video like that. We were dependent on our email list, or it would get played on the news. Today, any campaign can distribute a video on YouTube and reach hundreds of thousands, maybe a million folks, in a very cost-effective manner - that's a powerful thing.' YouTube may even spell the death of the focus group. 'You know, things are evolving. Everyone's trying to figure this out,' he reflects. 'YouTube is one huge focus group, a large marketplace of ideas - some goofy ideas, like the dog riding the skateboard, but there's some intelligent stuff going on there too. It's much more representative than what you can get with a dozen people in a conference room.'What will happen in the future - either next year or in elections to come - is anyone's guess. Michael Kinsley, who weathered a good deal of scepticism when he founded Slate, thinks that these 'cheap shots, which are delightful', will be less damaging in four years' time, because everyone will be used to them by then. 'There was a time when people were making the same speculations about email,' he says, 'or television. Or arms and legs for that matter. Soon it'll be part of life - it won't be worthy of comment.' Rasiej says he can imagine that eventually, when the generation that's being raised with these tools runs for office, entire campaigns will actually be run inside Facebook. Jamieson, who is in charge of the largest academic survey done on the electorate, says that every academic in her field is asking the question of how this will translate into votes. She expects that 'it will take two more elections before we have a really good answer to the internet question'.I ask DeFeo at what point he thinks this brave new democracy will spill over into anarchy, and he laughs. 'Well, I'm going to paraphrase Jefferson,' he says: 'A little revolution's healthy for our republic. So we'll see what happens.'Watch the top ten Presidential candidate YouTube moments
The in-jokes are not going to get too many people rolling in the aisles, but a link from theDirect2Dell blogto thisYouTube news reportshows more humour than most people might expect.
Some new teams are participating in this week's RoboCup in Atlanta -- in a Nanogram Demonstration competition.MSNBC reports:Soccer fans will need a microscope to keep up with this game: Tiny robots will dribble a "soccer ball" no wider than a human hair on a field that can fit on a grain of rice.The story says: "Five teams are entered in the nano-competition: two teams from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and one each from the US Naval Academy in Maryland, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and Simon Fraser University in Canada.
ProfessorDonald Michie, 84, and his ex-wife Dame Anne McLaren, 80, were killed in a car crash as they travelled from Cambridge to London yesterday, reportsReuters.Michie worked with Alan Turing andJack Goodon code-breaking at Bletchley Park and more recently wrote a book,Secrets of Colossus Revealed. He went on to be director of the University of Edinburgh's Department of Machine Intelligence and Perception and was founder, director and chief scientist at the Turing Institute in Glasgow.I got to know him slightly in the early 80s when he was marketing ExpertEase, a spreadsheet-style artificial intelligence program for the IBM PC. We kept vaguely in touch and he wrote a few articles for us, such asPutting a personality in a PC, and at least threeSecond Sight columnsin what was then the Online section.One of these columns began: "A possible future for the internet is that humans and computers will grow together to form what biologists might term a single symbiotic life-form." (June 15, 2000) He followed this up wondering whether the relationship would besymbiotic or parasitic.
Honda Civic Type R GT&pound;18,615Miles per gallon: 26.1Seats: 4Good for: Joy ridersBad for: Coy driversFor men with a penchant for gold jewellery, heavily gelled hair and lightly razored beards, the long wait is finally over. Ever since Honda announced at the beginning of last year that they'd be updating their bestselling hot hatch, denim-clad speed boys have been biting their knuckles in anticipation. And now, after a seemingly endless run of 'concepts', the Type R is finally here - a full-on, flame snorting, Red Bull slurping motor that boasts the ground clearance of a Hoover and handles like an adult-sized Scalextric car. I've also been waiting - though for not quite as long. A few days before the Type R was due to be delivered to me, I received an apologetic call from Honda's press office. 'Um, very sorry, but the journalist who was testing it last week, er, slightly over-cooked it on a tricky bend and, well, the car will be in the body shop for longer than we were expecting ...'When it did arrive, all glinting alloys, flouncing side skirts and a high-revving 146mph 2-litre i-VTEC engine, I quickly realised how easy it would be to 'over-cook' a Type R. This isn't to say it's not a safe car. It's just that it appeals to your less cautious side. Which, considering it is a humdrum Honda Civic, is quite a turnaround.The Civic has been in continuous production for 35 years - the second longest from a Japanese manufacturer (Toyota's Corolla has been going for four years longer). And in that time it has gained a reputation as a quietly chivalrous and reliable mode of transport. But then along came the latest Civic make-over - the eighth in total. And where once there was sense, there was now sensation. The new car featured the kind of extreme styling that had angina patients reaching for their pills. Swollen with plastic bulges and weird angular shapes, it looked like a car-sized espresso machine designed by someone with a deep aversion to curves. Everything from the triangular exhaust pipes and isosceles lamps, to the honeycomb grille and arrow-point door handles were sharp and pointy. Now, with the arrival of the high-performance Type R variant, Honda has given its futuristic car the kind of out-there performance its looks deserve.Inside, it's all about the driving experience. The seats are black racing-style buckets with red stitching. The steering wheel and gear stick also feature the same sexy stitching. It's clearly been styled by a Betty Page fetishist. The dashboard is built on two tiers, and flashes at you frantically from both banks; even the centre of the steering wheel is an information point. It all makes you feel like you're driving an episode of 24 rather than a hatchback.Hit the engine start button and you begin to see what all the fuss is about. With its extraordinarily direct steering, stiff ride and limitless power, the Type R handles like a macho fairground ride - leaving you feeling exhilarated, scared, dizzy and slightly queasy.Last week, it was announced that the only country outside Europe where you'll be able to buy the car is Australia. Which probably says all you need to know about the Type R.martin.love@observer.co.uk
We don't have room to print all the letters and blog pingbacks we receive each week, but here we do. This week you were mostly worried about inefficiency in a system for extracting power from aluminium alloy. Funny how we don't worry about that with petrol or gas...RINGTONES&gt;&gt; What makes normally sane and cynical hard maths quant jocks go all dewy eyed and mushy brained when it comes to mobile projections? As one person said at Essential Web 07 yesterday, every year it will be Mobile's Year - next year.http://broadstuff.com/archives/309-Why-do-mobiles-turn-us-into-idiots.html&gt;&gt; I don't think the ringtone business is going to disappear any time soon, but it's unlikely to grow much either—and the industry may have to consider not charging three times as much for a ringtone as for an MP3 of the entire song.http://www.moconews.net/entry/419-the-unpredictable-ringtone-market/WHICH FUTURE?Kevin Anderson reports on some future scenarios generated by the Economic and Social Research Council, including one described as "gridlock": "The left-right split of today's politics gave way to a deeply divisive standoff between "naturals" and "enhanceds". Enhanceds used all the tools of science to make life better, with intelligence-enhancing drugs and genetic screening of embryos for positive or negative traits (such as a predisposition to cancer). Naturals, a novel alliance of science sceptics from the old left and religious fundamentalists from the right, rejected enhanceds' "meddling" with nature." The ESRC really should have read some science fiction first - because this is very similar to what Bruce Sterling was writing about in his "Shaper/Mechanist" series some twenty years ago. All the ESRC has therefore achieved is a pointless re-invention of the wheel. (Quick references:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Sterlingandhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaper/Mechanist) Joseph Nicholas, London&gt;&gt; These products of conventional educational brain-binding could not possibly dream up a possible future, in their wildest imagination. Because, frankly, their imaginations are hardly wild at all. This is the problem with modern journalists and academics. No grist. No imagination. They are laying the perfect groundwork for the coming Idiocracy.http://alfin2100.blogspot.com/2007/07/futurism-thomas-frey-vs-idiocracy.htmlSURNAMES (TECHNOBILE)Gordon Mackie thinks he's got problems? (Technobile, Thursday, 28 June 2007). Try finding any CRM software that allows a surname to begin with a lower case letter. Kate de Wolf, LancasterGordon Mackie gets his name changed. I get my address changed. My hamlet is called Bucks Cross (though into the nineteenth century it was spelled Bucksh Cross). I regularly get letters addressed to me at Buckinghamshire Cross. I try to get these errors changed. The postal staff are very good about ignoring this mistake. But isn't it just annoying! Perhaps I should campaign for the 19th century spelling to be taken up officially. John Bradbeer, BidefordI read Gordon Mackie's article regarding the K in his name being capitalised and have just found the same problem when adding people to my family tree on Genes Reunited. I was adding my first husband's name and and the names of my two children which was Mackintosh and no matter how many times I deleted it and re -entered it with the lower case letter it still came up as a capital k. It seems to be another Americanisation inflicted upon us without our having any say in the matter. Inez Barnicoat, ShropshireI was very interested to read "Technobile" by Gordon Mackie. He describes how computers have converted the spelling of his surname to MacKie by making the 'k' uppercase no matter what he did to try to have this corrected. As he says "As a result I have become Gordon MacKie on countless mailouts from the banks, high street stores, credit card companies and other large organisations" Our family surname had been Mackenzie for generations: all were Scots as far as I can determine. However, in 1914, when registering my late father's birth, the registrar spelled his surname McKenzie – capitalising the 'k' and removing the 'a'. This was never corrected. As a result, myself, our children and my sister, have a different surname to my late uncle, paternal grandparents and previous generations. Imagine having a father with a different surname to his own blood brother and his parents! (There were no separations, divorces etc and my grandparents both lived into their nineties). When my wife first saw me writing an envelope to my uncle and addressing the envelope with the "wrong" surname, I am sure she thought I had gone quite mad! Incidentally, as far as I know, the spelling 'McK' without the 'a' is generally found in those of Irish descent – we have no Irish ancestry. We all now live in England! Dr Peter McKenzie, OxfordVAPOURWAREGreat story, but I can't believe you didn't mention the most exhaustively speculated on piece of vapourware in history: Elite 4. I guess I'll just stick with Elite 1 on my C64 until they finish it. Dr. Daniel O'Toole, GalwayPOWER FROM WATERIt sounds very exciting that Professor Woodall can get 4kWh of energy from reacting a a pound of aluminium with water ("For power, just add water", Guardian Technology, 28 June 2007). But his pound of aluminium is manufactured by electrolysing molten alumina: that will use just over 7 kWh of electricity (data from the International Aluminium Institute website). And that doesn't include the energy cost of refining the raw bauxite to make the alumina in the first place. So unless I'm missing something, we get at least 3kWh less out than we put in - what's the point of that? Graham Fraser, ShincliffeThe problem with Professor Woodall's proposal to extract power from an water using an alloy of Aluminium in Gallium is that whilst he can extract some 9kW hours of power from a kilo of aluminium (4kW hours per pound), the energy required to make a kilo of aluminium averages 15kW hours/kilogram and even the best most modern plants can only achieve 13kW hours per kilogram (Figures from Alcoa - see also New Scientist blog 22 May 2007 by Derek Gadd). Whilst the alloy could have potential for transporting hydrogen more conveniently, energetically it makes very little sense. Aluminium manufacture is also very environmentally unfriendly. Peter B Baker (Dr), LondonFrankly speaking, I do not believe that the storage of hydrogen via aluminium is a right answer but lithium could be right. The most important criterion for hydrogen storage is based on mass percentage. Aluminium or zinc is too heavy or lithium is light enough. The US DOE hope to find some materials that can store 9-12% mass H2 percent. In addition to storage capacity, we also need consider how much energy needed to regenerate alloy, and how fast and easy to do it. Aluminium regeneration surely consumes huge amount of electricity. How many cycle the material can endure. How to add heavy aluminium into vehicle? Safety is another consideration. For the future hydrogen economy, we need put a lot of things together – hydrogen production costs, hydrogen storage, distribution, and fuel cell as well as safety. Only talking about one side advantage cannot help us solve the systematic problems. Recently, we propose a simple solution to address the above challenges -- use of carbohydrate as hydrogen carrier. If we need hydrogen, produce it from sugar and water by novel biological method (low temp and pressure, very safe). Sugar is light, and has a 14.8 mass H2 storage capacity. Sugar is cheaper than most of energy sources. Sugar is renewable and carbon-neutral in the whole life cycle. We have published our first paper in PLOS ONE --http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchArticle.action?articleURI=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0000456. Percival Zhang, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VirginiaMichael Pollitt writes that the oxidization of one pound of aluminium can generate 2KWh of heat plus hydrogen gas equivalent to 2KWh. Furthermore, "The aluminium oxide produced when the gas is generated can be recycled back to aluminium". Unfortunately generating the aluminium from bauxite (or recycling the waste oxide) uses 6-9 KWh of power per pound weight. That power is mostly electricity, so huge amounts of coal/gas/uranium/wind will be required. The later statement that, "...just 25 grams of aluminium gives 34 litres [of hydrogen]", is rather misleading since 34L is only 3g. Mike Hale, LeedsIt can hardly be realistic to claim that by adding water to a gallium-aluminium alloy to produce hydrogen is simply using water as a fuel. The actual fuel is a combination of water and the alloy. The energy is in the alloy which will have to be renewed as much as the water. The rejuvenation of the alloy will need energy to be supplied. This can be done in factories devoted to the process. Their energy needs if not nuclear, wind or tidal will probably release carbon. The environmental advantage of hydrogen powered vehicles is that the local release of CO2 and other chemicals is zero. But one cannot escape from the need for energy generated elsewhere and this may not be any more environmentally than conventional energy supplies. That said a compact way of 'storing' hydrogen is much to be desired and this proposal and others may lead us to the sunlit uplands. Toby Norris, School of Engineering &amp; Applied Science, Aston University, BirminghamI am just a humble chemistry teacher, but I feel sure that the article published in today's Technology Guardian under the title "For power just add water", by Michael Pollitt, was based upon unsound science. As my students know, adding water to unoxidised aluminium produces hydrogen gas. They are aware that hydrogen has great potential as a carbon-free fuel source. However, they also know that the production of aluminium from bauxite ore is an incredibly energy intensive process. You report that 1lb of aluminium would produce around 2 kWh of energy in the form of burnable hydrogen, and a further 2kWh of heat. Heat transfer is always inefficient, so I would suggest that the true figure for usable energy is less than this, but even giving these figures the benefit of the doubt, that is still 4 kWh of energy per 1lb. What I have found through some reading this morning is that the most efficient smelters extract aluminium from bauxite using 12.8 kWh of energy per kilogram of metal produced. The average is more like 15 kWh per kg. Converting to the imperial measurements used in the article, producing 1lb of aluminium requires 5.81 kWh of energy. A net loss of energy then for this wonderful new process. And that is not taking into account the energy requirements for mining, processing and transporting bauxite, and the energy needed to produce the gallium ore. The aluminium oxide produced in this reaction can be smelted again to make more aluminium, but the energy required would then be similar to the figure quoted above. Therefore at no stage is this reaction going to produce any energy. It will be a net drain on energy resources, and therefore cause an increase in carbon emissions every time it is used to produce hydrogen for fuel. To call it a renewable source of energy seems ridiculous. I may have missed something here, and given the urgency with which we should be pursuing clean technologies in order to tackle climate change, I would be happy to be corrected. However, this does look like a case of bad science. Maybe it should have appeared in that other column in your paper? Trevor Critchley, LondonThe use of a gallium/aluminium alloy to produce hydrogen from water (For power, just add water, June 28) appears to offer the promise of unlimited "green" energy, but there's no such thing as a free lunch in Nature. The metallic aluminium is converted to aluminium oxide during the process. This oxide can indeed be recycled back to the metal, but it requires the input of a huge amount of energy, first to melt the oxide and then to separate the aluminium from the oxygen using a powerful electric current. According to the International Aluminium Institute, the most efficient smelting process currently available requires 14kWh of energy to produce one kilogram of aluminium metal, yet the gallium/aluminium reaction yields only 9kWh from that same kilogram of metal. That is neither green nor sustainable, and it would explain why IBM never tried to exploit Jerry Woodall's patent back in 1967. You cannot break the laws of physics. Dr David Harper, CambridgeIf you really want to use hydrogen then using gallium and aluminium is a nice approach. However, the recycling of the aluminium oxide is a stumbling block since the electricity necessary to recover the raw aluminium currently comes from coal and oil based generators. If we were to use only wind and sunlight to generate this electricity then the gallium/aluminium approach would be environmentally acceptable. There is a better way, however, that avoids hydrogen completely and that is to use ultra capacitors. Electricity in, electricity out. EEstorhttp://www.treehugger.com/files/2006/03/eestor_capacito_1.phpclaims to be developing a viable ultra capacitor. We have to wait to see whether they can make good on their claims. Douglas G. Danforth (no post town given)DARK SIDE OF THE SALESIncreased sales of Dark Side of the Moon? What could it mean? That it is still better music than most of today's new releases, perhaps? Glen Kiltz, Remington, Virginia&gt;&gt; What do increased sales of Dark Side of The Moon tell us? Hmmm. That people (all over the world) love marijuana. A lot. No. Like, a lot. Really a lot. They love it. Love it. A lot. Pink Floyd. Awesome. Like holy shit, a lot of people are smoking weed dude.http://timewastingisrad.blogspot.com/2007/07/what-do-increased-sales-of-dark-side-of.htmlSOCIAL NETWORKS (VIC KEEGAN)&gt;&gt; it seems obvious that recruitment consultants would be using Facebook to find potential candidates. My profile includes details of my employment history, as well as links to all the blogs I contribute to &amp; Facebook groups I have joined; many of which are based around search, social media, online marketing and digital media; as well as comments I have made in these groups. All of which provides essential information on a potential candidate's experience &amp; knowledge when deciding on his or her suitability for jobs in these sectors.http://www.eyefall.co.uk/blog/news/07096/looking-to-fill-digital-vacancies-try-social-networks.htmlWARRING MEDIA PLAYERS (TECHNOBILE)Mat's complaints about bossy media players made me come over all helpful... if I suggest VLC (VideoLan Client), could you pass that on? It's available for Win32 and plays a wide variety of video (and audio, though it's undeniably better at video) formats. It's open source, spyware free and although the installer probably does ask about associating with various file types it's not bossy after that. I don't use Windows myself but Windows victims I've recommended it to all seem to be very happy with it. It can be downloaded fromhttp://www.videolan.org- free of charge of course. I am not in any way affiliated with the makers; just a fan of the software. I gain nothing from encouraging its use beyond a warm, fuzzy, helpful feeling. Hope this helps alleviate hen-pecked Mat's daily existence and frees him from the perils of dubious, shifty players available free (small f, as in free beer) from disreputable cowboys like Microsoft... ;) I'd recommend an audio player too, but I get the sense that there's a lot of disagreement about which ones are good. I favour XMMS but I suspect it's not available for Windows. I could be wrong though - some kind soul might have ported it to toasterland by now. Users of Microsoft operating systems are rarely more than five years behind the leading edge, thanks to the open source community. Geoff Mackenzie, East KilbrideMAILMERGE (TECHNOBILE)Suggest going towww.OpenOffice.org&amp; download ver 2.2of Open Office. Open File | Wizards | Label &amp; follow the simple instructions: about 2 minutes. As an extra you get a full office suite for free! You have nothing to lose but your chains, bin Gates' garbage and start to think again! George Waby, KirkcaldyI noticed a couple of people writing in who are having difficulties with mail merge on Microsoft Word. If they have a look at our web site athttp://holdsworth-associates.co.uk/product.cfm?subjectid=15&amp;productrangeid=0&amp;productid=95they will find a short film clip and a couple of files for practice that might help them to get the hang of merging a short letter with a simple Excel spreadsheet. People who have used these resources have, apparently, found them very useful and easy to understand! John Holdsworth, Holdsworth Associates, Swavesey
For links to all the past week's posts, clickhere.Hot topics includedEnough about the iPhone already(24 comments),Edge's Top 100 games -- almost certainly not yours(64),iPhone batteries will cost $85.95 to replace(33), andFree energy? Erm, not yet, says Steorn(24).
SimCityNintendo DSOn paper SimCity sounds like the sort of game tax inspectors would buy their kids to make sure they grow up to be tedious. In it, you zone land for commercial, industrial and residential development; connect up water, electricity and sewage; build roads; set taxes and respond to the demands of your populace. It couldn't sound more like hard yet dull work if it tried. The reality of playing SimCity is one of continual tiny challenges followed by an endless supply of subtle, incremental rewards. Substituting stylus and touch screen for mouse control feels clumsy by comparison, but with practice works well enough to enjoy what is a deep and long-lived game, damaged by only being able to save one city and by a set of additional too-difficult challenge levels that must be completed in single, massive bouts of concentration - not a Game Boy-friendly feature.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;30Hot PixelPSPHot Pixel is Wario Ware Inc made over by the marketing department to appeal to 18 to 24 year-old males. The result is a set of fast mini-games carefully engineered to be urban, which means instead of Wario's shaking paws with a dog and games involving snot, you get rounds about body piercing, fist-based handshakes, skateboards and partial cartoon nudity. You also have to (in less than 10 seconds) synthesise caffeine using a molecular diagram and airbrush a model's whiteheads, which sums up Hot Pixel's dichotomy: despite being a rip-off, it's not without merit and inventiveness. With 200+ mini-games and dozens more to download, this is the nearest PSP owners can get to the anarchic joy of Wario Ware. Though, sadly, not that near.&#183;Atari, &pound;20Armored Core 4PS3, Xbox 360Don't be fooled by Armored Core 4's wonderfully plummy English voiceover - it's as Japanese as sushi and hara-kiri. A legion of giant walking robot tanks feature in the 12th of a series which only rarely pokes its (sinister robotic) head above the parapet over here. What you get is various levels of running and partially aerial battles that earn you cash for new equipment, the addition of which is always a trade-off between destructive power and manoeuvrability. With disappointingly simplistic environments, the mechs themselves look reasonably intricate even if you don't feel that you've got control of a 20-storey tall killing machine. If you've never played an Armored Core title you'll also feel short-changed by a tutorial that tells you how to shoot things, but stops short of explaining the labyrinthine upgrade system, leaving first timers marooned in menus.&#183;505 Games, &pound;49.99
MondayTuesdayUK drops to 4th in worldwide development industryVoice in gamesWednesdayThursdayOfficial gamesblog wikigame text adventure is goFridayUS Office hits casual gaming
Corporate vice president of Xbox Peter Moore -- whom I've known since he was flogging Dreamcasts for Sega -- has been talking to the games mags about the hot Xbox 360 console problem. He seems to have talked toGamespot,Wired News,GamesIndustry.biz,1Up,Kotakuand no doubt others. And as I posted last night, he also dida blogcast with Major Nelson.Moore does a lot of apologising, but not much useful stuff emerges. A couple of atoms of info from Gamespot are that problems are not related to specific software (it's nor Forza 2) and that the Elite version has been affected less than the Core and Pro.Moore won't be drawn on the failure rate. GamesIndustry.biz says: "I was just trying to figure out, is a 10 per cent failure rate acceptable? 15 per cent?" and Moore replies: "You know it when you see it. We saw it, and it was unacceptable, and we got after it."Moore says:So, you know, over the past few weeks and months we've been seeing enough information and gathering information... This is not something we just decided to do on Monday.We wanted to make sure we gathered the right amount of data. We made sure that we could put fixes in, plus equally importantly, made sure that we gathered all of the costs.As you can see, it is not an inconsequential amount of money. And so, you need to make sure you do it once and you do it right. You don't want to keep coming back every quarter saying 'Oh, there's more money that we didn't identify' so we're making sure we're covering all of the costs as well as covering any costs we're about to incur.
Sean McCarthy of Steorn. Photograph: Graeme Robertson/The GuardianThe story ofSteorn- an Irish company claiming that it has found a way to create 'free energy' - has been going on for a while, particularly since they placed an ad in the Economist asking for independent review of their system.Earlier this week, the team - led by boss Sean McCarthy - arrived in London for what they said would be a public demonstration of the technology, which they're calling Orbo.Except they didn't.According tothe demo website, "We are experiencing some technical difficulties with the demo unit in London. Our initial assessment indicates that this is probably due to the intense heat from the camera lighting. We have commenced a technical assessment and will provide an update later today."That was yesterday.For sheer entertainment value it's a great tale, and we've looked at it before.Steve Boggan first covered itlast summer for us with a long feature, andI followed upwhen I met up with Sean McCarthy in London at Christmas (Iblogged it too.But while a rerun of the eternal perpetual motion myth might be fun to read about, even those being kind to Steorn can see that they're finding it tough to back up their claims. Another case of too good to be true?Jack adds: Ben Goldacre covers Steorn in his Bad Science column today (Saturday, July 7):Perpetual motion goes into reverse.
Brian Krebs, a security expert who blogs at the Washington Post, has found thatGoogle Calendar can be a useful source of info that shouldn't be publicly available. He writes:Since security is what this blog is all about, I plugged "password" into a search of Google Calendar's public events, and within the first few pages of results found a username and password for a credit report account at TransUnion. The credentials belonged to Douglas Kerr, a network administrator for a software company in Charlotte, N.C. Kerr said he'd been experimenting with Google Calendar for a few weeks, but had no idea that he'd imported that record into the application.Searching events for "passcode", says Krebs, "produced hundreds of entries featuring toll-free conference lines and numeric codes used by various companies and their employees. My favorite was an entry entitled United Airlines Morning ISD Event Call."These are "technically proficient" business users, but there are plenty of ordinary folks.Some Google Calendar users posted vacation dates and jury duty -- just the kind of information that might be useful to a crook hoping to drop by your house while you're away. Some of the posts I saw along these lines included handy Google maps showing where the person lived. How convenient.Of course, the Google search engine is already a fantastic source of log-on names andpasswords, hacks, cracksandcoding vulnerabilities. Google Calendar just expands the collection.
Facebook has, as expected, had a flood of traffic since opening registration to hoi polloi like me.According to ComScore research, the number of unique visitors has jumped from 14.1 million in May 2006 to 26.6 million in May 2007 -- up by 89%.The big growth areas have been among people aged 12-17 (up 149%) and aged 25-34 (up 181%), as these joined the established 18-24 crowd (up 38%).Average number of minutes per visitor per month look spectacular at 186 minutes, after peaking in February at 200 minutes. This reflects the fact that newcomers spend more time setting up their profile pages, so I guess it will fall along with the growth rate, as the rush subsides.How long it will last is anyone's guess. Facebook is a "walled garden" like earlier social networks (Friendster, MySace, Orkut) and systems such as AOL, CompuServe and Prodigy. AOL was once almighty and where is it now? The lesson of history is that these are temporary phenomena -- which is not to say that Facebook won't break the mould.But the increase in Facebook's user base and traffic makes it more valuable to one of the GYM (Google, Yahoo, Microsoft) group and young founder Mark Zuckerman could probably get more than $2 billion for it now. If he hangs on for another year or two, that could easily reach $4-5 billion, and that might be a good time to sell. The chances of it reaching a Google-style $166 billion market cap seem to me to be pretty slim.
Therecent collapseof UK chain Fopp sums up the tricky trading situation faced by music retailers. The combined onslaught of downloads, piracy, supermarkets and a misguided purchase of a rival all did for Fopp . But what about game retail? Consolidation and closure is rife here too, with Game's recent purchase of main competitor Gamestation and independent stores fighting to stay in play. The Indies that survive generally rely heavily on the money made from trade-ins.So why go to a games shop in 2007? While there is still some nostalgic joy flicking through a CD/vinyl rack - and Fopp was the perfect "take a punt for a fiver" store - the same can't be said of most game shops. Accelerated shelf life means games - particularly anything vaguely leftfield - often disappear within weeks of release, occasionally resurfacing years later on a budget label. The pre-owned market may upset publishers and give stores the unpleasant feel of a jumble sale, but at least it offers the chance of finding something beyond the latest stuff. But why bother when you can find it on eBay? Supermarket, indie, chain (Game, HMV) or internet - where do you buy your games?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Enough to make David Brent cringe:Premium casual games publisher MumboJumbo today announced a new relationship with the Universal Pictures Digital Platforms Group to develop a mass-market game based on the Emmy Award-winning television series "The Office." Developed and published exclusively by MumboJumbo, The Office game will be available for online download and across multiple game platforms, including PC, PSP(R) (PlayStation(R)Portable), and Nintendo DS(TM), starting this fall.No joke. US-only, I presume.
Microsoft is paying out more than $1bn (&pound;497m) to repair chronic problems with its Xbox 360 games consoles, which break down in a fault known as the "red ring of death". The Seattle-based company said last night it had been forced to make an "unacceptable number of repairs" to the machines, which went on sale in 2005.The fault triggers three flashing red lights on the console, indicating a general hardware failure. On internet messageboards, the problem has been dubbed the "red ring of death", or "bricking", because the machine becomes no more useful than a brick. Microsoft has decided to extend warranties free of charge to cover a period running for three years from the date of purchase, following widespread complaints. The company will reimburse anyone who has paid for repairs to date.Microsoft said the clean-up would involve a charge of between $1.05bn and $1.15bn to its earnings for the financial quarter which ended in June.Robbie Bach, president of Microsoft's entertainment and devices division, offered "sincere apologies" for the problem. The commpany has not revealed the number of failures, but such was the volume of repairs that one British firm, Micromart, recently announced it would not take any more Xboxes, saying it was getting a "phenomenal amount" of machines coming in with the same issue.The write-off is a big blow to Microsoft's efforts to diversify from its traditional strength in software with products such as games consoles and a music player, the Zune, a competitor to Apple's iPod.The Xbox faces stiff competition from Nintendo's Wii and Sony's Playstation 3. Last Christmas, Microsoft said it had sold 1.13m Xbox consoles in the US during December, securing a 51% market share.But in a surprise downgrade, the company told investors in January that it was lowering its sales expectations for the year to June to 12m sales, compared with previous forecasts of between 13m and 15m, citing an oversupply of stock among retailers.
Microsoft has finallyresponded to Xbox 360 hardware problemsby extending the worldwide warranty to three years for systems with "a general hardware failure indicated by three flashing red lights".Microsoft stands behind its products and is taking responsibility to repair or replace any Xbox 360 console that experiences the "three flashing red lights" error message within three years from time of purchase free of charge, including shipping costs. Microsoft will take a $1.05 billion to $1.15 billion pre-tax charge to earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 for anticipated costs under its current and enhanced Xbox 360 policies."The majority of Xbox 360 owners are having a great experience with their console and have from day one. But, this problem has caused frustration for some of our customers and for that, we sincerely apologize," said Robbie Bach, president of Microsoft's Entertainment &amp; Devices Division. "We value our community tremendously and look at this as an investment in our customer base. We look forward to great things to come."Customers who paid to repair a three-red-light failure will get their money back.In the US, the Xbox 360 started with a 90-day standard warranty.There'sa FAQand Major Nelson has produceda blogcast with Peter Moore.Microsoft says: "There is not a single issue that we can point to as being a problem" but it has changed the design to try to fix it.(Charles Arthur adds: we're alsodiscussing this on the Gamesblog.)
If the term nanotechnology conjures up futuristic visions of grey goo and self-replicating nano-robots, think again. Nanotechnology - at the scale of about a millionth of a millimetre - is already being used in everyday objects, from trousers that have been coated with nanoparticles to make them stain-resistant to sun creams that use nanoparticles to increase their absorbency. In fact, the most widespread use of nanotechnology is in cosmetics - particularly foundation powders, since the particles can fill in tiny blemishes.But it can also be used to tackle big issues - and they don't come any bigger than global warming. Nanoparticles can be used to improve the energy efficiency of traditional materials. Examples range from lightbulbs that will last 60 years, now being developed at Cambridge University, to Envirox, a nanoparticle-based fuel additive used by Stagecoach to improve the efficiency of its buses.Direct conversionAnd if scientists at Imperial College are successful, we could soon be replacing old gas boilers in our homes with boilers based on fuel cells - 5cm x 5cm devices, a little like batteries, that directly convert chemical energy (produced by a combination of hydrogen and oxygen) to electrical energy and produce heat at the same time.Because there is no intermediary piece of equipment in the conversion of fuel to electricity, fuel cells are between 5% and 10% more efficient than traditional fuel sources - making them cheaper to use as well as better for the environment. As well as producing heat and power for the home, fuel cells could be used to power air conditioning units in cars, or as backup power suppliers for businesses.So confident are they of their product that six years ago the scientists at Imperial, led by Professor John Kilner, created a spinoff company called Ceres Power, which has formed a partnership with Centrica to produce the fuel cells and market them as combined heat and power units to domestic users.One fuel cell produces only a small amount of electricity, but when stacked together they can be scaled to match the power output required. A house needs about one kilowatt-electric (1kWe) of continuous electrical power, and the stacks we can eventually expect to see commercially will generate between 1kWe and 25kWe. As a house's energy needs vary over the day, a home user would need either a grid connection or some storage capacity to even out the load.While pure hydrogen can be used as the fuel source, at present the fuel cells tend to use a hydrocarbon fuel such as methane, because hydrogen is not widely available. (The oxygen required for the process is taken directly from the air.) If that changes - and Kilner believes it will - then the cells will become even more environmentally friendly, because hydrogen produces no carbon emissions. In the meantime, the fact that the cells work with hydrocarbons means that home users will be able to use fuels from existing suppliers instead of needing to install a fixed supply.So far, so good. But until now, the development of fuel cells as an energy source has been hindered by the fact that the solid oxide fuel cells needed to supply electricity for domestic use are made principally from ceramic materials and operate at very high temperatures. The first generation of solid oxide fuel cells operated at 1,000C; the second generation, at 700C. The cost of using materials that can withstand this kind of heat makes the fuel cells too expensive to be of practical use. The challenge faced by the Imperial team is how to bring the temperature - and therefore the cost - down further.This is where nanotechnology comes in. At nanometre scales, everyday materials have different properties: for example, grains of salt dissolve in water much faster than a rock of salt. Also, the relative importance of different laws of physics shift and effects we do not normally notice - such as quantum effects - become more significant. By manipulating matter at the nano level, scientists can make it behave differently.To bring the temperature down, Kilner and his team need to look at the composition of individual atoms at the surface of the ceramic material. Kilner has been working with these materials for 20 years but it is only in the past two or three years that he and his colleagues have been able to study atoms as closely as they need to. Earlier microscopes produced images of atoms that were fuzzy and difficult to work with. Increasingly powerful instruments have made a huge difference: the Imperial team is using a Titan microscope from FEI, which allows them to see sharp, in-focus pictures of individual atoms. "Twenty years ago, the techniques we have now were hardly dreamed of," says Kilner.Low temperaturesUsing nanotechnology to manipulate the ceramic materials, Kilner's team has been able to bring the temperature at which fuel cells operate down from 700C to about 600C. But this creates additional problems: "The ceramics are the active part of the cell, but to work at the low temperatures, they need to be very thin, less than one tenth of a millimetre, and at this thickness ceramics cannot support their own weight. Many metals can be used to support the thin ceramics, but most are expensive and difficult to work."The solution, paradoxically, is to make the ceramics even thinner: "If the ceramics can be made thin enough, they can be made to work at a temperature where stainless steels can be used as the mechanical support. These materials are easier to work and are much cheaper."To do this, the scientists need to study the individual atoms on the surface of the ceramics. "The surfaces are important because the electrochemical reactions that involve the fuel and the oxygen take place at the surface and interfaces of the ceramic components. In many cases the atoms at the surface come from contaminants, and these are a hindrance to the reactions," says Kilner.Once they can understand the composition of the materials, they can then change that composition at the nano level to remove the contaminants - and hence optimise the electrochemical reaction. By building on the successes he's had so far, Kilner is confident that his research will result in a marketable product.It's a far cry from grey goo and self-replicating robots, but the Imperial fuel cells may herald a quieter kind of revolution, reducing harmful emissions and cutting fuel bills at the same time. Not quite as dramatic, but for those who care about the environment, much more exciting.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Towards the end of 1945, George Orwell borrowed a French translation of a novel written in the early 1920s by a Russian, Yevgeny Zamyatin. The novel, We, is set in the 26th century, in a world where people have numbers instead of names and live in glass houses so the political police can supervise them around the clock. Despite the "rather weak" plot, Orwell was impressed. "This is a book to look out for when an English version appears," he wrote in his Tribune column of January 4 1946.Orwell of course was already working on A Book To Look Out For. Three years later, Nineteen Eighty-Four explored totalitarianism, popular culture, al fresco sex and several other "Orwellian" themes. For most of the past 60 years, commentators have cited Orwell's masterpiece to warn of any tendency to slide towards totalitarianism. Orwell would have approved, though he might have wondered why a fictitious totalitarian state should be held up as more terrifying than numerous real-life examples.Over the next few months, opponents of identity cards will be deploying a full set of Orwellian metaphors to try to persuade the new prime minister and home secretary to have second thoughts about this apparently Big Brother scheme. They are not quite whistling in the wind. On the card itself, the government has some room to manoeuvre without losing political face or going back on international agreements. For a clue to Gordon Brown's thinking, look atSir David Varney's review of government services, published by the Treasury last December.Although near-obsessive on the subject of rationalising the means through which the state identifies its citizens, the review makes no mention of the ID card. As it is supposed to inform policy decisions until 2011, this looks like good news for the No2ID-ers opposing it. But don't get too excited. Even if the government turns down the heat under the card (except where issued as a biometric passport), two further national identity schemes are coming to the boil.One is the "e-borders" system for tracking people coming in and out of the country by collecting and analysing data about passengers before they arrive in the UK (the "e" in the title stands for "external"). The government is due to pick a prime contractor this autumn, from rival consortia headed by BT and Raytheon. Connoisseurs of government IT fiascos will note that this one seems to have several classic ingredients, including multiple stakeholders and reliance on outside parties such as airlines to make it all work.A more significant, though little known, identity management project is already under way, however. This is the Department for Work and Pensions' customer information system (CIS), which holds records on almost every resident of the UK. The department's records have always been a bit of a joke elsewhere in government, because the number of live National Insurance numbers greatly exceeded the number of live people. The CIS appears to have cleaned up the problem, at least to the extent where it is being used by the passport service and HM Revenue and Customs as a source of identity information. Under Varney's proposals it will become the basis of all public sector identity systems.I'm personally relaxed about this, though I know a lot of people (not all nutters) who are not. In the modern world, a welfare state is politically sustainable only if citizens are confident it has joined-up information about who is taking advantage of it. The state would seem to be the natural custodian of this information - in fact, given the potential for abuse, I can think of no other entity I would trust. Whether Orwell would agree, I have no way of telling. And neither has anyone else.
Just press play?I'm trying to buy a DVD of a French film, which appears to be available only in the American NTSC format. Can you suggest a way of getting a PAL DVD version without breaking the bank?Nick MarkovitsJS:Most modern DVD players will play NTSC DVDs, and that includes many of the small, portable players. So will most newish TV sets, though you may have to call up the menu system and select an NTSC option. (An older TV set will probably show the movie in black and white.) Although you could probably find this information in the manuals, it is simpler just to try it: see if you can borrow an NTSC DVD from a friend.Another complication is the regional security coding used on DVD movies. You won't have a problem if it's Region 0, but an American disc is most likely to be Region 1. Ideally you should have a DVD player that lets you change the region setting as often as you like, but players hacked to Region 0 will handle most DVDs unless they use RCE (Regional Coding Enhancement).DVD Reviewerhas a good guide to region hacks for domestic players. If all else fails, you may be able to play the NTSC DVD on a PC, rip it with AutoGK (autogk.me.uk) and create a disc you can use. Meanwhile, the movie studios wonder why BitTorrent is so popular ...Lean and mean PCI'd like to buy a decent laptop to use mainly for audio recording and editing applications. It would never need to be connected to the internet or be slowed down by security software. After removing all the pre-installed bloatware, I'd be left with a perfectly clean, lean, mean computer. Wouldn't I?Keith HinchliffeJS:Yes. The main points of attack today are websites, filesharing networks, email and instant messaging, so if you don't connect to the net, your risks are low. There is still some potential risk from malware on CDs, floppy disks and USB drives, especially if these have any pirate software. However, if in doubt, you could always use your desktop PC to scan these. The one thing you could run is a Hips or Host-based intrusion prevention system such as Cyberhawk or PrevX.Tech Support Alerthas a good roundup. As well as removing bloatware, you should useSysInternals' Autorunsto stop unnecessary programs from loading. Less technical readers can try William Yang'sStartup Inspectorfor Windows instead.Get civilisedCan you recommend a good PC strategy game? I've tried Settlers IV but it is let down by a useless manual and overcomplicated multiplayer procedures.Peter CodnerJS:There are plenty of good strategy games but they all have a steep learning curve for newcomers who have not played earlier versions of the same game. In some cases you can catch up, because the early versions can be downloaded from "abandonware" sites. The long-term trend is towards "real time strategy" (RTS) series such as WarCraft, Command &amp; Conquer and Age of Empires, which are all good. However, I'd suggest Sid Meier's Civilization IV or another Sid Meier game such as Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (basically Civ in space) or Sid Meier's Railroads! (an update of Railroad Tycoon). Civilization, inspired by a turn-based board game of the same name, did the settlers thing in 1991, a couple of years before The Settlers appeared. Both take a very long time to play. Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword is the latest Civ expansion pack, due on July 24. Seefiraxis.com.Self-deleting filesI have some information that I want people to pay for. Is it possible to send them a file which will print on their printer, then delete itself afterwards?Jim WoodsJS:There are several server-based systems that allow you to distribute information in Adobe PDFs (portable document files) and then control how they are used. They are suitable for governments and large companies, but probably too expensive for simpler applications.LockLizard's Lizard Safeguard, for example, costs $2,495 (&pound;1,237) a year whileFileOpencosts $2,995 a year. An alternative might be to provide restricted access to a website.Stuttering PCI have an old Dell Dimension 4500 running Windows XP Pro SP2. Every 10 or so minutes, it pauses a few seconds, eg the nice lady says "you have e- ... mail" and so onRob JonesJS:This could be a hardware conflict or an interruption from a background task or, indeed, almost anything. Look in XP's Event Viewer utility, which you can find in the Control Panel's Administrative Tools folder. The Event Viewer tells you what your PC has been up to, and keeps a record of application faults. If you double-click an entry, full details will be on the property sheet. For more details, seesupport.microsoft.com. If that doesn't find the problem, go to Start, select Run, type perfmon in the box and click OK. This runs XP's Performance Monitor utility, which will let you see what's happening. Running SysInternals' Process Explorer is an even better idea. Seemicrosoft.com/technetfor details.Mind your languageI cannot discover what the following IE add-on is for: CD67F99O-D8E9-11D2-98FE-OOCOFO318AFE. David JohnsonJS:It is easy to discover if you search for CD67F990, which ends with a number (0) not a letter (O). I'm not getting at you, David: it can be impossible to tell letters such as I, l and O from ones and zeros, or vice versa. I don't have a solution, but when available, copy-and-paste is more accurate than retyping.Backchat&middot;Ken Vines thought I was too hard on Windows XP last week, in suggesting 1GB of memory. He says: "256MB is perfectly adequate to run XP and 512MB adequate for all but the most demanding applications, which most people don't run." XP SP2 will also run Microsoft Office 2003 in 128MB of memory, but having done it, I don't recommend it. More memory helps compensate for a slow processor and slow hard drive. Also, memory is so cheap nowadays, I think it's worth having more.
With floods in the news, you might think that the government and its agencies would want to encourage people to find out whether properties for sale or rent are at risk of inundation. Yet while parts of South Yorkshire still suffer from June's floods, the Environment Agency has moved to stop an outside site offering its flood mapping data in a more usable form.The target of the Environment Agency's ire wasOnOneMap, a free-to-use site that uses Google's Maps facility and overlays details provided by estate agents of properties for sale or let, plus information about the locations of schools, supermarkets and even mobile phone masts.Both the Environment Agency (which covers England and Wales) and the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (for Scotland) offer a postcode search facility on their sites, where by entering a postcode you can see maps showing the risk of flooding.That for England and Wales shows the 1% chance of floods from rivers (that is, a flood that might happen once in 100 years) or 0.5% (once in 200 years) from the sea; for Scotland, the 0.5% chance of flooding from rivers or the sea - a lack of uniformity that is itself disquieting.Public benefitBut on June 7, after an extensive data-scraping exercise involving a total of 5.8m queries to the EA and SEPA sites to create what amounted to a copy of their data, OnOneMap began offering a flood layer that visitors to the site could use when looking for properties.Philip Sheldrake, the site's managing director, uses a straightforward argument for why he did this: the EA data was collected and generated using public money; it's for the benefit of the public; so it should be made available, as widely as possible, to the public.At the core, this is the case of Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign: that increasing free access to such data brings benefits which will repay their costs in taxes - or licence fees foregone - through increased commercial activity. If people don't buy houses at risk of floods, it costs the emergency services less to help them. With the costs of the latest flooding edging past the &pound;1bn mark, and an estimated 1m properties reckoned to be at risk from "1%" floods, a lot of taxpayers' money could be saved if flood-plain data were available everywhere - even though it has been omitted from the Home Information Packs (despite EA lobbying).Sheldrake says when the flood data was added to OnOneMap, "we saw a 36% spike in the number of visitors upon the launch of the flood map layer. It shows that people want to know if places are at risk." But within a week the Environment Agency demanded that the data be removed, citing its "database copyright". Without the resources to mount a legal fight, OnOneMap complied - but commenters on itsblogwere furious."This is absolutely outrageous given our tax money has paid for this," said one. "Surely it is up to the government agencies to ensure this information is widespread, especially during this time period."So why is the flood map data not available beyond the EA site? The EA says it is - but at a price. "The charge for commercial use of the whole Flood Map dataset for England and Wales starts at &pound;4,000 per year. We will charge a royalty fee on those companies that sell the information on," the agency said."More than 50 commercial companies are licensed to use the flood map and/or our other flood risk data. Hundreds more commercial licences are issued for use of flood risk data for local studies. However, some do not pay because they are statutory customers, such as gas and electricity companies and utilities." The data has been available since 2001.'Best data available'But why charge for it? "Competition law and the Re-use of Public Sector Information Regulations requires us to do this in a manner fair and consistent to all. Ignoring the actions of OnOneMap, who do not want to be licensed or pay the charges that others are legally required to pay would, therefore, leave us open to challenge from our other customers," the EA said, adding that it believes "information on flood risk should be the best data available, and should be accurate and up to date". Because OnOneMap had scraped the data, it was static, a spokesman argued.Sheldrake however contends that the EA's arguments do not hold water. "The regulations define re-use as pertaining to any use of data other than that for which it was originally collected or intended. A reason for EA compiling the data was communication to the public. We were too - so this was not, by definition, re-use. They did not argue this point." As for accuracy, he says that it would be comparatively simple for EA to provide an XML feed which could be updated in real time, and used by outside companies.One irony Sheldrake points out is that the SEPA data is held in a different format - meaning that OnOneMap was the first service that pulled all this information together in one place (although it had not started offering the Scottish flood data when the EA complained)."We have not applied for a licence [from the EA] as we believe the data should be in the public domain and moreover they have advised us that their licence terms still would not permit us to provide the data to the public via a website!" Sheldrake says.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ringtone deafI don't think the ringtone business is going to disappear any time soon, but it's unlikely to grow much either - and the industry might have to consider not charging three times as much for a ringtone as for an MP3 of the entire song (Hanging up on ringtones, June 28).moconews.netFuture imperfectThe Economic and Social Research Council really should have read some science fiction first - because this is very similar to what Bruce Sterling was writing about in his "Shaper/Mechanist" series 20 years ago (Newly asked questions, June 28). All the ESRC has achieved is a re-invention of the wheel.Joseph Nicholas, London&#183;These products of conventional educational brain-binding could not dream up a possible future because their imaginations are hardly wild at all. This is the problem with modern journalists and academics. No grist. No imagination. They are laying the perfect groundwork for the coming idiocracy.alfin2100.blogspot.comCounting the energy costIt sounds very exciting that Professor Woodall can get 4kWh of energy from reacting a pound of aluminium with water (For power, just add water, June 28). But his pound of aluminium is manufactured by electrolysing molten aluminium: that will use just over 7kWh of electricity (data from the International Aluminium Institute website). And that doesn't include the energy cost of refining the raw bauxite to make the aluminium in the first place. So unless I'm missing something, we get at least 3kWh less out than we put in - what's the point of that?Graham Fraser, Shincliffe&middot;If you really want to use hydrogen, then using gallium and aluminum is a nice approach. However, the recycling of the aluminum oxide is a stumbling block since the electricity necessary to recover the raw aluminum currently comes from coal and oil-based generators. If we were to use only wind and sunlight to generate this electricity then the gallium/aluminum approach would be environmentally acceptable.Douglas G. Danforth, by emailSales in the pinkIncreased sales of Dark Side of the Moon (Newly asked questions, June 28)? What could it mean? That it is still better music than most of today's new releases, perhaps?Glen Kiltz, Remington, Virginia&middot;What do increased sales of Dark Side of The Moon tell us? Hmmm. That people all over the world love marijuana. A lot. No. Like, a lot. Really a lot. They love it. Love it. A lot. Pink Floyd. Awesome. Like holy shit, a lot of people are smoking weed, dude.timewastingisrad.blogspot.comCapital punishmentGordon Mackie thinks he's got problems? (Technobile, June 28). Try finding any CRM software that allows a surname to begin with a lower case letter.Kate de Wolf, LancasterSounding offVideoLan Client is available fromvideolan.organd plays a wide variety of video and audio, though it's undeniably better at video formats (Technobile, June 21). It's open-source and spyware-free and although the installer probably does ask about associating with various file types, it's not bossy after that.Geoff Mackenzie,East KilbrideEasy mail mergeI suggest going toOpenOffice.organd downloading Open Office (Technobile, June 14). Open File-Wizards-Label and then follow the simple instructions: it takes about two minutes.George Waby, Kirkcaldy
Let's get something straight: an FAQ is not HELP. Yes, PayPal, this means you. As apparently everyone but a certain class of web administrator knows, FAQ stands for "Frequently Asked Questions". FAQs were invented on Usenet, a now unfashionable collection of worldwide discussion newsgroups you may know as "Google Groups".FAQs were a specific response to a specific problem: the constant flow of newcomers interrupting more interesting discussions by asking questions everyone had already answered hundreds of times. The correct name should have been QWWWALF, for "Questions We Wish Were Asked Less Frequently".FAQs never tried to be comprehensive and they were not, primarily, intended to help the people who were churlishly told to read them. They were intended to lower the insiders' annoyance level. As such, they were so obviously a good idea that they have been very widely copied.They shouldn't be. FAQs should be used to do the job they were invented for: give answers to questions people ask frequently. They are a very bad way to teach anyone how a system works. For one thing, unless you've studied the questions closely you don't know what people ask frequently. For another, the question-and-answer structure encourages poorly trained web designers to display each answer on its own page, which makes reading FAQs deeply tedious. Finally, questions have to be phrased succinctly, and finding the answer a user wants depends on that person's ability to guess how you might have phrased or categorised the question. If I knew this, I wouldn't be trying to access the online help.Help should be just that: help. It should make it easy - or at least possible - for someone to learn how to use your system. FAQs may be randomly arranged; help must be organised."What happens when someone sends me money?" or "Do multiple currencies show up separately in my account or is everything converted to British pounds?" may not be frequently asked questions, but they're what I wanted to know on Saturday night when I fruitlessly accessed PayPal's so-called help system. What I wanted was a help file titled "Receiving money" that went through, in order, what happens in my account when someone enters an email address to send me funds. What I got was a list of topics, each of which, when examined, was just a list of questions, none relevant.I know why people do this. Questions are modular. If you forgot something, you just throw another question in the search pond. But to make help, you have to think. You have to plan. You have to organise. And most of all, you have to imagine you are a new user coming to your site. What would you want to know? Now, there's a frequently asked question I wish someone would answer.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Why is it that almost all the irony online is unintentional? I don't mean there is no irony online. There is enough to make God himself crumple up the whole of creation in rage and despair and throw it, hard, into the wastepaper basket. But it is almost all entirely unintended. When you find people arguing that the German law against Holocaust denial proves that they are all really Nazis to restrict free speech like that, or (on the other side) wondering what could be anti-semitic about a claim that the Jews control the world's media, it's reasonably certain that they are not trying to be funny.These remarks are ironic only to someone who knows the relevant facts - for example, that believing the Jews control everything is diagnostic of anti-semitism, or that the law against Holocaust denial was constructed under Allied occupation, because the occupying armies, too, took the view that minimising Hitler's crimes might be the first step towards excusing and ultimately repeating them.Irony, then, requires that a statement be logically possible, providing that certain facts are ignored. The first and most memorable dictionary definition of irony, Dr Johnson's, illustrates this beautifully. Irony, he said, was "a mode of speech in which the meaning is contrary to the words: as, 'Bolingbroke was a holy man'." Now, for a Martian, ignorant of irony and 18th-century British politics, it might seem perfectly reasonable that Bolingbroke was in fact a holy man. You have to poke around a little to discover that he was the very opposite: brilliant, but unscrupulous, untrusted and a notorious whorehound.This kind of poking around for facts is, of course, what people on internet discussions just don't do, any more than you would break off a conversation in a pub to go and look up a reference. But if you are arguing in a pub, you can tell very quickly what are the assumptions and the shared knowledge of the rest of the group. The room itself is full of cues. So are their accents and their tones of voice. None of that information is carried down a broadband line. There simply is no way to guess what people may or may not know when you're talking to them, and the problem may be worst of all for native English speakers. We tend to assume everyone speaks our own dialect of English and knows more or less what "everyone" knows.The internet isn't the only place this problem arises: in mainstream American journalism there is a long tradition of labelling every noun, as in "Bethlehem, legendary birthplace of Jesus Christ", and "Antarctica, penguin-rich mega-continent". But if you're writing for an American wire service, you know you are writing formally. That is not how it feels when writing for a few thousand close friends online.It's easier then to slip into the assumptions of shared knowledge that make conversation rich and multi-layered, and to ask from that perspective questions like "Lee Harvey Oswald, where are you when your country really needs you?" as the Guardian's columnistCharlie Brooker didsome years ago - only to be overwhelmed with hate mail from Americans who thought he was entirely serious. Perhaps they didn't know that the vice-president, who would take over after such a terrible crime, was Dick Cheney.Nonetheless, there are places on the internet where real irony flourishes: not snark, nor paradox nor sarcasm. These are all small gatherings, where everyone can be assumed to have read the same books and seen the same films. Although they are open to everyone, outsiders will be mocked and chased away if they don't know the rules. The joke is that these are exactly the same rules needed to make the opposite types of community, where a hideous and humourless orthodoxy ensures that no statement is ever laughed at, no matter how ridiculous, if it is made in the right spirit.The difference is only that the humourless sites are full of people frightened that they might be wrong; the consciously ironic sites have writers entertained by the prospect; this is probably because they find it so unlikely that it must be entertaining.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
The Sims: Pet StoriesPC, &pound;29.99, cert 12+, EA, 3/5The good news is that this isn't just another Sims 2 pack - it's a standalone game featuring two characters and their pets. Each story has 12 bite-sized segments to complete, plus the usual changing, decorating and petting. Finish them all and a sandbox mode lets you create a new pet from around 70 dog breeds or 30 cats. It's a surprisingly diverting little number, clearly designed for the single laptop owner. The price is a bit steep, but the franchise feels far more suited to casual gaming than the fully overblown experience. If you're not sick to death of the Sims thing, expect multiple sequels until you're sick of this one too.Mike AndereiszForza Motorsport 2Xbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 3+, Microsoft, 4/5Forza Motorsport was a decent stab at a serious racing game that wasn't quite good enough to dethrone Gran Turismo. But its successor is so good that it comfortably snatches the driving game crown. Forza Motorsport 2 has everything - amazing graphics; a decent single-player structure, with a nice gentle learning curve, although you can swiftly hurl yourself into hardcore racing if you want; the best in-game soundtrack ever; and incredibly addictive car customisation that lets you design your own decals. Car upgrading, too, is great: clear and understandable, and most of the world's best tracks (and plenty of fictional street circuits) are present and correct. Car handling and performance is deeply realistic and damage is the result of any indiscretions. And when you crank up the difficulty level and unlock things like GT cars, a fearsome level of simulation comes into play - you can feel, for example, the effects of flat-spotting your tyres. Forza Motorsport 2 is simply a must-buy for Xbox 360 owners.Steve BoxerHarry Potter and the Order of the PhoenixXbox 360/PS3/Wii, &pound;39.99, 12+, EA, 3/5Don't let the tedious likes of Pirates of the Caribbean and Spiderman 3 put you off - Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is an excellent film tie-in. This is primarily due to the designers letting players explore Hogwarts at their own pace. The school is wonderfully realised - the way the shallow sun glints off the stone is reminiscent of PS2 classic Ico - and creates a real sense of place. The spellcasting and exploration action are rewarding and easy to pick up. Sadly, there is still too much of the lazy collect-a-thon gameplay that often gets shoved into film tie-ins. The camera, too, is a constant frustration, while the slow pace early on will annoy. But things soon pick up as players are asked to navigate the length and breadth of the castle. It's not quite GTA: Potter, but there is a level of quality here that will make fans very happy.Greg Howson
Apple up, Sony downThe latest Greenpeace Guide to Greener Electronics shows Apple leaping up the rankings, with Sony falling to last place.greenpeace.orgPC sales upGartner is projecting that 2007 sales of PCs will reach 257.1m units, an 11.1% increase from 2006, saying: "We don't see Vista having a significant effect."gartner.comVideo glassesMyvu has launched its "eyewear display" for video iPods in the UK for those who want a private viewing experience for &pound;229.95.myvu.comGames mastersGoldsmiths, University of London, is offering an MSc course in computer games, starting in September.goldsmiths.ac.ukColourful eGosIomega has tried to make its curvy new eGo range of 160GB portable hard drives look "ultra stylish", and you can get them in red or silver.iomega-europe.comSagem flipsSagem's new my850v shiny multimedia flip-phone will be launched this month via Vodafone.vodafonebusinessshop.co.ukSilver Surfers wantedNominations for the Silver Surfer of the Year Awards close on July 18.silversurfersday.orgHomeland insecurityAmerica's Department for Homeland Security admits it has suffered more than 800 hacker break-ins, virus outbreaks and security problems in the past two years.cbsnews.com
No. We expected it this October or November. Now, however, anote published by the US Department of Justicesays that "Microsoft anticipates that beta code will be available by the end of the year." That could push Service Pack 1 into next year.Last year, Microsoft's Bob Muglia suggested it would appear with Windows Server 2008, codenamed Longhorn. This is at the beta 3 stage of testing, and already in use on Microsoft.com.Both Vista and Server 2008 are based on the same code base: Server 2003. The Longhorn development continued, of course, after Vista shipped on November 30. Improvements to Server 2008 could be rolled up with this year's patches to create Vista SP1. Everyone liked that idea.Also, large enterprises traditionally like to spend the first year of a new Windows doing pilots, testing the programs they have developed in-house, preparing user training courses, and so on.When SP1 appears, they start to roll out the new version to thousands of desktops. They don't want a big service pack to appear just after they've started that. But their timing could be thrown awry now that the Department of Justice is using SP1 to change the way Vista handles desktop search, following a complaint that Google filed late last year.The changes mean extra work, so SP1 may not be ready until 2008. However, any undue delays could slow Vista's uptake, and could also make Microsoft look as though it's retarding the course of justice. Microsoft doesn't want either.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft is to take a record charge after deciding to extend the Xbox 360's warranty to three years.According to theWall Street Journal, "Microsoft said it will take a charge of as much as $1.15 billion to extend Xbox 360 warranty coverage to three years. The company said it has been required to make an "unacceptable number" of repairs to the game machines since they went on sale in November 2005. The extended warranty covers a specific problem that causes the machines to fail."This follows our stories earlier askingWhat is the real failure rate of the Xbox 360?(31 May) and Microsoft's attempts to evade the question in earlier interviews.This will only cover the "three flashing red lights" problem - and though Microsoft has published anFAQ on its site, the key FAQ remains open:Q: Have you identified a root cause that can lead to failure?A: There is not a single issue that we can point to as being a problem. We test the product extensively, including accelerated life testing, but the nature of the console itself is very complex, as it's a consumer electronic product that contains more than 1,700 different components and 500 million transistors.Oh, those transistors again. Has nobody told Microsoft?Transistors don't fail.It's big hardware that fails. We'll have more next week - and in the next few days - but the fact is that the motherboard seems to warp when it gets warm.
Jason Della Rocca, executive director of the International Game Developers Association, has written an intriguing piece for The Escapist, entitledPlaying the Spread: Internal vs External IP. By crunching videogame sales data provided byNPD, his aim is to find out whether it's more profitable for developers to come up with their own ideas or to license content from other entertainment areas (i.e. TV, film and sports).The answer is that much more money is made on successful internally-developed properties, but that investing in these is more risky. External IP may not compete with the likes of GTA and World of Warcraft, but it's more likely that publishers will see some sort of profit from a major tie-in. As Jason explains:"Internal IP makes, on average, $4 million more (or 5 percent) than external IP. However, that extra money comes at a steep cost of additional uncertainty; the standard deviation is 19 percent higher. So really, when you're making internally-created content, you're 19 percent more uncertain you'll make 5 percent more than going with an external license. And executives don't like to gamble."Predictably, the conclusion is that publishers should develop a portfolio made up of both internal and external IP in order to maximise the chances of making money. At the moment, though, Della Rocca feels the industry is investing too heavily in external IP: "while this may satisfy the short-term demands of Wall Street, it does put into question the future wealth generation potential of the industry as a whole - both financially, as well as creatively."Over on his Reality Panic blog, Jason has also posteda table of game profits based on age ratings. 50 percent of US game sales come from titles rated E - suitable for everyone. Only 24 percent are from M (Mature) rated games and 11 percent of those are attributable to one IP: Grand Theft Auto, which is insanely successful.Of course, this reflects the arguments of religious conservative groups who critcise the movie industry for making so many M films despite the fact that G, PG and PG-13 releases consistently perform much better at the box office. Beneath the figures though, are questions of self-expression and creativity: most game designers (and movie makers for that matter) would rather work on original IP, and most are interested in dealing with themes and genres that appeal to an adult audience.For the big bucks, developers must go for original titles with no age restrictions. If, motivated by this information, everyone did just that, abandoning all those M-rated shooters and horror adventures in the process, would it be better or worse than an industry dominated by tie-ins? Better, I suppose, as there's more quality in the likes of Mario, Jak and Daxter and Forza Motorsport than there is in a vast majority of titles based on films and comic books.Really, it's all about balance. Every publisher - with the possible exception of the big console manufacturers - has to sell little portions of its soul to the movie machine in order to fund its own IP. But fund its own IP it must.
Yeah, too much Apple, but Fake Steve Jobs has just done a great job ofskewering the music business. Whether RSJ thinks the same is, of course, open to speculation, but he wouldn't put it as rudely in public or, probably, as well.The fact that the music download industry was actually pioneered by people like musician Peter Gabriel withOn Demand Distribution (OD2)-- launched in 1999, compared with the iTunes Music Store's 2003 -- is incidental. Apple was late into music players, music libraries and music software, but it was the first company to put all three together and commercialise the result in a profitable way.
There's a topic in my family that's referred to as The Divorce Conversation. It has nothing to do with anything as mundane as the rubbish or the toilet seat. The thing we don't talk about is artificial intelligence. It usually happens this way: he says that science will someday create an artificial intelligence that is indiscernible from the human brain. I retort that human beings will always be able to tell, even if we don't quite know why.The closer we get to realism, the deeper the Uncanny Valley maws. Soon after, plates are thrown and one of us ends up in tears. But I have to admit, seamless artificial intelligence has its place. As a woman weaned in games with their advanced AI, I have no time to suffer computerised fools. For example, I was on an early train to London last Saturday - which, being early, started late. Having missed my first train, I jumped on the next one, but I didn't have the estimated arrival time. That bit of information is crucial for exceptional stress, which is a state I enjoy. So to arm myself with these vitals I phoned National Rail's new Train Tracker service.This "intelligent" computerised operator could only have been realised by masochists for I, while admittedly having an American accent, have a pretty good standard of enunciation. Yet "East Croydon" apparently sounds like "Stroud" and "No, I said Brighton, you digital moron" sounds like "Lords". After a hilarious exchange that lasted for several minutes, I mouthed a silent plea for the nice people who used read train times over the phone to come back on the line and provide me with some real intelligence.And that's the problem: games have ruined me. I spent the 1980s struggling against Pitfall Harry's artificially stupid crocodiles on the Atari 2600 and the 1990s battling against the idiotic AI in Rainbow Six, so by the early part of the 21st century I feel I have a right to lash out against the remnants of poorly realised AI. I have served my time against stupid machines. I know what can be done - I've completed the supremely intelligent Halo. It's raised the bar, and now National Rail's Train Tracker needs to be sent to remedial.Games have not made me antisocial, violent or intellectually stunted. On the contrary, I'm more demanding and more critical. I don't expect a digital person to engage in high-blown political discourse, but I do expect a piece of technology to be smart enough to cope with the demands of its station.It doesn't matter whether that means dodging my bullets or decoding what I say. Web application designers are increasingly looking towards games techniques and tools to understand human-computer interaction because games are really good at breaking down the fourth wall and engaging audiences with robots.I wouldn't play a game if I had to make my intentions understood three or four times before it did what I needed it to do. In games, if the user interface is thicker than a plank of spruce, you lose a lot of players; bye bye, bottom line. Yes, I realise I'm contradicting my side of The Divorce Conversation. Yes, I know the things on the other side of the screen are computers. But I'm happy to keep it that way.I suffer from a mighty hubris which demands that I must be smarter than the things that human beings create. I still maintain, though, that even though one is toting rocket launchers and the other is brandishing train times, National Rail could learn a thing or two from the Master Chief.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A man described as the "godfather of cyber-terrorism for al-Qaida" and two of his associates were today given prison sentences totalling 24 years.The three were sentenced at Woolwich crown court after pleading guilty to inciting people to commit murder through their extremist websites. They had all changed their pleas earlier this week, two months into the trial.The case is the first successful prosecution based entirely on the distribution of extremist material on the internet.Moroccan-born computer expert Younis Tsouli, the ringleader, who ran a site that regularly featured beheadings, was imprisoned for 10 years.For nearly two years until his arrest in October 2005, Tsouli, 23, was credited with transforming the internet into a sophisticated multimedia propaganda and recruiting machine for jihadists.His skill made him the main distributor of terrorist material from Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's group, al-Qaida in Iraq.He uploaded guides to building suicide vests and dubbed himself the "jihadist James Bond", using the online ID "irhabi007", which includes the Arabic word for terrorist.One post on the site, which referred to the July 7 2005 London bombings in which 52 people were murdered, said: "From the moment the infidels cry, I laugh."On one Arab language message board, Tsouli posted CIA explosive manuals and US navy seal guides on sniper training. In May 2004, a video of the beheading of the US contract worker Nicholas Berg by a terrorist who was thought to be Zarqawi was posted by Tsouli. It was downloaded 500,000 times in the first 24 hours.Co-defendant Tariq Al-Daour, who was also involved in a &#163;1.8m fraud, was jailed for six-and-a-half years.The third man in the dock, Waseem Mughal, was given a seven-and-a-half-year sentence.Earlier this week, all three pleaded guilty to inciting another person to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom, which would, if committed in England and Wales, constitute murder.Passing sentence today, Mr Justice Openshaw described the men as engaging in "cyber jihad", encouraging others to kill non-believers. "It would seem that internet websites have become an effective means of communicating such ideas," the judge said.He added, however, that none of the three had carried out violent acts themselves. Referring to Tsouli, Judge Openshaw said: "He came no closer to a bomb or a firearm than a computer keyboard."The judge said Tsouli should be deported back to Morocco after serving his sentence. He had come to the UK in 2001 with his family and had studied information technology and computer technology at Westminster College of Computing. Two months before his arrest he was granted indefinite leave to remain.Mughal, a biochemistry graduate from the University of Leicester, ran the website of the university's Islamic society. Daour became a British citizen in May 2004 and was planning to study law.Tsouli's downfall came in the autumn of 2005 when Bosnian police in Sarajevo arrested Mirsad Bektasevic, a 19-year-old Swedish citizen, and Cesur Abdulkadir, an 18-year-old Turkish national, on suspicion of plotting a terrorist attack.Mobile phone records led to arrests in the US, Canada, Denmark and the UK, including of Tsouli and his two co-defendants.Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the Metropolitan police's counter terrorism command, said: "Detectives were faced with an enormous challenge - to decode and decipher a staggering quantity of computer data and websites. They should be justly proud of their efforts in this case."Mr Clarke went on: "Tsouli, Mughal and Daour used stolen identities, false credit card details and hidden chatroom forums. Their terrorist tradecraft was sophisticated, but nevertheless defeated by this investigation."
It could be expensive being kewl. Apple has added aniPhone battery FAQ, which says that if the battery fails, "Apple will repair your iPhone for a service fee of $79, plus $6.95 shipping." (Users may have to add local taxes to all US prices.)Yes, you will lose your data if it's not backed up.TheiPhone ServiceFAQ says repairs will usually take three business days, but Apple will rent you a filler for $29. That's on top of the $86.If the iPhone goes wrong outside its warranty, Apple will charge $199 to repair a 4GB iPhone and $249 for an 8GB movel. "Service may not be available if your iPhone has been damaged due to accident or abuse."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thereviewsare in this week. A belated Forza is the best game of the three, although Harry Potter and The Sims Pet Stories are likely to interest less committed gamers. Despite the occasionally plodding action and awful camera I really enjoyed Potter - perhaps I got blinded by the beauty of Hogwarts? I've not played Transformers yet, but out of a pretty awful summer of film tie-ins Potter has every chance of being the only one worth bothering with. ElsewhereAleks talksAI, trains and divorce.
Okay, I'm a little late with this, but just in case you haven't seen it,Magic Boxand other news sources have picked up on the latest scarce titbits from GT5 developer Polyphony Digital, delivered to US car magazine, Car and Drive. Kazunori Yamauchi has apparently confirmed that the game won't be released until Spring 2008. There will also be no vehicle damage - at least not in the original release. Damage may be included as a downloadable option at a later date.The reasoning behind the damage decision? Yamauchi blames manufacturer unwillingness to see their beautiful cars being mangled, and also the complexity of re-modeling each chassis element to portray realistic damage. It has been pointed out on several sites that both of these problems were resolved in the Project Gotham series.It's another blow to Sony, the company clearly desperate for exclusive Triple A releases in order to compete with the rampaging Wii. High-end, well-established simulations like this are going to prove a key selling point for PS3. Wii cannot compete with the graphical luxuries of the GT series (each car in GT5 takes 180 days to model, we're told), plus the hardcore audience of simulation fans will probably want to play 'serious' driving games (as well as sports sims) on a system and controller that support intricate, accurate interaction. With lots of buttons.In short, and this is probably contentious, Gran Turismo appeals to the audience that Wii doesn't. And now it doesn't get to enter the arena for almost a year.
By delivering on their promise, and changing the definition of a mobile phone. That's what the original iPod managed in the MP3 player world, filled to that point with players of limited features, lame design and duff PC integration.The mobile phone industry is, of course, more mature than the MP3 player industry was in 2001. But it faces similar problems.For years the trouble with mobile phones has been that they're principally just phones. Everything else was stuck on - a bit of Wap here, music there, some rubbish web browsing next, shoddy integration with your computer maybe.All the features may be there, but how often do you use them? The most obvious new feature of my Nokia is that it crashes more than the older ones. At a glacial pace, compromise after compromise has been forced upon progress.For example: wonder why your mobile doesn't really work with your computer? Blame your network's fear of "sideloading" - where you bypass their expensive airtime by downloading goodies over the cheap, wired internet to your PC, then transfer them to your phone via a cable. Wonder why phones are so difficult to use? Blame mobile phone retailers, reluctant to let you play with real phones, thus placing all emphasis on form factor. After all, if more of us experienced Motorola's menus before buying, do you think sales would go up ... or down?Apple, starting afresh, has the opportunity to get it right. A lot depends on the first iPhone. Functionality may matter less at this stage - looks and buzz can make this an emotional, not rational, purchase. Half a million sales in the US opening weekend, despite a chunky price tag and iPhone being attached to a poor 2G network, suggest Apple's mission here has been achieved.As soon as networks see that iPhone's buzz means customers will switch providers to use it, Steve Jobs's game is on. As with the music business, he can start to dictate terms - force networks to get out of the way, move the market's discussion away from how-thin-can-you-get towards Apple's home turf of features and PC/ internet integration, while maintaining Apple's vertically integrated approach. It'll make money every step of the way.Reports suggest iPhone is far from perfect, and vertical integration brings all the dangers of monopoly. But if Apple does as it did with iPod, and continues to buff and shine its new object of desire, there's little doubt there's another market there for the taking. And few buyers will be complaining about the extra power - power they'll actually be able to use - in their pocket. Say hello to iPhone.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm trying to buy a DVD of a French film, which appears to be available only in the American NTSC format. Can you suggest a way of getting a PAL DVD version without breaking the bank?Nick MarkovitsMost modern DVD players will play NTSC DVDs, and that includes many of the small, portable players. So will most newish TV sets, though you may have to call up the menu system and select an NTSC option. (An older TV set will probably show the movie in black and white.) Although you could probably find this information in the manuals, it is simpler just to try it: see if you can borrow an NTSC DVD from a friend.Another complication is the regional security coding used on DVD movies. You won't have a problem if it's Region 0, but an American disc is most likely to be Region 1. Ideally you should have a DVD player that lets you change the region setting as often as you like, but players hacked to Region 0 will handle most DVDs unless they use RCE (Regional Coding Enhancement).DVD Reviewerhas a good guide to region hacks for domestic players.If all else fails, you may be able to play the NTSC DVD on a PC, rip it withAuto Gordian Knotand create a disc you can use. Meanwhile, the movie studios wonder why BitTorrent is so popular ...Backchat: Nick Markovits says: "I managed to borrow an NTSC DVD from a friend and, to my surprise, it works on my player! So now I can buy my film." On the newly-refurbished Ask Jack blog, Denbo points out that "Auto Gordian Knot (AGK) would be good if you want to produce an avi version of the film, but then you would have to have an avi-capable DVD player, or play it back through the PC."
I'd like to buy a decent laptop to use mainly for audio recording and editing applications. It would never need to be connected to the internet or be slowed down by security software. After removing all the pre-installed bloatware, I'd be left with a perfectly clean, lean, mean computer. Wouldn't I?Keith HinchliffeYes. The main points of attack today are websites, filesharing networks, email and instant messaging, so if you don't connect to the net, your risks are low. There is still some potential risk from malware on CDs, floppy disks and USB drives, especially if these have any pirate software. However, if in doubt, you could always use your desktop PC to scan these.The one thing you could run is a Hips or Host-based intrusion prevention system such as Cyberhawk or PrevX.Tech Support Alerthas a good roundup.As well as removing bloatware, you should useSysInternals' Autorunsto stop unnecessary programs from loading. Less technical readers can try William Yang'sStartup Inspector for Windowsinstead.
Can you recommend a good PC strategy game? I've tried Settlers IV but it is let down by a useless manual and overcomplicated multiplayer procedures.Peter CodnerThere are plenty of good strategy games but they all have a steep learning curve for newcomers who have not played earlier versions of the same game. In some cases you can catch up, because the early versions can be downloaded from "abandonware" sites.The long-term trend is towards "real time strategy" (RTS) series such as WarCraft, Command &amp; Conquer and Age of Empires, which are all good. However, I'd suggest Sid Meier's Civilization IV or another Sid Meier game such as Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (basically Civ in space) or Sid Meier's Railroads! (an update of Railroad Tycoon).Civilization, inspired by a turn-based board game of the same name, did the settlers thing in 1991, a couple of years before The Settlers appeared. Both take a very long time to play. Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword is the latest Civ expansion pack, due on July 24. Seefiraxis.com.
I have an old Dell Dimension 4500 running Windows XP Pro SP2. Every 10 or so minutes, it pauses a few seconds, eg the nice lady says "you have e- ... mail" and so on.Rob JonesThis could be a hardware conflict or an interruption from a background task or, indeed, almost anything. Look in XP's Event Viewer utility, which you can find in the Control Panel's Administrative Tools folder. The Event Viewer tells you what your PC has been up to, and keeps a record of application faults. If you double-click an entry, full details will be on the property sheet. For more details, see article 308427 atsupport.microsoft.com.If that doesn't find the problem, go to Start, select Run, typeperfmonin the box and click OK. This runs XP's Performance Monitor utility, which will let you see what's happening. RunningSysInternals' Process Exploreris an even better idea.
I have some information that I want people to pay for. Is it possible to send them a file which will print on their printer, then delete itself afterwards?Jim WoodsThere are several server-based systems that allow you to distribute information in Adobe PDFs (portable document files) and then control how they are used. They are suitable for governments and large companies, but probably too expensive for simpler applications.LockLizard's Lizard Safeguard, for example, costs $2,495 (£1,237) a year whileFileOpencosts $2,995 a year.An alternative might be to provide restricted access to a website, and readers may be able to suggest other solutions. However, bear in mind that people can grab screen images, and once files are printed they can be photocopied and either retyped or scanned.
I cannot discover what the following IE add-on is for: CD67F99O-D8E9-11D2-98FE-OOCOFO318AFE.David JohnsonIt is easy to discover if yousearch for CD67F990*, which ends with a number (0) not a letter (O). I'm not getting at you, David: it can be impossible to tell letters such as I, l and O from ones and zeros, or vice versa. I don't have a solution, but when available, copy-and-paste is more accurate than retyping.* When it had a file, it was installed by Real Networks (Real.com).
This week's issue of Ask Jack, printed in the Guardian's Technology section, is now onlinehereYou can send your questions and comments to Jack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but please include full details with your query.This blog only shows the 10 most recent entries. However, you can access more queries by clicking one of the topic headings on the right, such as Home Entertainment or Windows. Click on About for more information.
WAIT! STOP! I got confused. The game is on hold until I figure out what's happening with Twiki! I will probably take us off that platform and move to a suggested Wiki. Updates forthcoming...UPDATE 2: Thanks to an anonymous contributor,HEREis the location of the new Text Adventure wikiAs well as being submerged in the planning of a certain virtual world music festival, I also happened to be out of the country in the homeland from the daythe Great Text Adventure Adventure ideawas posted, and I've only just got down to reading the results.Needless to say, I am overwhelmed with the positive response. So, to action stations.Cheers very much for the Wiki suggestions, but I've already got an account withTWikiand thought we could use that one since I've got most of the basics already in there. By basics I mean general overlay of the project. No code. No story, no design. Just bookmarks and some silly suggestions.First thing's first, everyone who's interested should sign up for TWiki and then should start playing withthe Gamesblog's Text Adventure Adventure Web. Sign up(with email addresses)on the page(s) you wish you be involved in, at least to begin with: Story Development, Coding and/or Game Design. Then the fun can really start.This is an exercise in collaboration and creativity - so play nice folks. Let's do it.
This week's print edition of Guardian Technology is online too, looking at the police disquiet about how to tackle high-tech crime, the growing row about the Environment Agency's free - in very limited ways - flood map data, Vista service packs, and fuel cells. We also ask: can iPhones do what iPods did, and why doesn't irony work online?This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Main features:The shambles over cybercrimeDespite the increase in online fraud, enforcement of the law is a mess since the dissolution of the specialist agency set up to fight it, says Pete Warren.The missing link between the web and the worldInterview, Richard Moross: On-demand printing provides an analogue product that originates in the digital worldRising tide of frustration at flood maps' restrictionsFree our data: Flood facts: Environment Agency steps in to stop a property site making its flood map data more user friendly.Tiny particles that are used to tackle the biggest issuesNanotechnology applications are being developed to improve energy efficiency and combat global warming. Kim Thomas reports.Newly Asked Questions:Is Windows Vista Service Pack 1 coming out soon?No, says Jack Schofield. We expected it this October or November.How can iPhones be as successful as iPods have been?By delivering on their promise, and changing the definition of a mobile phone, says Neil McIntosh.Columns and opinion:National Rail chiefs could learn a lot by playing gamesAleks Krotoski: Games are really good at breaking down the fourth wall and engaging audiences with robots.Irony is too serious a business for most of the internetAndrew Brown: Why is it that almost all the irony online is unintentional?Stand by for the Orwellian metaphors about ID cardsMichael Cross: Orwell would have approved, though he might have wondered why a fictitious totalitarian state should be held up as more terrifying than numerous real-life examples.Amateurs can be good and bad newsVictor Keegan: As iTunes has proved, most people will pay for downloads as long as a fair payments system is in place.TechnobileWendy M Grossman: Hey PayPal, here's a tip - forget about the FAQs, just give me some help when I ask for it, pleaseAnd those less easily categorised..GamesThe Sims: Pet Stories | Forza Motorsport 2 | Harry Potter and the Order of the PhoenixAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblog(it's been redesigned!) for daily updates.NewsbytesApple up, Sony down | PC sales up | Video glasses | Games masters | Colourful eGos | Sagem flips | Silver Surfers wanted | Homeland insecurityLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
The National Archives and Microsoft yesterday announced a partnership to prevent what was described as "a digital dark age", and unlock millions of unreadable stored computer files.While anyone able to follow a Norman scribe's handwriting can read the Domesday Book, on display at the archives, and work out who owned land, fishing rights and beehives in the 11th century, the software for many 10-year-old files - including thousands of government records - is already obsolete.Microsoft has worked with the archives and the British Library to install the Virtual PC 2007, allowing users to run multiple operating systems simultaneously on the same computer, and unlock what are called "legacy" Microsoft Office formats dating back 15 years or more. The system should retrieve not just the text but, crucially, the formatting and original appearance of the files as they were created.The archives are estimated to hold at least 580 terabytes of such data, the equivalent of 580,000 encyclopaedias. The virtual PC should make accessible all stored government files created using versions of Office, but the archives have not begun to address the problem of Mac files."Digital information is inherently far more ephemeral than paper," Natalie Ceeney, chief executive of the archives, said yesterday.Citing the crucial need to access records on nuclear waste storage, or census returns, in five, 10 or even 100 years' time, she said: "This is a critical issue for us, and for UK society as a whole. We assume our personal records are secure, we expect our pensions to be paid, but anyone with a floppy disc even three or four years old is already having a hard time finding a computer that will open it."Adam Farquhar of the British Library said the nightmare of millions of stored unreadable files had caused him sleepless nights.The archives and the British Library have set up pioneering projects to capture daily exchanges of information almost entirely now transmitted by emails and texts. Government departments are already storing emails and archiving them at Kew, and the British Library is encouraging individuals including writers and artists to store theirs voluntarily.
Microsoft is currently dealing with two burgeoning controversies surrounding the hit driving sequel Forza Motorsport 2. First up, several news sites are alleging that the company (or developer, Turn 10) deleted a huge thread on theofficial Forza sitein which hundreds of users were reporting problems with the game crashing their consoles.GameRush quoted from one of the 900 posts in anarticlelast week:"Add me to the list. Mine freezes up about once per hour also, although its been getting worse. Console is well ventilated and in horizontal position. I've had the freezing problem and the "To play this disc please insert into an XBOX 360 console" problem. It occurs at the start up screen, in the menus, in the races... every part of the game. Like most people on here, Forza is the only game that I've had this problem with. When it freezes up I get a clicking sound from the console like a CD player skipping. Its frustrating cause I'm really addicted to the game....when it works."The game's community manager, Che Chou, later claimed, via his'Pitpass Report'on the official website, that the problems were only affecting a small minority of Forza 2 owners, and that the thread hadn't been deleted, it had been moved to a moderator-only area of the site for, 'preservation and investigation'.Have you had any problems with the game?Also, being discussed quite widely on the blogosphere are the Forza owners who are using the game's custom paint job feature to create racist designs, before proffering their vehicles on the site's auction area. 360-Gamer has astorydetailing one example - a Mercedes 300SL bearing a swastika and 'white power' logo. Turn 10, is apparently closing offending auctions and has made an 'abuse claim form' available on the site.This, of course, is an inevitable element of the user-gen revolution, and will doubtless become more common as the new consoles make it easier to create and distribute custom content through mainstream channels.
