Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Holga VI taken with expired Fuji Pro camera. Photo byFotoChaotinon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft to end security support for Windows XP Service Pack 2 &gt;&gt; The Last WatchdogMark 16 July in your calendar, because you know every hacker will (and so will we). If you're still using XP SP2 (or earlier) or Windows 2000 after that, you're on your own. It's a Friday, by the way, so look forward to an interesting weekend, or Monday 20th.Time for data.ac.uk? Or a local data.open.ac.uk? &gt;&gt; OUseful.InfoEveryone's doing datastores. Or thinking about them.The Problem With Today's Record Store &gt;&gt; Flowering Toilet"I thought everything was fine until one day I had my credit card stolen. The joker who stole my card waltzed into this record shop and charged up almost a thousand dollars worth of stuff over the course of a single day. He told the owner he was buying the stuff for me. I would have thought the owner would know better because most of the stuff this joker bought was not to my taste at all." Guess the store.Editorial Notebook - Further Thoughts of a Novice E-Reader &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The entire impulse behind Amazon's Kindle and Apple's iBooks assumes that you cannot read a book unless you own it first — and only you can read it unless you want to pass on your device.&#10;&#10;"That goes against the social value of reading, the collective knowledge and collaborative discourse that comes from access to shared libraries. That is not a good thing for readers, authors, publishers or our culture. "The iPad and immersive computing &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarA contrary but interesting view: maybe what we do need is a single-tasking device, to make us focus on the task in hand, rather than flitting about between things.THE SECRET OF SUCCESS? / work less / sleep in / take more breaks / put down the blackberry &gt;&gt; globeandmail.comYes, step away from the computer. Now. Or possibly later.Facebook: Advertisers Have Quadrupled Since 2009 &gt;&gt; Gigaom"Facebook hosted over 176 billion display ads in the U.S. in the first quarter of this year, comScore said, up from just 70 billion a year earlier. The latest figure gives the social network more than 16 percent of the market." Though if it's comScore.. we'd wonder how the data was collected.AMD and Intel Won't Let x86 Die Without a Fight &gt;&gt; GigaomAMD is showing off a new processor which combines traditional processors with graphics processing units. The idea, though, is to make sure that x86 doesn't get killed off.Enjoy HTML5 excitement with PhpStorm &amp; WebStorm &gt;&gt; WebStorm and PHPStorm blogEveryone's getting in on the act - including IDEs for Windows.Microsoft: Win 7 and Server 2008 R2 SP1 beta coming in July &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley on what's been announced on the first day of Microsoft's TechEd conference. There's actually a lot, despite the blah headline.Introducing PowerPivot &gt;&gt; Microsoft Excel 2010 SiteJust the sort of thing if you happen to have a 100-million-row spreadsheet going begging.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Unlike Madonna's endless self-proclaimed reinventions, Green Day have for years effortlessly turned out homogeneous punk rock anthems to the delight of their fan base and, indeed, to their credit; when you're this good, there's no need for the emperor's new clothes. Their sound, which has wide appeal from teeny rockers to 70s punk veterans, is now set to be immortalised with contemporary culture's highest honour – pixelated for posterity inRock Band.Green Day's version reproduces the classic formula with the usual tools, although, gallingly, the wireless band equipment is still platform specific. As used to great effect in the Beatles edition, vocal harmonising enables multiple singers to wail along at one another, meaning your tuneless accompaniment can now actually earn points, while Career Mode follows the band's rise to fame from squat parties and making their name right through to playing enormo-domes like the Bowl in Milton Keynes. With 47 tunes from Green Day's excellent back catalogue, you can now even play albums such asDookie,American Idiotand21st Century Breakdownin their entirety – a first for the series.Rock Band's genius lies in making it unnervingly easy to forget how ludicrous you look and sound while playing it and Green Day are no exception – just add eye shadow and creatively positioned safety pins…
Steve Jobs revealed the fourth version of Apple's smartphone, the iPhone 4,  tonight and said the company was bringing its ebook application, iBooks, from the iPad tablet onto the iPhone.In a move aimed at cornering the ebook market, Jobs unveiled the new version of the iPhone and showed off its display – which he said could show content so clearly it was virtually indistinguishable from text on paper.That is a clear threat to Amazon's ebook reader, Kindle, which has struggled to win approval from book publishers despite being launched years before the iPad, which only went on sale in April."Five out of six publishers tell us that sales of their ebooks [through Apple] are at 22% right now," Jobs told the company's annual event focused on new technology in San Francisco.While Amazon has declined to offer sales figures for the Kindle, despite starting international sales last year, Apple has announced sales figures for its iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad at every opportunity. Jobs told the audience that the 100 millionth of those devices would be sold this month.That presents a huge opportunity for book publishers looking for a platform where they can control prices. Amazon has tried to set prices for ebooks against publishers' wishes, while Apple has given them freedom to set charges; it takes a slice of the retail prices in return for hosting them on iBooks.The iPhone 4 is less than 10mm thick compared with 12mm for its predecessor last year, the iPhone 3GS. The screen has roughly four times as much detail as before. There is also a front-facing camera, which could be used for videoconferencing, in addition to one on the back for pictures. Jobs called it "the biggest leap since the original iPhone".Apple is the biggest technology company by market value, having passed Microsoft at the end of last month. Though its shares fell by 1.5% before Jobs began speaking the company's stock has already gained more than 20% during 2010.The iPhone 4 will be sold in the UK through O2, Orange and Vodafone. It includes a gyroscope and a faster processor similar to that in the iPad. It also offers longer battery life, Jobs said, and uses a ceramic case, giving it improved signal reception.
Today'sannouncementthat an X-Factor game is launching later this year could help gamers in the Saturday night battle for TV control. After all a session on an X-Factor game is likely to be more appealing to non-gamers than, say, Red Dead Redemption. Ok, that's about as positive as I can be about this announcement. The game is coming out for Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360 in October or November and will involve lots of singing.  Georg Larch, the marketing director or publisher Deep Silver is excited:The X Factor is a truly global brand which is instantly recognisable to thousands of gamers and TV fans around the world.  With the developer, Hydravision Entertainment, Deep Silver will be creating a game that is a true adaptation of the show from the hilarity of the auditions to the excitement of the live show; we will be testing the singing skills of the player and will feature the sharp critique of the judges.Details of how the game will work – will it run with Singstar and Lips mics for example? – remain to be seen. Maybe the Wii Balance board will get a look in? Whatever happens you imagine the developers will make achievements and trophies easy to get and so help pull in more reticent traditional gamers. Anyway, what do you think then? Reckon an X-Factor game will do well?
Block 40Steve Jobs announces the new iPhone 4 Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesBlock 39Keynote done and dusted. Here's the roundup:iPhone 4:9mm thick (25% less than iPhone 3GS, its predecessor); screen with 960x640 pixels, 4x resolution of previous, giving up to 300 dots per inch - equivalent to text on paper; A4 processor, as used in the iPad; can film HD video (720p, 30fps); "aluminosilcate" glass-like ceramic case, metal surround; slightly more square than previous versions; antennae built into the side casing; has a gyroscope as well as GPS and compass; LED flash; front-facing camera; noise-cancelling microphone; 5-megapixel camera on back; 16GB and 32GB versions. UK prices TBA; US prices from $199 for a two-year contract. Claims 300 hours standby (up to 40% better than 3GS)iPhone OS 4 ("iOS 4"):so-named because it applies to iPhones, iPod Touches and soon the iPad (presently on a different version). 1500 new APIs, free upgrade (though won't work on some machines, some features won't work); multitasking with seven features (eg play web streams while browsing mail); unified mailboxes; Bing! search as alternative; Folders for app organisation; Apple iAds (from July 1); FaceTime video calling via Wi-Fi and (eventually) 3G; iMovie for iPhone for video editing (paid app, $4.99 in US); iBooks for iPhone app which synchronises purchases across devices.other details:App Store: 5bn apps downloaded, $1bn paid out to developers (ergo Apple's cut: $428m). 100m "iOS" devices will have been sold by end of June. Farmville coming to the iPhone - but not in Flash form. Apple claims that 5 out of 6 book publishers tell it that it has 22% of the e-book market already (that will be through the iPad).So: the final score.iPhone:exactly what we expected, because we'd already seen it in Jason Chen's hands. And in bits on the Gizmodo page.iPhone OS:exactly as we expected, because it was announced earlier.iBooks:a really aggressive move against Amazon by putting iBooks onto iPhones - particularly with high-resolution screens. That's going to put substantial pressure on Apple, which is clearly seeing a rapid takeup of e-books on the iPad and is trying to drive into the market by giving book publishers more places where their e-books can be purchased. And notice how keen Jobs is to stress how many "iOS" devices have been sold - 100m some time this month - and how Amazon keeps on *not* saying how many Kindles have been sold.Apple TV:nothing. Nada. Apple still doesn't seem to know what to do with TV.Lala:nada. The music streaming service that Apple bought is gone, but not yet replaced with anything. Would now be too soon to introduce something else?Keyboard/trackpad thingy:nada. Not a mention.Other hardware/software/whatever:nada.It's interesting to compare this announcement with theWWDC 2009 keynote, which brought not only the iPhone 3GS, but also new MacBooks, pricing for Snow Leopard (the most recent version of Mac OS X), and iPhone OS 3. That's a lot of things, and this one feels like one of the "guh, nothing happened" keynotes - which seem to come along every couple of years. Apple just didn't have very much to say this time, it seems.Block 387.56pm:nearly done. Thanks to Jonny Ive, Mark Pagemaster, all the Apple people who worked on it. "All the rest of the Apple family that supports us in a thousand ways, I'm really proud of all you guys... Thank you very much for coming. This is our new baby, I hope you love it as much as we do!"End of speech - we're done for that.Block 377.53pm:ooh, that slide again about Apple being at the intersection of arts and science, or something, as though it was a building on a university campus. "I put up this slide earlier this year, and to me it represents what Apple is all about. It's not just a technology company, even though we have and invent some of the highest tech in this industry. It's more than that. It's the marriage of that and humanity."HUMANITY. I may have to call Marina Hyde to take over if this goes on much longer."It's the hardware and software working together. It's not just a great new camera, it's the built-in editing software and iMovie. It's not just a front-facing camera, it's a front-facing camera and 18 months worth of work to create software you'll never even notice when you want to make a video call."Any time you want to make a video call, get in touch with us, because we'll send a film crew over. OK, FaceTime is at some unspecified point going to work on the mobile networks (probably in the UK before the US as we've got pots more capacity) but I don't think anyone's going for it. The 3 network made video calling its USP when it started out - and it bombed. Nobody wants to do video calling unless it's free.Block 367.49pm:Greg Joswiak in video: "FaceTime is going to change the way we communicate forever." O RLY MR JOSWIAK?Sorrry @benmorse, no 64GB version for you then.@tpreece01 rightly pointing out that you'd think they could have a Wi-Fi network for the iPhone. Then again, probably with so many devices the inter-channel interference is something to behold. It's surely got its own network, but there are only so many channels before you get collisions and other nastiness.Block 357.48pm:Video. iPhone OS... iOS 4. It can solve all the world's prob.. actually no it can't.Block 347.46pm:"We will be offering iOS4 upgrades for the 3GS, 3G — but again, not all features will be supported in the 3G — and iPod touch… upgrades for all these products will be free on June 21st." Updates are free, he doesn't mention, because Apple has changed its accounting for iPhones - it just rakes the money in rather than doling it out.Another missing in action where's-the-one-more-thing: what about the expected new AppleTV which was going to finally justify its existence?Block 337.43pm:June 24 for the US and UK (small cheer) and France, Germany, Japan. "July" for ... loads of other companies we can't be bothered to write down.Ah, iPhone 3G, we loved you so much, now you're gone. iPhone 3GS, you're last year's thing but you can run iPhone OS4 - sorry, iOS 4 - so you simply get a price cut to $99 in the US.So Apple's not looking to saturate and slice the market the way that some analysts expected, in the manner of iPods when it introduced the iPod mini. Still moving people up.Block 327.41pm:Let's talk prices! "Price and availability! iPhone 4 comes in two colors, black and white — price is 199 dollars in the US for the 16GB model, and 299 dollars for the 32GB model."That's for the phones, obviously, not the OS. We haven't heard about pricing for the OS. For the UK you can probably just translate dollars to pounds. But we'll await the press release... Cmd-F "$" Cmd-V "£".Wait, though, where's the stuff with Lala and music streaming? Where's the keyboard that leads to a trackpad-y input to the iPad? Surely there's going to be two or three more things?Block 317.39pm:"We call this FaceTime — video calling. It's… it's great. It's iPhone 4 to iPhone 4 anywhere there is WiFi, and there is no setup required."Uh-huh. We call it Skype 2006, and it works Skype to Skype.Oh, that killer fact about GPS for @thedisclaimer: the level of GPS signal that reaches the ground is *under* the general electronic noise. It takes a lot of special processing to amplify the signal to a level where it can be interpreted. Come on, that's got to be worth waiting for.Block 307.37pm:"We call this FaceTime.." Except if it has to be over Wi-Fi that's hardly a revolution, is it? Or is it? Hard to decide really. OK, at least it would be free. Except that the other person has to be on FaceTime.Block 297.36pm:and again with wanting the Wi-Fi things off. Yeah, good luck with that.Video call with Jonathan Ive. Proof that video calls have not caught on *not* because we can't understand how to do them, but because we know that they make you look like a large soft-boiled egg in the video camera.Block 287.35pm:One More Thing! It's back!Block 277.25pm:Now talking about iAds. To keep you (developers) getting paid for your apps. Is that tumbleweed? Not clear that people have really embraced the idea.Block 267.20pm:iBooks on the iPhone. Interesting - "The same controls, the same highlighting, the same bookmarking, the same PDF reading. If you get a PDF in Mail, tap on that and you'll go right to iBooks. And, of course, the iBook Store right on your iPhone. We'll have it on the iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch." And it syncs across all your devices. Apple is really trying to choke the Kindle.Block 257.16pm:Jobs calls it "iOS 4" and "the most advanced mobile operating system in the world". Why not "iPhone OS"? Because it's not just for iPhones, and Apple seems to want to move away from "just" the iPhone idea because of the iPod Touch and the iPad - don't forget that the latter two have actually soldmorethan the iPhone (the iPod Touch is reckoned to outsell the iPhone 60:40).Some time this month the 100 millionth "iOS" (we already don't like that) device will be sold. Gold Master candidate released to devs today.Block 247.15pm:hang on, though: "We're adding a third option, which is Bing! Google will stay the default, but now you have another choice, if you like. Each one takes a unique approach to how they search and format results. You decide."Wow, take that Google... and everyone else, don't forget that "you decide" can, with Apple, so easily turn into "we decided that in the interests of..." Perhaps Steve Ballmer will turn up after all. Shall we close our eyes and make a wish?Block 237.10pm:yeah, well, the laptops are safe.On to iPhone OS4. "It's our most ambitious release to date — over 1500 developer APIs. Over 100 new user features, the biggest being multitasking. Some people were saying you weren't first with multitasking — the same was true with cut/copy/paste."It'salwaysthe most ambitious. That bit gets boring. But the copy/paste thing is true - it's very hard to get right. The word from developers who've been trying iPhone OS 4 is that it does the job neatly.Now there's a demo of Pandora, the (sigh - US-only) music streaming service running in the background while Jobs does some email. Maybe he'll reply to a random stranger LIVE ON STAGE.Unified inbox. Home screen folders for organisation. Yup, we've been here before. Bit unclear - the devs know this and so do the punters - we heard it earlier this year."I wanted to hit for a moment on the enterprise integration — our customers are thrilled. Better data protection, wireless app distribution, multiple Exchange accounts… another thing we're adding on the consumer side, today we have Google and Yahoo search."Ah, some of the tingle comes back - Yahoo search as well? That's a warning to Google.Though of course no Steve Ballmer and no swapping of the default search to Bing...Block 227.06pm:Jobs asking everyone to turn off their laptops and so on because they're overloading the Wi-Fi, which is why the Retinal Overload demo (was that it?) failed. Yeah, especially the guy with the Palm Pilot in row 15. It's his fault. Can Jobs really get a room full of developers to put their computers on the floor? What if he tells them to jump on them next? It's like mind control gone wrong.Block 217.04pm:Demo by the head of video over. Jobs is back. "Isn't that awesome? iMovie for iPhone. You can buy this right on your phone for $4.99 right on your phone. If we approve it." Ah, Mr Jobs, with these tweaks you are amusing us. Sort of. Anyone care to check the price in the UK App Store?Block 206.56pm:(Had a look for claims of iPhone 3GS battery life. Couldn't find any from WWDC2009. Intriguing.)Oh, now there's a gyroscope added for 6-axis motion sensing. Compass, GPS... and gyro? Is there an altimeter and barometer yet? Jobs demonstrates a Jenga game.And now the improved camera. (You mean, the camera that's caught up to everyone else?) "Megapixels are nice, but what cellphone cameras are really about is capturing photons and low-light photography. So we've gone from a 3 to a 5 megapixel sensor with a backside illuminated sensor... Also, when most people increase the megapixels, they make the pixel sensors smaller. We've kept them the same size so they capture more photons. We've got a 5x digital zoom, tap to focus, and LED flash."And it records HD video. That'll fill up your storage nicely. 720p at 30fps.But don't worry, you can edit it... there's iMovie for iPhone! Cheer. Look at the logo: it's the iMovie 08/09 logo. Boo. Rather than iMovie HD (the best simple movie-editing app ever) Apple has gone for the total mess that is iMovie 08/09. (Speaking of which, whatever happened to iLife 10 and iWork 10? Do we think they're going to be announced today?)Block 196.48pm:OK, who had "powered by A4" down on the bingo card? Yup, you got that one. Headset jack... microSim... noise cancellation microphone...Claiming 300 hours standby (what, nearly 12 days?), 40 hours music play, 10 hours of video play or Wi-Fi browsing, 6 hours of 3G browsing... oh and 7 hours of 3G talk. Somewhere between those must be the non-3G talk time - what do we think, 12 hours? All because of the A4 processor, acquired from PA Semi.Hang on, just have to go and see how that compares with the claims for the 3GS from last year...Block 186.46pm:Demo of the super-screen goes a bit wrong-ish - Jobs tells everyone to get off the Wi-Fi. (Nobody does.)So anyway demo over. "3.5-inches, but 4 times more pixels than the iPhone 3GS. 326 pixels per inch. 800:1 contrast ratio, 4 times that of iPhone 3GS. This provides much more accurate color and much higher resolution. You can't make an OLED display with this resolution, we think it's quite superior."No surprise there, but it will be interesting to see how quickly Apple can scale that up from 3.5". Not quickly we suspect - given that this has to be a touch screen too. Does the touch screen have 4x the resolution? Does it need it?Block 176.42pm:oh lordy, it really is Dr Evil. We're now on to the "Retinal Display". (I'd add a picture of Mike Myers being Dr Evil but it would take too long. Onwards.)Retinal display actually means "looks as good as text". Or in Jobs-speak: "People haven't even dreamt of a display like this. It turns out there's a limit - at around 300 pixels per inch  the human eye can't differentiate between pixels — text looks like a fine printed book, unlike you've ever seen on an electronic display before. It's extraordinary." Not magical? We're disappointed.Though of course we've been pointing out about 300ppi being the key for yonks, and certainly Jakob Nielsen has. That's the level where screens get as good as paper, which means you effectively can't tell if you're reading on paper or screen. Except for luminance... onward!Block 166.32pm:"We're introducing iPhone 4." Not 4G? Not HD? "All new design." The slides DO NOT say "as featured on Gizmodo" nor "as seen in a bar near here"."This is one of the most beautiful designs you've ever seen. This is beyond a doubt one of the most precise and beautiful things we've ever made. Glass and steel… its closest kin is like an old Leica camera. And it's really thin." Lots of applause. Interesting - that stuff about Apple using ceramics (that's the glass part) turns out to be true. That means better signal reception because unlike metal, the case won't attenuate the transmitter signal. Which should mean better battery life too."We have a front-facing camera, microSIM, camera + LED flash, headset, and a second mic for noise cancellation. Now, because there have been a few photos around, people have asked, what's this?" (Shows a slide of the edge of the phone. "What are these lines? These don't seem like Apple."You have to love "there have been a few photos around". Yup, and a few police around the house of Jason Chen of Gizmodo too.Turns out the lines are "antennas" (as he calls them) built into the phone - three of them handing Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, UMTS (aka  3G) and GSM. "It's never been done before and it's really cool engineering." Any mobile phone engineers out there want to tell us whether integral antennae have or haven't been done in mobiles before? Where the antennae are part of the casing, that is.Block 156.28pm:Five billion downloads, and just a few days ago passed $1 BILLION DOLLARS paid out. Sounding a bit Doctor Evil this, isn't it?We make that $428m that Apple has raked in from those sales, then. Rather more than pocket change. Would be interesting to know how that compares with two years after the iTunes Music Store opened - we'd guess that the App Store has been very much more profitable. The music store just about broke even - Apple had to pay the music companies and the credit card companies and got left with a slice of revenue. The App Store is much more profitable, even if you include all that hand-revoking of apps that were previously approved for sale.Block 146.26pm:Guitar Hero is coming to the iPhone. This seems wrong. Surely it should be coming to the iPad, which would have a long neck thing attached in the USB slot. Or perhaps just, you know, a real guitar.Still, you can now download it from the App Store for $2.99 (UK price no doubt £4.99+VAT). OK, Jobso's back.Block 136.22pm:Say goodbye to your life (unless you've already got Angry Birds): Farmville is coming to the iPhone.Wait! Farmville is Flash! Surely the heavy squad will... oh no hang on it's not Flash. Wait, Zynga has written an app that will run on the iPhone? They thought it was better to rake in the money than to wait for Apple to crack and take the Flash Player (security advisories and all) on board? Colour me unsurprised."Every day more than 35m people play our game," says Pincus of Zynga. I worry for the human race. The Neanderthals would have us this time round. "Say goodbye to withering crops, we now have push notifications!.. I'd just like to say, if you don't regularly farm… well, you should." Spoken as someone who has never looked out over four acres of uncropped grass and been given a scythe and the instruction to make hay.Block 126.20pm:(bonus point, btw, to benmorse in the comments for spotting that "magical" would make a showing.)Block 116.19pm:Netflix CEO on stage. (Will Netflix ever reach the UK?) Netflix for iPhone coming in the summer. (Is that Netflix only via Wi-Fi, or can you eat up your AT&amp;T data charge bill with it too?)Block 106.16pm:Jobs on the App Store: "The second platform we support is the App Store. It's a curated platform with 225,000 apps. It's a vibrant community — there's nowhere else you can find this many apps."Uh-huh."We get about 15k apps submitted every week. They come in up to 30 different languages. Guess what: 95% of the apps submitted are approved within 7 days. What about the 5% that aren't? Why don't we approve them? Let me give you the three top reasons."The number one reason: it doesn't function as advertised. It doesn't do what the developer says it does, so we tell the developer to change the app or the description. The second reason: the developer uses private APIs. … If we upgrade the OS and the app breaks, we won't have a happy customer."(It would be interesting to know how Apple tests to find out if it uses private APIs. Anyone know?)"And the third most frequent reason: they crash. If you were in our shoes, you'd be rejecting apps for the exact same reasons. I just wanted to give you the facts — sometimes when you read some of these articles, you may think other stuff is going on."Well, actually, other stuff is going on - such as MyFrame, which was rejected after being accepted. That doesn't make sense under any of these reasons. But no, we're moving on to eBay.Block 96.13pm:Ooh, now on to the App Store, "and I want to make one thing really clear". Wow, it's bad cop Jobs. "We support two platforms at Apple. Two. The first is HTML5, a fully-open, uncontrolled platform that is forged and defined by standards bodies. We fully support HTML5. Apple's browsers are in the lead in terms of supporting the full HTML5 standard, and we are behind this 100%. It is fully open."(Except obviously if you're trying to view it with a browser that'snot Apple's. Shall we labour the point? Actually,yeah.)"The second platform we support is the App Store. It's a curated platform with 225,000 apps. It's a vibrant community — there's nowhere else you can find this many apps."Block 86.11pm:The iBooks app (which lets you buy e-books) is being updated today: 5 million books downloaded so far, making about 2.5 per iPad. Five of the six biggest publishers tell Apple that iBook's share of eBooks is now 22%. That's in 8 weeks.(Is Amazon worried yet? It probably ought to be.)Adding ability to make notes in books. Also to read PDFs natively. "We've put a little selector at the top — books and PDFs. You get a whole new bookshelf just for PDFs, they just look gorgeous."Block 76.09pm:Talking about the Periodic Table app, made by Wolfram Research (the Mathematica people). Interesting: I know that Wolfram were pushing Apple to let that be included among the books, because they said that Apple had to make it clear to people that "books" didn't just mean "things with pages that you turn". The Periodic Table app/book is very clever, and has won plaudits all over the place.Block 66.07pm:"There are now 8.5k native iPad apps in the App Store… they've been downloaded 35 million times. That's about 17 apps per iPad." But we want to know how many are free, and how many are paid for. Wouldn't that be a useful number too?Block 56.03pm:5,20 attendees, sold out in 8 days. Jobs is sorry for all those who couldn't make it but "this was the biggest place available."iPad is changing the way that we interact with the web. And judging by the email he got, with girls in bars. "It got a girl interested in me. Now that's what I call a magical device!"Block 46.02pm:Blackness, all is blackness. That'll teach me to to try to update Tweetdeck as things start...Block 35.59pm:Announcer asks people to turn off phones and PDAs. Yes, you with the Palm Pilot in row 15...Block 25.46pm:While you're waiting (not long now!) you could also read about whatMicrosoft announced today at its TechEd conference: the Service Pack 1 beta of release 2 of Windows 7 and Server 2008. They also showed off a 100 million-row Excel spreadsheet. I don't know whether to be thrilled, frightened or weep. (Apparently it's all aboutPowerPivot,which is for manipulating large amounts of data. All I can say is -youcan scroll through it.)Block 1Waiting for WWDC. Photo byGlobal Xon Flickr.Some rights reserved5.11pm:It's 9.11am in San Francisco, particularly outside the Moscone centre, and the lines of people off to Apple's Worldwide Developers' Conference is growing.Steve Jobs is expected to announce not just thenew iPhone, and iPhone OS, but also - could it be? -some sort of trackpad-style keyboard.We're also living in some expectation of a music-streaming service - to replace the Lala service which Apple bought and then closed down late last month. What if iTunes turns into a music streaming service as well as a music buying service? Would it work on old iPods? Would it run a subscription service (like Napster)? What would that do to services like Spotify? How might it work?Alternatively, with the music streaming, would it only work on iPhone OS devices (iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad)? Only on iPhone OS 4 devices? Are we going to have to update iTunesagain?Speculate away as we while away the minutes to ol' Turtleneck's appearance...
Adobe iswarning of a "criticai" vulnerability in its Flash Player, Adobe Reader and Acrobat software, installed on almost all PCs, which it says is already being exploited by hackers and which "could potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system".All platforms - Windows, Mac OS X, Linux and Solaris - are vulnerable, says Adobe.The affected versions are: Adobe Flash Player 10.0.45.2, 9.0.262, and earlier 10.0.x and 9.0.x versions for Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Solaris; Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.3.2 and earlier 9.x versions for Windows, Macintosh and UNIX.Windows users who want to continue to read PDFs canchoose from a variety linked to on Wikipedia, or seeJack's recommendations from January- though not Adobe itself, obviously. Apple users may wish to avoid using Adobe Reader or Acrobat by using OS X's built-in Preview app, which is anyway a lot less hassle than Adobe Reader, especially on OS X.There's no schedule yet for a fix, but some people are deciding that the best way to avoid the risk is todownload the Flash Player 10.1 Release Candidate- and Adobe says that it "does not appear to be vulnerable".It adds that "Adobe Reader and Acrobat 8.x are confirmed not vulnerable." But the vulnerability will still persist - and seems to lie in the authplay.dll file: Adobe recommends that"Deleting, renaming, or removing access to the authplay.dll file that ships with Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.x mitigates the threat for those products, but users will experience a non-exploitable crash or error message when opening a PDF file that contains SWF [Flash] content. The authplay.dll that ships with Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.x for Windows is typically located at C:\Program Files\Adobe\Reader 9.0\Reader\authplay.dll for Adobe Reader or C:\Program Files\Adobe\Acrobat 9.0\Acrobat\authplay.dll for Acrobat."As with all such security warnings, there is a lot of over-reaction, and we've already seen one super-over-excited email which suggests that the flaw will let hackers take over your computer, siphon your bank account, kick the cat, cancel your house insurance and leave a rude message on your mother-in-law's answering machine. That's not quite the case, but until Adobe has a fix, it's best to be wary.
It's the fourthiPhonelaunch in three years, and this one comes with the added bonus of all that juicystolen-phone leakageback in April. So unusually, we know what this phone looks like before Steve's Big Reveal at 6pm tonight.If you're too busy for the full colourprelude to Apple's announcements, here's the condensed guide to what you can probably expect.• It looks like this:Apple's fourth generation iPhone, iPhone HD, will be announced tonight• Though the working title, at least for the press, has been iPhone 4G (as in fourth generation) this will probably be called iPhone HD.• A smaller, lighter, slimmer handset.• A five-megapixel camera with flash.• A glass back that improves reception.• Micro-Sim cards, like iPad.• The same A4 processor as the iPad (that means a much faster phone).• A larger, sharper screen at 960 x 640 pixels - increasing screen resolution by four times.• Improved battery life.• iChat software will enable video chat with other iPhones and desktop Macs.• Two models: 32GB and 64GB.• Available through the existing retailers: Orange, Vodafone and O2.• iPhone HD will become as the premium phone in what will become a range of iPhones with iPhone 3GS repackaged as a cheaper, less featured handset with 8GB of memory.• Other rumours for tonight's announcement at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference include an anticipated cloud-based music streaming service for iTunes, a new and improved Apple TV (that would be one with a clearer, more sellable consumer proposition), new version of Mac's operating system Mac OS X 10.7 (OS X Lion, perhaps?)The latest iPhone 4.0 operating system - a reminderiPhone 4.0 wasannouncedin April andreleased in beta formatfor developers. Here's the quick guide to the new features:• Multitasking:the oft-requested feature has finally been added after Apple worked on how to balance multi-tasking without sucking battery life or performance. Multitasking has been organised through seven types of service, so music apps would be able to play while you make a VOIP call, for example.• Folders:Something similar to that pretty stacking feature for folders on the latest OS for desktop Macs will be added, which will make it easier for those of us with loads of apps to organise them in folders.• iBooks:The feature launched with the iPad will now work across iPhones an iPod Touch too.• iAd:Apple's fledgling mobile ads system is designed to deliver ads without taking the user away from the app or game they are using, and will give developers a 60% revenue share.• Mail:Apple's email client gets a unified inbox, so anyone with multiple accounts can see all the main in one view. Messages will be organised by thread and attachments open in third-party apps.• Business:Apple has added email encryption and encryption for other apps to increase support for enterprise users, as well as improving mobile device management features, support for SSL VPN and wireless app distribution.• Gaming:A major step-up in Apple's competition to portable games consoles, like Nintendo DS and Sony PSP, Apple is adding a layer that unifies players' social profiles across all games.
Facebook'sannouncement of its "Like" buttonhas been a gift - to scammers and malware authors who take advantage of its simple Javascript to write exploits.Such "clickjacking" exploits first began appearing last week, though with no "payload" other than to spread pages virally throughout the site. However, anti-virus companies such as Sophos are warning that it could turn into a much more aggressive technique that will end up installing malware on peoples' machines when they think that all they're doing is going to hit a "Like" button on an innocent site.Graham Cluley at Sophosexplainsthat it exploits a bug (or is it a feature?) of pretty much every browser: if you overlay an invisible iframe on top of a link on a page, then you can't tell if you clicked on the link - or the iframe.(We wrote about iframes and the threat they posed in April 2008:What's an iframe attack and why should I care?)As Lockergnomepoints out, "clickjacking is not an operating system specific exploit, but a browser-based attack so it impacts Windows, Mac, and Linux users the same."In the first round of exploits, which went around last week, the messages that led to the iframe exploit included"LOL This girl gets OWNED after a POLICE OFFICER reads her STATUS MESSAGE.", and"This man takes a picture of himself EVERYDAY for 8 YEARS!!"and finally"The Prom Dress That Got This Girl Suspended From School.". (Give the scammers some credit - they know how peoples' minds work, as well as how websites work.)The next wave had targeted links that displayed text that says either, "Paramore n-a-k-ed photo leaked" or "Justin Biebers Phone Number Leaked!"The overall method was the same, though. Users following the link were taken to a page saying "Click here to continue if you are 18 years of age of above." Clicking anywhere on the site then launched an invisible iframe which contains a Facebook Like button, thus spreading the link to more and more users.Simon Willison, web developer extraordinaire and occasionally of this parish,notes on his blog:"Since Likes show up in your Facebook stream, it's an easy attack to make viral. The button is implemented on third party sites as an iframe, which would seem to me to be exploitable by design (just make the iframe transparent in the parent document and trick the user in to clicking in the right place)."More dangerous are his conclusions:"I can't think of any way they could support the embedded Like button without being vulnerable to clickjacking, since clickjacking prevention relies on not allowing your UI elements to be embedded in a hostile site, while the Like button's functionality depends on exactly that."It's another example of the collision between fabulously idealistic ideas of how to join all the web together, and make communication easier, and the reality - which is that there's always someone looking to make a quick (dishonest) buck. The "Like" button is a nice idea, but lacks security robustness.As ReadWriteWebremarks,"The problem has to do with the overly simple way Facebook has implemented the "like button" feature. Non-developers can plug a URL into a wizard that generates code that can be copied and pasted anywhere on the Web. Like buttons created this way or manually, via handwritten code, will function properly even if they point to a webpage that's on a different domain from the page where the button is being hosted."Facebook can't do a great deal about it, because the Like button and associated code sit outside Facebook itself; and it can't detect whether someone has overlaid an iframe or similar bit of malware on the site. The only recourse open to them is to spot users and pages that seem to be passing on recognised scams and blocking exits from Facebook to them, or incoming links from them. That, however, is going to be an arms race to compare with the one against email spammers."Clickjacking" was the term created by Jeremiah Grossman and Robert "RSnake" Hansen, the security researchers who brought the technique to public awareness in late 2008,notes The Register.
Get any gaming in this weekend? For the first time in months mine was dominated by the Wii. Mario Galaxy 2 was the main event although Rugby League 3 got a look in too.  Galaxy 2 is splendid fun, although like all Mario titles, it is helped along by a nostalgic glow. More impressions later but Super Mario Galaxy 2 is a must play. What about you then? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
WWDC is getting started. Photo credit:Adam Jacksonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPad web usage passes iPod &gt;&gt; Deagol's AAPL Model"So my prediction from six and a half weeks ago came through, with a couple of days to spare. iPad has surpassed iPod in web traffic. It took only two months and two million units, compared to almost 3 years and about 40 million iPod touches out there. That means iPads use the web roughly 20 times as much as iPod Touches."&#10;&#10;That's some remarkable data, from the site which has been more accurate about Apple's financials than pretty much every Wall Street analyst (and armchair analyst) for ages.WWDC 2010 - a set on Flickr &gt;&gt; Adam JacksonUnder CC-BY licence. So we'll use them. Nice work.Armchair Auditor: Royal Borough of Windows and Maidenhead &gt;&gt; Adrian ShortFascinating: click a link and see what the spending is and with who. Although it is, as it points out, only alpha. Fantastic even so.Combined Online Information System &gt;&gt; data.gov.ukTell us how many times you've ever seen a Treasury file made available through a BitTorrent file. Cool in so many ways.Is Steve Jobs Repeating His Past Mistakes? &gt;&gt; stevenberlinjohnson.com"I'm not so sure that Jobs thinks his Macintosh strategy failed. I think the way Jobs looks at it is this: he built a beautiful, revolutionary machine in the Macintosh, attracted incredible hype for it and passionate early adopters.&#10;And then he got fired."&#10;&#10;Though exactly this suggestion was also made in the first two, or three, years of the iPod. And look how that turned out.intellectual honesty and html5 &gt;&gt; Christopher BlizzardApple is getting kicked up and down the web for its 'HTML5 standards' page which only lets you access it if you're Safari. Great way to kick off the Worldwide Developers' Conference.Is the link economy suffering from inflation? &gt;&gt; BloggsmWhat's better: a prominent link on a prominent blog, or a little link on a big site? And does either of them pay the bills?Payments to Suppliers &gt;&gt; The Royal Borough of Windsor and MaidenheadAha! Some useful data from RBWM (as they shall be known).In CSV or (ptui) PDF.Making community health information as useful as weather data &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarAlex Howard on how in the US open health data from the Healtn and Human Services parts of the government is driving the development of more than 20 new apps. Will the UK manage to get up to speed?Adobe - Error pageThis is truly strange. The site - http://www.adobe.com/m/nexusone/websites.html - was, back on May 18, linked to as a place which would show off what the Google Nexus One could do. Where has it gone?Publishing Video in 2010 &gt;&gt; ongoing by Tim BrayTim Bray (he sorta invented XML, you know) on trying to get his blog to go HTML5, at least in terms of video. Note: Bray works for Google.Online video still growing, gaining viewers &gt;&gt; Online Journalism blog"The percentage of U.S. Internet users who said they watch news video online did increase from 2007 to 2009 (from 37 to 43 percent) — even though that was a smaller increase than for other types on online videos (source). Comedy and humorous videos saw the biggest leap, from 31 to 50 (percentage of Internet users who said they had watched that type).&#10;&#10;"But note, sports video online went from 14 to 21 percent — less than half the viewers for news!"Coins Explorer &gt;&gt; GuardianThe Guardian's developers have created a data file - now see what you can find in it. Remember, it's your money that you're investigating here.A GPU-Powered HTML5 Flickr Photo Viewer &gt;&gt; Microsot IEBlog"With Internet Explorer 9, Flickr Explorer is generally able to maintain a near real-time responsiveness of 52fps (52 frames per second). In contrast, other browsers struggle to maintain 4-8fps, which is barely 15% the performance that Internet Explorer 9 provides in this particular scenario." Anyone else getting these results?If Steve Jobs Is a God, How Could He Be So Wrong About HTML5 vs. Flash for Us Mere Mortals? &gt;&gt; Alex BlumThe iPad and the Apple vs. Adobe dust-up came at us quickly. The sentiment to kowtow to Apple seemed widespread, but the position was taken without considering the true costs:&#10; * First, there is the added development work to redesign and modify existing sites.&#10;  * Second, there is the added cost of trying to replicate rich-media experiences easily created with Flash in HTML5.&#10;* Next, there is the loss in revenue from online monetization based on Flash advertising.&#10;* Finally, there is the loss in productivity as Web developers are forced to learn new approaches to creating similar or lesser experiences from what has been broadly available for years.&#10;"Just as it was looking like game-over for Flash, sober minds have begun to realize the significance of these costs and are now taking the brave step of pushing back. It's going to take a few influential publishers to stand up to Apple for the tide to turn, not divine intervention."&#10;&#10;Web devs learning new tech? Shocking.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google's legal problems surrounding data collection around the world intensified today when it emerged that the company faces a police investigation in Australia, the latest in a growing number of countries expressing concern about the its Street View mapping services.The probe, which comes amid accusations that Google breached privacy laws, was announced a day after the firm agreed to hand over data it has collected through wireless networks to French, German and Spanish authorities. Canada has also recently launched a probe into Google amid privacy concerns relating to the Street View service which uses camera-equipped fleets of cars to take 360 degree panoramic pictures for an online atlas.Last month, Google acknowledged it had mistakenly collected fragments of data over public and unsecured Wi-Fi networks in more than 30 countries as it was taking pictures of neighbourhoods. It said it discovered the problem after German regulators launched an inquiry into the matter.In the UK, the information commissioner ruled last year that Google's Street View technologycarries a small risk of privacyinvasion but should not be stopped, although members of the public have taken direct action in at least one location to prevent the company from taking photographs on their streets.Residents in Broughton blocked the driver of a Google Street View car, which captures the photos, when it tried to enter the village, near Milton Keynes.The Australian investigation comes as more regulators and consumers watchdogs around the world are complaining that Google does not take people's privacy seriously enough.Google maintains that its users' privacy is one of the company's highest priorities. Australia's communications minister Stephen Conroy has accused Google of being responsible for the "single greatest breach in the history of privacy".Google apologised, saying it accidentally collected the information. The company and the Australian government are arguing over Senator Conroy's proposed mandatory internet filter, which Google says amounts to censorship."There have been some complaints voiced … by the public in respect to practices that have been reported involving allegations that some information may have been obtained by staff of Google travelling around the streets," saidAustralia's federal attorney general Robert McClelland."In light of concerns having been raised by the public, my department thought there were issues of substance that were raised that require police investigation." The case was referred to the Australian federal police on Friday, he said. It will focus on whether the company breached the country's telecommunications interceptions act, which prevents people accessing electronic communications other than for authorised purposes."This was a mistake," Google said in a statement. "We are talking to the appropriate authorities to answer any questions they have."The US Federal Trade Commission has already begun an informal inquiry into the matter and Google has said it would co-operate with authorities.Last month Michigan Democrat John Conyers, the head of the House Judiciary Committee in the United States, sent letters to Google and Facebook urging them to co-operate with any government privacy inquiries. Conyers asked Google to retain the data until any inquiries are complete.Google first revealed that cars were also collecting wireless data in April, but said no personal information from Wi-Fi networks was involved.But after an audit requested by Germany,Google acknowledged in May it mistakenly had collected samples of "payload data."Suits have been filed in Washington, California, Massachusetts and Oregon by people who accuse Google of violating their privacy by collecting data from open Wi-Fi networks.On its official blog Google has said that the software code responsible for collecting the data was used by mistake, and that all Street View cars were grounded when the mistake was discovered.
Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, is due to unveil the fourth version of the company's hugely popular iPhone tomorrow – including a screen with up to four times more detail, a camera flash, noise cancellation and longer battery life.The announcement is expected at the company's Worldwide Developer Conference in San Francisco, which has drawn thousands of programmers keen to write programs – apps – for the device.More than 51m iPhones have been sold since its launch in June 2007, and a number of developers have made thousands of pounds from selling apps through Apple's App Store.But for Jobs the unveiling will be something of an anticlimax – many details about the phone leaked out in mid-April after one of his staff lost a prototype in a bar near the company's headquarters. It was sold to gadget blog Gizmodo, where blogger Jason Chen took it apart and posted a video declaring: "You are looking at Apple's next iPhone."Jobs prefers to keep details of upcoming products under wraps to heighten expectations. But with more details known about the new iPhone than any previous model, some of that effect is likely to be diminished.Yet Apple can revel in having passed Microsoft as the most valuable technology company, based on market capitalisation, and having sold 2m of its iPad tablet computers worldwide since they went on sale in the US on 3 April – including a highly successful UK launch that saw a queue of over a thousand people outside Apple's flagship store in Regent Street, London.Gizmodo's posting about the new iPhone hasturned into a criminal investigationafter the roommate of Brian Hogan – who walked out of a bar with the iPhone – contacted police, worried that the phone was stolen. Hogan had sold the phone to Gizmodo for a reputed $5,000, which had then contacted Apple to see if the phone was a genuine prototype.Speaking at a conference last week, Jobs acknowledged that Apple had lost "a wireless product" and said it was unclear whether the phone was lost or stolen. "This is a story that's got everything – theft, extortion, I'm sure there's sex in there somewhere – someone should make a movie of it," he said. He added that some people had tried to tell him not to go after Gizmodo, but he had decided he could not let Apple's "core values" slide – though he did not explain what values those were.Jobs hasrecently become notable for personally replying to emails sent from members of the public. He said that he enjoyed the experience: "There's nothing that makes my day more than getting a random email from some person in the UK that they just got an iPad and how it made their day. That's what keeps me going."
In a time when sequels are the norm rather than the exception, it's odd to think that the existence of aSuper Mario Galaxy 2is a surprise, but Nintendo's flagship series hasn't seen a direct follow-up on the same console for 20 years. Despite the universal acclaim for the 2007 original, creative mastermind Shigeru Miyamoto suggested that "too conservative" level design and a surfeit of leftover ideas were good enough reasons for a successor that Nintendo internally referred to as "Mario Galaxy 1.5". Yet from the sumptuous opening stages, it's clear that this is no mere expansion.Ideas from the first game are amplified or enriched rather than simply recycled, while new power-ups offer fresh ways to traverse the game's galaxies, each a microcosm of fun, constructed with an imagination that frequently astonishes. Levels glide almost imperceptibly between perspectives as 3-D segues into 2-D, as side-on becomes top-down. In one stage, platforms appear and disappear to a metronomic beat; another sees gravity restlessly change the direction of its pull. A cloud suit gives players limited opportunity to plot their path to the level's finish, and a boulder pick-up turns Mario into a rolling rock, skittling enemies and accelerating up ramps to clear gargantuan gaps.The return of fruit-munching dinosaur steed Yoshi is a particular highlight, his prehensile tongue able to seize and spit back projectiles or swing between platforms. A blue fruit adorably inflates him into a floating blimp, a fiery pepper sees him dash at barely controllable speeds, while gobbling a glowing berry illuminates inky voids, revealing platforms that only exist when the lights are on. A drill propels Mario from one side of a planet through to the other, Nintendo casually throwing in spatial puzzles to test brainpower as well as reflexes.Later levels significantly raise the challenge, with "prankster comets" transforming sedately paced galaxies into ferocious timed trials. Newcomers, meanwhile, are catered to with video hints and a cosmic guide who finishes tricky levels at the cost of turning the gold star prize a dull bronze.A handful of stages pays subtle homage to yesteryear's classics, but the overall effect is an apotheosis of the platform game: here, Nintendo is close to perfecting a genre it has constantly redefined since 1981'sDonkey Kong. As the credits roll, you might question where Mario can possibly go from here; in the meantime, his mesmeric latest is about as good as it gets.
Steve Jobs will appear before the Apple faithful tomorrow to reveal the latest version of the Californian technology group's mobile phone. Nicknamed the iPhone "4G" – on the basis that the last one was the 3GS, with the "S" standing for speed – it will be the summer's must-have gadget, hitting the UK this month. But it is also seen as being in the vanguard of an all-out assault on the mobile market.In the three years since it launchedits first handset, Apple has grabbed the headlines and, more importantly, snatched a lucrative share of the more mature mobile phone markets of the US and Europe, where consumers are willing to pay upwards of £30 a month to get an iPhone. Now, speculation is rising that the company is approaching a so-called "iPod moment" in mobiles: the point at which it will decide that it can capture a much larger slice of the market by producing more than one device.The success of the App Store, which has seen iPhone users download billions of applications, coupled with the pressure to have a wide market to attract advertisers to itsembryonic iAd platform, is pushing Apple towards diversifying, just as it did with the iPod six years ago when it introduced the iPod mini. There is also increasing competition from Google's Android platform. After two and a half years, handset manufacturers are finally producing compelling Android phones – such as the HTC Desire – and more are slated for release this year, including the mass-market HTC Wildfire.But rather than unveil a new, cheaper version of the iPhone, Apple is expected to position the iPhone 4G at the top of the smartphone market and reorganise the existing range. The company is likely to halt production of the iPhone 3G – which cannot cope with Apple's new multi-tasking software – and scrap both existing versions of the iPhone 3GS, which have 16GB and 32GB of memory. It will replace them with a new 8GB version of the 3GS, which is expected to be aimed at the wider market.The iPhone 4G – according to mobile industry insiders who have seen oneand confirmed widespread web leaks– will be available in two versions: 32GB and 64GB. These will put "clear blue water" between it and the mass-market 3GS, as one industry executive puts it. The 4G is slightly smaller and slimmer than the current 3GS. It has an improved 5-megapixel camera with flash and uses micro-sim cards, as seen in the iPad. It also has a glass back, which greatly assists phone reception. In the UK, it is expected to be sold by the same mobile phone networks that have the current iPhone: O2, Orange and Vodafone. It is unclear whether Tesco Mobile will have the 4G when it is launched in the last week of this month.The parallels between Apple's current position in the mobile phone market and the place it held in the digital music market when it introduced the iPod mini are revealing. The first iPod appeared in late 2001, but it was not until 2003 thatApple launched the iTunesstore. One million tracks were sold in the first five days and 70m in the first year. That showed Apple there was a real mass market for digital music and was a spur for the creation of the first variant of the iPod line, the iPod mini, the following year.At the time, Apple was lodged firmly in the high end of the market for digital music players. The iPod was the benchmark by which all others were measured and Apple had a share of about 30%. The iPod mini – replaced at the end of 2005 by the Nano – was designed to grab a large part of the next third down. In similar fashion, the iPhone has become the handset by which other mobiles are measured, and in markets including the UK it has made Apple the third-largest mobile phone manufacturer after Nokia and Samsung. It is now a question of how much of the rest of the market – chock full of me-too touchscreen devices from the likes of Nokia, LG and Samsung – Apple wants."I would argue that they may already have reached the tipping point," Ben Wood at CCS Insight – a long-time follower of the mobile market – says. "The iPhone has become a ubiquitous product in the markets where its pricing is acceptable."He believes that a real driver behind Apple's growth will be the iAd platform, which Jobs announced this year alongside the new version of the iPhone software – which is also in the iPad. The new mobile advertising platform is designed to allow iPhone app developers to create in-app advertising. Currently, anyone who clicks on an advert in a downloadable app is bounced out of it and on to the advertiser's webpage. As a result, many users are put off clicking on adverts. In contrast, iAd will allow full-screen video and interactive advertising content to be served within an application. Crucially, Apple will sell and serve the adverts, and developers will receive 60% of their iAd revenue."With iAd, which could be as significant to Apple as the iPod franchise itself, Apple has a tremendous opportunity. It will provide a further chance to lock in their leading position in application development," Wood says. "If iAd becomes the kind of phenomenon that Apple appears to be able to create, and becomes as big as it could, then potentially Apple could really disrupt the market by subsidising the iPhone from their iAd revenues."But whether iAd means that Apple needs to go all the way into the low end of the market is doubtful."IPhone users are a segment of the population that has affinity with technology and disposable income, and that is a marketeer's dream already," Wood says.And Carolina Milanesi, research vice-president at rival analysts Gartner, is not convinced that this is the right time for Apple to go mass market, citing price constraints on the iPhone's most important feature – its large touchscreen."On the iPod touch and the iPhone, the screen is very important," she says. "Music is easier [to do in a mass-market device] because it is just [data] storage, and with the price of storage coming down you can experiment with design. But when you have applications running on the device, how much dumber can your device become before it is useless? And that is where they are going to struggle. What else do you cut?"Apple could cut its own profits, but it has shown little desire to do that in the past: the switch from the 3G to the 3GS actually reduced the manufacturing cost of the phone, analysts reckon."Yes, of course, they can expand their addressable market so much quicker, but do they want that?" says Milanesi. "Just as Jobs says Apple does not want to be the Dell of the PC market, [so] Apple does not want to be the Nokia of the mobile market." How true that is will be revealed tomorrow.Focus on Apple's factoryWhile Apple fans will drool over the new iPhone this week, tragic events in China have thrown a spotlight on the human cost of the west's obsession with shiny toys. Aspate of suicidesat the massive Chinese plant run by Taiwanese contract electronics manufacturer Foxconn has called into question working conditions at one of Apple's largest suppliers.The Californian company has dispatched a team of investigators to discover why 10 people have killed themselves so far this year. Management at the Shenzhen facility, which stretches across three square kilometers and employs more than 250,000 people, are trying to solve the problem by hiring counsellors, playing soothing music on production lines, increasing wages and asking new recruits to sign a '"no-suicide" contract. They are also taking more direct action, installing netting around outdoor stairwells of the dormitory buildings, where workers sleep eight to a room.Speaking last week, Steve Jobs said Apple was "diligent" when it came to understandingthe working conditionsin the supply chain, auditing its direct suppliers as well as tertiary suppliers."We are over there trying to understand what is happening and more importantly trying to understand how we can help because it is a difficult situation," he told the D8 conference organised by All Things Digital. He said many young workers came from poor rural areas and were away from home for the first time."They are probably less prepared to leave home than your typical High School student going to college in this country. I think there are some real issues there," he said.But he stressed: "Foxconn is not a sweatshop. They have got restaurants and movie theatres and hospitals and swimming pools. For a factory, it is a pretty nice factory."Some of Foxconn's workers disagree, complaining the monotonous workload causes depression. "I do the same thing every day," Xiao Qi, a college graduate who works at Foxconn in product development told Bloomberg Businessweek. "I have no future."
Everywhere I went last week, people asked: "Well, what do you think of it, then?" The "it" was my shiny new iPad, aka the Jesus Tablet, but I stoutly declined to give an answer. I've been around long enough to be suspicious of first reactions to fancy gizmos, so I resolved to live with the device for a week, using it as much as possible andrecording my impressions in an online diarybefore reaching any conclusions. The week is now up, so here goes.First, the iPad is insanely, eye-wateringly expensive, especially in this country. So if you're thinking of getting one, find a friend who's going to the US and get him or her to buy you one over there. I paid nearly £700 for the top-of-the-range 64GB Wi-Fi+3G model, based on many bitter years of discovering the two great truths of life: you can never be too thin and you can never have too much computer memory. In this case, however, I was wrong. Everything I needed to do with the iPad could have been done with the base model (16GB, Wi-Fi only, £429). So I have effectively just blown £270. I'll put it down to experience. For everyone else, the message iscaveat lector.Second, it's really just an iPod Touch on steroids. I've had a Touch for ages and it's a wonderful little device that functions as an email machine, occasional web browser, podcast and music player, calculator, internet radio receiver, ebook reader and more besides. It's small enough to slip into a shirt pocket and goes everywhere with me.The iPad looks gorgeous to people who haven't ever experienced an iPod Touch or an iPhone. But to those familiar with Apple kit, it's just an engorged version of the former. There are some apps that will only run on the iPad, but few would justify the increase in price and bulk.And the bulk matters: the iPad is heavy – 1.5lb (680g). This may not seem much, but after you've been holding it for a couple of hours while browsing the web or reading an ebook, believe me, you really feel it.Many people have remarked on how good the display is and they're right: it's bright, crisp and renders colours beautifully. But it has one big drawback: it's almost unusable in bright light, so if you're thinking of using it to read an ebook on a Mediterranean beach, forget it. The battery life may be great (10 hours, minimum) but the readability in those conditions ain't. And because it's a touch-screen, the iPad gets smeared with fingermarks. This doesn't affect the usability too much, but if you're someone who likes shiny things to stay shiny, prepare to be obsessive.The essence of the iPad is that it's a good device for passive "consumption" of preprepared multimedia content. That's why the old media dinosaurs are salivating about it: it seems to offer them a way of regaining control of the customer – and of ensuring that s/he pays for content. And one can understand why they are so charmingly deluded about this: all apps have to come through the iTunes store and can be charged for. No wonder Murdoch &amp; co love the device. They think it'll rescue them from the wild west web, where people believe that content should be free. Yeah, and pigs will also fly in close formation.It's when one tries to use the iPad forgeneratingcontent that its deficiencies become obvious. The biggest flaw is the absence of multitasking, so you have to close one app to open another, which is a bit like going back to the world of MS-DOS. Email, using the on-screen virtual keyboard, works fine, and if you buy Apple's text-processing app, Pages, then you can create documents. But the hoops one has to go through to pull existing documents in for editing are ludicrously convoluted and there's no way one can easily print from the device.And the apps are crippled in some ways; after importing a long Word document into Pages, for example, I found that all its footnotes had been stripped out. A presentation imported into the Keynote app came with some of the images removed. And so on.In the end, a week with the iPad left me with two over-riding impressions. The first is a renewed appreciation of my laptop, which has all the tools I need for a productive life. The second is a conviction that what Apple has done is to legitimise a new format. Just as the iPhone showed the world that phones should be powerful, handheld computers that could incidentally make voice calls, the iPad may convince people that henceforth computers should be fashioned from a single piece of aluminium.If so, then the next instalment of the computing future starts here.
Becta may be gone - or at least going, given that thegovernment is withdrawing its funding- but it is not forgotten. If you're a Becta alumnus, there's aLinkedIn group for Becta staff, contractors and partners.Set up by Paul Wareing, it says that "It is not a prerequisite that you have a particular view on Becta, but more that you have shareed the experience of working with or in it."It is expected that you will share the values and aspirations and common culture of Becta. Though not so much the official strategy of any given time as the general belief in the potential of technology."At present it's already got 86 members - some way short of the 240 staff (+120 contractors) on Becta's books.There will also be a website at a future date to be determined.
Apple's newest small object of desire, the iPad, has access to an expanded App Store where the range of iPad-specific software is already extremely healthy. In among myriad temptations for the unwary, there are already some gems emerging.Warpgate HD, Freeverse, £4.99Warpgate lets you explore the galaxy, hopping among star systems in search of adventure and cheap quantum inducers to sell for profit. A sprawling and massively involving capitalist space opera laden with Star Wars references.Pinball HD, OOO Gameprom, £1.79Comprising three tables, the scaled-up pinball machines look stunning and benefit from not having to zoom in to see the whole table. Star of the show is the quadruple-flippered Jungle Style.Mirror's Edge, Electronic Arts, £7.99Use a series of directional swipes as your runner, a rebel in a world gone security mad, sprints, jumps, disarms guards and runs along walls in her pursuit of mildly elicit freedom of information. All the better for being less ambitious than its console big brother.Space Station: Frontier HD, Origin8, £2.99Real-time strategy games, with their continual need to prod and poke units around the screen – in this case building and defending a network of power conduits to mine asteroids – seem an ideal match for the iPad.Plants Vs Zombies HD, PopCap, £5.99Seed your garden with cute, zombie-eating plants to defend against the undead lurching towards your house. Ruthlessly addictive, accessible and funny.We Rule, ngmoco, Inc, freeGrow your ancient kingdom by farming, supplying peasants with housing, schools and places to work and adding ambitious construction projects. Everything takes time but you can have it by expending mojo – both earned and for sale, proving there's rarely such a thing as a free app.N.O.V.A. HD, Gameloft, £3.99With neither a mouse nor joypad, first person shooting games on a touch screen have not been terribly good. Clearly inspired by Halo, N.O.V.A. HD's sci-fi army styling looks and feels good and its largely customisable control system works beautifully.Flight Control HD,Firemint, £2.99Planes and helicopters of varying speeds fly in; you draw a route to the right runway, while avoiding mid-air collisions. It's a formula that worked brilliantly on the iPhone, but comes into its own in this roomier, but equally cluttered airspace. With three HD maps, one in 3D and five smaller levels.Worms HD, Team 17, £2.99Released in 1994, Worms was one of the first viable four-player games on PlayStation and still one of the best combinations of real-time and turn-based mechanics. The single player game isn't bad, but this is all about conflict with two or three friends.Harbour Master HD, Imangi Studios, freeLike a watery version of Flight Control, you draw a route for boats to follow into the correct coloured dock to unload cargo, before guiding them back out to sea.
CrackedAfter cats, illegal downloading and NSFW images, a favourite on the internet is the funny list, a large proportion of the better examples of which will have began life on this satirical American site that began life back in the print era as a rival to Mad magazine. From "6 Absurd Gender Stereotypes (That Science Says Are True)" to "15 grossly misleading movie posters" to "The 5 Most Famous Musicians Who Are Thieving Bastards", their run-downs always come with sardonic explanations and clips to back up their choices. It's very American-centric and a bit "college humour" in places, so proceed with caution. As well as the lists are some excellent spoof videos, including the very wonderful Does Not Compute, an occasionally disturbing delve into the murkier corners of YouTube,  and a spectacularly bad daily caption contest.Mark WatsonMark Watson.Mark Watson the comedian (not to be confused with the many Mark Watsons who aren't comedians) has been so busy being funny on various panel shows that he hasn't updated his biography since the middle of 2009. Fortunately he has found time to fill up the rest of his official site and his blog, which is updated almost daily. He has recently confessed to the paranoia that comes with being half-recognised in shopping centres, how he can't watch other comedians on TV, and ruminated on why Ed Balls will never be prime minister. There's also a brilliant football page and links to his eco campaign Crap At The Environment.Blog roll: SteampunkSteampunk chopper from Brass Goggles.Brass GogglesThe French company behind the world's first flying greenhouse, steampunk music and news of the 2010 Steampunk Flugtag Olympics.The Traveller's Steampunk BlogMusings from a travelling steampunk including expeditions to Japan, Russia and Africa.Steampunk HomeInterior design for those in search of the modern Victorian brass raygun look.Age of SteamA brief history of the top hat, historical fiction reviews and turn of the century sci-fi.Robots of OzMeet Boilerplate the 1893 fighting robot and the moustachioed Mechanical Man from 1907.What we learned on the web this weekHow to poach an egg. Photograph: b3taThe correctway to poach an eggHow toadd gentle rain to your environmentA briefhistory of the pixelSome peoplereally dislike Solanum lycopersicumTruman Showsyndrome is on the riseThe iconographyof toiletsHow theyrelease those big money balls in PolandThe deepand mystical melancholy of a bandaged catThe truthbehind Lost's sideways worldWhy 3Dmovies make some people sick
Is the government going to mandate open source for its websites?That's certainly the most straightforward way to read theresponse by Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, to a question by one of his predecessors, the Labour minister Tom Watson:Tom Watson (West Bromwich East, Labour):"To ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office what plans he has for the future of the (a) Number 10 and (b) Cabinet Office website; and if he will make a statement. "Francis Maude (Minister for the Cabinet Office; Horsham, Conservative):"The Government believe that departmental websites should be hubs for debate as well as information-where people come together to discuss issues and address challenges-and that this should be achieved efficiently and, whenever possible using open source software. Any future development of websites run by the Cabinet Office will be assessed and reviewed against these criteria."As Simon Dickson, who does a lot of website development for the government,points out, that's a move on from what it says in theGovernment Transparency documents. Those only talk about a level playing field (specifically, "We will create a level playing field for open-source software and will enable large ICT projects to be split into smaller components"), but as Dickson says:"We've heard the 'hubs for debate' line before,in the Conservative tech manifesto, but the other part is quite startling. Open source software 'wherever possible'. An unqualified statement of policy. No caveats at all; not even financial. That takes us far, far beyond the 'level playing field'."Watch this space. And while you're watching it, consider this: the website for the UK Supreme Court and Judicial Committee of the Privy Council was £360,000. Or as it puts it: "The cost to create and develop the UKSC and Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) websites was £360k in total. The development of both sites was treated as a single project and therefore the costs cannot be broken down by website."Here's theFOI request; and read thedocument response in HTML.Perhaps open source would be slightly cheaper. We can hope.
The latest trailer for the the much anticipated - by fans of the original game especially - Deus Ex: Human Revolution. What do you think?
People in Tian'anmen Square, Beijing on 25 May. Photo byhumdrumboyon Flickr.Some rights reservedAttempts by people in China to mark the 21st anniversary of the Tian'anmen Square massacre by using the location-based service FourSquare to "check in" at it and leave messages have been blocked by the government there - which has cut off access to the site.Techblog86, which blogs about China,noted the blocking earlier today, and confirmed that it is blocked in Beijing, Fuzhou, Guangzhou and Hangzhou.It suggests that the reason for the block is because Foursquare checkins are frequently fed through to Twitter and Facebook, both of which are widely used in China. That's as long as the censors are happy; Twitter has been blocked from time to time by Chinese censors.But of course given that June 4 is the anniversary of the vicious repression of protests by students seeking democratic reforms in 1989, it has been watching internet sources for any sign reflecting the significance of the data.The blog's author writes:"because foursquare speaks to both Twitter and Facebook, some of us posted that onto — right… especially Twitter. The censors probably went, "Ah…" and boom — blocked the site outright."Jeepers. This is the stuff that must have the censors soiling in their pants. Virtually hundreds of people checked into Tian'anmen Square, the place where "something baaad happened" 21 years ago. Of course, the square itself is "safe" (in the real world) today, with cops even in helmets, as well as SWAT forces, all reported in the vicinity of the world's largest square."In place of student demonstrators and their banners, we have people basically filing into foursquare and leaving "sensitive comments" as "tips". Those checking in included folks outside Beijing; @isaac (Isaac Mao), @rejon (Jon Philips) and the rest just flocked to the square, even if they were based elsewhere. (You can do this, by the way, by going to the Foursquare mobile site or even the main site and change your location — although if you're not actually there, that could be seen as cheating…) "The fact that it is easy to "check in" to a location on Fourqsuare without being physically present has given democracy protesters in China a new way to express their concern. But that has once again become a cat-and-mouse game with the censors - who, once more, have the upper hand.
In a canny piece of marketing, video game publisher Electronic Arts has used its 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa game to simulate the real-life competition and predict the winner. Using computer-controlled teams to run through the entire fixture list, the company found that Spain will beat Brazil 3-1 in the final, with goals from David Villa (2) and Cesc Fabregas.As for England, Capello's golden oldies will fall to Brazil in the semis - and, naturally, it goes to penalities. EA has mercifully omitted to name the player guilty of missing England's final spot kick - we don't wantthatplaying on anyones' mind out in South Africa. Speaking of which, in a PR-unfriendly set of circumstances, the simulation has the host nation being eliminated from the competition first.Okay, it's all a bit of PR nonsense - even if EA claims its stats are intricately based on the genuine players – but the company is just doing what surely all football-viewing gamers do; playing out the matches in the hope of gaining some insight into, or perhaps even magically influencing, the results of the real fixtures. After all, watching England squander chances while they're playing thousands of miles away can make fans of the national team feel rather impotent. Playing footie sims alongside the finals is a totemic act, a kind of technological equivalent of sticking pins into dolls crudely dressed as opposing centre forwards.So which have beenyourfavourite combinations of footie sims and major international tournaments? Did Sensible Soccer see you through Euro 96? Did you get Rooney sent off playing Pro Evolution soccer during World Cup 2006? Let us know...
Apple has put up ashowcase of HTML5 and CSS3 technologieson its site.This is a really good idea: it's definitely useful to see what can be achieved with the emerging web standard.However you're not allowed to click through to any of them unless you're viewing them in Safari (or pretending to) - the implication being that only Safari is an HTML5-capable browser.This isn't true, of course: Firefox and Google's Chrome and Opera are all HTML5-CSS3-capable to greater and lesser extents, but if you don't have a setting to change the browser's user-agent string to Safari (and Chrome doesn't, any longer: gone are those happy developer beta days; nor does Firefox in its default install) then dammit, you'll have to use Safari.The demonstrations are interesting enough, though if you want to go and see HTML5 examples, then we'll pass on the (reader-provided) suggestion ofHTML5 Watch, which links to examples of work that don't bully you into downloading particular browsers: apost by the Art of Webworks fine with its demonstrations of transitions in Chrome, for example.Update:You can, however, look at the demonstrationswithouthaving to download/use Safari by going to thedevelopers' area- where pretty much all of the demos work very effectively. (Perhaps the idea of doing browser detection and pointing out which ones wouldn't work, or would give unexpected results, seemed like too much work. Odd, given that allowing for different incoming browsers including - gasp! - Internet Explorer is how the rest of the Apple site has to function)Poor show, Apple - good idea, bad implementation. And it's always the implementation that matters.Yes, you can toot your trumpet in the text accompanying it:"Every new Apple mobile device and every new Mac — along with the latest version of Apple's Safari web browser — supports web standards including HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript. These web standards are open, reliable, highly secure, and efficient. They allow web designers and developers to create advanced graphics, typography, animations, and transitions. Standards aren't add-ons to the web. They are the web. And you can start using them today."Certainly that's absolutely true: standards really are not add-ons; and they are, indeed, what makes the web the web.But it then looks a bit daft to exclude HTML5-aware browsers on the basis that they aren't your particular browser. Is there a tag in HTML5 for irony, or is that waiting for the next round of standards?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The Hurt Locker Oscar. Photo bygnews picson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHP CEO says he didn't buy Palm for smartphones &gt;&gt; Boy Genius ReportApparently, it's really for the patents. Patents on smartphones?Browsers re-tested in the IE9 Testing Center, different results surface &gt;&gt; Within WindowsA clever re-analysis shows that claims that IE9 is faster than other browsers doesn't stand up to scrutiny when you test it with browser builds from the same time.Personal computers are still relevant, Microsoft executive says &gt;&gt; latimes.comWhy would Microsoft's chief software architect think that PCs are still the most important thing? Apart from because they are?Hurt Locker image - 'Hurt Locker' sharers: Expect docs like this (photos) &gt;&gt; CNET NewsHurt Locker producers are going after people it thinks downloaded the film illegally.The Pirate Bay Couples With Meezoog Belowdecks To Launch Dating Site &gt;&gt; TechcrunchHey - we both downloaded the Hurt Locker? Wanna get dinner?Computer Security Research &gt;&gt; McAfee Labs BlogAmid all the criticism, some praise for the giant social network: "Facebook has also done some tuning/magic on their side to block bogus or questionable logon attempts. If they see logons from unusual devices, they will prompt those users with additional verification questions, in essence, making them prove they are who they say they are".Pwn2Own 2010: interview with Charlie Miller &gt;&gt; |oneITsecurityMiller is the guy who kept breaking into computers - Macs, Windows, Linux - at the conference where you can win a computer by hacking to root. Guess which plugin he thinks weakens a browser the most?more eco-beauty at twitter &gt;&gt; Michelle Kaufmann StudioIf these are Twitter's offices, where the hell are the computers?Android rootkit is just a phone call away &gt;&gt; Network World"Hoping to understand what a new generation of mobile malware could resemble, security researchers will demonstrate a malicious "rootkit" program they've written for Google's Android phone next month at the Defcon hacking conference in Las Vegas."&#10;&#10;Seeing is believing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Paul Chambers, a former trainee accountant who was fined £1,000 after posting a message to the social network Twitter joking about blowing up an airport, is to appeal against his conviction.Chambers wasfound guilty in Mayof sending a message of a "menacing character" under the Communications Act 2003 after he tweeted in frustration in January at the closure of Robin Hood airport, near Doncaster, owing to snow. "Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together, otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!" he wrote, frustrated that his plans for a flight to Ireland looked like being thwarted.The appeal, which is likely to be heard next month or August, is being co-ordinated by Allen Green, a prominent lawyer who writes theJack of Kent blog, and will be led by Stephen Ferguson, a leading defence barrister who is being paid from a defence and appeal fund for Chambers.The arguments will turn on whether the message could reasonably be interpreted as menacing under the terms of the legislation.Writing on his blog, Green says: "I think that we can be optimistic for Paul's chances on appeal, but that sadly is not a certainty. There is still a lot of work to be done so that this injustice can be remedied."After the initial verdict at a magistrates' court, Chambers admitted that his tweet was "silly" butcalled the police reaction "absurd", saying his tweet was "like having a bad day at work and stating that you could murder your boss" and that "I didn't even think about whether it would be taken seriously."Chambers left his job as a financial supervisor at a car distribution company after having been arrested in January at work by four police officers. His solicitor in the initial case argued that the tweet was a "Basil Fawlty" outburst – immature, tasteless, unacceptable, but not criminal. The airport itself described the message as "not credible" as a threat, and its operations were not disrupted, but it was obliged to tell South Yorkshire police. They took a different view."I would never have thought, in a thousand years, that any of this would have happened because of a Twitter post. I'm the most mild-mannered guy you could imagine," Chambers said after the initial verdict.
Video game industry news source MCV has an interesting story today, entitledForget motion - 3D to dominate 3D. The article contends that while Microsoft and Sony will both be showing off their new motion control devices (Natal and Move, respectively) at this month's mammothE3video game event, the attention of the world's press could well be diverted to 3D technology. The piece quotes Namco Bandai Partners chief Olivier Comte, who says:"Natal and Move are two new tools, but I don't think either are the next revolution of games. I believe the next revolution will be 3D. I have tested some 3D games and I think it is a big change."Sony itself is set to show off the opening selection of PS3 games compatible with 3D-capable TVs and stereoscopic glasses. Gran Turismo 5 will head the list followed by the likes of Super Stardust HD, Pain and WipeOut HD, which are all being madeavailable freeto purchasers of Sony's latest 3D Bravia televisions. The company is also likely to talk about itsplans to 'retro-fit' already released PS3games with 3D compatibility. Furthermore, MCV states that several other publishers are gearing themselves up to reveal 3D capable games (EA has one apparently), while Nintendo, of course, will unveil its 3DS handheld console.Inevitably perhaps, there seems to be a consensus of opinion forming that motion controls are going to be for casual players, while 3D will appeal to hardcore gamers...The logic is obvious: the Wii has prospered by selling physical control as a technological leveller, something that allows all members of the family to get involved. And to illustrate this philosophy, the biggest releases have all been very intuitive and family focused – Wii Play, Wii Sports, Wii Fit, etc. Sure enough, Natal and Move have also generally been marketed toward a mainstream audience, with sports sims and rhythm action games dominating in the various demos and trailers. There's an unspoken understanding that, while Sony and Microsoft are set to offer products with slightly more accuracy than the Wii, you're still not going to get the pinpoint, impulse controls required to indulge in experiences like Killzone or Halo.3D, on the other hand, is a visual technology, and gamers have always appreciated advances in graphical prowess. The concept is not about attempting to get new people into new types of games – at least not to begin with. It's about augmenting the traditional experience, just as it has been in the cinema. And, of course, 3D gaming is going to be very expensive to get into, which makes it intrinsically hardcore.So what do you think? Are you more excited by motion controls or by 3D? And do you think the latter will actuallyimprovethe games you like now? Will, say, Modern Combat 3 be more playable in 3D? Will it allow us to judge shots more accurately?In the MCV article, EA Sports head honcho Peter Moore offers an interesting proviso:"I've seen a number of our games running in 3D, and we're learning that we can't take the existing camera angles. You have to get lower and have depth of field to actually see it. You've got to look at things differently than just porting to 3D, because 50 per cent of what you are seeing you can't even tell it's 3D. I'm not sure it adds value to the experience."But then, of course, value is all about perception, and if we justlikethe idea of a FIFA game in which the players leap out of our TVs, that's fine, isn't it? Even if it means the camera is on the turf, looking up their shorts?
Orbitsound, the British audio company created by sound engineer and one-time session musician Ted Fletcher, will today unveil a new range of gadgets using its innovative spatial stereo technology that are likely to have audiophiles drooling.Orbitsound's T4 RadiopodAlongside the T12 – a new version of its "soundbar", which sold out within a few months of being made available in John Lewis last year, amid widespread critical acclaim – Orbitsound is releasing a new gadget: a Wi-Fi-enabled digital radio and iPod dock, called the T4 Radiopod.Both gadgets make use of the company's airSOUND system, Fletcher's patented technology that produces clarity and depth of sound wherever the gadget is positioned.With a traditional stereo system there is a "sweet spot" a certain distance from the speakers in which the listener will experience perfect sound. Orbitsound maintains that its products produce fantastic stereo "spatial" sound with depth and clarity wherever the system is positioned, creating a so-called "infinite sweet spot". The technology was developed by Fletcher in 2004, but the first devices were not unveiled until the Consumer Electronics Show in 2008.Fletcher's experience of the audio industry stretches back to the early 1960s, when he worked with music producer Joe Meek – whose most famous hit was Telstar by The Tornados – first as a session artist and then as a sound technician. He went on to set up his own sound mixer manufacturing company in 1969, called Alice, and his kit was soon in demand by the likes of Jethro Tull, the Eagles and the Who. He went on to sell Alice and set up an audio compression business, whose most popular line of stereo compression equipment Fletcher named after Meek. It was snapped up by PMI Audio Group seven years ago.The original backing for Orbitsound came from John Cameron and Harvinder Hungin, two City financiers who were behind the 2004 multi-billion pound buyout of property group Chelsfield. They are both executive directors of Orbitsound. The company, meanwhile, recently finalised a fresh investment round and an overdraft with a major international bank, in order to fund its expansion.
Back in January 2006 we asked "Will Slashdot be overtaken by Digg?" The idea at the time that the venerable "news for nerds" site could be surpassed in popularity by a two-year-old site didn't seem tenable - until you looked at the numbers. Those showed that Digg was rushing up on Slashdot - and later that year it passed it for pageviews and unique users.But now something's happening at Digg. Data from Compete.com - image above - shows that after ticking along at about 37m (and as many as 44m) unique visitors for the past year or so, user numbers have fallen off a cliff - from 38m in March to 24.7m in April. That's a 35% drop, and below the 26m it was claiming back in June 2008 when we interviewed Kevin Rose, Digg's founder.That means that it's close to falling below Twitter (the orange line on the graph), though it's far above long-term rival reddit, also shown on the graph (the green line). (Reddit is now owned by Conde Nast.)What's happened? Is it just a blip? Something odd in the way Compete collects data? Since Twitter and Reddit don't show comparable changes, that's probably not it. (Comparing it against Facebook for the same perioddoesn't show a comparable rise in Facebook users. So they haven't gone there.) (Update:: see the end of the post: we think we've found them. Quite possibly they were never regular Digg users.)Digg is trying to change - perhaps in response to those frankly scary numbers. In avideoreleased on Friday 28 May, Rose showed a preview of how you can "follow your favourite accounts" where you can follow "My News" which shows stories that have been duggby your friendsand their comments.Only 120-140 stories make the Digg front story per day - though you'll see plenty more if you click around the site, even if not logged in. The reaction of the Editors' Weblog page: Rose is trying to make Diggthe "Twitter of news"- though Rose has a digg... er, dig at Twitter and Google Buzz, saying "And because we're only links and news we cut out all the miscellaneous status updates that you see on other sites." Nice one, Kevin.However what the new version would look like to anyone who'd never seen Digg but did know Twitter is a sort of "Twitter for news". (You can get a feed of what the people in your Twitter stream are looking at by usingTwittertim.es, for instance.) That looks a tiny bit desperate.What it doesn't look like is the old, slightly mad, Digg. Is this going to be enough then to get people to come back to Digg?When weinterviewed Rose, he talked about turning the site into a social network; what he wasn't clear about was how to make it pay.Andwebmagazine thinks that Digg is Deadd: "It was a good run, Digg.com. You certainly had a great idea and funneled plenty of Web traffic to opportunistic and manipulative publishers. Alas, the run is over. And it's not coming back."It argues that Digg has lost out because it grew so popular that individuals couldn't make any difference:"The biggest problem with Digg in the past was that unless you devoted serious time to it and knew how to work the system, you had little hope of ever making the front page. The only stories that made the front page were typically those voted up by voting blocs; networks of like-minded individuals attempting to send streams of traffic to each others' sites no matter the content of the story. And if you didn't make the front page, the benefits were very little, if any. Now, you still will need to dedicate serious time to the site -- only this time you won't receive near the level of exposure."That is, unless your "friends" vote up your stories at a breakneck pace. Which, for all intents and purposes, puts us right back where we started with Digg. In other words, there's no innovation here and the real value proposition of Digg hasn't changed, it's just become more labor intensive."It's hard to argue against that. There is a horrible inevitability about some sites' declines. Webmagazine doesn't pull its punches:"In the soon-to-be end, Digg will become known as the first network to die from social fatigue. Facebook and Twitter are booming, LinkedIn is holding steady and even MySpace seems to have settled into a niche. But Digg is in a deadly, unrecoverable tail spin."Yet there's stillDiggnation- in effect, the live tour that goes with the site, which is still profitable (surely?). But Rose, and Digg, have to face the problem: what happens when your early fans grow up and a new generation starts moving in - or doesn't? A site that can't renew itself and become relevant to a new group, ideally while keeping its previous users, will decline.There may be simple reasons behind Digg's dramatic fall in users numbers - but losing a third of your visitors in a single month would make most people shiver. They haven't all gone to Facebook. So where?Update:In the comments, yetanotherusername suggests that the axing at the start of April of the DiggBar -introduced in April 2009, precisely when those Compete stats begin - is responsible for the drop.But the DiggBar was a framer for content - so that when you clicked, you'd still remain on Digg. If people are now going off to other sites after being at Digg, that's not going to reduce the number of unique visitors; it might reduce pageviews. The DiggBar in effect kept you on Digg longer - it didn't boost the visitor numbers.What might have had an effect is the killing of the DiggBar allied with the fact thatfrom July last year unlogged-in users who clicked on Diggbar links would take you to Digg, rather than the site pointed to in Digg.Now, if there's no Diggbar, then there's no Diggbar links, and that means random people around the net aren't seeing them, so they're not clicking on them and coming to Digg.Update 2:in comments, @kimosabe points to two links suggesting that tweaks in Google's algorithm led to far less inbound traffic from Google:Alexa shows a 38% drop in search engine traffic from March to April for Digg.com:http://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/digg.com#search.And:They've apparently offended the Google gods, and from the look's of this they're not alone:http://searchengineland.com/google-confirms-mayday-update-impacts-long-tail-traffic-43054.Conclusion: the killing of the Diggbar, which drew people in from all over without their realising where they were heading, has led to fewer visitors. That's where Digg's visitors have gone: they were unwitting users anyway.Plusloss of Google-driven visitors.So that leaves Digg - which has apparently received $40m of venture capital in its lifetime - looking about as big as Twitter in unique visitors in the US. But without the momentum. The question still lingers: is it deadd? But at least we can understand what's happening. Kudos @yetanotherusename for pointing it out, and @kimosabe for the Google/Alexa links.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Steve Jobs introduces the iDeathStar.A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSmokescreen demo: a Flash player in JavaScript &gt;&gt; Simon WillisonPointing to a Flash player which doesn't need, er, Flash Player. Though it is 175KB, more than 8,000 lines of Javascript "which might cause problems on low powered mobile devices". Ya think, Simon?Data Explosion: Analytics Software Must Adapt or Die &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebAnalystics software might not be up to the task of dealing with the coming data deluge.Digg is Deadd &gt;&gt; Website MagazineRemember when Digg passed Slashdot in 2006? "According to the latest Compete.com data (April, 2010) Digg lost an astounding 13.8 million unique visits from March to April, 2010 -- a near 36 percent drop. Apparently sensing impending doom, Digg founder Kevin Rose has made several announcements of retooling Digg, but nothing has materialized. In fact, the announcements might have been the worst thing Digg founder Kevin Rose could have done. It's been over a year since Rose announced that changes would come. In the mean time, Facebook and Twitter have soared and it appears the Digg crowd grew tired of waiting. While the changes seem to be close to a reality now, it's too late."&#10;&#10;Don't count it out, though Rose might feel rueful at not selling the company a couple of years ago.Chromium OS builds &gt;&gt; Hexxeh..but in the meantime: want to run ChromeOS? Try these builds. (The wary may want to compile from source - or refer back to the source, or check MD5 hashes. Never bad to be paranoid online.)Asthmapolis &gt;&gt; Asthma inhaler trackingSimply brilliant idea which aggregates data from people, epidemiolgists and health researchers to build up a objective data about asthma in an area.U.S. Indicts Ohio Man and Two Foreign Residents in Alleged Ukraine-Based "Scareware" Fraud Scheme &gt;&gt; FBIAllegedly, it caused $100m in losses. Scareware: the easy way to take advantage of the worried - where it doesn't matter how secure your operating system is.Windows Isn't the security risk that Google story suggests &gt;&gt; Windows Blog"When it comes to security, even hackers admit we're doing a better job making our products more secure than anyone else. And it's not just the hackers; third party influentials and industry leaders like Cisco tell us regularly that our focus and investment continues to surpass others."&#10;&#10;But one can also sense that Microsoft isn't quite sure how to respond to this in a way which doesn't sound churlish, or arrogant. Get Don Draper!Publishing itemised local authority expenditure - advice for comment &gt;&gt; data.gov.ukInteresting comments by the Local Data Panel (Nigel Shadbolt, Chris Taggart, Will Perrin) on how to get the data out there. That's going to be very important very soon.Apple Races To Catch Microsoft's Profits &gt;&gt; Business Insider Chart of the DayThe crossover looks a long way off - though Microsoft's profit growth shows a clear growth path that's slower than the rapidly upward moving one of Apple's. In the next quarter, add in iPad profits...44 Million Stolen Gaming Credentials Uncovered &gt;&gt; Symantec Connect"We recently analyzed a new sample submitted to Symantec and came across a server hosting the credentials of 44 million stolen gaming accounts. What was interesting about this threat wasn't just the sheer number of stolen accounts, but that the accounts were being validated by a Trojan distributed to compromised computers. Symantec detects this threat as Trojan.Loginck."&#10;&#10;Actually, 44m stolen gaming accounts does sound like a lot to us.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I occasionally game with my friend Josh, who like me has had therapy in the past. "Come on," he says, as we pick up our controllers and start firing, "let's go and kill these stand-ins for  our parents."It's not necessarily a joke. Cultural theoristMarsha Kinderhas suggested that videogame "boss battles" – often featuring a tiny protagonist fighting an enormous monster – might be a way of re-experiencing the viewpoint of a child: surrounded by much larger people, who can be dangerous and frightening. Other analyses have compared the repetition necessary to complete a difficult sequence to recurring dreams, in which one might be trying towork through trauma.If this seems ridiculous, consider that psychologists have long recognised the importance of children's play and that thinkers since Aristotle have praised the effects oftheatrical  catharsis: release through experiencing strong emotions vicariously. Discussions about the psychology of videogames often focus on claims that playing leads to violence or "addiction", but perhaps when we game, we're working something through.I'm not sure that I've ever  experienced catharsis through  playing a game, but I have certainly had flashes of self-knowledge.  Musing on why it was taking me so long to complete a particular set of missions in Red Dead Redemption,  I realised that I was constantly being distracted by side quests. "Ah," I found myself thinking, "it's because I find it so hard to say no when someone asks me for help." I'm surprised more self-help books don't recommend  gaming as a path to self-understanding.
For gamers of a certain age the mere mention ofdevelopers Rarewill bring back a flood of nostalgic memories. The British company produced numerous classics fromSabre Wulfand Knight Lore on the Speccy to Goldeneye on the N64. Let's skate over more recent releases - although Banjo Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts had its moments - because Rare are 25 years old this summer. Yes, it's a quarter of a century sinceJetpac. Ouch. To celebrate Rare have, er, unveiled a new logo. Personally I'd have preferred a new version of Staff of Karnath, but Head of Studio Mark Betteridge is excited by the logo and the future of the once hugely influential developer.Both Rare and the games industry have seen massive changes over the past 25 years, and right now it feels as if both we and the industry are continuing to evolve at an ever-increasing pace. With this landmark anniversary coming up, and knowing that we have a really exciting future ahead, we felt now was the time to have a new image more in keeping with an innovative and creative entertainment company which aspires to be around for at least the next 25 years!Anyway, let's use the birthday as an excuse for some nostalgia. Go on then - what are you top 3 Rare games. Check thelist herefor some reminders..
7art-screensavers, which was identified by the Mac anti-virus company Intego as the conduit through which a spyware/adware (choose your description) PremierOpinion, has removed the app from its free downloads after the Guardian brought the controversy about the program to its attention.An email from Roman Rusavsky, who responded to our inquiry at 7art, dismisses the threat described by Intego. (His English is a lot better than our Russian, so we've put his responses here verbatim.)"In short - it's not true. The PremierOpinion is not Spyware and not malicious. All that noise is just trolling from some users who don't want to read terms and conditions before installing any software. All information about the PremierOpinion can be found athttp://www.premieropinion.com/FAQ.aspx. In [the] terms and conditions there is the clear mention what PremierOpinion software do and what do not."Moreover it can be easily uninstalled after the installation from Applications/PremierOpinion."Moreover everybody can chose to install the PremierOpinion or not. Just choose "I disagree" during the installation not to install it."So, we asked him, did he get paid per download, or a lump sum? And would he have it on his machine?"Yes. We get paid for each download. Actually it's the only way to make the screensavers available for free."The PremierOpinion is a legitimate software. It belongs to the big respected company that in no way will violate the law. It respects privacy and sell only general not personal information analyzing some trends."At this time I don't have it at my own machine as I don't need it."That's quite a neat getout on the last point; nobody actuallyneedsPremierOpinion on their machine; the only people who need it on peoples' computers are PremierOpinion, which (if you haven't seen the previous post on this) is owned by VoiceFive, which is owned by the web metrics company comScore. Nobody else is going to benefit in any material way that we can perceive by having this program on their machine; it looks instead like a resource-sucking security hole.But after the email from Rusavsky we tried downloading another copy of the screensaver that we tried this morning to check Intego's claim - and PremierOpinion was gone. Where previously it contained a Java program which tried to install the PremierOpinion software, now it just gives you an installer stub; inspecting the program contents shows no signs of the PremierOpinion software. (If you want to inspect such programs, Ctrl-click - or right-click - will offer "show package contents". That looks inside the folder, where you'll find a .saver program: that's the simple screensaver you want. Double-click on it to install it.)Certainly it's true that PremierOpinion does ask for permission - specifically, your admin password - before installing itself. But it doesn't give a clear indication of what it does - which includes examining your email and web headers. We still haven't heard from comScore or VoiceFive or PremierOpinion about why they are trying to press this software on people and whether they think the security risks it creates are proportionate.Credit to 7arts for moving quickly on this.Meanwhile Intego has posted further on this too,sayingthat"after a certain time, the spyware makes an "upgrade" and installs another application, which is another variant of the same spyware, called PermissionResearch. (It is also possible that further versions of this spyware will upgrade themselves to us other variants.)"This is interesting - though we have to admit that it doesn't fill us with confidence that Intego wasn't able to spot that the software being installed comes from PremierOpinion (it tells you rather obviously in the splash screen, plus the name of its direct parent company VoiceFive), and doesn't seem to have contacted the company to ask it what was going on. Could it be that Intego is more interested in creating concern than spreading information? No,perish the thought.
Released in the same month as Super Street Fighter 4 and anticipated by pretty much no one, Samurai Shodown Sen is a fighting game so relentlessly difficult it often feels like the creators were setting out to punish anyone failing to take it seriously enough.The Shodown series originated with a fondly remembered 1993 arcade outing that was steeped in Japanese tradition. Set in the late 18th century, the cast was heavy on dispossessed ronin, the soundtrack aimed for authentically Japanese music, and the weaponry was reasonably believable. These aspects are present and correct this time around – so don't go expecting any sci-fi weapons or guests dropping in from, say, the Star Wars universe. Instead, there's a couple of dozen fairly vanilla characters to choose from (muscular samurai types, big-eyed manga girls, beardy monks, etc), separated into four categories – "skill", "speed", "power" and "tricky."For those who feel at home with the Soul Calibur series, to which this bears a passing resemblance, SSS is likely to seem infuriatingly inaccessible, wholly lesser experience. There's a basic palette of kicks, slashes and throws which can be combined and/or modified with the D pad to a certain extent – but you can forget about perfecting an array of pleasing, spectacular combos. Instead, this is all about the hard slog – chipping away at your enemy's life bar, furiously blocking and countering attacks, and trying (and most likely failing) to land the occasional more substantial attack, without leaving yourself open to a barrage of blows that'll make you want to sling your controller across the room in disgust at the bloody-minded unfairness of it all.It's certainly breaking no new ground in terms of theme, game play or visuals — its make-do approach to graphics won't win any prizes, although there are some beautifully illustrated menu screens that draw from traditional Japanese caligraphy, bringing to mind Okami's elegant visuals.SSS is certainly not for the habitual button basher, or even anyone who'd like to have a decent grasp of a fighting game within a couple of hours of picking it up. However, for connoisseurs of the genre it's still worth a look. It's awkward, infuriating and it does not want to be your friend, but these aren't necessarily the worst things in the world. If you think of Dead or Alive as a Mini Babybel, this'd be some sort of smelly cheese that is actually surprisingly tasty once you get over the whiff.
Apple's iPad has usability problems, and shows an "overemphasis on aesthetics", according to usability guru Dr Jakob Nielsen, who has just publisheda free 93-page reporton iPad usability. He was in London last month where his company,Nielsen Norman Group, was holding a usability conference. Since he had an iPad in his hotel room, I asked him how well it had turned out."In some ways, less well than I expected," he said. "There were really a lot of usability problems in this first-generation of iPad applications. It's often quite difficult for people to discover what they have to do because the options are not very visible. I have to say of both the device itself and the content, it's very attractive, which is good. But at the same time, overemphasising the attractiveness and hiding the functionality, that does cause problems."Nielsen also thinks "there are things Apple has done that diminish usability. For example, they don't have some standard things like font size control so you can define big, small or medium text. With no font preferences, every designer can do a picture-perfect layout on every screen, because they don't have to reflow the text accordingly, which is what websites should always do," he says."The second compounding issue is that everything is different. If you pick up a few different magazine apps, every one of them will treat the articles and pictures differently. How do you go to the next article? It's different in each application, the problem being that then you can't learn."When it comes to reading a magazine, the interest should come from the content, not the interface to that content. You don't want to have to struggle with 'how does this work?' I don't think [Apple] have detailed-enough guidelines, which partly comes from them pushing it out too quickly."But, I reply, surely people are used to dealing with different applications on the web."They are, but they also don't like that!" Nielsen says. "But I think the web has by now evolved a fairly large set of conventions, so it's relatively well known how to deal with basic things." For example, with a long article you can either scroll or sometimes click for the next page. "You can certainly do it differently, but any website that does it differently will have problems."Nielsen says that some of the iPad's problems are endemic to the touch tablet format. "With the iPad, it's very easy to touch in the wrong place, so people can click the wrong thing, but they can't tell what happened," he says. There are also problems with gestures such as swiping the screen because they're "inherently vague", and "lack discoverability": there's no way to tell what a gesture will do at any particular point."People don't know what they can do, and when they try to do something, they don't even know what they did, because it's invisible," Nielsen explains. "With a mouse, you can click the wrong thing, but you can see where you clicked."Lack of consistency and lack of discoverability are problems that should worry Apple, because they have been its strength for decades. Discoverability was the core attraction of the Mac's pull-down menus when it was launched in 1984, and the main reason Apple opted for having only one button on the mouse. "One of the great successes of the Macintosh was that it had very detailed human-interface guidelines for how applications should work," says Nielsen. "In those days, as a Mac owner, you could pick up another application and just use it, whereas as a PC owner, if you bought another application, it was another user interface – completely different."So does he have a view on the Adobe Flash versus HTML5 bun-fight, because Flash isn't generally known for its usability."For once, I'm on the side of Flash," he says, "because I think Apple is trying to over-rigidly control what's on its devices. I can understand there are benefits to doing that, but there are also benefits to the diversity of the internet. Diversity is a very powerful mechanism. In the early days of the web, there were many alternatives that were closed services – AOL, CompuServe, Trilogy – but on the web, anybody could put up anything, including a lot of bad stuff. But users vote with their feet, or their clicks: they can click away from bad Flash and click towards good Flash. It's a shame Apple is so restrictive on what they allow on the iPad and the iPhone. When a customer has bought a device, it's theirs; they should be able to see the information they want, and run the applications they want."Nielsen adds: "Flash has been quite often mis-used to cause grievances in the user interface. That said, it has also been used in later years for more useful things, such as video. In my view, there's no real need to change to another technology once we have one that works pretty well. But Apple doesn't seem to like Adobe, I guess, so they're pushing that we should change to HTML5. But from the user perspective, which is what I'm trying to advocate, it doesn't make that much difference. Technically, it doesn't really matter."But don't we all expect HTML5 to win in the end?"Five years from now, it's likely that HTML5 will be a better way of doing video – it's a very good long-term trend – but that doesn't mean you should throw out all the existing stuff now," says Nielsen. "You have to be able to read old formats." Not everything gets updated.Of course, I say, another part of the iPad's appeal to publishers is that they can charge for content that would otherwise be free on the web."The one thing we're still missing is a great business model for content providers," says Nielsen, "and the iPad gets people to buy magazines by downloading apps. It's really a sort of midi-payment rather than a micropayment because you're still buying an aggregation of material in one go. I actually still believe more in micropayments, where you pay for individual things. Micropayments haven't taken off. It's one of those areas that has to be fairly centralised: there really has to be one system."Microsoft has done it with points on Xbox Live, for one example, so could Facebook do it for the wider web?"Maybe they could, and they could seed it very well by allowing you earn points from different things you do on their system," he says. "When they needed to get a critical mass of customers, PayPal gave you $5 for signing up. Facebook could give you the opportunity to gain some points by updating your profile. But they're trying too hard to leverage friend connections, and almost anything you do to make money off who's a friend of who will be a privacy violation."
If you have downloaded and installed one of a long list (see the end of this post) of screensavers for the Mac, you've also got some spyware on board.Yup. Spyware. On the Mac. The sector is becoming big enough to be worth the attention of the writers of scummy software. You might think it's not malware, but that's only because you haven't read the (long) list of things it does.Intego, which has ploughed a fairly lonely furrow offering anti-virus checking for Macs (though it also picks up malware aimed at Windows machines, which Macs can pass on via email or Office documents), says it has found the spyware program - which it calls OpinionSpy, aka PremierOpinion - distributed within a number of free applications and screen savers on a variety of sites.The principal source, though, and the largest number of infected files, come via a site called 7art-screensavers - which is registered to Alex Korsakoff of Moscow. But we don't think he's behind the spyware; in fact we're all but certain about that.Worth noting too that 7art-screensavers has a number of "partners" also offering screensavers. It's quite possible that they have also provided this spyware as part of installations.Where's the spyware from? Apparently a company called PremierOpinion, which has a privacy policy as long as your arm (if you have long arms). Which isowned by VoiceFive Networks. Which isowned by comScore.In fact the VoiceFive/PremierOpinion software - which alsoattacksis available for Windows - hasalready been pointed out by Ben Edelman, longtime scourge of spyware, as "not something you'd want on your computer".We have contacted PremierOpinion and VoiceFive to ask why they install software whichscans email and web headers. (There's no given option to remove PremierOpinion from Macs on itsFAQs.)According to Intego, "This spyware, OSX/OpinionSpy, performs a number of malicious actions, from scanning files to recording user activity, as well as sending information about this activity to remote servers and opening a backdoor on infected Macs."How does it manage that? Because you let it: "The spyware itself is not contained in these applications, but is downloaded during the installation process. This shows the need for an up-to-date anti-malware program with a real-time scanner that can detect this malware when it is downloaded by the original application's installer."The information provided with some of these applications contains a misleading text that users must accept explaining that a "market research" program is installed with them, but not all of these specify this. Some of these programs are also distributed directly from developers' web sites with no such warning.""The malware, a version of which has existed for Windows since 2008, claims to collect browsing and purchasing information that is used in market reports. However, this program goes much further, performing a number of insidious actions, which have led Intego to classify it as spyware."If you think that you may have let this program get onto your machine, seeour accompanying post on Ask Jack: How to get rid of OpinionSpy / PremierOpinion's spyware from your Mac.Intego gives a long list of things that this does:&bull; This application, which has no interface, runs as root (it requests an administrator's password on installation) with full rights to access and change any file on the infected user's computer.&bull; If for any reason the application stops running, it is re-launched via launchd, the system-wide application and service launching facility.&bull; It opens an HTTP backdoor using port 8254.&bull; It scans all accessible volumes, analyzing files, and using a great deal of CPU time. It is not clear what data it copies and sends to its servers, but it scans files on both local and network volumes, potentially opening up large numbers of confidential files on a network to intrusion.&bull; It analyzes packets entering and leaving the infected Mac over a local network, analyzing data coming from and being sent to other computers. One infected Mac can therefore collect a great deal of data from different computers on a local network, such as in a business or school.&bull; It injects code, without user intervention, into Safari, Firefox and iChat, and copies personal data from these applications. Code injection is a form of behavior similar to that of a virus, and this malware "infects" applications when they are running to be able to carry out its operations. (It infects the applications' code in the Mac's memory, and does not infect the actual applications' files on the user's hard disk.)&bull; It regularly sends data, in encrypted form, to a number of servers using ports 80 and 443. It sends data to these servers about files it has scanned locally, and also sends e-mail addresses, iChat message headers and URLs, as well as other data. This data may include personal data, such as user names, passwords, credit card numbers, web browser bookmarks, history and much more.&bull; Given the type of data that it collects, the company behind this spyware can store detailed records of users, their habits, their contacts, their location and much more.&bull; The application can be upgraded automatically, with new features added, with no user intervention, and without the user being aware of this. It occasionally asks users for information, via the display of dialogs, such as their name, or asks them to fill out surveys.&bull; In some cases, computers with this spyware installed no longer work correctly after a certain period of time; it is necessary to force-reboot such Macs.&bull; If a user deletes the original application or screen saver that installed this spyware, the spyware itself will remain installed and continue to operate.Worried? You should be: this is about as nasty a piece of spyware as you could expect to find. The fact that it's downloaded during installation is a clever trick. The claims to be collecting "marketing information" is a flat-out lie, so one would hope that the people behind it will be caught.We've emailed 7art to ask about what knowledge it had of PremierOpinion/OpinionSpy and its real function. We'll update the post if and when we hear from them.We've also emailed VoiceFive, PremierOpinion and comScore to ask them about this.So is that the end of innocence for the Mac? Actually, there's been malware about on Mac OS X for quite some time (much of it spotted by Intego, it should be said) - but there hasn't been a piece of software with this vicious potential on OS Xbefore that I can recall. The subtle element here being the download-during-install, and the use of the admin password to install as root and make itself self-launching.And more to the point, this isn't a team of l33t hax0rs writing malware aimed at the Mac: it seems to be a company trying to get more information about web users (that's comScore's raison d'etre), and deciding that the Mac demographic - so far underserved by spyware - deserves a bit of attention. Unwelcome attention, with a program that goes too far (a monitoring program shouldn't install as root, and shouldn't install in launchd). But it's not the stealth attack that's often been feared.How to protect against this sort of stuff? The pricier method: get anti-virus such as Intego. The cheaper method, though requiring more attention: don't run as an administrator (run as a normal "user" with limited rights); when you're asked for your password, ask yourself why this piece of software needs it. (Most applications will work perfectly fine without having to be in the /Applications or /Utilities folder, so there's no reason for them to go there; it also makes it easier to update or wipe your machine if only the Apple set of apps lives in /Applications. Some apps won't agree, but that's tough on them.)As Intego notes, "this application that purports to collect information for marketing reasons does much more, going as far as scanning all the files on an infected Mac. Users have no way of knowing exactly what data is collected and sent to remote servers; such data may include user names, passwords, credit card numbers and more. The risk of this data being collected and used without users' permission makes this spyware particularly dangerous to users' privacy."The fact that this application collects data in this manner, and that it opens a backdoor, makes it a very serious security threat. In addition, the risk of it collecting sensitive data such as user names, passwords and credit card numbers, makes this a very high-risk spyware. While its distribution is limited, we warn Mac users to pay careful attention to which software they download and install."comScore/VoiceFive/PremierOpinion will no doubt disagree on the privacy point. But in our opinion, adware is virtually indistinguishable from spyware, and both are scummy. Consider yourselves warned.Here's the list of affected screensavers, from Intego:"Below is a list of the screensavers and applications that we have found so far which install this spyware.All these screensavers are made by the same company, 7art-screensavers, and are available from their web site, http://7art-screensavers.com. (We're not linking to them. Can you guess why?) Note that you may have downloaded one of these screensavers without going there - a number of download sites offer them.7art Eternal Love Clock ScreenSaver v.2.87art Foliage Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Color Therapy Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Crystal Clock ScreenSaver v.2.6Emerald Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Everlasting Flowering Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Fiesta Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Fire Element Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Fractal Sun Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Freezelight Clock ScreenSaver v.2.9Full Moon Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Galaxy Rhythm Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Gravity Free Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Lighthouse Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Love Dance Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Magic Forest Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Nature Harmony Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8One World Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Precious Stone Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Radiating Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Rocket Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Secret Land ScreenSaver v.2.8Serenity Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Silver Snow Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Sky Flight Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Sky Watch ScreenSaver v.2.8Sunny Bubbles Clock ScreenSaver v.2.9Water Color Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Water Element Clock ScreenSaver v.2.8Applications: so far, Intego has only found this spyware in one application:MishInc FLV To Mp3, http://www.mishinc.info/mac_flv_to_mp3.php
If you're using MacOSX think that you may have installed one of the list of infected screensavers or applications containing the OpinionSpy/PremierOpinion spyware - or just feel worried - here's what to do.(Note: for Windows users, you canapparently remove PremierOpinionby using the Add/Remove Programs tab. We strongly recommend that you do.)The application installs itself as "PremierOpinion" (at present; but it may change in future now that it has been discovered).- detect the process by going to Activity Monitor (in the Utilities folder in the Finder.- in the Activity Monitor search box, type "opinion". If you get a match, it's there.- search in the Finder for "Premier": if you find an application with that name, delete it. (You'll need to give your administrator password, because it will have installed itself as a root - privileged - application.)- as an additional protection, download theLingonprogram (it's free). This lets you see and edit what happens in the launchd process - which starts up programs and can keep them running on your machine when it begins. Scan through the list of user agents, user daemons and (carefully) system agents and system daemons. Careful: you can do a lot of damage here if you delete or change the wrong thing.- scan the list of daemons and system agents for "PremierOpinion. If you find it there, delete it.In future, ask yourself why a program you haven't downloaded would be asking to have your administrator password - and don't give it.Update:Roman Rusavsky at 7art-screensavers, identified as one of the organisations that was used as a conduit for the PremierOpinion app, says: "there is [a] much more easy way to get rid of PremierOpinion. you don't need to know [such] tricky methods.Just go to Applications [Shift-Cmd-A]. Find the PremierOpinion folder. Go inside and click Uninstall". (Alternatively, move it to the Trash and delete; it if won't delete, choose "Empty Trash" while holding the Option/Alt key. You may need an administrator password.)
With barely a wince of exertion, Gameloft curls out yet another perfectly adequate, if unspectacular, film adaptation for the iPhone.Playing as the titular millionaire playboy turned armour-clad superhero, voiced here by someone who sounds not even slightly like Robert Downey Jr, you must navigate a handful of competently realised levels while coming up against an assortment of easily defeated baddies. There's some uncomplicated puzzles to solve along the way, and a few nice set-pieces bringing a spot of variety to the gameplay, but no real surprises. All the locations and all the adversaries, as well as the plot, feel rather familiar.The graphics are impressive for the platform, as is usually the case with Gameloft's iPhone titles, and also in keeping with most of its stable mates it's very easy indeed – so easy that one swiftly begins to long for anything that could be construed as a challenge. Every now and then a particularly fearsome looking robot or suchlike will turn up, but just as you set in for an extended boss battle the thing helpfully falls to bits after taking a few well-placed laser hits.Nevertheless, Iron Man 2 is an inoffensive enough diversion. The same title on the 360, Wii and PS3 has been widely panned, and it's unlikely that this version does anything that's much better. However, expectations here are markedly lower given that this is essentially a £3.99 mobile game.Gameloft has demonstrated time and again that it's capable of well designed, great looking 3D iPhone games (setting a pretty high bench mark with the recent NOVA); if only it could reach the same standards when it comes to offering some genuinely exciting gameplay.
Now that you've lashed out scary amounts of cash on your shiny new iPad (yes, we know, it was worth it just for the attention you've been receiving when whipping it out in public), it's understandable that you should want to load it with as much free stuff as possible – particularly in the current economic climate.The App Store, indeed, houses a healthy roster of free iPad games. But since you have to dig deep therein to unearth any truffles, we decided to pick out the best for you.Some caveats apply as far as free iPad games are concerned. The majority of them are cut-down versions of paid-for games, designed to tantalise you and get you sufficiently hooked to pay for the full download (which rarely involves investing more than £2). You will find countless (usually amateurishly produced) takes on classic board and card games.Surprisingly, Spotify-style games that push ads at you are very rare – although it's worth remembering these are very early days for iPad games. Then there are massively multiplayer games which will charge you for essential in-game objects. But dig around and you will find some quirky, original efforts, which are invariably so short and trivial that their makers were presumably too embarrassed to charge a fee. Here are our favourites.Labyrinth 2 HD LiteA glossy-looking (and, crucially, authentic-sounding) iPad take on the old wooden metal ball in a tiltable labyrinth toy which will be familiar to iPhone/Touch owners. This time around, it cleverly incorporates elements of pinball tables, plus devices such as ball duplicators and resizers. You'll have to pay for extra level packs beyond the paltry free offerings, but at least you can design your own.Chopper LitePleasingly reminiscent of arcade classic Choplifter (and with better graphics), Chopper Lite is almost laughably simple: you fly a helicopter, by tilting the iPad, in order to rescue people from a war-zone. You must also dodge missiles and can take out enemies by landing on them. Strangely addictive.Arctopia LiteA cute puzzle-game which is a cut above the usual. You're a penguin with the ability to freeze and melt ice, which you must use to put out fires. Cute, and requires more thought than you might think.Parachute Panic HD LiteThis one is elevated by its nicely judged visual style, which employs apparently crumpled graph paper as a background, onto which everything appears to be scribbled in pencil. Parachutists fall out of planes: you must land them on ships and help them avoid obstacles like helicopters by generating directional gusts of wind; extra lives accrue from landing things like flying fish. Manic and clever.Touch Hockey ExtremeA crisp-looking, free rendition of the old arcade staple, Air Hockey. A Ronseal sort of game, in other words.Soundrop FreeSoundrop may be so insubstantial as to be virtually non-existent, but it has a soothing, Zen quality to it. Rendered entirely in monochrome, vector-style graphics, balls drop at regular intervals from a circle which you can move around. You can draw lines anywhere on screen, which the balls will bounce off, generating a note. Fill the screen with lines (each of which generates a different note when hit), and you will make strange music.Turf WarsAnother port from the iPhone, Turf Wars is the clever mafia game which makes use of the iPad's GPS to give you the chance to become the capo of your real-life neighbourhood. You have to pay to download updates when you reach certain levels of notoriety, and it suffers from the perennial MMO problem of newbies getting battered by experienced players, but it's still a trailblazer.Poptweets HDOK, this is an awful game, but it couldn't possibly be more 2010. It's very simple: you're given a series of tweets, and have to guess who posted them (from a choice of three people). It's painfully American-centric, so unless you're a habitual devotee of E! Entertainment and obsessive watcher of The Hills, Keeping Up With the Kardashians et al, you'll simply find yourself guessing.Implode! NatureAnother puzzler, Implode Nature uses a chalkboard visual style, and almost teaches you a modicum of the basics of engineering. It encourages you to place dynamite bundles on objects seen from side on, then see if they blow up; various devices (such as indestructible blocks on which you can't place explosives) are employed to make this more brain-teasing than it sounds.10 Pin Shuffle LiteSlightly odder than it sounds, this is a hybrid of ten-pin bowling and poker. Gameplay-wise, it's bowling, with decent graphics, a good control system and a satisfying tactility. Except you're playing to assemble the best poker hand – a strike earns two cards and a spare one, and once you've got five cards, you can draw against your worst cards. Classily made; the paid-for version adds poker and shuffleboard.
Launched in 2004 by Californian developerBlizzard, the massively multiplayer role-playing game World of Warcraft revolutionalised the whole concept of online play and community. Drawing inspiration from multi-user dungeons, Everquest and the studio's own range of hugely successful fantasy strategy titles, the game presents a massive, evolving world to its reputed 11 million subscribers.Later this year, the company is set to launch the third expansion pack for the game. NamedCataclysmit will bring in two new races (the worgen and goblins) as well as fresh areas, dungeons and quests. Importantly, rumours suggest this may be the game's last significant expansion pack. Blizzard denies this, but with the developer on the verge of announcing a new next-gen MMO, this is a crucial period for the biggest PC game of all time.Next week, gamesblog will be heading out to Irvine to visit Blizzard and meet with lead designer Tom Chilton and producer J. Allen Brack. What would you like to ask them? Add your questions in the comments section below and I'll put ALL the sensible ones to the team!
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur as they dig into the implications of the new Apple iPad, released last Friday, and already a huge market success. The machine, which has sold more than 2m units in 60 days, hasn't yet found its killer app, but Jemima – who has one – and Charles – who doesn't want one – predict it will transform the technological landscape.But don't just take their word for it. Web user interaction expert Jakob Nielsen describes why in an interview with Jack Schofield. He also defines what developers need to know when designing portable touchscreen interfaces.And the numbers have it too: Apple beat Microsoft for the biggest technology company in the world. Charles tells the story behind the numbers, and explains why, in the future, Apple will remain top gun.The team also tackles the first real outcome of the controversial Digital Economy Act. Communications regulator Ofcom has published first draft of its proposed code of actions for copyright infringers. The three-strikes system is up for debate in the consultation that lasts until 30 July.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Most gamers would never think of Electronic Arts as a major industry innovator. The publisher has thrived on its business model of updating key franchises on an annual basis, and there are now so many Sims spin-offs the company must need a Cray supercomputer to keep track of them all.But this is also the publisher that experimented with the currently trendy alternative reality gaming genre almost a decade ago with its ill-fated Majestic adventure. It's also the western publisher that got in earliest to explore the freemium models emerging from the Far East. Fifa Online, a PC-only football MMOG launched in Korea in 2006, quickly became one of the country's most played online games, while Battlefield Heroes has brought a similar payment model to the West.Set to go into open beta on June 2,Need For Speed Worldis EA's latest endeavour to seek and exploit alternative payment models. It's a PC-only massively multiplayer racing game, where users compete in an array of events against gamers all over the world, levelling up their vehicles and power-ups en route. Payment is via a hybrid freemium model. Players will get to download the game for free and can play for free in lower ranking events, but will need to pay to access higher levels, or to get at the cool stuff quicker."The idea is that a threshold will be set, and to progress further, with unlocking content tied to level progression, players will need purchase a starter pack," explains Jesse Abney, EA's manager of technical development. "This will be a credit equivalent in Boost (the in-game currency of NFS World). From here, all game levels and unlocking mechanics are available along with the micro-transaction engine so further content can be purchased to hasten what is unlocked over time through playing."In typical EA fashion this ambitious project is not the publisher's first attempt at establishing a persistent online racer. In 2001, it tried something notionally similar with Motor City Online, but the broadband penetration rates just weren't high enough and the project was scrapped after two years. This time, technology is very much on its side…When you enter the game, you create your NFS World persona, grab a basic car and check out the map display, which shows the races available to you, based on your ranking and your vehicle. You then just click on the challenge you fancy, and you're warped straight there, ready to compete against a pack of other similarly skilled human opponents. The game also offers a selection of single-player events, allowing newcomers to get used to the handling engine, and the locations. And, of course, between races, you're free to drive around the city. As in all the classic NFS titles, there's an enthusiastic police presence, so bashing up other road users will attract the attention of a growing number of squad cars as your infamy grows.With 250km of roads available from launch, lead producer Jean-Charles Gauduchon claims the NFS World map is the biggest yet seen in the series. The layout takes sections from the Carbon and Most Wanted maps and moulds them together into a reasonably varied environment, so you get a downtown area with skyscrapers and bustling traffic, a Chinatown lined with glowing paper lanterns, and some more refined suburban districts where the wider boulevards are flanked by brownstone tenement buildings. Over and underpasses and a myriad of short cuts add to the variety, and encourage you to really explore the road system. I was disappointed not to see some winding country or mountain roads beyond the city limits, but then, due to the modular nature of the game's design, the dev team can easily add to those in due course.The handling model – all whiplash cornering and mind-melting speed - feels like classic Need for Speed stuff. Skittish thrill mobiles like the Nissan GT-R scorch through the city streets oversteering like crazy, but you're rarely punished for being miserly with the brake pedal. Apparently, though, the most popular car in the closed betas has been the Audi R8, thanks to its winning combination of speed, power and handleability. Powered by a modified version of the Carbon engine, it's impressively fast, though my hands-on is during EA's Showcase event, and we're not hooked up to the beta servers. The dev team claim that, on a decent broadband connection, it'll run at "full framerate" (I'll take that to mean at least 25fps) in 1080p resolution. And that's in a free game running most of the data online.When you finish a race, you level up and also collect in-game cash, which can be spent on upgrades. Like Activision's recently released Blur, the game features an array of power-ups to augment the frantic urban racing feel. There are three different skill trees – race, pursuit and exploration – each containing different types of enhancements; it's a neat take on the character classes found in regular MMORPGs. Race power-ups include nitrous boosts obviously, but also Traffic Magnet, which pulls passing cars into the vicinity of the race leaders gridlocking their progress, and Catch Up, which gives you a performance boost when you're in third place or lower. In the Pursuit category, you have more combative stuff like Demolition Man that increases the damage you cause when you smash into other cars. Exploration, meanwhile, gives you better radar and mapping facilities – a sensible option for those who plan to spend a lot of time trundling around the open map. The idea is to let players develop along their own skill lines, adapting the game to fit their individual abilities. Interestingly, all 15 initial power-ups are available from the beginning, but by ranking-up you get better, more powerful versions. It's a nice way of ensuring that the free-to-play version isn't a massively restricted shadow of the full game.Vehicle customisation, always a crucial element of the NFS experience, is in there from launch. It's a simple but intuitive mouse-controlled drag-and-drop set-up: players get a range of icons, numbers and primitive shapes, which can be modified and slapped all over the chassis. Users in the closed beta have already employed the vinyls to create some interesting designs, including a Hello Kitty-themed car and a bright yellow Pikachu Lamborghini. Tasteful. You can also paint every section of the car a different colour if you like – "in some car culture movements that's pretty important," assures Abney.And he should know – he's currently co-editing a motor culture site namedSpeedhunters, set up three years ago by NFS creative director, Rod Chong. "It's a site covering car culture at large," he explains. "It was kind of a covert op. It was the only way to get it done – otherwise it would have been tied up in bureaucracy. We didn't create it as a Need for Speed site - it's a very interesting experiment, a high detail motor sport photojournalism blog. It's worldwide, it's fed by a very large readership of people who are very passionate about motorsport. It doesn't sell product, it doesn't push product – it reports on car culture."However, what the site has definitely done is give the dev team an insight into car culture. It's been so inspiring, they've sinceset up their own racing team, Team Need For Speed, which is competing in various semi-professional events. For example, Patrick Söderlund at EA's DICE studio now races a Z4 in partnership with BMW while Abney manages Team Need For Speed's activities in Formula Drift. NFS World will also contain Speedhunters edition cars, which feature the latest in custom stylings, including work by automotive designer Andy Blackmore, who used to create liveries for TAG Mclaren.Facilitating social play is a key ambition, naturally, and the design process has been all about breaking the down the usual structural barriers that may keep friends apart in the game. For example, if you want to race against a pal who's ranked higher than you, and owns a better vehicle as a result, you can actually rent an equivalent car for the weekend. It's a neat solution, especially as it nets EA a couple of dollars every time someone uses it.The game gives you a constant data stream of what your mates and rivals are doing in the game world. There's a section at the bottom of the screen which shows a friends leaderboard, but EA is also building a community leaderboard that lets you custom create your own tournaments based around a list of criteria, including the age, sex and location of your competitors and the types of cars that will be allowed. And of course, the team is implementing Facebook Connect - this automatically looks at the friends you have on the social networking site, and puts them into your in-game friends list.Guilds are one MMO element that'll be missing from the initial release of the game - but are certain to be added soon. Gauduchon talks about team vs team, co-op races, as well as elements such as territorial acquisition in which successful crews will be able to mark out areas of the city as their own. There will also be more conventional multiplayer options like capture the flag, and classic NFS options such as Pursuit KO and Pursuit Tag.As for vehicles, EA doesn't want to give a number yet, but the game is likely to launch with around 70 models. Thanks to the way the publisher has drawn up its licensing deals with manufacturers, the dev team has access to every model used in the NFS series so far, but will be sticking very much with street cars, so you'll get, say, the BMW M3 GTR, but you won't see track cars like the Mclaren F1.However, talking about finite features seems to be largely redundant at this stage – Abney assures me that NFS World is going to evolve rapidly based partly on the development team's own iterative agenda, and partly on community feedback: "The community tools are vast. Community is what will make this live and breath – we're really just enablers. They are the creative force, when they get a hold of this stuff. It's the hive mind mentality, that's really what these games are all about; when you hit that critical mass - that tipping point, to quote Malcom Gladwell. It's all about how we get that cool stuff to happen."The game architecture is constructed to allow us to rapidly iterate design changes, major feature changes and even game mode state changes to the base engine. That's only possible with the pervasiveness of broadband. We can deliver 5-10 megs overnight without anyone complaining about it, which really frees us up. The feature list will grow, the dynamics of the gameplay will grow – that's something that we built in at the very lowest level."Indeed, EA has already changed several feature-sets in response to the closed beta, and other modifications are planned. Apparently the community wants the chance to play as a cop, and the team is looking into it. That may well be a big part of this project, not just reacting to bug reports and gripes, but learning from emergent demands and activities. "We have great examples of the community in our beta programmes acting very organically," says Abney. "I've heard about tons of motor trains: they all get into a line and drive around the city. They naturally congregated in the football stadium in order to create public car shows - it's a convenient meeting place with a cool backdrop. And they take pictures of each other's cars and publish these online. So we realised that congregation points and photo ops were a big part of what the community was interested in. Those are features we're focusing on, and we're providing tools for people to do that, we're adding video and photo modes right now…"Another lesson the team seems to have learned from the MMORPG world is saleability. Just as WoW will run on just about any PC with a pulse, NFS World is set to work on everything from a high-end Alienware gamer rig down to a lowly netbook – naturally, with an array of visual compromises at the lower end. As for backend infrastructure, apparently players won't be shepherded into specific realms for the duration of their account, a la WoW or Ultima Online. The game will have dedicated servers in Europe and the US and apparently everyone on the EU servers will conceivably be able to 'see' everyone else on the EU servers. However, it looks like there will be some use of 'shards' to deal with peak concurrency, limiting servers to around 10,000 players each. There'll be more details at E3, I suspect.If EA can get the payment model just right, and if the online performance is as reliable as the development team promises, this is going to be an interesting addition to the publisher's growing freemium portfolio. It's not really an open-world driving game in the style of Test Drive Unlimited or Burnout Paradise – it's more of a persistent online arcade racer, with RPG elements and scope for customisation and clan racing. It's a casual game – just as the major console iterations have often been.But it's also got the potential to become something entirely different, as the community creates its own play styles and activities. That uncertainty would appear to be the, ahem, driving force, behind the project. "Development is no longer linear, it's much more cyclical now," says Abney. "We don't have a beginning or an ending. We would like to think we'll never have a final version of NFS World to hand to people – we will always be developing features, introducing power-ups, introducing new sand box aspects to the world. A year down the road it'll be a whole new bag of tricks…"
Beware: danger. Photo bykevingessneron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWill switching from Internet Explorer make you safer? &gt;&gt; ZDNetFrom January, Ed Bott examines the question of whether the problem is with Internet Explorer, or elsewhere, following the Chinese attacks on Google. The targeted nature of the attacks suggests Google would have been in the crosshairs whichever system it used. But that isn't helpful for people trying to work out a security strategy.TOP500 List Releases &gt;&gt; TOP500 Supercomputing SitesEveryone loves lists, right?Met lab claims 'biggest breakthrough since Watergate' &gt;&gt; The Register"ENF relies on frequency variations in the electricity supplied by the National Grid. Digital devices such as CCTV recorders, telephone recorders and camcorders that are plugged in to or located near the mains pick up these deviations in the power supply, which are caused by peaks and troughs in demand. Battery-powered devices are not immune to to ENF analysis, as grid frequency variations can be induced in their recordings from a distance.&#10;&#10;At the Metropolitan Police's digital forensics lab in Penge, south London, scientists have created a database that has recorded these deviations once every one and a half seconds for the last five years. Over a short period they form a unique signature of the electrical frequency at that time, which research has shown is the same in London as it is in Glasgow." &#10;&#10;Totally bizarre. And we're not sure the police really meant Watergate.Entelligence: Hello WebTV part II &gt;&gt; Michael Gartenberg"It's ambitious, but I'm skeptical. I feel like I've heard a lot of this before -- and in fact, I have. By no small coincidence, Android is headed by Andy Rubin, the man who was in charge of a product called WebTV before it was sold to Microsoft. And just as with WebTV, there's a lot of potential in the ideas behind GoogleTV, but I'm not sure Google has nailed it."Is Zuckerberg Over His Head as CEO? &gt;&gt; DaniwebWorth remembering, of course, that the answer to most headlines which end with a questionmark is "No". There isn't a compelling case yet to ditch Zuckerberg - who showed himself to be confident when negotiating with Microsoft and Yahoo.Chrome Keeps Gaining, IE Keeps Losing, Firefox Is Flat &gt;&gt; GigaomThe aggregate numbers for Internet Explorer keep falling.Twitter Ad Changes: Who's Affected, Who's Not &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebThe brief version: nobody's quite sure. The longer version: there's lots of people who really aren't sure.Manchester opendata slides &gt;&gt; Tony HirstSlides from a speech being given today (Weds) by Tony Hirst of the Open University about councils' use of open data. He's managed to find where Windsor &amp; Maidenhead hides its data, too.Microsoft's Guggenheimer dismisses Android on tablets as 'an experiment' &gt;&gt; EngadgetSome experiments work. Look at penicillin.Google's security excuse for dumping Windows is bogus, say analysts &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Windows and its supporting ecosystem do have more zero-day vulnerabilities -- flaws that are exploited before a patch is available from the vendor -- Pescatore acknowledged. "But if you look at the total cost of ownership of, say, Macs in the enterprise, you're not going to find yourself spending any less on security than if you were running Windows."New Apple Trojan Means Mac Hunting Season Is Open &gt;&gt; Wired, Jan 2007"Apple's day has finally come, and Apple users are going to get hit hard," security researcher Gadi Evron said. "OS X is the new Windows 98." We'll just reiterate: January 2007. Some hunting season.The Coming Data Explosion &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"..according to a presentation that Google VP Marissa Mayer made last August at Xerox PARC, this 'data explosion is bigger than Moore's law.'"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Right, this time it's definitely allmyfault. 'Best of' has been completely off the radar for a couple of weeks thanks to a ceaseless treadmill of press events and pre-E3 showcases (I know, I know, it's a hard life). So here's a bumper double bill, featuring the very best of the Chatterbox from Monday May 10 to Friday May 21.BeardofBees and PicPicPic are the editors for this special edition, and they've captured everything from politics and all-meat salads to stink badgers and 'Arthur's Law'. So sit back, put the phone off the hook, lock your line manager in the stationary cupboard and enjoy a good twenty minutes of Chatterbox inanity...Week ending May 14By BeardofBeesPoliticsUnsurprisingly for the week following a general election, a certain level of political chat was present. When we woke up on Monday morning, our nation's future was still uncertain as we suffered the turmoil of a hung parliament with no sign of respite. Fingers were pointed as the gamesbloggers wondered who to blame for the situation. For the first time, voters like Gettingnervous found themselves taking unexpected responsibility for their ballot choices: "I only voted Lib Dems," he explained, "so I could lie in my death bed and deny everything that ever went wrong with this country."Lazybones was also suffering: "I fell out with Ms Lazybones last night," he explained. "I pointed at her with my thumbs, David Cameron style, and said 'I care about you'. She thought it was a heartfelt statement…"As our country looked for a leader to fix our broken society, Umboros23 was coming up with policies of his own: "We should give eveyone carrying knives a gun. Knife crime would quickly become a thing of the past." Unfortunately, it was too late for him to stand at this election. As the week rolled on we instead ended up with David Cameron as Prime Minister, a welcome change for some and the foreshadowing of a dark and terrible doom for others. "When David Cameron delivered his first speech as PM I half expected him to tear off his face and cackle as he exposed his space lizard features underneath," admitted Robotron2000.GamesSuper Street Fighter 4 was released and brought veterans and newcomers together to deal out a nice bit of old-fashioned violence. From the latter category, resident PES guru Goody84 was struggling to get to grips with the controls: "I think I'm pressing the combo buttons in Trial and nothing is really happening," he said. "It's like me in a real fight".At the other end of the spectrum, cameroon95 was bragging. "I now have a perfectly formed callous on my left thumb," he said. "My Ryu is very close to perfection!" though it wasn't clear whether the first point was at all related to the second.The Halo Reach beta was also in full swing, and some Xbox 360 players were taking part in Bungie's newest offering. Chubster2010 was on hand to deliver his opinion. "[It] left me utterly underwhelmed to be honest", he said, and many other bloggers found themselves agreeing that it was just, "more of the same" in a world where shooters have moved on since Halo 3.Onto upcoming titles, where Red Dead Redemption took the crown for most eagerly awaited. A release already on the radar of half of the gamesbloggers, the other half found themselves immediately interested when Keith put up a preview article singing the praises of the first few hours. Goatrecon expressed his anticipation beautifully: "I'm oozing man milk over the thought of shooting my mates off their horses with a buffalo rifle."[Just think, we'll never be able to un-read that - Keef]FoodThis was a recurring theme as the bloggers explored the world of culinary chat. They agreed that Heston Blumenthal was an oddly fascinating, albeit mental, specimen, but fell out over the merits and drawbacks of cous-cous. TonyHayers boasted, "My salads have become outrageous in their contents," and this inspired EnglishRed into a flash of gastronomic inspiration. "I'm toying," he mused "with the idea of a meat salad. Basically carpaccio of beef tossed into some charcuterie. It's a man's salad."CountGinula waded into the fray with a query: "Anyone ever had a nice belly full from the roadside bandit?" he asked, speaking, we think, about Little Chefs. "How desperate are you that you need a sit down meal while driving?" piped up TonyHayers again, "This is the UK, not vast expanses of North America."Favourite animalsAs well as violent computer games, horrendous injuries, crazy-ex-lovers and all the usual staples of chatterbox life, some of the gamesbloggers chose the latter end of the week to kick off a discussion on their favourite animals. Bless.Octopii, dogs, cats, otters and beavers were mentioned ("I'm not being bawdy", said Lazybones, "I genuinely like beavers."); unbelievablejeff noted his affinity for the jellyfish: "Its spineless nature is something I base my MW2 'tactical waiting' on"; and a nod of the hat for diplomatic effort went to Killerbee for his suggestion of war elephants: "It doesn't get any better than that in terms of animal/human relations," he pointed out.The animal of the week, however (as measured by the outpouring of love from gamesbloggers upon discovering its existence) was the stink badger ("named for the foul-smelling secretions that they expel from anal glands" explained VictoriousCupid helpfully).Quotes of the week"You can't just take stars because people leave them undefended."Lazybones demonstrates both why he gets all those votes for 'nicest blogger' at the annual chatterbox awardsandwhy he's unlikely to win the gamesblog Neptune's Pride game."Wow, they've even magnetized the front cover of the 'book' box so it stays shut... All this for the same price as the regular edition? I feel like it's Christmas!"PhilosopherK1ng is like a pig in muck. And also very excited about his Alan Wake special edition."I stayed at the Hotel Swastika in Jasailmer. I love a hotel with an ethos!"Alimantado gives travel advice, RobLindsay takes notes."Was off work yesterday and so fired up some Pro-Cycling Manager 2008. Don't ask."No offense to pdmalcom, but thankfully no-one did."I'd be able to saw him up and sculpt new legs, a saddle &amp; stirrups, etc very easily."We were all interested in the split tongue, but body-modification lover Fantomex sounds like he's taking it too far this time.Films:Iron Man 2, Four LionsMusic:The Dead Weather, The National, Foals, The Hold SteadyWeek ending May 22By PicPicPicThe BeginningAn auspicious 666 comments on Monday's 'box were kicked off with a worrying insight into Fantomex's psyche, as the only word he could think of to put in the first post of the week was 'Crabs'. Had a weekend with the insecticide been on the cards for the 'boxer who speaks with forked tongued? We may never know, yet it was symptomatic of things to come as not much of the rest of the week would make sense either.When Pippa Funnell Goes BadIt does make sense, however, to start with the big news of the week, and the game that is staring at me from inside my PS3 as I write this, tempting me to head back into the wilderness one more time and finally unlock the 'Dastardly' trophy - and that is Red Dead Redemption. Of course, at the beginning of the week the Friday release date was but a glint in many a chatterboxer's eye, with some having to resort to renditions of John Denver and Rawhide to fulfil their rootin', tootin' fantasies. HereComesTreble managed to sum up the position of most 'boxers with one succinct sentence:"RDR - I haven't been this excited about a major game release since the last major game release."Wishlists and rumours about exactly what we would do if we were cowboys (Brokeback Mountain notwithstanding) were circulating throughout the week and Naboomagnoli got us all excited as he revealed he was getting "moist" for RDR. He went on:"Hearing good things about the level of detail - the rain at night is meant to be damn impressive, with puddles forming in the ground. Shooting guns out of hands during a duel is a real treat apparently, as is spotting someone out in the wilderness only to see them get off their horse and go for a slash behind a rock."Even Tony was showing untold levels of excitement about the open world western thriller: "Puddles you say? I'm going to get this. Amazing."This high level of anticipation wasn't to be diminished, and by Wednesday some 'boxers were getting jittery at the thought of delayed post and shoddy Tesco delivery promises meaning they wouldn't be able to play it continuously from 6pm on Friday 'til 3am Monday morning as they'd hoped. Even makar27, who seemed to have ordered his copy from a Higher Power, was beginning to get worried: "No dispatch email yet.... come on God - don't let me down!"Last week's big release of Alan Wake was largely forgotten as 'boxers made plans to blast through it as quickly as possible in order to trade it in for dressing up in leather chaps and hunting rabbits. I doubt this is what the developers had in mind after developing their immersive, story-driven supernatural thriller for five whole years. Still, in a choice between hogtying hookers to train tracks and aiming a torch at zombies-in-everything-but-name, I know which I'd choose.When is a sport not a sport?Possibly spurred on (geddit?) by the raw manliness of Red Dead Redemption, an off the cuff comment from Goatrecon about how he'd rather be fishing spawned (geddit?) a whole day's worth of chat on Tuesday. Various bloggers owned up to spearing a variety of chordates in their spare time, with RobLindsay being possibly the most worrying as although he'd never tried it he admitted that:"The idea of catching, killing and eating something is very appealing to me. I want to try hunting for the same reason."Somehow we know that by "something" he really means "Liberals."Various recollections of derring do with rod and waders were then trotted out, Uncle3en's tale of a "monster carp breaking my mate's £500 pole (from Daddy). Then him catching a 30lb mirror with a relatively light feeder rod. Getting ordered to go in up to my knees. The pressure..." being possibly the most amusing when taken out of context. I have no idea what he's talking about but damn, it sounds sexual.Never one to let a peaceful conversation get in the way of a good argument, makar decided to ruffle a few scales by declaring fishing not a sport. Lazybones was quick to side with him, pointing out: "Fishing is not much of a sport. Whaling could be more of a sport, in a rowing boat with a javelin. Fishing is as much a sport as walking up steps is an exercise."This red flag was too much for the rest of the box and the peaceful recollections of murdering innocent fish duly descended into the problem of defining what exactly a sport was. Crispy came up with my favourite definition of the day, declaring: "If you can smoke a cigarette whilst doing it, it's not a sport. So fishing may be a pastime or a sport depending on what you're catching"This also means that snooker, darts and 5-a-side football shouldn't be classified as sports either, although we have robotron2000 to thank for the caveat that, "most sports can be played whilst smoking a cigarette if you are committed."Honestly, this whole blog was full of hilarious quotes that I could just cut and paste here but unfortunately we're given a word limit so I'll leave it with a hat tip to VictoriousCupid, who valiantly tried to get us back onto the topic of games: "Anyone else have Sega Bass Fishing on the Dreamcast? Was packaged with my DC when I bought it, still get that out every so often, even came with the rod!!"Long before the Wii I was lobbing a bit of plastic about to cast and turning the reel like a madman to reel them in, was good fun. Come to think of it the Dreamcast was so ahead of its time, great online gaming, motion sensor controls, firmware..."...and Chu Chu Rocket, Rez, Shenmue, DOA2, House of the Dead, Ikaruga, Skies of Arcadia... You know what? He's right. It's your fault it failed, kids, you and your fancy Sony PS2 and XBOX. Shame on you.[As ex-editor of Dreamcast magazine DC-UK, I must add that you all also cost me a job - Keef].Arthur's LawCunningStunt, being the resident expert on female chatterboxers, alerted us to a strange phenomenon: "It's curious how we can't ever have more than one girl at a time. You may get a few days of overlap but soon enough one of them will stop posting."We can only assume what he's done with Auto, but since SerenVikity turned up she's definitely cut down on her posting. Correlation or causation? It would be beyond the remit of this commenter to speculate but now we all know that women are like Highlander, There Can Only Be One. This curiosity was then given the name "Arthur's Law", thanks to EnglishRed, and it was to be put to the test sooner than any of us could have imagined when the blog legend that is Tim's fiancé, herselfthemonkey, registered her first comment on Wednesday announcing that she'd been lurking for months and had decided to say 'Hi'.In an admirable first step she chose a hockey stick as her answer to "the question", showing a willingness to get her hands dirty that could never have been anticipated. This, coupled with the fact that she's been 'lurking for months', is making me regret my raw chicken in a Pringles tube comment. Her post generated a flurry of responses, mostly correcting her grammar and making poor innuendo, but she was unfased and by Friday both Seren and herself were still to be seen.This could mean that Arthur's Law may not yet be joining the ranks of the other immutable Laws of Physics. However, tim's posting seemed to have cut down considerably during the second half of the week, so maybe there's something to it after all."Worst Blog" BlogI'm not quite sure what it says about the quality of the posting that means a blog about our 'Worst Blogs' makes the Best Of Chatterbox, but it amused me and we all love a List, so here it is.It all began with a comment from Lazy after an early morning debate about which was the 'best' martial art: "Martial arts blog is the worst blog. Please let's not go there."Never one to let such a steadfast opinion go unchallenged, several other recurring themes on the blog were offered up as alternatives, bigworv putting in his vote with: "I think the original bloodbowl blog must be up there. That produced some seminal posts. Seminally appalling. That's the beauty of this place though, and as long as you massive geeks are happy then so am I."The fact that the other topics suggested (football blog, cycleblog, listsblog, UFC blog, comic blog, the future Red Dead Redemption blog, guitarblog, diceblog (TonyHayers:"Dice- Is not a topic of conversation"), trainerblog, midnight blog, "Worst Blog" blog itself and MW2 blog) seem to cover just about everything we talk about on here backs up makar's inclusive opinion that "let's face it... it's all pretty shit - but we have to own up to the fact that we are addicted."Quotes"Just phoned the Mrs on the pretext of seeing how she and the mini-pfdms were. My real intention was to see if RDR has arrived. Listened to the charming blatherings for a polite interval before asking if there has been any post. It has arrived people. BINGO."pfdm resorting to extreme measures to make sure he's won't be missing out on Friday night."Tony got moderated. Some brief debate on whether old films can actually be transferred properly to HD. The "History of Chatterbox" (Tony, again). It could literally have been any other week."Uncle3en updating henrypootle on what he'd missed the preceding week. Can somebody give him a job writing the Best Of...?"Right, today I have learned that it is quite difficult to read the blog and contribute anything useful, plus do normal work. Hats off to all of you regulars - there are some great minds at work here."New poster bicyclerider333 making the false assumption that any of us actually do any work. He's wrong about the 'great minds' as well."Sometimes I'll type out a comment here, or more often a reply, then just read it and think 'That's shite' and hit delete. And considering how bad some of my chat is, I'll leave it to you lot to thank me for this kind editorial serivce. Think about how bad that chat you've never read is. Just think about it."Thanks Umboros, it's just a shame not everyone follows your fine example.RegularsThe Gamesblog wiki- discover everyones' gamer tags and more!The Gamesblog spotify list- discover everyones' favourite music and more!
Having aimed for the stars with the iPad, Apple has now turned its attention to its feet, and scored a solid hit: the latest being its rejection of an iPadapp from a company called Groundhog Software because - and not even Groundhog quite gets this - itsMyFrame appseems to include widgets.According to the terse and confusing phone call that Groundhog received from Apple's App Store reviewers, the company was "doing a cull of any applications that presented widgets to the user".Writing in Macworld Australia, iPhone and iPad developer Russell Ivanovic from Groundhog Software writes:"All the guy on the phone would say is how much he liked our application, and how sorry he was, but there was nothing he could do. All we got out of him was that Apple no longer liked 'widgets' and wanted all widget apps removed. Apple refused to say what (if anything) we could remove from our application, or even who we could discuss this with. "He took the obvious recourse: sent an email to the one-man support department, Steve Jobs. But unlike the other story today, the result was less positive. Here's the email he sent:"Just got a phone call from Apple letting us know that our iPad app 'My Frame' is being removed from the store. Apparently Apple is cracking down on 'widgety' type apps. Our app is a beautiful photo frame with a few nice things you can put over your photos. It's not ugly, or even widgety."What gives? I've always defended you guys in the past, but it seems like you've crossed an invisible line here, even the guy on the phone was saying how much he likes our application but that there's nothing he can do?"He didn't expect a response, but he did get one:"We are not allowing apps that create their own desktops.  Sorry.""Sent from my iPad"Ivanovic fired one back:"Understand, but don't agree…besides all of which our application (My Frame) is a photo frame, not a desktop environment. Your people won't even tell us what we need to remove to get approved, they are just kicking us out. Put yourself in our shoes."No response, though. Ivanovic's final thoughts: "I see now why people are so angry at the 'murky' nature of the App Store, and I'm starting to agree with them. My Frame was approved by Apple three times (once for each version we released), and now, at version 1.2 they decide it's to be removed?"The problem lies, absolutely, in the shifting goalposts of Apple's rules on what it is going to allow on its platform. The problem is that, having begun with good intentions and the aim of democratising its iPhone/iPod Touch platform so that it would attract as many developers as possible, Apple has woken up to discover that they're doing things it didn't expect them to. Cross-compiling from Flash, creating pseudo-desktops, widgets.. hell, it's as though they were trying out everything they possibly could to make their app look different (or, sometimes, the same as it does onotherplatforms) rather than sticking to Apple's ideals of how it wants the platform to look and behave.... which is something of a moving target anyway.That's the problem in a nutshell: Apple cares deeply about the look and feel of the products on the iPhone OS platform  - andkeeps revising them. That means that products which used to be OK now aren't OK. And that really, really annoys developers - completely understandably.The question now is, will that drive developers away from the App Store? The problem for them is that other app stores - the Android Market, Ovi Store (for Nokia) or Microsoft's nascent one (or Palm's one, whose name escapes) - don't work at the speed and don't have the penetration or organisation that Apple does.With Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) coming up next week, and Jobs due to give the keynote speech on Monday - at aconference whose focus is, for the first time, going to be almost entirely on the iPhone OS(with Mac OSX, the desktop/laptop operating system, being there but very much in the shadows).Apple, and Jobs, have a problem with the App Store, despite its huge success. It's not just about keeping stuff out; it's also about not throwing stuff out because you've arbitrarily changed the rules.The frustration for developers though is that when it comes to really making a breakthrough with apps, Apple is the only game in town. Yes, you can try to reach the users of jailbroken apps via various stores, butcaveat subonor(Ithinkthat's "let the downloader beware").Answer? There isn't a simple answer. Apple could throw its doors open and let anything in - but it would destroy the app landscape, and undermine usability (and arguably safety - MobileSafari has been shown to be exploitable). Or it can keep them tightly shut - which annoys the developers. As long as some are making good money from selling apps, the disaffection will be limited. But if Apple manages to annoy too large a section of developers, the game will be up - and it will be lights out for the iPhone OS.
