British developer Auroch Digital says its Endgame: Syria game has been rejected by Apple due to its political content.The game, which isavailable already on Androidandas an HTML5 browser game, is based on the current civil war in Syria, released as part of Auroch'sGameTheNewsproject, which involves creating topical games based on news stories.Auroch says the game fell foul of App Store guidelines on games that "solely target a specific race, culture, a real government or corporation, or any other real entity".Designer Tomas Rawlings says he's disappointed by the rejection."We had hoped that Apple would be more nuanced in how they applied this rule but we got a bit worried when it had been in submission for around two weeks without a decision," he says in a statement."We then figured that because of the controversy of using the gaming medium to cover an ongoing war meant passing the game had become an issue for them."The company will be changing the game and resubmitting it for App Store approval. "It does mean we'll have to strip some of the meaning and context from it to pass Apple's submission process and that is not ideal," says Rawlings."Our aim is to use games as a format to bring news to a new audience and submission processes such as this do make it a lot harder for us.  I get that Apple want to make sure really offensive titles don't pass into their store, but ours is far from that."It's a tricky subject. On the one hand, there's the argument that games should be able to explore topical news subjects, just as journalism does.Apple would be extremely unlikely to reject, say, a special digital issue by The Economist on the conflict in Syria, although satirical cartoonists havebeen on the wrong end of its approval policiesin the past.The other side of the story, though, is the fact that games are games, not journalism: they put you into the action that's being covered, getting you to make decisions. That's the potential power of an initiative like GameTheNews, but it's also why these games will attract careful scrutiny from the likes of Apple.The solution is dialogue between Apple and developers in cases like this, to establish (and evolve when necessary) the boundaries of its policies.One more comparison: Smuggle Truck. A game by developer Owlchemy Labs that saw players smuggling immigrants across the US border, which wasrejected by Apple in 2011, before being rejigged as Snuggle Truck with cuddly toy characters and winning approval.At the time, Owlchemy said the original game wasn't flippant, but was trying to make a political point about "the absurd legal minefield that surrounds US immigration".Endgame: Syria is more obviously 'serious' (in games industry parlance – serious gaming is an established sub-section of the industry) than Smuggle Truck, but both titles pose important questions for Apple.With iOS devices increasingly important culture funnels for their owners, it's right that Apple's approval policies should be poked and prodded regularly to ensure the company is being a responsible gatekeeper.In the meantime, iOS device owners can play the HTML5 version of Endgame: Syria, and judge the most important question in this whole debate: whether the game really does have the power to educate players about the conflict in Syria.
Electronics companies are gambling that consumers will snap up a new generation of huge TVs with crystal clarity and eye-watering prices.Panasonic, LG and Toshiba have unveiled new TVs at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in the hope there will be demand for ever-bigger displays with extra gizmos even in an age of austerity.The new products elbowed into an increasingly crowded field of smart, extremely high definition TVs that Apple and Intel are expected to enter later this year.The South Korean firm LG displayed a 55-inch OLED HD TV, based on organic light-emitting diode technology, at the start of CES, a week-long annual jamboree for consumer electronics. The set will go on sale in the US in March for $12,000. Samsung is reportedly close behind with its own OLED model.LG also announced that its Ultra HD TV, based on a different technology, will soon be sold in two more display sizes, 65-inch and 55-inch, in addition to the gigantic 84-inch model launched last year, price $20,000. Ultra HD provides a screen resolution four times sharper than current full-HD TV sets.Toshiba unveiled its own 84-inch Ultra HD version, calling the technology a major category in 2013.In addition to size, manufacturers hope to attract buyers with added gadgetry despite disappointing sales of 3D televisions, an innovation hullaballooed at CES last year only to flop in stores.Consumers proved more receptive to smart, internet-connected TVs, even if they seldom used the technology.Panasonic unveiled a new version of its Viera smart TV geared at consumers fed up with complicated navigation and multiple remote controls. An innovation called "my homescreen" will let users organise all their digital content in one place rather than hop between different digital channels or apps.In addition it will help customise content for each family member: a camera on the TV will recognize the user and switch to their customised home screen.It appeared designed for the likes of @JoeTaylorLand who tweeted: "Smart TVs are those that focus on letting their owners watch TV."Panasonic's new Viera, however, could distract such customers with a touch pen that allows the user to activate the TV, upload and edit a photo from a smartphone and save it back on to the phone.The LA Timesgave it a mixed welcome, saying the new features were impressive but perhaps too soon. "Great. Just what I wanted to hear. That Panasonic Viera TV I bought last year? The one that I had to sell one of my kidneys to afford? The one I paid a bundle to have mounted on the wall above the fireplace in our living room? My friends at Panasonic want me to know that old Viera is toast."Plasma has not gone the way of dinosaurs just yet: products from LG, Samsung and Panasonic arekeeping the technology alive.The Japanese company Sharp unveiled 60, 70, 80 and 90-inch Aquos LED screens, hailing the latter the "largest commercially available LED TV".It also hopes to hook customers with a split-screen function that allows you to surf the internet and watch television on the same screen. It flagged up a technology called 8K resolution which has 16 times the pixel resolution of HDTV.Manufacturers are hoping the bigger and better sets will revive the market after a five-year slump in HD television sales. Sceptics however say price and the lack of content recorded in Ultra HD will deter buyers.Samsung and Sony were due to make announcements in Las Vegas later on Monday. Apple, which shuns CES, is expected to unveil its long-awaited TV later this year.
The first day of CES hasn't officially happened in Las Vegas - it's actually today, Tuesday, that it really starts - but it's already generated tonnes of coverage. So what's new and notable?First, from Rory Carroll, who's there for the Guardian:Tablet enthralls CES 2013 by treading thin line between computers and paperThe PaperTab, a high-resolution plastic display PC prototype, was unveiled on Monday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.A new concept device developed by Intel, Queen's University from Canada and the British firm Plastic Logic, it caused a stir on the first day of the week-long conference with an interactive, 10.7in plastic display that its makers called revolutionary. The team behind the PaperTab said their goal was to emulate the feel of paper with a robust, lightweight product that could bend and be dropped on a desk.Perhaps those electronic newspapers you roll up and carry around aren't so completely fanciful after all.Next, though it isn't strictly from CES, Reuters points to what could be a key trend:Will 2013 be the year of the phablet as phone screens grow bigger?"We expect 2013 to be the Year of the Phablet," said Neil Mawston, UK-based executive director of Strategy Analytics' global wireless practice.While Samsung Electronics has blazed a trail with its once-mocked Galaxy Note devices, now other manufacturers are scurrying to catch up.But can you name the company that first offered an Android smartphone with a 5in-plus screen? The answer may surprise you.Meanwhile, Monday seems to have been TV day at CES:Samsung re-announces OLED TV, but still no date or price &gt;&gt; The VergeWe first saw Samsung's attempt at a 55-inch OLED TV at CES 2012, and the company has brought it back to this year's show. The final shipping model will include the same Smart Hub software, a 1.35GHz quad-core A15 processor, and voice control as Samsung's 85-inch 4K TV. Unfortunately, however, we still don't have a release date or pricing information, even thoughLG will start shipping its own set next month.OLED screens are incredibly beautiful to look at - black areas are so dark it's like looking into the depths of space. Samsung's will - when it ships - have a feature that lets two wearers of 3D glasses watch separate videos at the same time. We can't even imagine a use for that in porn.Autonomous Lexus LS shows how smarter cars can be safer &gt;&gt; Consumer ReportsToyota presented an autonomous safety car today in Las Vegas, based on the Lexus LS, that demonstrates how today's technology can advance safety.While dubbed an "autonomous" car, Toyota explains that its approach is to enhance safety, rather than replace the driver. A top-rated luxury sedan, the LS offers a wide array of safety features in regular production trim, including lane assist, blind-spot monitoring, active cruise control, and pre-collision systems…This LS monitors its surroundings using a roof-mounted, 360-degree laser tracking system and three high-definition cameras. With these devices, the car can detect traffic approaching from all angles and determine the color of traffic lights.So, not driverless then. All it needs is laser cannons and it would be straight out ofKnight Rider. Why doesn't Google show off its driverless cars? They'd be colossal.Huawei officially reveals the 6.1-inch Ascend Mate and the 5-inch Ascend D2, we go hands-on &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWell, it comes as no surprise that the Mate is a handful, but it's surprisingly grippable thanks to its slim waistline. That said, one-handed operation is dicey to say the least, but it's not downright impossible if you've got big enough mitts and enable a one-handed UI similar to the kind seen on the Galaxy Note. Speaking of mitts, Huawei's Magic Touch screen tech also means the Mate will accept touch input from a gloved hand, though I didn't have any on hand to try it out with. Putting the size aside though, flipping through the device was a largely seamless experience — there was no lag or visual stuttering to be found.Steve Ballmer makes surprise appearance at CES 2013, the show he abandoned &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft's Steve Ballmer just rushed up on stage to steal the show from Qualcomm during its CES 2013 keynote. Let us clarify that: We just went from Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs' generic discussion of how important smartphones are in our lives, to a demonstration of Windows Phone 8 and Windows RT. This is insanity, brought to you by Steve Ballmer.You wouldn't let it lie, would you, Steve. Only a brief reappearance, but it proves that he's in the vicinity.Meanwhile, in a world that's suddenly monitoring everything that we do to make sure we don't grow fat:HAPILABS introduces HAPIfork at CES, world's first smart fork that helps you lose weight by eating at the right time and pace &gt;&gt; BioportfolioHAPILABS, a company aimed at helping individuals in the 21st century take control of their HAPIness, health and fitness through applications and mobile connected devices, today introduced the HAPIfork at CES, the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.Designed by French engineer Jacques Lépine, HAPIfork, the world's first smart connected fork, knows how fast you're eating and helps you slow down using a patent-pending technology. By eating slower, you will improve the way you feel after every meal, enhance your digestion and reduce your weight.Not only that, but also YAICF (Yet Another Internet-Connected Fridge), this time from Samsung:Samsung debuts T9000 refrigerator with LCD and Evernote integration &gt;&gt; EngadgetSamsung's latest entry, the rather large 32 cubic-foot four-door T9000 LCD, isn't exactly new territory for the company. At 2011's show the the RF4982 showed what was possible with an 8-inch display and a few productivity apps, but the 9000 adds some much needed versatility by integrating Evernote into the Linux-based OS. The connected household can quickly update a shopping list when looking in the fridge or pull up recipes to reference while milling about the kitchen. It also goes big by moving up to a 10-inch panel. Sadly Samsung has not announced pricing or availability yet for the LCD version, but the touchscreen-less edition of the T9000 will set you back a rather jaw-dropping $4,000 when it ships this spring.Evernote (a cloud-based note sync service) might be useful if you want to update a shopper's list while they're out shopping. But whatever happened to just calling or texting them? Perhaps they wouldn't be able to get their phablet out of their pocket while they're holding the shopping. If you buy one of these fridges, do send a photo.
It's Tuesday and we need to talk about games, right now.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy we're not at the biggest tech show in the world &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedMatt Buchanan:This is the first time in six years I haven't dragged my body, still recovering from the onslaught of Christmas and New Year's, onto a plane bound for Las Vegas, in order to subject it to a five-day frenzy of new gadgets, PR people, exotic strains of influenza, rivers of liquor, mountains of terrible free food, neat piles of overpriced decent food, endless lines of irritated bloggers, a constant fog of cigarette smoke and air freshener and blogger self-loathing, big TVs, small TVs and skinny TVs, all on just a handful of hours of sleep stretched across several nights. We decided at BuzzFeed this year that CES, after years of diminishing relevance, is no longer the most important place to go to see what's going to be happen in technology in the comings months and years.Two overlapping trends have chipped away at CES and events like it.Read on. He's right. Although - strictly speaking isn't Hanover Messe the largest trade show?Nokia Boss: "Today we are with Microsoft, but anything is possible" &gt;&gt; GizmodoTranslating from the Spanish, into which Stephen Elop's words were presumably translated in the first place. (Link).El País:Do you discard launching an Android phone next year?Elop:In the current ecosystem wars we are using Windows Phone as our weapon. But we are always thinking about what's coming next, what will be the role of HTML 5, Android... HTML5 could make the platform itself - being Android, Windows Phone or any other - irrelevant in the future, but it's still too soon [to tell]. Today we are committed and satisfied with Microsoft, but anything is possible.Certainly Nokia could make a run of it in the Android space. It's very good at making lots of different phones. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)The BBC Sport iPhone app &gt;&gt; BBC Internet Blog:From the comments, Lucie McLean, executive product manager for BBC Sport's mobile services:Due to the huge range of Android devices, testing for that platform is more complex and therefore takes more time.And finally, scheduling 'big bang' launches, across a range of platforms, increases risk, and we want to ensure launches are as smooth as possible for users. Back in July, when we launched the Olympics app for iPhone and Android together, we saw over three times as many downloads of the iPhone version. Android continues to grow apace but this, together with the development and testing complexity, led us to the decision to phase the iOS app first.Features also add complexity (and risk) to launches, which is why we'll be adding football teams, team customisation and video in the coming weeks, across all platforms, rather than at launch.Better to be a guru than a ninja... &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansComparing indeed.com job trends for ninja, rock star, god, guru and maven. The ninjas are there, just very, very quiet.HAL 9000 Life-Size Replica &gt;&gt; ThinkGeekGood morning, gentlemen.The most accurate HAL 9000 replica ever created.Built from the 1967 blueprints and image files (for the label).Says 15 different phrases - responding to voice and most IR remotes.$499.00? I'm sorry, Dave, I'm not sure I can afford that.Adobe Community: re CS2 free &gt;&gt; AdobeOn behalf of Adobe Systems Incorporated ...You have heard wrong! Adobe is absolutely not providing free copies of CS2!What is true is that Adobe is terminating the activation servers for CS2 and that for existing licensed users of CS2 who need to reinstall their software, copies of CS2 that don't require activation but do require valid serial numbers are available. (Special serial numbers are provided on the page for each product download.) Seehere.You are only legally entitled to download and install with that serial number if you have a valid license to the product!Ah well. It was a nice thought.Look at how great a Google smartwatch could be &gt;&gt; The Next WebUsing Google's latestdesign language, this "Google Time"conceptbyAdrian Maciburkois a nice idea for a super-simple take on the kinds of features such a device might have, including voice and touch interfaces.What strikes me though, is how a smartwatch from Google would be a perfect fit for working withGoogle Now.Note that this is not a leak, prediction or anything like that; it's someone saying "Hey, what if..?" But there's definitely a buzz around wearables. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Braeburn Group Quarterly Apple Estimates &gt;&gt; BraeburnThe consensus of the 19 index participants is revenue of $57.944 billion, representing an expected rate of year-over-year revenue growth of 25.06% and earnings per share of $14.78, representing an expected year-over-year rise of 6.58%. The consensus estimates contrast with Apple's average rate of revenue growth of 65.96% last fiscal year and average 82.64% rise in earnings per share over the same twelve-month period. Apple's first fiscal quarter one year ago was 14 weeks in length versus 13 weeks in the quarter ended December 29, 2012.One week's difference is about 7% less sales time. Oddly, there's little variation in the expected iPhone units sold - 48m to 51m (or 6%) but for Macs it goes from 4.5m to 5.5m (22% variation) and iPad units from 24m to 32m (25% variation).Consensus expectation is iPhone sales up 38% year-on-year, and iPad sales up 62% year-on-year.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
As diplomatic encounters go, it has to be among the most intriguing: the head of a revolutionary technology company that has helped secure the open flow of information around the world steps inside one of the globe's most closed societies.Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, arrived in North Korea on Monday at the start of a private visit that has already provoked a public wrist-slapping from the US state department. Officials said the timing of the trip was "unhelpful", coming less than a month after Pyongyang launched along-range rocketin defiance of the international community.The visit has also inevitably prompted speculation about Google's intentions in engaging with a country that stands at the polar opposite of its core value of open information access. North Korea operates a form of intranet inside its territory, but it is available only to a tiny elite of favoured individuals and almost all residents have no access to the internet.The speculation has been only heightened by Google's reticence in discussing its chairman's trip. All the search giant would say was that Schmidt was acting in a "personal" capacity.Schmidt is being accompanied on the trip by Bill Richardson, the former Democratic governor of New Mexico who has visited North Korea several times before. Before departing, Richardson attempted to squash any loose talk about Google, while at the same time fanning the flames of speculation by referring to social media as one area of Schmidt's interest."This is not a Google trip," he said. "But I'm sure [Schmidt] is interested in some of the economic issues there, the social media aspect."Richardson himself is likely to be focusing on attempts to persuade the regime to release a US citizen currently detained in Pyongyang. Richardson said he had been in touch with the family of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American who has been held captive for several months, and will ask after his status.Professor Charles Armstrong, director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University, said he was unconvinced by the idea that the trip was primarily a rescue mission. "This is odd: it doesn't make sense for the chairman of Google to help rescue Americans from North Korea. Clearly, there has to be another agenda here that nobody is talking about."Armstrong said that North Korea's young leader, Kim Jong-un, who took power a little over a year ago after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, had made tentative indications that he wanted to move in the direction of greater information technology. There has already been movement in the use of mobile phones, with more than a million cellular devices in circulation."It's extraordinary that you can a country that is in some ways quite industrialised where there is essentially no public internet access," Armstrong said. "Somehow, Eric Schmidt must have got the hint that this could become a potential market for Google."Other observers of foreign affairs and the politics of the internet were sceptical that the visit revealed anything at all about Google's plans in Asia. PJ Crowley, the former state department spokesman who is now at George Washington University, said he doubted the new North Korean leader had any plans to open up internet access."If Pyongyang loses its control over information, the regime is doomed. The moment the average North Korean understands the gap between their lives and South Koreans', the game is over."As for the state department's admonishment of Schmidt and Richardson, Crowley said that was purely for public consumption. "The state department has to say that. US policy is not to reward bad behaviour, and there's no question that North Korea is guilty of that."In contrast to the peeved impression given out by the Obama administration, it would, in fact, be keenly interested in anything the visitors could find out about the highly secretive regime. "The state department has listened attentively to Bill Richardson after he returned from previous trips to Pyongyang, and I have no doubt they will listen equally attentively this time."Evgeny Morozov, who wrote an influential book about the use of the internet by oppressive regimes called The Net Delusion, said: "I'm sure Google's PR department is terrified about this trip. It makes no corporate sense for Google to be involved in North Korea, not least because there are still sanctions in place."Morozov, whose new book To Save Everything Click Here is published in March, said a more likely explanation for Schmidt's visit was that it was part of his bid to position himself as a thinker on, and explorer of, globalisation. He pointed out that Schmidt has his own book out, the New Digital Age, in April.Schmidt's co-author of that volume, Jared Cohen, is a former state department official who now runs Google Ideas, a global think tank based in New York. A close observer of the Arab spring who was in both Iran and Egypt during key moments in their protest movement, Cohen is accompanying the Google chairman on his trip to Pyongyang.
A flexible, paper-thin tablet which looks and feels like a sheet of paper is being touted as a revolutionary advance in computing.ThePaperTab, a high-resolution plastic display PC prototype, was unveiled on Monday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.A new concept device developed by Intel, Queen's University from Canada and the British firmPlastic Logic, it caused a stir on the first day of the week-long conference with an interactive, 10.7in plastic display that its makers called revolutionary. The team behind the PaperTab said their goal was to emulate the feel of paper with a robust, lightweight product that could bend and be dropped on a desk."If the idea catches on, expect paper to never be the same again," said the news sitepocket-lint.com.Powered by the second-generation Intel Core i5, the tablet will run one app per display. Users who are accustomed to running multiple apps on a single display will need to adapt by sharing information between PaperTabs, by tapping them next to each other.Users will be able flick through a document by bending the screen, or by joining screens together for a larger display. Each PaperTab will also be aware of other PaperTabs nearby, helping users keep track. Email can be sent by placing the device in an out tray or by bending the top corner of the display. The PaperTab can also store thousands of documents – obviating, its developers say, the need for stacks of paper or a traditional computer monitor.The developers of the PaperTab did not say when the tablet would reach the market, or how much it might cost.Ryan Brotman, a researcher at Intel, said in a statement: "We are actively exploring disruptive user experiences. The PaperTab project, developed by the Human Media Lab at Queen's University and Plastic Logic, demonstrates innovative interactions powered by Intel Core processors that could potentially delight tablet users in the future."Designers envisaged users working with several PaperTabs simultaneously, Brotman said.Roel Vertegaal, director of Queen's University's Human Media Lab, said: "Within five to 10 years most computers, from ultra-notebooks to tablets, will look and feel just like these sheets of printed color paper."The initial response on social media was largely positive, with many users swooning over the ability to fold and roll the device and mimic a sheet of paper's dog-ear. "Bye bye le iPad, bonjour le PaperTab!" swoooned one.Bye bye le iPad, bonjour le PaperTab!on.mash.to/VOchCX&mdash; Absolunet (@Absolunet)January 7, 2013"OMG – This is the future!," gushed another.OMG - This is the future! - PaperTab Is a Tablet as Thin and Flexible as Papermashable.com/2013/01/07/pap…via @mashable&mdash; Christopher Khoo (@chriskhoo)January 7, 2013A few sceptics cautioned that the tablet is a prototype and that replacing a computer with "stacks of paper" may, in the end, not prove popular.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)Wii (6)152 (1)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (35)PC (4)63 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (1)84 (4)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)75 (5)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (42)VITA (12)PC (1)106 (7)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)97 (6)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (87)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (1)Wii U (0)148 (10)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)79 (9)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (22)Wii (21)DS (10)710 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (81)PS3 (13)PC (6)5511 (8)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (35)Wii U (3)PC (2)1012 (16)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (36)Wii U (9)VITA (8)513 (13)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (96)PSP (4)1014 (11)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (36)Wii (2)1015 (14)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (30)PC (6)1216 (15)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)1117 (17)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (36)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (20)1218 (20)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2619 (19)Disney Epic Mickey 2: The Power Of Two(U)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (27)Wii (27)Wii U (3)320 (18)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)DS (16)Wii (15)PS3 (14)26UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Computer graphics giant Nvidia is launching its own portable games console. Announced at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Sunday, the device features the company's powerful new Tegra 4 chipset and runs the Android operating system. It is set for launch in the spring.Sporting a five-inch, 1280x720 HD retinal multitouch display and a full-sized console-like controller, Project Shield can also stream games from any PC equiped with a GeForce GTX 650 GPU graphics card – allowing gamers to play their games on a TV in any room of the house. Running a pure version of Android, the console can also play any title available on Google Play or Nvidia's ownTegraZone store. There is also support for theSteam Big Pictureservice, which allows subscribers to Valve's digital download service to play titles on a TV.Further features include multiplayer gaming (currently via Wi-Fi only), custom bass-reflex speakers and the ability to run Hulu, Netflix and other on-demand entertainment apps. There is an HDMI port for video output, as well as micro USB and microSD slots.Tegra 4, announced earlier in the day by Nvidia, is the company's latest smartphone processor, featuring an array of fourARM Cortex-A15chips – it will be one of the first quad-core implementations of the latest ARM chipset. During a demonstration of the set-up, the company claimed that the power efficient design would allow users to watch HD video for up to 24 hours.It's an interesting move from the company, which obviously feels it has spotted a gap in the market between smartphones and dedicated game consoles. "We were inspired by a vision that the rise of mobile and cloud technologies will free us from our boxes, letting us game anywhere, on any screen," said CEO Jen-Hsun Huang. "We imagined a device that would do for games what the iPod and Kindle have done for music and books, letting us play in a cool new way."It will not have the Android console market to itself though. Two Kickstarter-funded projects,Ouyaand theGameStick, will also be occupying similar territory this year, though neither of those have their own mini-displays like Project Shield. They may well have price on their side though – Nvidia has yet to confirm pricing, but with Ouya set to release at $99 and GameStick at $79, it will need to be pitched competitively.In its favour, of course, is the company's size and reputation in the gaming graphics field. Project Shield has already garnered vocal support from games developers like Ubisoft and Epic, who may well be planning Tegra 4-enhanced versions of their latest Android titles.Whatever the case, the 2013 video game hardware war just got a little more complex and intriguing.
The contrasting fortunes of Android handset makers were laid bare on Monday as analysts forecast that South Korea's Samsung Electronics will see its quarterly operating profit to rise 65% to 8.7trn won (£5bn)) – while Taiwan's HTC, once the biggest Android handset maker, saidfourth-quarter operating income crashed by 95%to just NT$0.6bn (£12m) on revenues down by 41% to NT$60bn (£1.2bn).Samsung will give its official estimate of its quarterly profit on Tuesday, and the full earnings statement on 25 January, but analysts surveyed by Reuters offered a consensus showing continued rapid growth up to the December quarter. They predict demand will stay strong ahead of the expected introduction of new smartphones in the spring, particularly in its flagship Galaxy S and "phone-tablet" Note.HTC is expected to make its own push towards the large-format "phablet" range, of phones which have screens more than 5in measured diagonally, after seeing good results from sales of its "Butterfly" range in Japan (called the Droid DNA in the US) in December.But Samsung, which made the running with the Note, is expected to fare better, having sold millions of the devices, particularly in its strongholds in Asia."[Samsung's] guidance is unlikely to disappoint given new product launches and a further upturn in cyclical parts of the business," Morgan Stanley analyst Shawn Kim told Reuters. "Smartphone momentum has not decelerated, despite Apple's new iPhone, and the business continues to be driven by its flagship products. This time, it's the Galaxy Note II … with the upside in unit shipments mainly from the US. We expect strong momentum to continue in the first quarter."Samsung Electronics also produces memory chips, flat-panel displays, and the central processors used in mobile phones including Apple's iPhone – although there are signs that Apple is seeking other suppliers.Samsung has thrived as the world's largest supplier of Android handsets, selling an estimated 215m smartphones in 2012; the company does not provide figures for unit sales, but briefs analysts with some partial data.While Samsung has grown, HTC – once was the largest Android provider in the US – has shrunk, squeezed between Samsung and Apple at the top end, and cheap Chinese Android device makers at the bottom end. Net income before tax crashed by 90% to NT$1.1bn.HTC, which in 2010 had the biggest share of Android smartphones in the US, has come under unrelenting pressure from Samsung during 2012, and monthly revenues have dropped compared to the year-ago period for 14 successive months.But there are signs that the worst might be over for the company, with the fall in monthly revenues easing in November and December.HTC has struggled to compete on volume and price with Apple and Samsung. Although it does not provide shipment figures, analystsreckon thatshipments dwindled by a third from 12.1m in the third quarter 2011 to 8.4m in the same period last year.But the company is now pushing into the phablet space, and has its sights on the market – which research group Strategy Analytics forecasts will be one of the big hits of 2013: some think that it could make up a quarter of all smartphones sold by 2017, compared to just 11% in 2012.
Last year it was Steve Ballmer who gave the keynote, winding up nearly 20 years of keynotes by one of Microsoft's top people with aspeech in which he talked Windows, Windows, Windows. Now if you need any proof that the times they are a-changin', the keynote this year will be by Paul Jacobs, on the subject, "Are you born mobile?".Who he? No less than the chairman and chief executive of Qualcomm, which makes essential chips used in millions of phones. Apparently his address will include "a big announcement, a famous band, a host of famous guests – and an amazing amount of technology". Read theexciting detail about how big the presentation screen will beon the CES site.Gizmodo tells it straight, with its report from the bunfight that is the CES Unveiled event (where stacks of companies pitch in a huge room in which five times as many journalists struggle round, trying not to clout each other with their bags, shoulder-mounted cameras and paraphernalia).All the best stuff from a mildly horrible CES press event &gt;&gt; GizmodoFor better or worse, CES Unveiled is a thing. We actually find it terribly convenient—dozens of gadgetmakers under one roof. And we found some cool stuff too. Huzzah! We braved the throngs and fried-food-vapors for you, my dears. Here's the best stuff we saw:Includes an eyeball-controlled Windows 8 computer (hmm), a tiny activity tracker, a stylus that plays music and takes Bluetooth calls ("sorry, I've got a call coming in on my pen"), a tiny action webcam - in Gizmodo's words, "must be for porn?", a Google Glass competitor (looks dorky)…. the list goes on. A bit like CES really.Now, Nvidia has something new for people to ooooh over:Nvidia unveils Tegra 4, "world's fastest mobile processor" &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Tegra 4, like its predecessor, features a quad-core processor along with a fifth, low power, core to save battery life. Although it retains the 4-plus-1 setup of Tegra 3, Nvidia's fourth-generation chip is built on an all-new architecture. The company's CEO Jen-Hsun Huang says that Tegra 4 is the world's fastest mobile processor, surpassing everything currently on the market. Nvidia hasn't revealed the clock speed of the Tegra 4's processor yet, but it does say that it has 72 GPU cores — we imagine its referring to CUDA cores here. Although it hasn't been confirmed, it's been rumoured that Tegra 4 is produced using a new 28nm manufacturing process — a step up from Tegra 3's 40nm — and should help improve power consumption despite Tegra 4's improved power.But the Verge points out there is no LTE chip onboard, so smartphones/tablets will need another chip for the phone modem – something Qualcomm is expected to do later this year.Glum news meanwhile across the entirety of the showroom floor.Electronics industry to grow a meagre 4% in 2013 &gt;&gt; VenturebeatThe worldwide electronics industry's sales are expected to grow an anaemic 4% to $1.105 billion in 2013, according to a forecast by the Consumer Electronics Industry and the market research firm GfK.Even so, that's better than the 1% drop in 2012, when the industry hit $1.058bn in sales, said Sean Koenig, director of industry analyst at the CEA, speaking at a press event at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Sunday. By comparison, the industry grew 11% in 2010 and shrank 9% in 2009.We think actually they meanttrillionrather than billion, but they're still pretty slow growth numbers.Android Authority suggests that the latest Samsung Galaxy S4might be on show behind closed doors, but not to the press – it will be for any carriers or other retail partners who get to see it. One point to ponder: "4" is unlucky in Korean, so will this by the SGS 5? Or some other nomenclature?Meanwhile, tablets are getting bigger...Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon brings touchscreen gaming to a massive 27-inch surface (video hands-on) &gt;&gt;The VergeApparently Lenovo liked what it saw from Sony's Tap 20, because here at CES the company is introducing its own "portable" desktop PC. The IdeaCentre Horizon is primarily a Windows 8-enabled all-in-one — Lenovo calls it a "table PC" — with a 27-inch, 1080p 10-finger touchscreen, Intel's Core i7 processors and discrete graphics. But it's also portable, at least in theory, thanks to an internal battery that Lenovo says will power the gigantic device for two hours at a time.Two hours!Wired meanwhile has a reminder of what we're still waiting for...Vaporware We're Still Awaiting from CES 2012 &gt;&gt; WiredAmong them: MySpace TV (us neither), the Kodak PlayFull Dual (a point-and-shoot camcorder; don't hold your breath, as Kodak went into Chapter 11), Asus's 7in Android tablet… (turned out to be the Google Nexus 7), and the Victorinox official Swiss Army Knife with a 1 terabyte SSD drive… for $3,000.Inside Intel's TV service: no CES announcement, but plenty of juicy detailsI've been told by a knowledgeable source that this is inaccurate, and that there won't be any announcement or other kind of public appearance in Vegas.Still, Intel is definitely getting close to lifting the curtain on its plans for the living room. I've been talking to sources familiar with the project for a few months now, and done a fair share of digging online as well. Combined with a few previous leaks, a much clearer picture about what Intel is up to in the TV space is emerging: it's a box, it's a service, and it's intriguing, to say the least.This is being well leaked, but it's still unclear what, if anything, Intel hopes to achieve here. Among the subheadings: "It wants to beat Apple TV … without being Apple TV". Not too big a challenge, surely.We'll have more from the showroom floor later with Rory Carroll, who is there for us. Stay tuned.
Google has reluctantly conceded defeat in its latest effort to combat online censorship in China, after a year of behind-the-scenes brinkmanship over sensitive search terms banned by authorities.The search company has quietly dropped a warning message shown to Chinese users when they search for politically sensitive phrases, after Beijing found new ways to cut them off from the web.Google and Chinese authorities have been involved in a tense game of cat-and-mouse over the issue since May last year, when the feature was unveiled by the UScompany in an attempt to improve search for Chinese citizens.The standoff came to a head in December, when Google finally decided to drop the feature because users were still being disconnected by Chinese authorities.A source in China said Google decided it was "counterproductive" to continue the technical dispute, despite several attempts to get around it.News that Google had dropped the warning message and an accompanying online help page emerged on Friday, when thecensorship monitoring website Great Fire published results of tests it had carried out on search in China.A Google spokesman confirmed it removed the notification features in December, but declined to comment further due to the sensitivity of the situation in China.Googleexplained in May last year,when it introduced the feature, that users in mainland China experienced connection issues when searching for phrases including "Yangtze River" and "Jiangsu Mobile", a phone service.Within 24 hours of the feature being launched it was disabled by Chinese authorities. Days later, in June, Google modified how the notification would appear for users – but that too resulted in another block.In November, Google's English-language and Chinese-language services were blocked for 24 hours as tensions stepped up. Google resolved to drop the notification features in early December after users continued to report problems for certain searches.Google has had a tense relationship with China since 2006, when it first launched its search function in the country. The latest dispute comes amid a wider crackdown on internet use in China. This includes fresh blockades on the use of "virtual private networks", which help people access the web anonymously.The ruling Communist party, led by Xi Jinping, last month announced moves to force internet users to fully identify themselves to service providers, raising fresh concerns about freedom of speech in the country.
Good morning everyone – especially those of you who are going back to school today, or have children heading off with glum faces. Our house will be chaotic. Anyway, did you do any gaming over the weekend?
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy you should be skeptical of Chitika's market-share reports &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:In my investigation, half of the web sites that Chitika promotes as success stories either don't exist or exist exclusively to serve ads. The remaining 50% appeared generally weak and sad. Several sites hadn't been updated in months or years, and only a handful looked like they represented serious ongoing businesses.As a potential advertiser, I would not be impressed. As a journalist, I wonder whether the same sloppiness exhibited on this promotional page extends to the company's research.And then there's thisFTC news releasefrom March 14, 2011:The FTC reached a settlement with online advertising company Chitika, Inc. that ends the company's allegedly deceptive practice of tracking consumers' online activities even after they have chosen to opt out of online tracking on Chitika's website.Chitika certainly isn't what you'd call cooperative about where its data comes from. But none of the data-pimping sources is. Nor do companies themselves provide all the numbers you want. Essentially, you have to triangulate on the most reliable and repeatable data.Explaining Windows 8 PC sales over the holidays &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:It's not pat to say that the Windows PC market went for volume over quality, because it did: Many of those 20m Windows 7 licenses each month - too many, I think - went to machines that are basically throwaway, plastic crap. Netbooks didn't just rejuvenate the market just as Windows 7 appeared, they also destroyed it from within: Now consumers expect to pay next to nothing for a Windows PC. Most of them simply refuse to pay for more expensive Windows PCs.And this isn't my opinion, it's a fact. Despite being created as a "touch-first" OS, only 4.5% of Windows 8 PC sales including multi-touch capabilities. When you couple this with the fact that statistically zero percent of PCs that were upgraded to Windows 8 included touch capabilities, you can see that even in the tiny current market of Windows 8 users, virtually no one is using multi-touch.And that is a problem, because Windows 8 is really all about the multi-touch potential.Black Friday and Cyber Monday weeks gain share of 2012 US consumer elecrtonics holiday sales &gt;&gt; NPD.comDespite the hype, and hope, around the launch of Windows 8, the new operating system did little to boost holiday sales or improve the year-long Windows notebook sales decline. Windows notebook holiday unit sales dropped 11%, on par with Black Friday, and similar to the yearly trend, but revenue trends weakened since Black Friday to end the holiday period down 10.5%. ASPs [average selling prices] rose only $2 to $420. Touchscreen notebooks were 4.5% of Windows 8 sales with ASPs around $700. Sales of Windows notebooks under $500 fell by 16% while notebooks priced above $500 increased 4%. Macbook sales dropped 6% while the ASPs rose almost $100 to $1419.On that basis, Macbook revenue actually rose year-on-year, despite the volume falling (less rapidly than Windows, which udges Apple's share up infinitesimally again): it looks like a number of people were buying the retina model. And those "Windows notebooks under $500" are the beasts formerly known as netbooks. They're dead, Jim.Microsoft says burglars broke in, stole only iPadsSeems to be a legit cutting from the Palo Alto Daily Post about a break-in at Microsoft's Mountain View campus. (Yes, it has aresearch facilitythere.)Google's FTC settlement is an epic fail for Microsoft &gt;&gt; ReadwriteDan Lyons:This is a crushing blow to Microsoft, which has spent millions of dollars on lobbyists and phony grassroots groups over the past several years hoping to land Google in hot water.Indeed, Microsoft's obsession with Google doesn't just border on crazy. It is crazy, and not just a little tiny bit crazy but full-blown, bunny-boiling, Ahab-versus-the-whale nutso.Lyons details all the the many lobbying groups and efforts that Microsoft has put into getting Google ground down by regulators - to no avail (so far). As he says, why not compete by making better products? To which the answer might be: does that mean there no better OSs than Windows? Network effects matter.How Google beat the feds &gt;&gt; POLITICO.comGoogle escaped from a nearly two-year federal antitrust probe with only a few scratches by proving that the best defense is a good offense.Instead of ignoring Washington -- as rival Microsoft did before its costly monopolization trial in the 1990s -- Google spent about $25 million in lobbying, made an effort to cozy up to the Obama administration and hired influential Republicans and former regulators. The company even consulted with the late Robert Bork and The Heritage Foundation and met with senators like John Kerry to make its case. In other words, these traditional outsiders worked the system from the inside.So Google essentially learnt from Microsoft's mistakes (quite probably at the urging of Eric Schmidt, who had been around that particular lighthouse before). Thorough investigation - settle down for the read on this one.Apple did offer to buy Waze, but Waze politely declined &gt;&gt; The Next WebApple was interested in buying [social mapping company] Waze, but was a long way off what the Israeli company believed it was worth.While it has been reported that Waze was holding out for $750m, multiple sources have told us that the company was valued around $200 million in its last funding round, and current investors were aiming for a higher price, somewhere nearing $1bn.Waze politely declined the offer, and the deal is definitely off - at least for now...While Waze has an impressive user base (20 million at last count and said to be nearing 30 million), the company has still not found a way to adequately monetize its product, or build a scalable business model to profit from.Apple offered $500m. The price of slightly better maps?Welcome to "Learning by Shipping" &gt;&gt; Learning by ShippingThe title comes from something impressed upon me early in my career, which is that learning as an engineer comes from the process of starting, then finishing, and iterating on products-getting products to market and putting the broad feedback loop to work. The teams and processes used to create products are critically important and fun to talk about relative to shipping and learning as we search for the best approaches to use at a given time.The most fascinating aspect, for me, of technology product development is the intersection of engineering and social science.Holy hell.Steve Sinofskyhas a blog.An iPhone lover's confession: I switched to the Nexus 4. Completely &gt;&gt; 24100.NETRalf Rottmann:One of the biggest advantages I found during my daily use is the level of cross-app and OS level integration.Cross-app integration: This also is the area where I got most disappointed when Apple introduced iOS 6.In fact, I think iOS has reached a point, where usability starts to significantly decrease due to the many workarounds that Apple has introduced. All of these just to prevent exposing a paradigm like a file system or allowing apps to securely talk to each others. There is a better way of doing this. Apples knows about it but simply keeps ignoring the issues.On Android, it's quite the opposite. One can see the most obvious example when it comes to handling all sorts of files and sharing...And believe me or not, but after having configured my Nexus 4 just the way I always wanted - providing me with the fastest access to my most frequently used apps along with the most important information on a single screen - whenever I grab my iPhone for testing purposes, iOS feels pretty old, outdated and less user friendly. For me, there currently is no way of going back. Once you get used to all of these capabilities, it's hard to live without them.Excellent insights - and a really fascinating review. (Thanks @LazioLazio for the link.)JP Morgan trims Microsoft ests; weak Surface, PC sales &gt;&gt; Forbes[JP Morgan analyst John] DiFucci sees Surface unit sales of just 700,000 units in the December quarter; he sees 2.6m for the June 2013 fiscal year, and a measly 6m for fiscal 2014. (A little perspective: Apple sold 14m iPads in the September quarter.)"We believe a number of factors, including price, the lack of cellular connectivity, and relatively lukewarm critical reviews will limit its broad appeal at this time," DiFucci writes. "In addition, at least some Surface sales will be cannibalistic to traditional laptop sales."He adds that the PC market is likely to continue to struggle. Gartner, he notes, now sees December quarter units shipments down 5.5% year over year; previous guidance was for 7.7% growth in the quarter. Gartner now sees unit growth of 0.5% in 2013 and 4.7% in 2014, down from a previous forecast of 7.3% this year and 7.4% next year. Gartner sees PC unit shipments in the developed world dropping 12.2% in the December quarter, 3.7% this year and 0.6% next year.Those Gartner estimates don't seem to have been published yet, but they're very gloomy on PC sales.Terms of Service as a Security Threat &gt;&gt; Schneier on SecurityBruce Schneier:Those [T&amp;C] paragraphs sure sound like Prezi can do anything it wants, including start a competing business, with any presentation I post to its site. (Note that Prezi'shuman readable - but not legally correct - terms of usedocument makes no mention of this.) Yes, I know Prezi doesn't currently intend to do that, but things change, companies fail, assets get bought, and what matters in the end is what the agreement says.I don't mean to pick on Prezi; it's just an example. How many other of these Trojan horses are hiding in commonly used cloud provider agreements: both from providers that companies decide to use as a matter of policy, and providers that company employees use in violation of policy, for reasons of convenience?(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Clearly Stated Blog: New year tech &gt;&gt; Andrew PeckTaking the five things forecast for this year, and then putting the viewpoint of a technical author (the hapless folk who have to write the manual that you never read but which explains how it actually works):Expect drivers to have far less knowledge of vehicles in future, whilst mechanics will need to further develop into gurus of GPS and guidance systems. The documentation provided to both groups will need to change accordingly, and somewhere an entirely new vocabulary will have to be developed to describe how self-drive cars operate (possibly by tagging the world 'manual' onto everything we currently do: "I manual-steer my car round corners and manual-brake for traffic lights").There's more in that vein. Where do you put the manual for your AR glasses, for example? And what should it say?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The smartphone is predicted to become a mass market phenomenon this year, with annual shipments soaring to 1bn globally for the first time, although a fifth of the devices will rarely be used to go online.In 2013 the smartphone will become an everyday object worldwide, according to a study by accountants Deloitte, bringing the number of active phones with either a touch screen or an alphabet keyboard to 2bn by the end of the year.The everyday accessibility of what was once a luxury device will be made possible by falling prices and better mobile networks. The average selling price of an iPhone has remained above $600 (£370), putting Apple's gadgets out of reach for most buyers, but high performing smartphones with good cameras, bright screens and fast processors are now available for a fraction of that cost from other makers such as HTC and Nokia.Deloitte estimates 500m phones have already been sold for $100 or less, and initiatives to create $50 devices for emerging markets are under way.However, research in several countries suggests one in five owners of these sophisticated portable computers rarely or never connect to the web. Hundreds of millions may not even bother to subscribe to a data package from their mobile network.These devices will not be idle, but their owners will use them for the traditional mobile activities of text messaging, voice calling and taking the occasional photo."They are like [traditional] feature phones in a smartphone casing," said the report's author, the Deloitte telecoms research head Paul Lee. "Smartphone penetration goes up but data plan penetration doesn't go up as quickly. Not every mobile will be used in the same way."Many phones in use will be older hand-me-downs, whose software is out of date and cannot cope with new applications and website graphics.Older owners may have been put off going online by reading about high bills in the press, and many may be wary of the complicated data tariffs on offer. For many of those living outside cities, 3G internet connections are still hard to come by.
The brash promise of Las Vegas – what happens there, stays there – never seems apposite for the Consumer Electronics Show which opens this week in the city of sin. The whole idea of CES is that manufacturers such as Sony, Samsung, Panasonic and LG show off their brightest, noisiest and coolest gadgets, and that the press then trumpets these triumphs to a world eager for the latest on OLED 55-inch smart TVs with integral ethernet.The reality, however, is two giant aircraft hangars full of bright sales people whose enthusiasm bounces off an increasingly weary army of corporate buyers, journalists and bloggers looking for the next big thing.The problem is that every year the next big thing turns out not to be what consumers end up buying.Last year, for example, the NBTs were ultrabooks (shiny, thin, light laptops), 3D TVs and TVs that could run apps and connect to the internet. But ultrabooks made little impact (people kept buying cheaper, bulkier laptops) and as for 3D TVs – well, have the headaches from the time you tried it in the shop eased yet? Smart TVs have sold, but the research group NPD found only 15% were then plugged directly into the internet, and barely any were used for apps.But that's par for the course. In 2011 it was Motorola's "iPad killer" Xoom tablet, Motorola's Atrix phone which – gasp! – was so powerful it could also work as a desktop PC, and BlackBerry maker RIM's "iPad killer" PlayBook tablet.The Atrix has vanished, the Xoom and the PlayBook almost have, while the iPad has sailed on. Only in 2012 did it get real competition from Amazon's Kindle Fire and Google's Nexus 7.When it comes to really big things, nothing beats Samsung's stand, which is more a football field. Every year the Korean electronics company vies with Asian rivals LG, Sony and Panasonic to get the biggest space, and makes sure the comparison is blatant by pitching close by. Samsung spent about $11bn (£6.8bn) worldwide on marketing last year, compared with $3bn for Coca-Cola and around $1bn for Apple. At CES, it shows.This year's show will be the first since 1995 in which the head of Microsoft – once Bill Gates, now Steve Ballmer – isn't giving the keynote speech. In fact, Microsoft won't even exhibit at the show, a definite sign of the times in which the PC is giving way to the smartphone and tablet.The launch of Windows 8 last October seems to have got off to a slow start, and the big thing announced by Microsoft in 2011 – a version of Windows that would run on smartphone-style chips – has only just sputtered into view with the Surface tablet, of which about 700,000 are reckoned to have sold. In a market where millions are the starting gambit, that's not good.Where, you might wonder, are other big names such as Apple or Google? Apple has never exhibited there. Until 2009, it used to announce its new gewgaws down the road at exactly the same time as CES, leaving the Vegas press room a ghost town for the first few days. But Google will be there as Android smartphones and tablets continue their assault on the mobile computing world. CES used to be Microsoft's fiefdom, but it might turn into Google's.Inevitably, no gathering of more than three people and a TV camera is complete without an appearance by will.i.am. He appeared last year for Intel to tout ultrabooks and this time he's got his own keynote, alongside various grandees from Panasonic and mobile chipmaker Qualcomm.Roulette, blackjack, giant shows, a replica of the Eiffel tower – Vegas truly has it all. Until last year, it also had CES overlapping with the Adult Entertainment Expo – in other words, the world's biggest (in most senses) porn stars.Now it's the week after – a serious disappointment to some tech executives who liked to get away from the show floor. The bus drivers are happy though: no chance of getting assigned to the "wrong" conference and missing out on the "fun" passengers.What's this year's big thing? As is clear fromtech news site ZDNet's preview, nobody knows. Smart vacuum cleaners? Mobile apps to control your home? A new top-end smartphone from Samsung? (Probably not. It will save that for Mobile World Congress at the end of February.)And what was last year's big thing that will turn out to be this year's big thing? On the basis that you have to look back a year or two, the growth of apps is a surefire one. Tablet apps that connect to home automation and your car seem a good guess. And as an outlier, it's just possible that 3D printing, which can "print" replacement plastic parts for broken items or entire items at home, may just start to edge into use. It could be the next big thing that's actually just a little thing.
They've been a long time coming, but the next generation of consoles could finally make an appearance in 2013: rumours suggest the new Xbox will launch by Christmas, with PlayStation&nbsp;4 hot on its heels. What they'll be like – and whether they'll manage to distract gamers from their laptops, smartphones and tablets – remains to be seen. For now, the focus is on seeing the current generation out in style. For Microsoft, this meansGears of War: Judgment(March), a last hurrah for a 360 staple. Yes, it's another Gears game, but it's by the makers of the riotously inventiveBulletstorm. Sony, by contrast, is touting two ambitious new PS3 projects:Beyond: Two Souls(Q2) is a moody "interactive drama", whileThe Last of Us(May) is a post-apocalyptic action game fromUncharted's developers. The Vita, meanwhile, plays host to the adorable, origami-themedTearaway.Elsewhere, end-of-console-cycle malaise is apparent in a rash of sequels, prequels and reboots.Devil May Cry(January) gives a Japanese classic an all-American makeover;Dead Space 3(February) attempts to splice&nbsp;chills with thrills, whileTomb Raider(March) bids to imbue the original cyberbabe with some psychological depth.We can also expectBioshock Infinite(February),Grand Theft Auto V(Q2), a long-long-awaited expansion forStarcraft 2(March), Bungie's top-secret shooterDestinyand at least one new Metal Gear game:Metal Gear Rising: Revengeancedrops in February; internet fans are convinced thatMetal Gear Solid: Ground Zeroesand perhaps evenMetal Gear Solid 5(which has yet to acquire a ludicrous subtitle) will follow later in the year.Of course, games don't need to be about cyborgs, shotguns and/or survivalism. If anyone understands that, it's Nintendo. The Wii U got off to a wobbly start, butPikmin 3(Q2),Wonderful 101,Lego City Undercover(Q1), the madcap mini-game collectionGame &amp; Warioand the gorgeous sidescrollerRayman Legends(March) all look vibrant, original and fun – and then there's the prospect of a newZeldaon the horizon. On the 3DS, meanwhile,Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon(March) andAnimal Crossing: New Leaf(Q2) should further cement Nintendo's reputation as a purveyor of superior, kid-friendly fare.Factor in downloadable games and indie titles, such asBraid-maker Jonathan Blow'sThe Witness,and gamers should have plenty to do while they wait for those new consoles.
Back in 1906, an Italian engineer turned economist namedVilfredo Paretomade a startling discovery: 80% of the land in Italy was owned by 20% of the population. He studied land ownership patterns in a number of other countries and found that the same ratio applied. He also found that the ratio seemed to apply in other contexts: for example, 20% of the pea pods in his garden produced 80% of the peas.In the 1940s, an American engineer namedJoseph Jurannoticed that 80% of the quality problems in industrial mass-production systems seemed to come from 20% of the possible causes. He then stumbled on the work of Pareto and christened the 80/20 split the Pareto Principle in his honour. Thus was born one of the canonical rules of thumb of business consulting.It turned out that the Pareto Principle was really just a special case of a more general phenomenon, namely the fact that in many areas of life there is no such thing as a typical or average case. This is disturbing because we are culturally programmed to think in terms of averages. For example, if you draw a graph of the distribution of the heights of a significant number of men or women, you will get something that looks like a bell curve, centred on the average height, with very few dwarfs and even fewer people who are over 8ft tall. So familiar is this state of affairs that we call it the "normal" distribution.The trouble is that this normal distribution is actually quite rare in many areas of life. The populations of cities, the sizes of earthquakes, moon craters and solar flares – to take just four examples – are not normally distributed. Nor are the sizes of computer files, the frequencies of words in books, the number of papers written by scientists, hits on web pages, inbound links on websites, sales of books and records or people's annual incomes.In fact, the more you look at it, the rarer does the normal distribution seem. In its place, we see the distribution of which Pareto's Principle is a special example: a small number of people/sites/words/etc account for most of the action, with a "long tail" getting very little of it. Thus, instead of most websites having an "average" number of inbound links, a very small number of sites (theGoogles,Facebooks andAmazons of this world) have colossal numbers of links, while millions of sites have to make do with only a few.Mathematicians call this kind of pattern a "power law" distribution – using the term power in its mathematical sense – which is deliciously ironic given that a power law distribution actually describes a situation where a select few have most of the available goodies while the majority has almost none. A power law, in other words, in the Mitt Romney sense of the term.Everywhere you look on the internet, you find power laws – yes, even in theGuardian's online comment forums, where 20% of comments are provided by 0.0037 per cent of the paper's monthlyonline audience. And, while there are millions of blogs out there, a relatively small number of them attract most of the readership. Various sinister explanations have been canvassed for this, but really it's just an illustration of the power of power law distributions. AsClay Shirkyonceput it: "In systems where many people are free to choose between many options, a small subset of the whole will get a disproportionate amount of traffic (or attention or income), even if no members of the system actively work towards such an outcome. This has nothing to do with moral weakness, selling out or any other psychological explanation. The very act of choosing, spread widely enough and freely enough, creates a power law distribution".This is where the mathematical  and political interpretations of "power" fuse into one. Whenbloggingwent mainstream in the 90s, many people speculated that the net would expand whatJürgen Habermascalled the "public sphere", ie "an area in social life where individuals can come together to freely discuss and identify societal problems, and through that discussion influence political action".With the relentless consolidation  of mass-media ownership into the hands of giant conglomerates, that public sphere had been steadily shrinking in the postwar era, with worrying implications for liberal democracy.It seemed a racing certainty that a technology that enabled anyone to become a global publisher without having to kow-tow to editorial "gatekeepers" would change things for the better. Fifteen years on, there are still grounds for optimism, but only if we can find a way of overcoming the tyranny of power laws.
Despite the bankruptcy-inducing number of triple-A games appearing on shelves between October and December last year, there's not much of a lull in the first few months of 2013. Here are some of the most promising upcoming games for the early part of the year.DEAD SPACE 3PS3, XBOX, PC, 8 Feb, Electronic Arts, £39.99While on his way to rid the universe of a space monster infestation, Isaac Clarke crashes on an ice planet and encounters hideous necromorphs.NI NO KUNI: WRATH OF THE WHITE WITCHPS3, 22 Jan, Namco Bandai, £39.99Ghibli's Ni No Kuni.With artwork by Studio Ghibli this game was originally released in Japan in 2011. In sidekick Drippy, however. it also has the world's Welshest videogame character.ALIENS: COLONIAL MARINESPS3, XBOX, PC, 12Feb, SEGA, £24.99 - £39.99Game over, man.Dropping you into the heart of a squad of initially gung-ho troopers, your task is to search for missing-in-action Corporal Hicks.METAL GEAR RISING: REVENGEANCEPS3, XBOX, 22 Feb, Konami, £39.99The new Metal Gear.More or less dispensing with stealth, this outing presents a new sword-slashing, all-action direction for Hideo Kojima's venerable series.TOMB RAIDERPS3, XBOX, PC, 5Mar, Square Enix, £29.99-£37.992013's Lara Croft.Another year, another reboot for Lara Croft. This one, timed to coincide with next year's film, explores her formative years, and her discovery of her own bad-assery.GEARS OF WAR: JUDGEMENTXBOX, 22 March, Microsoft, £39.99Gears: big men with big guns shooting big monsters.Conceptually, Gears of War is uncomplicated: sentimental muscle-men machine gun waves of aliens. Yet this series has managed to be consistently compelling, this prequel offering enough evolution to stave off ennui.BIOSHOCK INFINITEPS3, XBOX, PC, 26March, 2K Games, £27.99 - £39.99Bioshock Infinite.The original BioShock and its sequel took place in Rapture, an undersea utopia turned to squalid decay. Infinite takes place above the clouds in the painterly, dystopic airborne city Columbia, a place similarly infused with techno-hubris.BEYOND: TWO SOULSPS3, release date TBC, Sony, £39.99Quantic Dream's follow-up to Heavy Rain. Photo: Michael S.It's a story of strange powers and what happens when you die, in this psychological thriller from the lightly-unhinged Frenchmen that brought you Heavy Rain and its predecessor, Fahrenheit.THE ELDER SCROLLS ONLINEPC, Mac, release date TBC, Bethesda, approx £34.99Time vacuum: The Elder Scrolls Online.The Elder Scrolls series gave rise to Oblivion and Skyrim, two epics of exploration and adventure ripe for rework as a massively multiplayer online game. Let's hope it doesn't drown under the weight of its own expectations.GRAND THEFT AUTO VPS3, XBOX, PC, release date TBC, Rockstar, approx £39.99GTA FTW.Details are still scarce, but this outing promises to be the largest and most complex to date, letting players explore the enormous Los Santos, the series' take on Los Angeles, where you can play golf and "do" yoga.
It's a modern, middle-class problem. I'm talking about the accumulation of things – children, buggies, bicycles, etc – to the point where they don't fit in your car any more. Obviously the correct thing to do is to give them away, kids'n'all. Take Saint Francis's lead, live in poverty, without possessions.Sadly not everyone will be prepared to. The alternative is to get a bigger car. In the olden days, this was simpler; cars grew in one dimension only, along the x-axis, and they became estate cars. If there still wasn't enough room, you got a roofrack, and if the kids got cold up there, you wrapped them in a&nbsp;tarpaulin.Then cars started growing along the y and z axes, too. People-carriers were born, and they work – they carry plenty of people (even if there's often not much room for the bikes, etc). But for anyone interested in cars or driving, this is a miserable option, because they're horrid and they drive like buses. (And what about the poor busman who gets one, what kind of holiday is that?)More acceptable, from a driver's point of view, is an SUV. Trouble is, SUVs are not acceptable to a whole lot of people, me included.They clog up the roads, the supermarket car park, the lungs and the arteries of the planet. And, in spite of their enormous size, they don't actually carry any more people. Plus no one – well, very few people – actually needs one. They are a modern menace.Actually, as SUVs go, this isn't the most hateful. It's not the biggest, the most polluting, the most eff-you-all-you-effing-plebs. It's reasonable value (prices start at £24,495 for the basic 2WD version). Not as good value as the previous Santa Fe, but then this is a superior car – more refined, better designed, higher quality inside. This Premium model is loaded with kit. I've got ABS, AHS, BAS, DBC, ESP, ESS, HAC, TSA, VSM, TPMS… honest, if only there was space to tell you what it all stands for.To drive, it's comfortable rather than sporty, it soaks up the bumps and is smooth on the motorway. Oh, and it has an extra row of seats (though you'd have to be quite small to fit back there). A people-carrier, too, then, without the full bus driver experience. Or they fold away, to make more space for stuff…Hang on, though… I'm not condoning this car. It's still an SUV, still unacceptable, still too big, you still almost certainly don't need one. You don't even have to go down the full Franciscan route, just a little way, lose a little. Kids, too. If you have more than two of those, you don't actually have to give them away. Just leave them home, alone. Or put them on an actual bus.Hyundai Santa Fe Premium SE 4WD 7 Seat 2.2 CRDiPrice£34,395Top Speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption41.5mpgCO2emissions178g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating5/10
After the US regulator this week dismissed allegations that Google gives unfair prominence to its own services in search results, the European commission has denied that the decision will affects its own investigation into the claims.The US federal trade commission  (FTC) ruled after a two-year investigation that "Google's primary purpose … was to improve the user experience". The decision drew immediate condemnation from Microsoft. EC spokesman Michael Jennings said on Friday: "We have taken note of the FTC decision, but we don't see that it has any direct implications for our investigation, for our discussions with Google, which are ongoing."But Microsoft, one of the companies that raised Google's dominance with the FTC, hascomplained publiclythat the agency had not met its own standard procedures, which would require any measures planned against Google to be shown to complainants. "The FTC's overall resolution of this matter is weak and – frankly – unusual," said Dave Heiner, Microsoft's chief lawyer. "We are concerned that the FTC may not have obtained adequate relief even on the few subjects that Google has agreed to address."Heiner claimed the weakness of the FTC's strictures showed itself in Google's reaction: "The litmus test of any antitrust outcome is the set of statements made by a company on the day the outcome is announced … Google seems to be walking with a new spring in its step.''Google is still being investigated by the EC over allegations that it favours its own products in searches, and downgrades those of potential rivals in search and other areas such as shopping. Heiner greeted the EC's announcement as "good news", claiming that antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia "has made clear that he will close his investigation of Google only with a formal binding order that addresses search bias and other issues".The FTC decided that any bias shown by Google in search results was done to benefit the consumer, and so did not constitute an abuse of its power. But it required Google not to penalise the search ranking of companies that withdraw their data from some of its products, such as Shopping or Local, and to allow advertisers to move data between multiple platforms.Microsoft was critical of the lack of consultation there: "We would have explained that Google's promise on ad campaign portability falls short of the mark in various ways. For example, Google inexplicably has not promised to allow all advertisers to port their campaign data to other ad platforms – only those with a primary billing address in the United States." Many firms advertising there have non-US addresses, Heiner pointed out.Under the terms of the consent with the FTC, Google also has to license essential patents owned by itself or Motorola to any willing licensee – in theory putting an end to lawsuits where its Motorola subsidiary has sought US sales and import bans against the iPhone, iPad and Microsoft's Xbox 360.But Microsoft was critical of that too, saying that it did not amount to a complete commitment never to seek sales bans over essential patents – which it said itself, Apple and Bosch have previously pledged to do.
It was the console that defined an era – but now Sony's PlayStation 2 has finally reached game over. The company has confirmed to the Guardian that after 12 years and 150m units sold worldwide, making it the most successful home games machine of all time, all PS2 production has ended worldwide.Launched in 2000, the successor to the original PlayStation ended up with a library of more than 10,000 games titles by 2011, with 1.52bn individual games sold since launch. "At the height of the PlayStation 2's success, the word effectively came to mean video games for a lot of people," said Anna Marsh, a game designer who worked on Tomb Raider and Hitman.Its success was down to three factors: cunning design, excellent games and great timing. Sony's decision to include a DVD player meant the machine found its way into living rooms, exposing many more to gaming. It trounced its underpowered rivals, the Nintendo GameCube and Sega Dreamcast, and became the exclusive home of must-have games such as Grand Theft Auto III, Final Fantasy and Metal Gear Solid – dominating an era in which developers were changing the rules of game design, crafting ambitious cinematic experiences and vast open-world adventures.Piers Harding-Rolls, a senior analyst at IHS Screen Digest, said: "Sony also had a hugely successful marketing strategy, especially its association with football, which saw it gain great penetration in many territories where console gaming was underdeveloped. The PS2 went beyond the first PlayStation by expanding its audience in its later years, introducing lifestyle and social games that helped drive adoption in the mid-2000s."But the consumer technology market has changed dramatically since the PS2's glory days. "Game consoles used to be the only boxes you owned with any sizzle or personality," says Tom Bramwell, editor of the games site Eurogamer. "Nowadays smartphones, tablets, PCs and smart TVs all have amazing industrial design, features and content, and it's much harder to stand out if everyone else looks cool as well."Sony is struggling with its latest handheld device, the PS Vita, which has only sold 4m units in 10 months, while the iPhone, iPad and Android devices sold more than 200m in 2012. Consumers are now used to downloading cheap games on smartphones – hence the incredible success of titles such as Angry Birds and Cut the Rope."The industry has become so fractured, I'm not sure we'll see another console that gets that sort of penetration into the public consciousness," said Marsh.That means problems for the home console market. The PlayStation 3, launched in 2006, has never matched its predecessor's success, so far selling about 70m units. It was ruinously expensive to develop, featuring both a proprietary central processor and a blue laser for its Blu-ray drive – a technology that was still being finalised and tested. Released a year after Microsoft's Xbox 360, Sony's console has never caught up with its main rival, despite some strong games and a free multiplayer online service.Microsoft is also expected to announce a new console this summer, and industry rumours suggest both will resemble state-of-the-art PCs, with off-the-shelf processors and graphics chipsets from companies such as AMD, Intel and Nvidia, rather than expensive, purpose-built hardware. Developers suggest that the PS4 uses chipmaker AMD's "Accelerated Processing Units", which combine quad-core CPUs and graphics processors into one chip for smoother performance. With between 4GB and 16GB of RAM – more than many home PCs – also expected, it could run HD-quality graphics at a colossal 60 frames per second."Sony is right to make the PlayStation 4 with off-the-shelf parts," says Matt Martin of the gaming news site Gamesindustry.Biz. "The company really doesn't have the money to manufacture a new home console, let alone create bespoke technology for it as it did with the PlayStation 3. The entire Sony Corporation [bonds] has been downgraded to junk status by Fitch."Some think the PS4 and Xbox 720 will be the last console generation, with machines designed as customisable units. "I envisage them as scalable off-the-peg PC hardware," said Tim Clark, editorial director at Future Publishing and an ex-editor of the Official PlayStation Magazine. "You will be able to upgrade them very easily with plug-and-play graphics cards, CPUs and so on, but you would have the simple interface of traditional consoles. Certainly the idea of console cycles that last seven years seems like a busted flush now."Whatever the design philosophy, with increased competition from smartphones, tablets, smart TVs and digital download services such as Steam, it is unlikely the industry will ever manufacture a 150m seller again. The production line has stopped, not just on PlayStation 2, but on an idea of what games machines are.PS2's greatest hitsTotal games library10,828 titlesUnits soldMore than 150mTotal game titles sold1.52bnGrand Theft AutoVice City(Rockstar): Heavily inspired by Brian De Palma's Scarface movie, this scorching adventure featured twisted characters, violent action and a great 80s soundtrack.Metal Gear Solid 2Sons of Liberty(Konami): Combining cinematic storytelling with tense stealth action, Konami's Metal Gear Solid series became one of PlayStation 2's key brands, showcasing the power of the hardware, but also a new era of mature, sophisticated design.Gran Turismo 3 A-Spec(Sony): Gran Turismo revolutionalised the driving genre. Suddenly, car manufacturers were battling to get their latest models into racing sims.Shadow of the Colossus(Sony): A beautiful and enigmatic adventure that proved that there was much more to gaming than guns and cars. In the 2007 film Reign Over Me, the main character uses the game as therapy after the loss of his family in 9/11.SingStar(Sony): Alongside the long-running rock sim Guitar Hero, this karaoke series attracted a whole new audience of casual users.
The pre-Christmas release rush may have eased, but there have still been a fair few notable iOS apps released since our last roundup on 21 December. Here's 30 more apps and games for iPhone and iPad to get you started in 2013.Looking for new Android apps? There's a separate30 Best Android apps roundupthat was published earlier in the day. A Windows Phone roundup covering November and December will be following in a matter of days.Hundreds (£1.99)Semi Secret Software made its name with excellent endless-runner game Canabalt. Hundreds has the makings of similar popularity: a stylish-yet-minimal puzzle game where you tap on circles to make them grow, while avoiding having your finger on them when they bump into one another. It's hard to explain, but genuinely hypnotic to play.iPhone / iPadFacebook Poke (Free)There was lots of noise around Facebook Poke just before Christmas when it went live, even if it was fairly shamelessly inspired by the success of an existing app called Snapchat. The idea: reviving Facebook's traditional 'poke' feature as a way to send self-destructing messages, photos and videos to friends, setting their lifespan at one, three, five or 10 seconds.iPhoneAntiques Roadshow Play-along (Free)The BBC has launched this "play-along" app for its Antiques Roadshow TV programme, taking the form of a valuation game that tests whether you can guess how much items are worth before they're valued on-screen by the show's experts. The app is designed to play along live with the show, whether you're watching live or on catchup.iPhone / iPadWordament (Free)Here's an interesting one: a word game from Microsoft released on iPhone, but using its own Xbox Live platform for community features rather than Apple's Game Center. The game itself is addictive, too: competitive word-finding puzzles played against friends, with decent depth to its scoring system.iPhoneRastamouse: Ride da Riddim (£1.49)Rastamouse (and Scratchy and Zoomer) make their first official appearance on the App Store in this skateboarding game for kids. It sees the TV show stars skating through five worlds performing tricks while collecting cheese and music notes.iPhone / iPadHg2 | A Hedonist's Guide to... (Free)If your thoughts are turning to holidays in 2013, the Hg2 app might be just the thing for a spot of January planning. Promising "the true Insider's guide to a city" with hotel, restaurant, bar, sightseeing and shopping recommendations, its guides are written by locals, with individual cities available for 69p a pop as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadMen's Fitness UK (Free)Dennis Publishing has relaunched the iPad edition of its Men's Fitness magazine in the UK to be "fully interactive", with workouts, social features and most appealingly the ability to bookmark individual articles for a My Pages section, making them easy to refer back to in the future.iPadPumpUp (Free)Talking of men's fitness – and it is often men who see apps and gadgets as the key to sorting out their health – PumpUp is a personalised workouts app designed to be used by people losing weight, building muscle and/or simply being healthier, promising a mix of animated exercises to copy and motivational support.iPhoneCreativium – Paper Theater (£1.49)This looks great fun for kids and parents alike: an "interactive paper theater" for children to create fairytale scenes on virtual paper sets, with 10 characters, 40 animations and 25 decorations to mix and match. Like Fuzzy Felt for the apps generation, a bit.iPadConan Vol. 1: The Frost Giant's Daughter And Other Stories (£5.49)There's no Fuzzy Felt in this app, just MAN MUSCLE. Notthatkind. This is an app from Dark Horse Comics based on its reboot of barbarian hero Conan. Those new comics have been digitised for this app, which currently covers the first six issues and part of issue seven of the new series.iPhone / iPadNational Geographic's GeoDash: Wild Animal AdventureGeoDash: Wild Animal Adventure (Free)This is an app for children by National Geographic: a game starring a "curious robot" who explores the Earth meeting animals and picking up their abilities as he goes – leaping, digging, climbing etc. It's based around (virtual) collectible animal cards with facts and figures, and looks an engaging app for kids with a yen for wildlife.iPhone / iPadCycloramic (£0.69)Genius or novelty? Cycloramic gets you to stand your iPhone 5 on a flat surface, then it rotates the phone using vibrations to shoot panoramic videos. Apple co-founderSteve Wozniak is a fanbut the developer wants users to be aware before buying that it doesn't record sound and only works for the iPhone 5. Panoramic photo support is coming though.iPhoneDaily Record App (Free)Scottish newspaper the Daily Record has a new iPhone app providing a free dose of news, photos and videos from its website, including football liveblogs, image galleries and a My Record feature to personalise what sections you see when firing up the app.iPhoneSundance Film Festival 2013 (Free)January is Sundance Film Festival time, and there's an official app for the 2013 event. It enables film fans to browse trailers, photos and descriptions for this year's entries, while also providing a guide to the event, including screening schedules and visitor information.iPhone / iPadRomare Bearden Black Odyssey Remixes (Free)This iPad app comes from the Smithsonian Institution in the US, and is based on a series of collages by artist Romare Bearden. The app doesn't just show the works, though: it gets you to "remix" them, playing with different backdrops and shapes to create your own version of the collages, then share them online.iPadIdlezoo's A-Z of Curious Creatures (£0.69)There seems to be no limit to my own children's interest in animal apps, and this one from PaperplaneCo is very nicely done. It's a collection of colourful animals based around the letters of the alphabet, from Armadillo to Zebra. So there's phonetic learning here, but the emphasis is on the great-looking (and neon-splashed) animals.iPadHorror Movie Maker (Free)It's good to see film studios waking up to the idea of making promotional apps fun on their own merits, rather than just a smaller billboard. Take Lions Gate Films' new Horror Movie Maker, for example, which wants people to make their own horror movies with friends, using effects from the new Texas Chainsaw 3D film. So that's what's being promoted, but the app looks fun, with Facebook and YouTube available to share the resulting gory masterpieces.iPhonePixel Defenders Puzzle (£0.69)I actually spent most of the Christmas break developing a worrying obsession with this inventive take on the match-three puzzle genre. It gets you matching pixels to create fantasy warriors and wizards, then matching those to create more powerful ones. It's a bit like TripleTown in that respect, except with enemies that you have to battle at the top of the screen. Really addictive.iPhone / iPadWhat We Mean (Free)This thought-provoking poetry app is the work of Joshua Adler Fisher, who has taken love letters written between his grandparents during World War II, then redacted sections of them into poetry that you can read, or play with.iPhone / iPadThwaites Wainwright Ale UK Pub Walks Guide (Free)January as a month to give up alcohol and start walking more? Maybe, but why not stick with the booze and find a way to walk to it? This useful app comes from British brewery Daniel Thwaites, and offers details of more than 6,000 walks in the UK, along with 8,000 pubs that serve cask ale. You choose the difficulty level and length of the walk, and the app will suggest a route, plus pubs along the way.iPhoneMusic apps Fliptape and DeezCovrFliptape (Free)Fliptape is one of an increasing number of mobile apps built on top of streaming music service Spotify. In this case, the app lets subscribers play songs from Spotify, see what their friends are listening to, and follow featured artists.iPhoneDeezCovr (Free)And here's an app built on Spotify's biggest rival, Deezer. The focus here is on discovering new music, with the app recommending songs and artists you might like, adapting them based on your mood, and then saving the ones you like to a playlist in your Deezer account.iPhone50 Cent's Blackjack (Free)In which rapper 50 Cent gets into the social gaming market with a blackjack app, which promises Fiddy himself will "teach you the basics of blackjack and offer advice as you compete against the dealer for virtual chips". Insert own "In Da Clubs" joke here. Avatars, power-ups and – presumably – in-app purchases all make appearances too.iPhonePepi Tree (£1.49)Here's another app for children based around animals and the natural world: an educational game "focusing on a tree as an eco-system" – that'd be the original meaning of the word, rather than the mobile industry one, naturally. A caterpillar, owl, spider, hedgehog, mole and group of squirrels explain what hey do, how they eat and where they live, with beautiful production values and fun mini-games.iPhone / iPadDa Vinci - History (£2.49)This is another art-based app from a museum background, in this case the Réunion des Musées Nationaux in France, working with Quelle Histoire Editions. It's a gudie to the life and work of Leonardo da Vinci that includes paintings and drawings, animation and mini-games, aimed at "the whole family".iPadLyroke (Free)The success of SongPop showed an appetite for connected music games, but Lyroke takes a different angle on the genre. Here, it's about playing music videos then guessing the lyrics at key moments, before challenging friends to do better. Released at the end of 2012, it's proving a popular download on the App Store.iPhoneNYPD (Free)Obviously, this is more interesting for New Yorkers, but it's interesting as an example of how police are trying to engage more with the public too. The official New York Police Department app includes a wanted gallery, crime videos, news, stats and a tip-submission section.iPhoneScribble My Story (Free)This children's app is based on a previous app called Scribble Press, and gets kids to draw their own stories or customise existing tales with their own audio, stickers and backgrounds. Some story packs are free and others are sold for 69p in-app purchases, and the whole thing ties into developer Fingerprint Digital's platform to help parents see how their children are progressing and send them encouraging messages.iPadLego Hero Factory Brain Attack (Free)Lego has come a long way on from basic bricks and mini-people. This is based on its Hero Factory sub-brand: a strategic adventure game that involves defending the Hero Factory from waves of attacking brains, upgrading defences as you progress.iPhone / iPadPiece Corps (Free)One last children's app to round off this week's roundup. Piece Corps is a physics-puzzler aimed mainly at girls, with 50 levels included, plus the ability to create your own and share them with other players. Virtual tokens, which can be earned or bought in-app, are used to unlock new monthly packs to create with.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what's been hogging your time on iOS devices over Christmas and New Year? Make your recommendations or comment on these picks by posting a comment.
Why are we so hard on action heroes when they want to come back to us? Every time one of these poor souls needs a series reboot, it's almost like the people in charge of handling their return know we won't accept them back into our hearts unless they arrive more battle-scarred and bloodied than we've ever known them.Christopher Nolan's Batman lost his city's trust, the love of his life and even his ability to walk without a cane in the three films that rehabilitated him from the films of Joel Schumacher. We wouldn't accept James Bond back into our lives until he demonstrated he could hammer bad guys on shaky-cam with the same brutality as Jason Bourne. And, it seems, Lara Croft is in for the toughest slog of her entire existence in the gritty reboot of the Tomb Raider series. After spending three hours in her bruised and battered company, I'll be genuinely surprised if there's anything left of her by the end of the forthcoming game.Then again, I gather that's the point. All the press I've read up until now suggests that the events in Tomb Raider are meant to transform Lara from the mousy, yet tenacious scholar players encounter at the beginning of the game, into the hardened, confident adventuress they recognise from earlier installments in the series. If the new Tomb Raider is anything to go by, the way Crystal Dynamics are going to go about this is by piling trauma upon trauma upon young Lara, until any trace of her former self is eradicated.The game works on the same logic as a Saw movie; it's a white-knuckled thrill ride while you're involved in the action, but once you step back from the screen it all looks somewhat barmy. Consider the following sequence of events; a violent shipwreck leaves Lara choking seawater out of her lungs, shortly before she is blindsided and knocked out by a shadowy figure. She awakens, trussed up like a side of beef next to half-eaten human cadavers – leading one to believe her attacker probably has a taste for human flesh.She escapes her bonds but lands on a sharpened stick, which impales itself through her hip. Shortly after this, she escapes from her cannibal attacker through a cave, where she has to detonate an explosion to clear a path ahead of her. Lara then has to outrun a cave-in, followed by a second attack by Mr Cannibal, followed by another cave in, which leads her onto a path blocked by the rusting skeleton of a second world war bomber. After a nerve-shredding sequence in which she scales the plane – with parts of it inconveniently breaking off under her weight – a rockslide causes her to tumble down a hill, where she lights a fire to prevent catching pneumonia as icy rainwater is whipped against her muddied and bloodied body by a vicious gale.Had enough, Lara? Well, tough! That right there is the first eight minutes of Tomb Raider. Over the next several hours, the plucky heroine will have to survive gun battles, leaps across sheer drops, wild animals and more gun battles – not to mention thescene that launched a thousand op-eds.As detailed by Keith Stuart in hisE3 preview last year, when the moment in which a goon attempts to sexually assault Lara occurs, it's shot through with a palpable sense of dread. Still, the flesh-crawling horror contained in this scene quickly transforms into nail-shredding desperation as, over a series of quick-time-events and frantic button-bashing, Lara wrestles with her attacker and ends up putting a bullet through his skull.It feels like a transformative experience and, fittingly, it's also the moment Lara steps out of the shadow of the character that has been looming over her since the opening credits: Nathan Drake. In a way, up until that point, Tomb Raider has played and felt a lot like a gritty reading of the Uncharted series. The hallmarks of Naughty Dog's adventure series are all present and correct from chase set-pieces to the cover-based shooter mechanics to the dazzling way the camera, at times, behaves as though it's shooting an action movie rather than a video game. There's even a platforming section that involves climbing up the side of a dilapidated vehicle while bits of it break off under her weight.Still, one could argue that Lara and Tomb Raider have every right to purloin a couple of decent ideas from Uncharted, much in the same way the makers of Casino Royale decided to lift a couple of elements from the Bourne films. After all, Drake and Bourne entered proven markets largely because Lara and 007 had blazed trails for them respectively. It seems a little selfish not to give something back.On top of that, Tomb Raider doesn't move completely in lock-step with Uncharted. Early on, players are introduced to the campfire hubs, where Lara can craft better weapons with salvage she's collected and unlock new skills with XP she's racked up. They're familiarised with the game's shooter mechanics as Lara hunts deer and fends off hungry wolves. They also activate her "Hunter's Instinct" mechanic by tapping the right bumper, illuminating useful items and objectives in her environment.The moment that Lara steps away from the body of her first kill, however, both she and Tomb Raider change. The character takes her first step towards honing her ruthless survival instincts and the game flowers into a series of open-ended playgrounds.While many of the story-driven checkpointed sections in the game are essentially corridors, they're book-ended by a set of environments filled with collectibles, puzzles, roaming wildlife and mini side-quests. Players can spend hours making their way through these virtual obstacle courses, scouring them for trinkets and working out how to collect valuable items places just out of reach. There's also a choice in the level of damage they can dish out; players can opt to move stealthily past a team of adversaries, using the odd stealth kill when necessary, or they can haul out some weapons and go hell-for-leather. Both methods chalk up XP they can use to bolster Lara's abilities at the next campfire hub, which they can also use to re-visit any areas containing secrets they failed to uncover.While embargo forbids me from going into detail about some of the collectibles, I can report that picking salvage is a high priority in the game. Shortly after Lara's initial scramble for survival, players gain access to both a pistol and bow, both of which can be augmented to cause more damage and increase their rate of fire. Not long after that, a submachine gun is added to the mix and the list of possible augments balloons considerably. Players will need to collect as much salvage as they can to kit out Lara's arsenal, so it's worth solving every puzzle, smashing open every container they find and looting every enemy they fell.The game's presentation works hard to pique the player's appetite for exploration while encasing them in its brutal terrain. The island Lara and her mates find themselves trapped on with a gang of maniacs looks both beautiful, yet punitively harsh; raindrops spatter the in-game camera and the jungle foliage snaps and rustles continually against a howling wind. Players will wander through dilapidated second world war bunkers, crumbling temple ruins and bombed-out forts on snow-capped peaks, all of which are meticulously detailed are gorgeous to look at.But as lovely as the game looks and as fun as it is to play, the main draw here is its story, which, as mentioned earlier, mainly concerns Lara's metamorphosis from a spirited explorer to a heroine as fierce, merciless and unforgiving as the island that surrounds her. Unlike Nathan Drake, who can cheerfully buckle a swash and then mow down an army of enemies, Lara's battle against the island's elements and its cult-like inhabitants carries a cost.It's beautifully summed up in one of the more reflective cutscenes, where Lara confesses to a compatriot that isn't as shocked by their experience of killing an enemy as she is about how easy killing seems to come to her. She also frets that the actions necessary for the survival of her and her friends will take her to a place that she doesn't want to go."You can do this," her companion insists, "you're a Croft.""I don't think I'm the right kind of Croft," she shoots back."Yes you are," comes the chilling reply, "you just don't know it yet!"This preview took place in London. All food, drink and transport was paid for by the correspondent.
Googlehas been forced by regulators in the US toagree to legally binding changes  to the way it presents some search results and runs its search advertising following nearly two years of investigation. But the internet search engine was exonerated of bias to push down competitors in its search results, leaving it untroubled by any government threat.The Federal Trade Commission attacked the behaviour of its Motorola Mobility (MMI) phone subsidiary, however, which used essential patents to try to block competition and extract huge payments. The watchdog said MMI had engaged in unfair conduct and that Google had continued to do so after buying the company in August 2012.Announcing the FTC's conclusions, Jon Liebowitz, FTC's director, said: "We exhaustively investigated whether [Google] uses search bias" to push its own products higher and rivals' down the search results. But after nearly two years, he said, "the commission has voted to close this investigation. Although some evidence suggested it was trying to remove competition, the primary reason was to improve the user experience."Rivals including Microsoft had said that Google promoted its own services, including videos, shopping and maps, over equally or better-qualified rivals, and pushed down results from competing "vertical search" companies.But the five FTC commissioners disagreed.The long-awaited decision will infuriate Microsoft, which has complained separately that Google is acting as a monopoly by refusing to build a YouTube app for the Windows Phone software it makes – a move that it complains directly harms consumers by restricting choice. Microsoft could demand an investigation by the US department of justice – which 15 years ago prosecuted Microsoft itself on monopoly charges.Google is still in talks with the European commission's antitrust arm over a similar investigation, which could enforce more far-reaching changes than the US regulator has. Google has a far bigger search share in Europe than it does in its home country. The EC has been investigating Google's position in search since November 2010.The FTC, which is the US government organisation meant to protect consumers' interests, had looked ready at the end of December last year to wind up the investigation with a settlement – but delayed the decision after Liebowitz met the EC's antitrust chief, Joaquin Almunia.Under the legally binding agreement with the US watchdog, Google will stop "scraping" content from other sites and presenting it as its own in results, and will allow sites and businesses to opt out of featuring in its "vertical" search results such as Google Local and Google Shopping without that resulting in their being pushed down in general search results. Allegations that Google had threatened to remove companies that opted out were "most troubling", Liebowitz said.He said the investigation had seen nine million pages of documents from Google and other parties, and heard sworn testimony from Google executives.David Drummond, Google's chief counsel, said in a statement: "the conclusion is clear: Google's services are good for users and good for competition" and added "we head into 2013 excited about our ability to innovate for the benefit of users everywhere.But that was not enough for Microsoft. "Hopefully, Google will wake up to a New Year with a resolution to change its ways and start to conform with the antitrust laws," Microsoft's deputy general counselDave Heiner wrotein an angry posting on Microsoft's site. "If not, then 2013 hopefully will be the year when antitrust enforcers display the resolve that Google continues to lack."Heiner pointed to Google's continued reluctance to build a dedicated YouTube app for Microsoft's Windows Phone mobile platform — something which it has done for Apple's iPhone after Apple banished YouTube as its default video player. "Google continues to block Microsoft from offering its customers proper access to YouTube. This is an important issue because consumers value YouTube access on their phone — YouTube apps on the Android and Apple platforms were two of the most downloaded mobile apps in 2012," Heiner said.The FTC was hugely critical of Motorola Mobility's (MMI) use of so-called "standards-essential patents" (SEPs) to seek to block sales of smartphones, tablets, games consoles and computers. SEPs must be used to make a device conform to standards such as 3G or Wi-Fi networking — but MMI has sued Apple, Microsoft and others, and demanded swingeing licence fees beyond the perceived value of the patent itself, simply because it is essential to meet the standard."Years ago, Motorola promised to license those patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms," Liebowitz said. "Other companies took Motorola at its word. They invested billions. Motorola then changed the rules of the game — it sought injunctions and exclusion orders over those SEPs. Google inherited those and continued them."Liebowtiz explained: "Google's unfair conduct threatened to block [US consumer] access to laptops, smartphones, tablets and gaming systems or raise their prices which would have been passed on to consumers — for example an iPad, BlackBerry smartphones are all under threat if this practice continued." Instead, Google would be obliged to license the patents on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms. "We stopped that abuse," Liebowitz said.Google will have to agree that the changes are legally binding rather than voluntary. That would allow the FTC to enforce the commitments and monitor them — and fine Google if it varied from them.Fairsearch, a lobby group of companies including Microsoft and Oracle, as well as smaller travel and search companies,who complain Google is "abusing its search monopoly"said in a blogpost that it "remains convinced that US consumers and innovators deserve the same protections that the European Commission may adopt in Europe. Consumers will fail to reap the benefits of a truly competitive online marketplace if Google is allowed to pick and choose where it biases its search results."
With the number of impressive Android smartphones and tablets increasing steadily – see this week'sNexus 4 reviewfor the latest example – it's good to see that the flow of interesting Android apps is also continuing in early 2013.Here's our pick of the 30 most notable new apps on the Google Play store, with a slightly extended focus to reflect the fact that the last weekly roundup was on 21 December. This week's30 Best iPhone and iPad apps roundupis now also live.Antiques Roadshow Play-along (Free)The BBC has launched this "play-along" app for its Antiques Roadshow TV programme, taking the form of a valuation game that tests whether you can guess how much items are worth before they're valued on-screen by the show's experts. The app is designed to play along live with the show, whether you're watching live or on catchup.Zombies, Run! 5k Training (£0.69)The excellent Zombies, Run! was a fitness app with a twist: virtual zombies chasing you along your running paths. Now it's got a spin-off based on an eight-week training programme for people to work up to 5km runs. As before, it comes with a zombified storyline from author Naomi Alderman.Pitfall! (Free)Atari reinvented its classic Pitfall game as a freemium Temple Run-style game for iOS last year. Now it's available on Android too, as Pitfall Harry runs through jungles, caves and villages leaping over obstacles and whipping beasties. Power-ups add spice, with in-app purchases prominent in the gameplay mix.Facebook Pages Manager (Free)This app went live quietly on Google Play on 3 January with no official announcement at the time of writing, and it also appears to be US-only – something that may change by the time you read this. It's an Android version of Facebook's iPhone app for Page admins, helping them post updates, read and respond to comments, and analyse traffic to their Facebook Pages.Sing! Karaoke (Free)Developer Smule has made its name with a series of quirky-but-creative music apps, with Sing! Karaoke being its latest – initially for the Nexus 7 and Nexus 10 tablets, with more device support to follow. It gets people singing into their microphone to a selection of current hits, sharing their performances with the world and (hopefully) getting praise in return. In-app purchases are used to get premium songs to sing along with.MailOnline TabletWith website traffic continuing to rocket, MailOnline is also ramping up its tablet publishing with this new Android app. Designed for larger-screened devices, it offers the latest stories on all things Kardashian (plus other topics, of course) through themed channels, with social features and photo galleries thrown in.Zime (BETA) | To-do + Calendar (Free)Looking for a whizzy personal productivity app? Zime's schtick is its 3D timeline of upcoming tasks and meetings, which scrolls off into the distance on-screen. It syncs with various calendars, with the promise that it'll soon go beyond pure diary dates to "become your personal time coach". It's currently in public beta, so may be a bit crashy.Tapatalk HD Beta (Free)Another beta here to test out, this time for Android tablets. Based on the existing smartphone version, it's an app for visiting tens of thousands of online forums, making them play nicer with the touchscreen. Version 1.0 is set to launch as a paid app at the end of January, with a discount promised for beta users of this version.Final Fantasy II (£6)Games publisher Square Enix has been working hard on bumping up its Android efforts, particularly around its classic RPG franchise Final Fantasy. This is the second game in the series, originally released in 1988. Expect plenty of retro dungeoneering, although some device owners are reporting crashes while playing, so it's worth reading the Google Play comments before buying.Final Fantasy Dimensions for AndroidFinal Fantasy Dimensions (£13.99)More expensive, but arguably more appealing to fans who've already played FFII a couple of times, is Final Fantasy Dimensions. The basic ingredients are similar: battles, character growth and a suitably epic storyline – plus chiptune background music as an additional in-app purchase, which feels a bit rich considering the basic price.GymPact - Reward your workout (Free)It truly is the time of year for new fitness apps to launch, promising to help smartphone owners shift their festive bellies'n'bottoms. GymPact has been available on iPhone for a while, but now it's on Android too: a US-based app to track your workouts, and reward you with actual cash if you stick to your plan – funded by payments from those who don't. An intriguing idea.Sonic Jump (£1.46)More famous old gaming characters leaping onto Android – literally in the case of Sonic the Hedgehog in this game. It sees Sonic leaping upwards through a series of 48 platform levels, including boss battles with arch-foe Dr Eggmanm with online leaderboards and challenges adding a social spin.BBC News Widget by Feedly (Free)Feedly is a simple but effective Android homescreen widget for the BBC News website, joining several others for rival sites in its roster. Available for free, it's a quick way to keep abreast of popular news stories on the Beeb's news site.Demons' Score THD (£13.99)And one more game from Square Enix, albeit this time not based on Final Fantasy. Instead, this is a music rhythm game with umpteen demons, talking teddy bears and a college heroine called Serenity who has to make sense of it all. It sounds strange, but plays very well.Dueling Blades (Free)Social game publisher 6waves is also committed to Android releases, with Dueling Blades its latest. It's a 3D fantasy action strategy game that sees you battling against bandit, pirate and undead enemies, as well as your friends over the network.Kii Keyboard (Free)And still the alternative Android keyboard apps keep coming, despite SwiftKey, Swype and Google's own revamped keyboard seeming to have the market sewn up. Kii Keyboard is another beta, too, aiming to combine SwiftKey-style prediction with Swype-style, er, swiping.Mrs. Brown's Boys (£0.99)Love it or hate it – and there are plenty of people in both camps – TV sitcom Mrs. Brown's Boys has been a huge hit in the UK and Ireland. Its official app is more of a marketing tool, with soundboards, a translator and bundled ringtones.Space Ace (£3.99)Here's a blast from the past for gamers of a certain age: Don Bluth's Space Ace, which back in 1984 came from the same laserdisc studio that made Dragon's Lair. Running on smartphones and tablets, this Android version sees you guiding space-hero Ace through a series of perils.Kasabian (Free)Kasabian are the latest band to get their own Android app, serving up social media posts, backstage photos and video clips, and fresh tunes when they're posted online. The app also promises competitions, ticket access and "the facillity to interact with the band at live shows in real time".Ant Raid (£0.60)HeroCraft's Ant Raid has been getting some storming reviews on iOS and Android alike, putting you in charge of an ant colony trying to fend off swarms of monsters. It's real-time strategy meets Plants vs. Zombies, with lots of legs. Well worth a look.It's a Small World (£0.61)Here's an interesting idea from Disney: an Android live wallpaper based on a musical boat ride from its theme parks. The wallpaper features a number of Disney characters, with bright colours and a characterful visual style.Metal Slug (£1.49)More retro gaming here, courtesy of SNK Playmore's update of its Metal Slug 2D action-shooter. This is a port of the original NeoGeo version of the game, as you blast your way through a series of levels rescuing prisoners-of-war and upgrading your weapons. There's also a Bluetooth co-op mode for local multiplayer.Zoo Train for AndroidZoo Train (£1.22)As more Android devices make their way (via parents) into the hands of children, there's going to be a big market for kids' apps on Google Play in 2013. Zoo Train is a good-looking example from developer Busy Bee Studios: a collection of five mini-games with light educational elements: letters, music, patterns and shapes.Our Solar System - Kids Book (Free)There's also an appetite for free children's apps on Android, meaning Our Solar System may prove popular in the weeks to come. It focuses on the planets of the solar system, with facts, memory quizzes and an asteroid-blasting mini-game.Fitsby (Free)Fitsby is another app aiming to help people stay motivated in the gym, with this one also focused on encouraging competitive support within groups of friends. The idea: you check in when starting a gym session, and bet real or virtual money against friends to see who works out most. I'm a bit uneasy about gambling as the mechanism to spur keeping fit, but it'll be interesting to see if others disagree.ExZeus 2 (£2.57)Another Android game that's good for showing off the capabilities of Tegra-powered devices, ExZeus 2 is a 3D shoot 'em up with robots battling in the air and on the ground, with an experience-point system to upgrade your own robo-fighter as you play through the game.Killer Escape (Free)One more game to cover this week: the spooky Killer Escape, which sees you waking up "in a cold and dirty cell confronted by a twisted serial killer". Those Christmas party comedowns can be tough... The Google Play description is terse, to say the least, but its demo video makes Killer Escape look like an interesting touchscreen take on point'n'click adventures.GMD Smart Rotate (Free)A simple, one-use app for Android devices that uses the front-facing camera to rotate the screen based on your face's orientation, as well as using it to keep the screen turned on when you're gazing at it.MoodPanda - Mood Diary (Free)This mood-tracking app has picked up some impressive reviews for its iPhone version. Now it's available on Android. It aims to get you tracking your moods day-to-day, then looking back at them over a period of weeks and months, for more awareness of what's been affecting your happiness.SleepyTime: Bedtime Calculator (Free)If it's lack of sleep that's making you grumpy, SleepyTime may help. It's one of a number of apps aiming to wake you up in a better mood by timing it between sleep cycles, so you're less "groggy and exhausted". If your morning routine allows you to be this flexible, it could be just the thing.That's our selection, but what's been floating your boat on Android devices over Christmas and New Year? Make your recommendations or comment on these picks by posting a comment.
Friday is suddenly here! This weekend could be your first in 2013 to get properly stuck into gaming – what will you be playing?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOh, the places Tumblr can go &gt;&gt; TechCrunchNothing says Internet opportunity like a social media juggernaut. Tumblr, the meme-olicious, gif-tastic, photo-fabulous, (but also occasionally) thoughtful blogging platform that attracted 167 million visitors and nearly 18 billion pageviews in December, is certainly no exception.The site now ranks as the 11th-largest in terms of traffic, according to Quantcast. (That's down slightly from November, when it broke into the top 10 with 170 million monthly visitors globally.) But with all that activity comes the inevitable question: What next?Quite a lot, it seems. But what happens to "blogging"? (See also the last link of this group.)Huawei, LG to showcase quad-core handsets at CES 2013 &gt;&gt; DigitimesHuawei also plans to launch the Ascend Mate with a 6.1in, 1080p high resolution screen, quad-core 1.8GHz processor, and 4,000mAh battery. The product is aiming at the cross-over phone and tablet market, which is currently dominated by Samsung.Meanwhile, South Korea-based LG Electronics plans to showcase the Optimus G2 Android smartphone, with a 5.5in screen, and Qualcomm quad-core S4 Prime MSM8974.Sony Mobile Communication will hold a press conference on 7 January to introduce its Xperia Z, a new product that has the same panel and processor as HTC's Butterfly/Droid DNA but with a higher-end camera.Market observers believe sales of 5in smartphones among total smartphone sales will increase from below 5% in 2012 to 10-15% in 2013, or around 100m units.Could make life interesting for Samsung.Google agrees to change its business practices to resolve FTC competition concerns In the markets for devices like smartphones, games and tablets, and in online search &gt;&gt; Federal Trade CommissionAside from really dinging Motorola for seeking "extortion" via standards patents, there's this:Some FTC Commissioners were concerned that Google's contractual conditions governing the use of its API made it more difficult for an advertiser to simultaneously manage a campaign on AdWords and on competing ad platforms, and that these restrictions might impair competition in search advertising.Google will give websites the ability to "opt out" of display on Google vertical properties.Under the same commitment, Google also has promised to provide all websites the option to keep their content out of Google's vertical search offerings, while still having them appear in Google's general, or "organic," web search results. The FTC investigated allegations that Google misappropriated content, such as user reviews and star ratings, from competing websites in order to improve its own vertical offerings, such as Google Local and Google Shopping. Some FTC Commissioners were concerned that this conduct might chill firms' incentives to innovate on the Internet.The Federal Trade Commission closes its antitrust review &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogDavid Drummond:As we made clear when the FTC started its investigation, we've always been open to improvements that would create a better experience. And today we've written (PDF) to the FTC making two voluntary product changes:o More choice for websites: Websites can alreadyopt out ofGoogle Search, and they can now remove content (for example reviews) from specialized search results pages, such as local, travel and shopping;o More ad campaign control: Advertisers can alreadyexport their ad campaignsfrom Google AdWords. They will now be able to mix and copy ad campaign data within third-party services that use our AdWords API.You'd expect nothing less from a company blog, but compare the spin here with the FTC link. The FTC thought that Google's tactics over inclusion in Google Local etc were deeply worrying, and extracted legally binding commitments that opting out of those "verticals" would not affect placement in general search. So it's "voluntary" as in "jumping rather than being pushed."Foundem's Recent Letter to the FTC &gt;&gt; Search NeutralityFoundem is the company that first brought Google's search manipulations to the attention of regulators on both sides of the Atlantic, and it has remained engaged with the ensuing investigations throughout. From this vantage point, we are concerned that the FTC's reluctance to litigate against these abusive practices may stem more from misconceptions about the mechanics and financial incentives underlying the abuse than from the constraints of U.S. antitrust law.In the familiar bricks-and-mortar world, Google's anticompetitive behaviour would have been obvious to all. But, in the unfamiliar and seemingly impenetrable world of internet search, Google's ability to get away with these practices has often depended on its ability to confuse, obfuscate, and intimidate.Will the EC decision favour Google or Foundem?LG Nexus 4 Production Date and Place Identification &gt;&gt; xda-developersUsing the IMEI number, the XDA forum members figure out how many LG Nexus 4s (16G) have been made. User draugaz:So, they did produce at least 70K devices in October, 90K in November and 210K in December, still counting (just 16G devices).Not bad, now as christmas orders are completed google and LG are really ramping up the production.That's a total of 370,000 units. LG normally turns out about 10m phones every quarter. Proof - if more were needed - that the Nexus line is not intended to be mass-market; Google focusses on a small, eager group of buyers. Mistaking eagerness among a small group for broad adoption is a category error.Whatsapp hits 7bn inbound messages a day - 75% growth in four months &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:On the second day of 2013, WhatsApp tweeted that it had reached a new milestone: 7bn inbound messages a day. This happened little more than four months after August 23, when WhatsApp had reached 4bn inbound messages a day.75% volume growth since August 23 would translate to roughly 500% annualized volume growth. The calculation is muddied by the fact that the New Year's Eve is one of the heaviest messaging days of the year. The really interesting comp would be the one between New Year's Eve 2011 and New Year's Eve 2012, but WhatsApp has a tendency to release volume information rather capriciously.Nevertheless, the growth is white hot.Tumblr v blog: as predicted by XKCD; in real lifeIn case you'd forgotten that XKCD is written by someone who used to work at Nasa.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Fewer than 400,000 units of Google's well-regardedNexus 4phone, made for it by LG, have been produced, according to analysis by owners of the phones on the XDA Developers forums.The users discovered that the phones'IMEInumbers, which uniquely identify a phone, followed a simple rising sequence. At the same time, other data from the phones allowed them to calculate the date and country of manufacture.The figure palls against the broader picture of smartphone production, where in the third quarter of 2012 a total of 170m were sold worldwide, with the figure expected to near 200m for the fourth quarter. According to figures from the research group Gartner, LG produced just under 14m phones in total in the third quarter; that suggests that the Nexus 4 has only been a tiny part of its production capacity. For comparison, Finland's Nokia shipped a total of 4m Windows Phone devices in the third quarter - a figure that was seen as failing to make any mark on the market.According to thecalculations of users at XDA-Developers, a site that is very popular with Android users and developers, roughly 70,000 devices were made in October, 90,000 in November, and more than 210,000 in December, making an estimated total of 370,000 units since it first went on sale from Google.The use of serial numbers to estimate production has a long heritage: it was used by Allied mathematicians in the Second World War to calculate German tank production, and more recently byiPhone owners to calculate how many iPhones had been sold in the first nine months of 2008. (Both turned out to be remarkably accurate.)Google has been offering the Nexus 4, which has specifications equivalent to top-flight phones such as Samsung's Galaxy S III, at prices that seem close to the wholesale cost. But that has frustrated a number of would-be buyers, who found the Google Play store through which it was being offered either sold out or unresponsive.LG is expected to ramp up production this month as it begins pushing out the device to more carriers and retailers - but they will charge a higher price.Google has repeatedly declined to say how many Nexus 4 units it has ordered from LG. It had not responded to a request for comment on the latest estimates by the time of publication.The purpose of the Nexus brand is to show off Google's "pure" version of its Android mobile operating system. Previous versions have not been big sellers, but have sold respectably: figures revealed in the court case between Apple and Samsung in 2012 showed that the Galaxy Nexus, the 4's predecessor in 2011, had 512,000 shipments in the US from its launch. Samsung subsequently argued in court that the Galaxy Nexus sales were "so miniscule" that they did not constitute a threat to Apple's iPhone, and so should escape a sales ban. The first Nexus phone, the Nexus One, sold fewer than 150,000 devices in its first month.However the excitement around the Nexus 4 suggested that it had been a broader hit. The figures from XDA-Developers suggest otherwise.If Google had flooded the market with millions of Nexus phones, that could have upset relations with carrier partners and other Android handset makers. But the apparently low volumes produced should mean that only a minority of the most eager Android users will have the phones - satisfying Google, which wants users who will make the most use of the phones to repay its investment, while not annoying carriers or handset makers.But even so Google has been overwhelmed with demand, forcing its UK managing director Dan Colbey to make a fulsome apology - although heblamed LG, saying that handset supplies had been "scarce and erratic".
I liked your articleHow can I protect my privacy online?a lot. I've added some sites to my list of cookie-blocked domains in Firefox. Could you point me in the direction of a more comprehensive list of trackers?Bob KenyonMy favourite list of trackers isEasyList, which provides lists for the Adblock Plus extensions for Firefox and Chrome. The EasyPrivacy Tracking Protection List is also available for Internet Explorer 9.The site has versions of EasyList for a couple of other countries, including France and Germany, and a version that does not filter adult sites. A supplementary list, EasyPrivacy, tackles web bugs, tracking scripts and so on.If you use EasyList/EasyPrivacy along withEvidon's Ghostery, that's about as good as you can do without making much of an effort.I also use theMVPS Hostsfile. This is independent of the browser and operating system, and can be used to block websites known to host malware, as well as ad servers.Every internet-connected computer should have a Hosts file, which maps internet addresses (numbers separated by dots) to host names. If there's a website you want to avoid, you can tell your PC that its internet address is 127.0.0.1, which is your own PC. In other words, by giving your programs the wrong host address for a site, you can block it.The Hosts file, like EasyList, is a plain text file of one-line entries such as 127.0.0.1 ad.doubleclick.netThis is important because the Hosts file may block a site that you want to visit. If so, you will need to search for that entry and delete it or comment it out. Keep a copy of your original Hosts file by renaming it Hosts.old or something similar. That way, if you have a problem with MVPS Hosts, you can delete it and rename Hosts.old back to Hosts.Finally, my original answer didn't mention fingerprinting, which is how some firms are starting to track you, even if you block all their trackers. The idea is pretty simple. It collects information about your browser, and perhaps other information about your PC, and relates it to your internet address. It then identifies you by this "fingerprint". The Electronic Frontier Foundation has published a long story about the problem: How unique is your web browser? (PDF).Satellite internet revisitedI have a nephew who lives in an obscure corner of the Philippines. The local telephone service will not support an internet connection. Is there any gadget he could get which would allow his computer to access a satellite system to send and receive emails? He doesn't need high bandwidth for sending pictures or video, just text would do.Donald SimpsonThe Philippines receives satellite TV broadcasts and there are some satellite-based internet services, so your nephew will need to sign up with a  suitable service provider and install compatible equipment. Usually this comprises a PC, a satmodem and a satellite dish. However, since different technologies are used, it's best not to buy anything until you know what a particular service requires.I answered a similar question in May 2012,Wanted: satellite broadband for a move to Wales, and the same advice applies. The Philippines has different service providers, but your nephew is better placed to choose one than we are.However, Azcomm (AZ Communications Network) offers a satellite broadband service calledVconn, which uses Gilat's Skyedge IP platform. It's relatively fast but may cost more than your nephew wants to pay. Thaicom's modern Thaicom-4 satellite covers Asia-Pacific, and according to its website, its ipstar* satellite broadband service is available fromcompanies in the Philippines, including Azcomm. Another supplier isTeleglobal of the Philippines(TOPH). All of them look more like business suppliers than home internet suppliers.Since your nephew mainly wants to send emails, it would be possible to use a global satellite phone service instead. The leading example is Inmarsat'sBGAN(Broadband Global Area Network). Satphone services tend to be horrendously expensive, but you can use them with pre-paid cards (very roughly£1 per minute, in the UK, or £8 per megabyte).You wouldn't want to download any 3MB photos at that sort of price, but by writing everything offline, it should be possible to keep the usage down to a couple of minutes per day.Windows 8 screen resolutionsPhotograph: MicrosoftOn my HP laptop, which is a 1280 x 800, I get the message: "Your screen resolution is not compatible with Snap" with the advice to change to at least 1366 x 768. It seems a slight oversight for Microsoft not to OK 1280 when it's giving a useful 16:10 screen. Undoubtedly the same message appears for 1280 x 1024.Alan ReadmanA lot of different screen resolutions are used on PCs, and Microsoft doesn't want Windows 8 app developers to have to support all the variations. Today, 1366 x 768 pixels is by far the most common screen resolution (more than 40%). Windows Store apps will not run on 1024 x 600 or 1280 x 720 screens, but those only represent about 2% of the market. Windows Store apps will run on your 1280 x 800 and 1280 x 1024 screens, it's just that you can't "snap" two of them together and have them run side by side.This is a shame because it is useful to have, for example, a Twitter stream (320 pixels wide) running down one side of the screen while you use most of the screen to write email or watch a movie, or whatever. However, this only puts you in the same position as Apple iPad or Google Android tablet users, since these can't run two apps side by side either.Also, this restriction only applies to apps written for the interface formerly known as Metro (TIFKAM), Clicking the tile that says Desktop takes you from the Start screen to a Windows 7-style desktop environment, where you can run as many programs as you like in windows that you can make any size you like, and put where you like. This is true even on PCs with resolutions that can't run Windows Store apps.You don't have to use any Metro-style apps, in which case the Start screen works in much the same way as the old Start menu, only better. For example, it's much easier to create and order groups of desktop programs for easy access, it's quicker to scroll through them, and its Live Tiles are a huge advance on the dumb icons we've used for 30-odd years.Unlike the Start menu, the Start screen rescales beautifully from 10in to 84in screens. It also works well on smartphones (Windows Phone), touch-screen tablets (Microsoft Surface), all-in-one PCs, laptops and desktops.
Finnish firm Rovio has revealed that its Angry Birds games were downloaded 8m times on Christmas Day, and 30m times in the week of 22-29 December.The company benefited from its Angry Birds Star Wars and Bad Piggies games riding high in the iOS and Android app store charts on Christmas morning, when millions of people were unwrapping new tablets and smartphones and looking for apps to download.Rovio revealed its Christmas stats in ashort blog post, promising "even more incredible surprises" for 2013. The company is working on several more Angry Birds games, as well as a cartoon series and film based on the brand, which passed 1bn total downloads in 2012.It's not the only games publisher to have enjoyed a happy Christmas for downloads, either.Temple Run was downloaded 2.5m times on Christmas Day alone across iOS and Android, according toa tweet from Keith Shepherd, co-founder of its developer Imangi Studios.Mojang's Minecraft sold 453k copies on Christmas Eve according toa tweet from co-founder Markus Persson, although those sales include PC and Mac copies as well as iOS and Android. Mojang announced earlier in December that the game had passed 5m sales on mobile devices though.Meanwhile, social games publisher Storm8 hasreported 2m downloads of its mobile gameson Christmas Day, blogging that its average revenue per daily active user (ARPDAU for short) increased by up to 4.5 times in some of its most popular games – indicating that people weren't just downloading, they were spending on in-app purchases.Last week, mobile analytics firm Flurry estimated that on Christmas Day,328m apps were downloaded globallyon iOS and Android, with 17.4m new iOS and Android smartphones and tablets activated on that day for the first time.The company has nowprovided an update on those estimates– based on data from the 260k apps using its analytics tools – suggesting that globally, 50m new iOS and Android devices were activated over the week between Christmas Day and New Year's Day.Flurry also estimates that 1.76bn apps were downloaded on Apple and Google's platforms over that week. Angry Birds may have taken flight over Christmas, but it seems there were plenty more winners on the app stores in late December.The challenge for all these companies – particularly those who racked up lots of free downloads rather than paid sales over Christmas – is to turn the festive flood of new users into stable revenues in 2013.
As a child, I spent my pocket money on all sorts of stuff: Star Wars figures, Panini football stickers, umpteen boxes of Nerds sweets, Smash Hits, buggy £1.99 C64 football management games, and what remains the world's worst collection of 7-inch singles.Happy days. But in 2013 as a parent of two young children – three and five years old – I'm starting to think about pocket money again, and how it might have changed.The five year-old gets a pound a week, nominally tied to whether he's got dressed without a fuss in the mornings. The three year-old doesn't get money, but if he's been (relatively) good at bedtimes, he gets a couple of small toy cars or a magazine on Saturday.(Yes, this is the modern face of parental bribery.)Other than that, my wife and I handle all the spending on our kids' entertainment: toys, drawing materials, books, DVDs, apps and so on. The apps are downloaded to our devices, incidentally – no tablet-per-child in this household just yet.We're aware, though, that this will change as time goes on: our children will take more responsibility for buying their own entertainment, and where that entertainment is digital, they may well be buying it for their own devices too.So how does the idea of pocket money evolve in a world of children's apps and games – including in-app purchases – digital magazines, subscription-based virtual worlds, e-books, and streaming services and download stores for TV shows and films?I don't have a thought-leadery recommendation in mind here: I'm genuinely curious about how parents are handling the split between physical and digital spending by children slightly older than mine, and what approach they take to monitoring it and trying to educate their kids about responsible behaviour.There's something appealing about the idea of my children managing their own digital budgets as soon as they're able: learning that if, say, they spank all their money on virtual Smurfberries in the first week of the month, that's it for the next few weeks.(I learned similar lessons about Nerds back in the day. My teeth haven't forgotten either…)I'm aware of one argument, which is that my kids may not be spending any money on a lot of their digital entertainment because they'll be getting it for free, legally or otherwise. Spotify/Deezer, YouTube, Vevo, Facebook and any number of free apps.And there's also the thought of proper family plans for some of the premium subscription services to ensure my children don't have to pay for music, TV shows or movies separately – if they're in the catalogues of these services, obviously – as an attempt to keep them away from online piracy.So that's where I open this conversation up: what are your views on the split between physical and digital pocket money – if indeed there needs to be one – and how do you manage it for your own children if you're a parent?Post your views as comments, and we'll see where the conversation leads. Oh, and hopefully it's clear that I'm not suggesting digital entertainment should replace physical play for children – the two are complementary.Thus no need (hopefully!) for "Kids shouldn't be GLUED to apps they should be ON BIKES and READING" grouchery. Well, I'm an optimist...
Twitter is preparing to take the company public in 2014, and could already be worth as much as $11bn, according to a report by specialist financial researchersGreencrest.The rough valuation of $11bn is based on trading in secondary markets, where shares unofficially trade hands privately. But a funding round in 2011 valued Twitter at $8bn, after which the value rose to $10bn on secondary markets before Facebook's shambolic IPO pushed the value back down to $9bn.Greencrest analyst Max Wolff said Twitter's value has also been swollen by speculation that Apple is interested in acquiring the company. "Using the secondary market for shares to mark enterprise value is a very difficult and opaque process," he said."It is a rumour rich and special share class soup. That said, Twitter is up since the Facebook IPO and is now valued at northward of $11bn. This makes sense as growth in users and new monetisation efforts are both yielding fruit and pointing toward a good 2013 for Twitter."Backing up comments madelate last yearby chairman Jack Dorsey that Twitter would IPO "when we feel the company is ready for that milestone," the research claims Twitter will start preparing for the flotation this year, and has already started firming up its management structure, notedForbes.Chief financial officer Mike Gupta joined from Zynga last month after Ali Rowghani was moved to chief operating officer, and Newsvine founder Mike Davidson was taken on as vice president of design in October.Twitter had been widely speculated to float this year, but will not have been encouraged into a hasty move by the high-profile, disappointing performances of both Facebook and Zynga. Both have struggled to convince investors that in Facebook's case, the business is ready to make money as consumers shift to mobile, and in Zynga's case that they are capable of producing enough hit games. Facebook's shares are down 26% since the IPO, while Zynga's value has dropped by 75%.
And it's on. With these three words, Xbox blogger and spokesman Major Nelson may have just kick-started the next-generation console war between Microsoft and Sony. On his site yesterday, the excitable mouthpiece launcheda countdown to the 2013 E3 games exhibition in Los Angeles– here, Microsoft is expected to announce the successor to its seven-year-old Xbox 360 machine.Speculation that a hardware announcement was on the way has been growing for the past 12 months. Last February, a developer appeared to accidentally confirm the codename of the new console – Durango –while tweetingfrom a Microsoft developer conference. Then during the summer, two PC towers, billed as prototype Xbox Durango developer kits,were posted on eBay. The first isreportedto have sold for more than $20,000, despite suggestions it was fake. Microsoft has refused to comment on these stories, as well as reports that the new machine would actually be called Infinity after the corporationsecured a range of domain namesincluding the word.As for the specifications of the hardware, game sites are already making educated guesses, based on developer titbits anda bunch of leaked documentsapparently revealing a Microsoft Xbox roadmap for the coming year. Tech Radar is not alone inexpectinga quad-core Intel processor and 8GB of memory; a huge leap over the Xbox 360 specs (although developer sources have indicated to The Guardian that we should expect 4GB of memory). An Nvidia graphics chipset is also likely, as is a new generation of the Kinect motion control hardware, which could support up to four players simultaneously.Now that Microsoft has apparently placed its cards on the table, Sony will doubtless follow. A PlayStation 4 announcement has also been expected for some time and Sony will not want to give Microsoft a head start, as it did with Xbox 360, which arrived a year before PS3. It could be that Sony will line up a rival announcement at E3, making this the most important video game trade show for several years.Certainly the time seems right for a new console generation. Retail software sales plunged during 2012 with the UK marketdown 17% on 2011. Although downloadable game sales are on the rise, the shortfall is not yet being covered and many publishers have spent the year closing studios and cutting staff numbers. Traditionally, a new generation of console hardware re-energises the market, exciting consumers and developers alike. Nintendo's new Wii U console, launched in November, has sold reasonably well, despite some confusion over its key selling points.It's likely Microsoft will announce the Xbox 720/Durango/Infinity at E3 with a Christmas 2013 launch date – a price point of about $299 has been suggested. Sony may well have to match both the date and the price with its own hardware, seemingly codenamed Orbis, which looks to be similarly powered. Initial gossip indicated a top-end AMD x64 CPU and an AMD Southern Islands GPU for the set-up, although later rumours have suggesteda dual GPU architecture, as well as 8GB of memory and a 256GB hard drive. If this is in anyway accurate, the aim is clearly to produce complex 1080p HD visuals running smoothly at 60 frames-per-second, and probably all in 3D.We can expect speculation to mount over the coming months, especially as more studios get hold of dev kits and excitable staff members begin tipping off trade news sources. The Guardian has been told by several developers that they are preparing for next-generation production.What we can look forward to, though, is another generation in which the emphasis is on processing grunt rather than on offbeat concepts such as motion controls. Both Sony and Microsoft attempted to hold off an expensive new generation by augmenting the PS3 and Xbox 360 with new Wii-inspired motion hardware – the Move and Kinect respectively – but the returns, although initially promising, have not been amazing. Don't be surprised to hear that old favourite term "photorealistic visuals" being bandied around the industry.However, the fact that the rumoured next-gen specifications both seem to be based around established third-party hardware lines is interesting, suggesting that price is a factor. Sony almost bankrupted itself developing the PS3's proprietary Cell processor and then equipping the console with an expensive Blu-ray drive, meaning that it lost money on every machine sold. This will be a generation of both power and economy.Whatever the case, the countdown is now ticking, and the competitors must manoeuvre their hype machines into position. As Major Nelson so succinctly put it in his blog post, this is well and truly on.
Apple has decided not to disturb itsfaulty Do Not Disturb (DND) function on its iOS 6 software. Instead, it has told users that they should wait until 7 January 2013 - when the bug will resolve itself without any further action.That has left people puzzled as to how Apple is sure the fix will happen (though it can be confirmed by changing the date on the phone). But some developers now reckon they know the cause, which lie in its interaction with the Unix operating system that underpins iOS.One of the most intriguing suggestions, fromiOS developer Patrick McCarron, is that 6 January 2013 marks the last day of the lastISO weekof2012.The "DND" bug affects users who have scheduled the function to come on at particular times of day or night. When enabled, owners of devices running iOS 6 would be unbothered by phone calls, email and text notifications except from a select group of people they nominate.Until 31 December, DND could be scheduled to come on and turn off for a set period during the  day or night.But since 1 January, the scheduling system has failed.Apple has now acknowledged the problem, putting up asupport documentwhich baldly states:Do Not Disturb scheduling feature will resume normal functionality after January 7, 2013. Before this date, you should manually turn the Do Not Disturb feature on or off.Why that date? Apple has given no explanation. But as McCarronexplainedon Twitter: "f you use a [Unix] date format string of YYYY (vs yyyy) you get 2012 until Jan 7 when it becomes 2013. Easy mistake to make, I have."Matt Drance, a former Cocoa evangelist at Apple, pitched in - suggesting that the problem lies somewhere between the Unix codebase and the DND timing system itself. (iOS is based on BSD Unix, whereas Android is based on Linux, which is a different "flavour" of Unix, and may explain why Android phones aren't affected by similar bugs.)"This sort of thing is almost always a lost translation between user-selected date+time and UNIX timestamp," he said, adding that "Without seeing the code it's all uninformed guessing based on mistakes [one has] made in the past". Date programming, he added, "is really hard."McCarron's explanation requires a little explanation itself: the "YYYY" format is aUnix-style date formattingwhich gives the full four-digit year. But it is ISO-based.ISO weeks, as the Wikipedia entry explains, work so that "The first week of a [ISO] year is the week that contains the first Thursday of the year. It is also (equivalently) the week containing the 4th day of January."Chris Cieslak, another third-party iOS developer, provided a working example of code that would go wrong in precisely the same way, and posted iton GitHub. He said that if code like his example were used, and the DND turned on during 31 December 2012, it wouldn't try to turn it off until 1 January2014- a year later. The fits with the experience of people who found that DND functions enabled on 31 December 2012 didn't turn off on schedule on 1 January 2013.Another user testdiscoveredthat the fault will resurface unless fixed again and again around the new year of forthcoming years, but on different days - reinforcing the belief that its cause lies in a year-encoding problem.In 2014, for example, the bug will persist from 1 Jan to 4 Jan; in 2015, from 1 Jan to 3 Jan. "If DND is scheduled before midnight, then the issue and the fix (see above) are delayed one day since it's based on the From time under Scheduled," said the tester, posting on the Macrumors forums.Apple would be expected to fix the problem before then. Although an upcoming update to iOS 6, v 6.1, is not thought to fix it, a complete update to iOS, version 7, is expected some time in the autumn. The question now is whether Apple will audit the iOS codebase to find and remove other bugs that will cause similar problems.Apple has previously had problems with date-related bugs. In November 2010, its iOS 4 software failed to readjust alarms to allow for the Antipodean change in Daylight Savings Time - a problem that was then repeated in the UK and the US a few weeks later.And on January 1 2011, its iOS 5 softwareturned up a bugin which non-repeating alarms set before the new year didn't ring. Apple's reaction then: wait for 3 January.
Here we are in Thursday already. Are you re-acclimatizing to work yet?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung aims to sell 510 million phones &gt;&gt; Korea TimesSamsung Electronics, one half of the global duopoly on smartphones, claims 2013 will be the year when it separates itself from bitter rival Apple.The Korean technology giant is the world's largest maker of mobile phones and aims to ship a record 510 million handsets next year.That's a lot of handsets - up 20% from an estimated 420m in 2012. And out of that 510m, it aims for 390m to be smartphones, according to a Samsung supplier.What really happened to Sony and Universal's 2 billion missing YouTube views &gt;&gt; Billboard.bizOn Thursday, when YouTube sent out its regular reports on view counts, one data company, SocialBlade, noticed that the channel views for Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music Group saw its channel count sliced by about 2 billion views.That led some folks to conclude that the views were "fake" and that nefarious "black hat" techniques were being cooked up by the labels to falsely inflate their views. The truth, however, isn't nearly as sexy.Interviews Billboard.biz conducted with YouTube, label executives and analysts from Next Big Sound told a very different tale. Here's what really happened.They weren't faked. Start from there.FTC chairman pushing for a Google antitrust decision this week &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt's likely that the Federal Trade Commission will rule on its antitrust investigation of Google this week, with a similar settlement to the one discussed before the December holidays, according to multiple sources familiar with the matter.Might Google be off the hook with the FTC?Hands-on with Ubuntu's brand-new, gesture-based phone OS &gt;&gt; The VergeOur top London agent Vlad Savov just got his hands on the new Ubuntu phone OS and was able to get a quick look at some of the new OS's trademark features, including its new gesture-based interface. There's a bit of lag while swiping through the phone's different panels, but overall it looks to be quite the attractive and intelligent interface. Unlike nearly all of the major phone operating systems, there's no "home" button to speak of in Ubuntu -- it's all based on gestures.Slated to have shipping devices in early 2014. Questions: who will make the hardware and how good are Canonical's patent lawyers for the inevitable fights if it gains any traction?Calendar App. Crash. March 2013 &gt;&gt; Apple Support CommunitiesThere is a glitch with the calendar app. Do you have an all day appointment on April 1, 2013? if so, alter it, make it a few hours instead of all day adn March will return.The calendar app has had issues with April 1 being the start of daylight savings time and the fact that 'all day' can mean anything from 23-25 hours, and this glitch causes March to disappear. Remove 'all day' from the equation, the calendar app is happy again and gives you back the month of March.Will this be fixed in iOS 6.1, which is beginning to look like the buggiest thing Apple has put out since.. forever? (Thanks @daneyers on Twitter for the link.)Yes, hundreds upon hundreds of websites CAN all be wrong &gt;&gt; The RegisterDave Mandi:I recently published an article about odd time-signatures (for example, 11/8 or 15/ 16 instead of the usual 4/4) in pop songs) in a magazine. Since there's no easy way to double-check this information-- unlike, say, "Who was the sixth president of the United States?" -- the magazine's fact-checkers took to the web, and came back to me with a dozen sites that disagreed with some of the numbers as I'd counted them. At the risk of sounding overly cocky, every one of them turned out to be wrong. But the fact-checkers were right to do what they did, since any source is better than none at all if it helps to keep a researcher honest. And I felt a professional obligation to explain in an email to them exactly why each of these counter-examples was mistaken--a process that took me an entire night.Yes, doing that was an inconvenience, but it bothered me more that this bad information was out there to begin with, and subsequent music-related searches uncovered many similar examples.Doesn't only apply to music, of course.The death of iOS magazine apps &gt;&gt; Good E-ReaderWhen you purchase magazines from the Apple Newsstand or the App store, you are not buying the magazine as you know it. They are all, in effect, apps. The Apple Newsstand simply puts them in one place, where in the past they cluttered up your iPad or iPhone. Magazine publishers are able to garner a large percentage of revenue earned per subscription, but many aren't doing so well. Just ask the recently defunct Daily.Magazine Apps provide users with only a singular user experience. People in 2012 have been gravitating away from dedicated apps and moving in the direction of aggregators. These are news sources that compile all of the information from various news sources. We have really seen the rise of Flipboard, Pulse, Zite, and Google Currents that take all of your favorite websites, blogs, and news sites and puts them all in one place. People tend to like this direction better because all of the news is produced daily, rather than you having to wait until the end of the month.In the digital realm, 2013 will be the year in which dedicated magazine apps see their demise.That's a bold claim.Why Microsoft may be a 'classic value trap' &gt;&gt; Businessweek'Value trap' is a funny term, says Bill Koefoed, Microsoft's general manager of investor relations. Microsoft, he says, is trading in line with the big-cap technology sector, which has recently been out of favor with investors."Enterprise tech hasn't been as sexy to the press. But our relevance to the enterprise has grown in a huge way. Our database business is growing faster than Oracle's and IBM's."Koefoed says people focus on Windows, which provides a quarter of Microsoft's overall revenue, but not on the comparable 25 percent contribution from the company's servers and tools division, which he emphasizes that Ballmer has grown, from a $3 billion business, to a $19 billion enterprise over the past decade. "Over time, the stock price works itself out. We're doing a whole bunch of things to be shareholder-friendly. Over time, that will be reflected in our share price."(Thanks @avro for the link.)Tablet computers: Difference Engine: Smaller still is smarter &gt;&gt; The Economist"N.V." writes (in the third person):When the iPad Mini hit the shelves in early November, therefore, he was waiting eagerly with dozens of other enthusiasts for the local Apple Store to open. But, despite half an hour of hands-on experience, he actually left without buying one. A couple of weeks later, he accepted the inevitable and ordered a Nexus 7 tablet from Google with its Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system (since upgraded to 4.2).The biggest disappointment about the iPad Mini was its surprising lack of innovation. For those grown accustomed to Apple always stunning and delighting by ratcheting up the level of technology with each new product, a device that comes with innards based on aging (obsolete?) hardware is a serious let down. All the more so when the customer is expected to pay a whopping two-thirds premium ($329 vs $199) over comparable devices from other respected makers.The Mini's touch-screen display, for instance, uses technology from Apple's pre-Retina era, dating back to iPads of two generations ago. The Mini's dual-core processor, with its stingy 512 megabytes of random-access memory (RAM), was lifted from an iPad that went on sale back in March 2011. Its graphics engine is also two generations out of date. By no stretch of the imagination could the iPad Mini be called cutting-edge stuff.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Ministers are planning a major campaign to encourage better online security – pushing into schools and also targeting "risky men" who take a reckless attitude to posting details online – against a backdrop of soaring levels of crime in cyberspace.The government aims to get its messages on cybersecurity into primary and secondary schools, arguing that children cannot be too young to learn how to protect themselves when using the web."For some aspects of it, you cannot go too early," said a senior official. "People are on the net aged three or four. So for the messages that are appropriate at that age, we are looking to push it very young. But the broader awareness, card fraud and that sort of thing, GSCE-age doesn't seem too late to us. From quite an early age, pushing issues such as making sure you are managing your online identity and not posting inappropriate details online."The Cabinet Office is planning to launch a sweeping public awareness campaign this spring in the hope of achieving "cut-through" on an issue that affects millions of Britons every year but is often thought to be largely misunderstood. "The big goal for the next 12 months is to get somewhere transformative in terms of business and public understanding of this issue," said the official, who pointed to the need to educate those in the "risky men" category. "They are men who do quite a lot of Skype and retail online. They think they are capable of managing the risk, but they are not."This whole [campaign] needs to be carefully tailored so it doesn't people put people off the internet. Nonetheless, we need to inform them about what they need to be worried about and where they can go for more information."Concern about levels of cybercrime has been growing, witha survey last Octobersuggesting more than half of the UK population had been targeted by online scams, and almost one in five people had lost money as a result of a fraud. Theft of intellectual property from big companies and industry is estimated to cost the economy billions of pounds a year, which is one of the main reasons cybersecurity was given "tier one" status in the government's 2010strategic defence and security review.The Cabinet Office's parliamentary secretary, Chloe Smith, who is spearheading the government campaign, said the threats from cyberspace were "ever growing and ever changing". "We need to crack this problem. I am not sure it will be possible to talk about being invulnerable, but it is possible to talk about being well prepared for incidents, for being well skilled across society and for government and industry and academia working together to take it seriously."She added: "Certainly, getting cut-through depends on awareness across society. Citizens having to be aware just as much as government employees and private-sector leaders. Tackling these skills in the classroom is the place this needs to be in the future. We need to be working at all levels of society. I am passionate about young people being prepared for the [cyber] world."Smith, 30, who was moved to the Cabinet Office from the Treasury, believes she is well equipped to deal with the cyber-problem because she grew up in a generation that understands the internet.Ministers have introduced a number of measures to try to put the internet higher up the agenda: the IT curriculum in schools is changing to be more about security and coding on the web; PhDs on the internet are starting to run in universities; the government eavesdropping centre, GCHQ, is running apprenticeships; and the government continues to part-fund the Cyber Security Challenge, a competition that looks to unearth cyber "jedis" who can protect and fight back against criminals online. A version of the challenge is to be taken into schools, possibly next year."When we use the term cyber, there is a wealth of opportunity as well as threat," said Smith. "There are massive benefits of living in a networked world. But it has its dark side. The truth is that we have to work in partnership with people in every walk of life to make cybersecurity a success."It means a 13-year-old using Facebook for the first time does so safely. It means a twentysomething new employee in a firm knowing how to use the firm's networks safely. It means a person doing their Christmas shopping online … safely, and it means that a silver surfer [an elderly internet user] has to be supported to use it safely. The challenge of raising awareness is absolutely key and a big part of the work."Ministers want this spring's comprehensive public awareness programme to lift everybody's understanding of cybersecurity, in part to protect trade on the web; the internet is worth £100bn a year to the UK economy and accounts for 7.2% of UK GDP, according to 2010 study by theBoston Consulting Group.A separate report,The Connected Kingdom, estimated the internet's contribution to GDP is set to reach 10% of the UK total by 2015.Smith said small businesses had to start making cybersecurity a priority. "The risks for small and medium sized enterprises are worse, in many ways. To have your intellectual property vulnerable to a cyber-attack can be much graver for a small business than for a large one that has many lines of business. The internet forms a massive proportion of the economy and it is set to grow."
It's true: we're a bit late reviewing Google's latest Nexus-branded Android smartphone, which went on sale in the UK in November 2012. That said, stocks have been limited so far: a lot of keen would-be early adopters had to wait a while to get their handset, and the Nexus 4's big marketing push is set for early 2013.The latter is important, because together with Samsung's Galaxy S III, theNexus 4is a phone that should continue Android's march into the mainstream - not just as a cheaper alternative to Apple's iPhone, but as a desirable platform in its own right.Armed with the very latest version of Google's Android software and a SIM-free price that is either extremely aggressive (if you manage to get it from Google) or pretty good (if bought from other retailers), the Nexus 4 may be poised to make a big impact in 2013. But can it deliver the goods?Hardware and screenThe Nexus 4 is one of the increasing collection of big-but-sleek Android smartphones, a shade smaller than the Galaxy S III but slightly heavier. It feels good in my (admittedly adult male) hands, with tapered edges suiting sideways finger-swiping as you use the device.Having had a bad experience dropping an iPhone 4S onto the pavement, I'm instinctively nervous about phones with glass backs like the Nexus 4, but that's a personal thing: the phone looks stylish enough.Like other Nexus devices, there's no SD card slot – somethingGoogle's Matias Duarte suggested last yearwas a deliberate design decision to avoid "techy nonsense left over from the paleolithic era of computing".The phone also hasn't been designed with battery removal in mind. In both cases, that's the same as Apple's iPhones, of course. But when talking to some of my more techy Android-owning friends, they've suggested this is more controversial in "open" Android's case. Again: personal preference.The screen is excellent though: a 4.7-inch 1280x768 display (330ppi) that's big, bold and beautiful whether you're playing games, watching video or video calling, but also handily functional with that extra space for the nuts and bolts of web-browsing and emailing.Getting hung up on pixel comparisons with the iPhone 5's Retina display is a mug's game. Both are excellent: sharp, bright and good showcases for the last few years' evolution in touchscreen technology. Plus marks to the Nexus 4, too, for its performance in bright sunlight – something that'll come in handier as the year goes on than in grey January.Processor, storage and batteryConsidering the price – which we'll get to later – the Nexus 4 is startlingly powerful, packing a quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro CPU and 2GB of RAM inside for speedy performance across the board.This isn't just down to the processor and memory, of course: the Android software is doing its bit to make the experience of using the Nexus 4 – to nab Google's wording – "butter" smooth. While rich 3D games run well on the device, then, it's the zippiness of simpler daily interactions with the handset that's just as important.Storageprovides more of a talking point, with two Nexus 4 models available: 8GB and 16GB, which doesn't compare well with the choice of 16GB, 32GB or 64GB for the iPhone 5, and that plus the availability of a microSD slot on the Galaxy S III. Remember: no similar slot for the Nexus 4.I sense Google's thinking on this score may be governed by its belief that as more of our content moves to the cloud –itscloud, to be precise – on-device storage isn't as big a deal in 2013.I'm not so sure: think of all the photos and videos people are shooting, and some of the weightier apps – Grand Theft Auto: Vice City requires 1.4GB of storage, for example.But also think about the importance of offline storage to even the most cloudy, streamy digital entertainment services like Spotify and BBC iPlayer – the latter doesn't yet allow show downloads on Android as it does on iOS, but the feature is coming.It's a better story forbattery life: I've found the Nexus 4 compares well to similar smartphones from Samsung and Apple over the course of my day, with relatively heavy usage.That said, like most smartphone owners I'm now well used to having a charging cable somewhere in my vicinity for quick rejuicing on particularly heavy days. Something that will be even easier for anyone who decides to invest in a wireless charging mat: like Nokia's latest Lumia Windows Phones, the Nexus 4 is early onto the wireless charging bandwagon.ConnectivityIn the US, the Nexus 4's lack of LTE (what most people know as 4G) has been controversial, with reviewers queuing up to criticise the decision to leave it out. That's a sign of the US mobile times: it's generally assumed that large-screened Android smartphones will run on the operators' 4G networks there. (Though some in the US have hacked Nexus 4s around to get to its inbuilt LTE facility, those frequencies won't be used for 4G in the UK; it's a non-starter.)In the UK, the omission feels like less of an issue now, with only the Orange/T-Mobile EE 4G network up and running. HSPA+ 42 data (up to 42 megabits per second) will feel nippy enough if you're used to other networks, and like all whizzy handsets, the Nexus 4 is reduced to hairless-Samson uselessness when you're travelling through an EDGE-only or no-reception blackspot on the train.That said, if you're looking to buy an Android smartphone with a view to using it on full 4G networks, you'll need to look elsewhere: the Galaxy S III and HTC One being the obvious choices at the time of writing, with the iPhone 5 and Lumia 820 offering iOS and Windows Phone alternatives.Android's default camera app has been redesignedCameras and photographyPhotography is now well established as one of the key features for smartphones, whether you're uploading snaps to Facebook and Twitter, filtering them for Instagram, or sexting on Snapchat (parents, ask your kids… Or perhaps best not).Something that's often not talked about: most of these uses aren't really dependent on having an amazing high-spec camera in the device. Or rather this: arguably anything beyond five megapixels with decent software running around it will serve the needs for the majority of users.So, the Nexus 4's eight-megapixel front camera works very well, even if to these eyes it's not quite up to the performance of the Galaxy S III, iPhone 5 or latest batch of Lumias.But it's perfectly good for anything 98% of owners will want to use it for, not least because Android's redesigned camera app is very good indeed. Deliberately stripped-down in the main viewfinder, but with a neat long-press-then-drag control to access its more advanced features. Quick and snappy for, well, quick snaps.Google seems very keen on its new Photo Sphere feature too: a way of shooting panoramic photos where the viewer can look up and down as well as around. It's a bit like Google's Street View scenes. It's very clever, but I'm not sure how many people will bother to use it versus slapping filters on pics and sharing them to social networks.The Instant Upload feature for regular photos will be more useful to more Nexus 4 owners, even if it's tied to Google+. Facebook, Twitter and Instagram apps will all continue to be the main social-photo funnels from this handset.The Nexus 4 is very good for videos too, shooting at 1080p resolution with neat editing and easy uploading to YouTube if that's your bag, although again, third-party social apps will be the likely conduit for clips shared on social networks. Finally, the front-facing 1.3-megapixel camera is fine for video calls and conferencing, from Skype to Google+ Hangouts.Software – Android 4.2I wrote a decent chunk about the latest Android 4.2 Jelly Bean software in theNexus 10 tablet review, much of which applies here. Android has come an awfully long way since its first release, to the point where 4.2 is slick and genuinely user-friendly.As a more nerdy user, I'm enjoying Android's customisation options, particularly widgets running on your homescreens, and now on the lockscreen too if you desire. The expandable notifications system works well for keeping up with alerts while not feeling badgered by them.Android 4.2's new Gesture Typing feature is also welcome, even if we've seen its ilk before in the impressive Swype app. You can type by tracing your thumb across the letters of each word on the on-screen keyboard, rather than tapping them one-by-one.Teamed with a decent predictive engine, it makes for good touchscreen typing, although fans of third-party apps like SwiftKey will continue sticking to them.An important point, too: the Nexus 4 will be getting speedy updates when new Android software is available, in contrast to the frustrating snail's pace at which operators and manufacturers roll these updates out on other Android devices.Software – Google servicesGoogle Now is another feature being touted by Google as a killer app for Android. The idea: your smartphone will serve up information "at just the right time" – daily weather, traffic before you leave for work, football scores while games are in progress and so on – all delivered through virtual cards.The realisation of how much Google's algorithms can divine about your daily routine may creep some people out – and there are plenty of others who'll bridle at Google Now for deeper privacy-related reasons. Which is fine: you can turn it off.It's an intriguing feature though, because it's trying to make your smartphone more useful in your day-to-day life, as opposed to something like Photo Sphere which feels more like a novelty tech-toy.Google Maps remains excellent on Android, as is voice navigation – and, indeed, voice interaction with Android of all kinds. Maps may be less of a killer differentiator for Android in 2013 since Google pulled out all the stops for its downloadable iPhone app, but finding your way is still a top-notch experience.The Nexus 4, like every Android smartphone, plays very nicely with Google's own services too: Gmail, Calendar, Google Drive and the rest. Little touches, like the ability to swipe across to archive emails in your Gmail inbox, represent sensible improvements for experienced users in this regard.The Google Play store has an impressive amount of apps and entertainmentApps and entertainment2012 saw Google make several leaps forward in its entertainment offering, consolidating services under its Google Play banner. The Nexus 4 is a big beneficiary, with apps, music, e-books, digital magazines and films all now available through the Google Play store app.Apple's iTunes Store is still better stocked for some of those categories, but there's still plenty of stuff to watch, read and listen to on the entertainment front. Google's music locker service – which stores your digital collection in the cloud and makes it available on your various devices – is much improved over the version that debuted in the US in May 2011.It'll scan and match your collection to minimise interminable uploading when you first stock your cloud locker, providing space for up to 20k songs for free, in contrast to the £21.99 charged by Apple and Amazon for their locker services (caveat: Amazon has a free 250-song tier, and a huge 250k-song upper limit for the paid tier).Then there are the third-party Android apps: more than 700k of them, although as on iOS, there's a lot of hay and relatively few gleaming needles in this digital haystack.Android still lags behind iOS in some app genres for quality as well as quantity – children's apps and book-apps being two obvious examples – but for other genres the picture is much more rosy.Games, for example, where December 2012 alone saw the release of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Football Manager Handheld 2013, Superbrothers Sword &amp; Sworcery, Pudding Monsters, Eufloria HD, Broken Sword II Smoking Mirror, Modern Combat 4, Heroes of Order &amp; Chaos, Candy Crush Saga and Zenonia 5.Android still often gets the biggest apps a few weeks or months after iOS, and there are a lot of innovative indie developers who still have iOS-only blinkers on too. But the situation is vastly better than a year ago. We're far from a wasteland here.PricingPrice is one of the biggest selling points for the Nexus 4: if you (can) buy from Google, the SIM-free 8GB model will cost you £239, while the 16GB version costs £279.Just how big a deal this is can be shown by browsing the SIM-free prices for rival smartphones: £499.95 for a Galaxy S III or £529 for an iPhone 5 in their 16GB models, for example. At its price, the Nexus 4 is a veritable steal. That's if you can buy one, of course – it blinks in and out of availability on Google's own store, although other retailers have it in stock - for a price. At Carphone Warehouse, the 16GB price is £389.95. (CPW doesn't offer the 8GB model.)And it also relies on a SIM-free comparison. A quick look at the website for one major UK phone retailer reveals the Galaxy S III, released last May, available for free on a £26-a-month contract - and precisely the same deal for the much newer Nexus 4.ConclusionSo, should you buy the Nexus 4? As ever, the answer varies according to who you are and what you already own.It looks a strong bet if you're an Android enthusiast who's owned one or more previous Nexus smartphones, and wants the SIM-free latest model with the promise of speedy software updates.A committed iPhone fan? The Nexus 4 is excellent but won't sway your affections, any more than the iPhone 5 did similarly-committed Android fans. But you should at least be pleased that Google's work on Android software and devices will be pushing Apple not to rest on its laurels.But looking beyond the fans on both sides of this particular tech battle, the Nexus 4 is an excellent smartphone that shows off the best of Android, and will serve you well for a year or two ahead.The lack of expandable storage is worth bearing in mind if you're thinking of upgrading on a contract from, say, a previous Samsung Galaxy S phone, mind. The Galaxy S III still makes a more logical upgrade, even if it's likely to be a little slower to get the latest Android software updates.Still, if Google and its manufacturing partner LG can crank up the production line to get more Nexus 4 rolling onto real and virtual shelves, it'll make a lot of new and upgrading smartphone owners very happy.SpecificationsWeight: 139g (iPhone 5: 112g; Samsung Galaxy S III: 133g)OS: Android 4.2.1Dimensions: 134mm x 68.7mm x 9.1mm (iPhone 5: 123.8mm x 58.6mm x 7.6mm; Samsung Galaxy S III: 136.6mm x 70.6mm x 8.6mm)Connectivity: Wi-Fi; 3G; HSPA+ 42; NFCMore athttp://www.google.com/nexus/4/specs/
Some owners of iPhones might be harder to contact than usual today: a bug in the "Do Not Disturb" function on the new iPhone software has surfaced in 2013, and is not turning off when it is scheduled to - meaning that calls will be diverted to voicemail and the phone won't ring.The bug first surfaced on 1 January 2013, when a number of people noticed that the "Do Not Disturb" function which had been scheduled to turn off - usually in the morning - didn't. However, as most people didn't want to be disturbed on 1 January, few took much notice.But the bug has persisted, with iPhone and iPad owners running the newest software, iOS 6 (which introduced the "DND" function) finding that it doesn't operate as scheduled.The problem doesn't seem to have affected all iOS 6 users, however. Nor does it only affect those using iOS6-native devices (such as the iPhone 5, iPad 4 or iPad mini).Just to add to the embarrassment, Apple chose Wednesday to launch a new advert promoting… the iPhone's Do Not Disturb feature. (Replete with tennis's Williams sisters.)Apple's Do Not Disturb function: the 'scheduling' part isn't working correctly in 2013.The cure appears to be the classic solution to most computer problems: turn it off and on again. In this case, turning off the Do Not Disturb function in the iOS Settings appears to reset the system so that it functions normally again - though early tests suggest that it doesn't completely solve the problem either.Apple had not responded to a earlier request for an explanation as this article was published. Applepreviously hit problemsover its Daylight Savings Time (DST) setting in October and November 2010, which failed to keep up when the clocks moved forward in the southern hemisphere, and back in the northern hemisphere. That required a special bugfix, which wasn't rolled out quickly enough to save a number of people in the US from oversleeping when theclocks changed the day after. Some developers privately reckon Apple might roll out a similar "out-of-schedule" fix, as it did for a Wi-Fi bug that affected only iOS 6-native devices last month.Date bugs are among the most common - and commonly noticed - in operating systems because the calendar involves so many edge cases and exceptions (such as the varying number of days in the months, and whether the year is a leap year - which puzzled plenty ahead of the year 2000). Date bugs havesurfaced in the Zuneand more brieflyin one element of Android(which was quickly patched).The puzzle though is why iOS, which is built on top of Unix - which has pretty robust date handling - keeps hitting faults in how it deals with changes such as Daylight Savings (known in the UK as British Summer Time) or, in this case, the new year. The similarities between those cases point to problems in how iOS passes date and time information from the base OS to apps - but precisely what that is may be something only Apple's programmers know about. Presently, they're not doing too well on it.While you wait for the fix, here arethe Williams sisters in that ad (video):.
Yes, it's 2013 and you're back at work (or soon will be). But even so there's time to indulge in a little peek back over the shoulder. So what did people choose to read about in 2012 on the Technology site? Without any more any more ado, let's dive into the most-read stories from 2012.We can't give absolute figures for the number of page views each story got (it's commercially confidential), so instead the views are given relative to the number for the 10th most-read story (which happened to be a Google Doodle). So when you see "1.05x", that's the viewing figure relative to the number who read the 10th - we're not suddenly jumping into X Factor-style mathematics. Although of course we do aim to give 110% all the time. (We haven't used percentages for the figures because saying that something which is 2.5 times larger is 150% bigger quickly gets confusing.)Note that the multiplier isnot- repeatnot- comparing the page views of these stories against the mean number of page views a story published on the Technology site gets. We published hundreds of stories in 2012. These are the Premier League, the standouts, the finalists.1:No, Samsung did not try to pay Apple its $1bn fine in nickelsTurns out that the internet likes it when you kill a meme. The suggestion that Samsung was going to pay the damages awarded by a jury over patent infringement in nickels began on a South American Onion-style site. Of course it was a joke - there aren't enough nickels in circulation in the US to do that. (We did the maths for you if you want to read the story.)Page views:2.64x (desktop) and 1.05x (mobile) - cumulative, 3.69x. This story was unusual in that it had such a large mobile viewership - though it wasn't the most-viewed on mobile.2:iPhone 5 launch: live coverage of the Apple eventThe title pretty much explains what it was about. Shockingly, Phil Schiller wore a taupe shirt.Page views:2.0x.3:Apple's Samsung statement reprimanded by court of appealApple UK lost its claim that Samsung's Galaxy Tab infringed the design patent of the iPad in Europe. (This followed the decision by His Honour Judge Colin Birss that Apple's design was "cool" while that of the Galaxy Tab was not.) Apple was told to put a statement about that non-infringement on its UK website. It did. Sort of. Except it used the wrong words. Then things really got messy. Read the article for the explanation.Page views:1.29x4:Fifa 12: the 10 players you must buy in career modeThe point that stands out about this story is that it reached this positionpurely on mobile views. It's a gallery (which means that it gets a boost from multiple page views) but even so, this indicates two things: people like reading about games on mobile; and mobile is rocketing in importance.Page views:1.15x5:iPhone 5: new features review - videoAgain, the description is pretty much there in the name.Page views:1.15x6:Text From Dog: 'I have a rubber hamburger that squeaks'Q:What always frustrates you about technology in general?A:It's not built for paws. Also, most of it tastes awful. I want more bacon flavour technology. iPads that smell like sausages. Write that down.Marvellous and unforgettable. If Apple introduces the sausage-scented iPad, remember, you -- squirrel!Page views:1.14x7:Everyone want a slice of Raspberry PiA look at the new ultra-basic computer: is it the new ZX Spectrum, or the Sinclair QL? For hobbyists or wider use?Page views:1.09x8:iPhone 5 release date rumours mountFrom the article, written in August:The "iPhone 5" is expected to: arrive in September; have a longer, thinner screen; offer 4G connectivity (probably only for the US); have better battery life; be the first phone to use a nano Sim, smaller than those in existing smartphones; use a new nine-pin connector; and have a two-tone matte metal backing, replacing the iPhone 4's ceramic. It is not include Near Field Communications (NFC) technology for payments."iPad mini" is expected to: arrive in October; have a 7.85in screen (measured diagonally), half the area of the 10in iPad; start with a Wi-Fi-enabled 8GB model; and be priced to compete keenly with rival $200 7in tablets from Amazon and Google.Pah - the Lightning connector has eight pins, and the iPad mini didn't start at 8GB. And the iPad mini's price is quite a lot more than the Kindle Fire's or Nexus 7's.Page views:1.04x9:The 50 best apps for childrenAppeared in August. It's always important to think of something to keep the kids entertained during the summer.Page views:1.03x10:Winsor McCay celebrated with Google DoodleWhat do you mean, you don't know who Winsor McCay is?Page views:1.0xAfter that top ten, the next most-read were:•iPhone 5 review•Apple unveils iPhone 5•iPad mini review•London 2012 canoeing Google Doodle game•iPhone 5 video review• "#Susananalbumparty: Top 5 Twitter hashtag PR disasters•GTA V preview - the inside story•Samsung Galaxy Nexus banned in US•Apple's patent absurdity exposed at last•Star Wars-style hover bike allows riders to float.And where did the traffic come from? Taken as a whole across the entire Technology site in 2012, we found that - as usual - the most common source of traffic was people coming directly to the site from bookmarks or typing it in. That's what the stats reckon - 45% from that method.After that, as you might expect, Google is a big presence - accounting for about half the rest. Significant other referrers then include (in descending order) Reddit, Twitter, Facebook, Bing, Yahoo, Stumbleupon, LinkedIn, Tumblr, Drudge Report, Outbrain and - way down at 50th - Ask.
The PlayStation 2 and I got off to a difficult start. I was editing a Dreamcast magazine when Sony's machine first hit the shelves in Japan – my job relied on Sega being able to compete against this juggernaut of a product, with its sleek black styling, huge industry support and mega marketing spend. The Dreamcast had enjoyed a pretty promising start, with sell-outs in Japan and the US and some excellent titles. It was also the first console to come with a built-in modem, ushering in a new era of connected entertainment. Playing Quake 3 online for the first time was a pretty incredible moment. But I knew it wouldn't last. It couldn't.Because the PlayStation was an unassailable phenomenon. Sony had come out of nowhere with the original machine, a masterpiece of forward-thinking hardware, geared specifically toward 3D polygonal visuals and thumping CD sound. PlayStation 2 augmented the initial vision with its ludicrously named 'Emotion Engine' CPU and powerful graphics processing unit. Sony talked endlessly about photorealistic visuals and games of enormous and unprecedented depth. It bludgeoned the world with spectacular promises, seducing gamers into holding off, just a few months, instead of plunging in with Sega – a company that had already blotted its consumer copybook with the many failed attempts to lengthen the Mega Drive's lifespan, and the complex Saturn console.So I resented PS2. My magazine, DC-UK, was in the Future Publishing office in Bath and just down the corridor, the company was preparing its glossy Official PlayStation 2 Magazine. I got to see the build up, and to play all the launch titles when the Japanese import machines arrived in early 2000. I scoffed at formative showcase offerings like Fantavision (a firework sim of all things!) and Smuggler's Run, a sort of gangster racing game from Rockstar San Diego (which would go on to great things with titles like Midnight Club and Read Dead Redemption). But I knew the writing was on the wall. Electronic Arts wouldn't commit to Dreamcast, robbing the machine of the world's largest third-party publisher (Activision was still lurking in the background – this was anageago), Sega was relying heavily on Japanese developers who weren't producing the goods quickly enough. And people just weren't buying the things in great enough numbers. They were waiting.I left DC-UK in December 2000 and the magazine closed a month later. This cathartic act meant that after a few weeks of sulking, I could now re-assess the PS2 as a consumer. And soon there were some astonishing titles: the masterful Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec, the genre-defining Grand Theft Auto III, the joyously cinematic Metal Gear Solid 2, the disturbing Silent Hill 2. And for those who thought that the machine would be all about mainstream sequels, there came Ico, Katamari Damacy, Gregory Horror Show, Gitaroo Man and Bully. Publishers didn't go mad with experimental zeal, but they did loosen the reins a little, enjoying the boom in retail sales, enjoying the stability. Never such innocence again.This was also where music gaming began its transformation into a mass market trend and where EyeToy popularised the concept of motion controls and augmented reality. It was the golden age of the third-person hack-n-slash genre (God of War, Devil May Cry, Onimusha), and the spawning ground of the open-world gangster adventure.Until the arrival of Xbox, PS2 effectively had the home console market to itself. Nintendo's GameCube failed to make much of a dent, despite some beautiful games, forcing the company to re-assess its approach to R&amp;D – so we can sort of thank PS2 for Wii if we're feeling generous. PS2 was also the originator of this whole push for the living room, its brutalist styling and DVD-playing abilities geared toward getting it under the TV in the lounge rather than hidden away in a teenager's bedroom. PS2 was arguably where gaming finally grew up.This week, Sony announced that it would be ceasing production of the machine in Japan. Okay, the news might come as a shock to many people who assumed this must have already happened years ago – but then, PS2 outsold its initially troubled and expensive successor for a couple of years. It has now sold over 150 million units, putting it up there with the Nintendo DS; it is the best selling home console of all time. Market fragmentation, together with the arrival of new consumer technology platforms like the tablet and smart TV, will ensure we're unlikely to see its like again.I forgave the PS2. I've never been one for fanboyism, and DC-UK magazine had a good run at it – we even managed to get blacklisted by Sega for featuring a cover disc that allowed readers to play imported titles. By then, we thought we were writing about a niche machine, but Sega thought it still had a chance – our world views were, like Japanese retail games and UK consoles, totally incompatible. I moved on, and so did Sega – to third-party publishing; it even brought some of its Dreamcast titles over to PlayStation. How strange that must have been.And I still play on PS2 from time to time, enjoying the swirling, semi-mystical start-up sound and dusting off Konami's superlative footie sim, Pro Evo 6 or the gorgeous Shadow of the Colossus. It all looks quaint now, the textures, while much higher in resolution than PSone's, are faintly blocky and susceptible to tearing. The look of the machine itself is still striking though – at least in its original unshrunken incarnation. Those parallel lines gouged down the front, the whole idea that it could be stored horizontally or vertically (another concession to the living room environment, where space is often at a premium); it looked like a skyscraper from Bladerunner, or something aliens might leave somewhere in an Arthur C Clarke novel.Speculation is rife that production of this old-timer has ended to allow space and resources for PlayStation 4 manufacture. This seems likely, given that the new console will be officially announced this year. Whatever it looks like, however powerful it is, PlayStation 2 will be looming over it, 150 million units high. I have come to terms with the unrepeatable success of PS2. Can Sony?What are your favourite memories of the PS2? Let us know below!
PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (2)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (30)52 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)VITA (6)143 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)PC (1)Wii U (1)74 (3)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (36)PC (1)65 (6)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)VITA (11)PC (1)96 (5)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (12)Wii U (1)PS3 (1)137 (8)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)88 (7)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)PC (1)Wii U (1)99 (9)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (21)Wii (17)DS (8)610 (–)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)611 (10)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)Wii (2)912 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (81)PS3 (13)PC (6)5413 (13)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (96)PSP (4)914 (–)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (33)PC (5)1115 (14)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)1016 (15)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (30)Wii U (14)VITA (10)417 (12)Skylanders Giants (7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (33)PS3 (23)1118 (18)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (38)Wii (16)DS (15)PS3 (14)2519 (20)Disney Epic Mickey 2: The Power Of Two (U)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (31)PS3 (27)Wii U (3)220 (16)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)25UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
So here we are in 2013, with everything sort of back to normal. How was your festive break? Did you spend it playing lovely new games? Tell us all about it!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew services bypass Apple DRM to allow pirated iOS app installs without jailbreaking on iPhone, iPad &gt;&gt; The Next WebMatt PAnzarino:So we've got two things going on. Services like Zeusmos have figured out how to ease the process of purchasing a developer slot and using its certificate to install 'cracked' apps, which are widely available on the internet. And ones like Kuaiyong are somehow bypassing Apple's licensing rules to redistribute the same copy of an app over and over.Security researcher Stefan Esser has beenspeculating about the Kuaiyong service on Twitter, noting that it could be an excellent way for them to distribute malware to iOS devices. Though the apps themselves are limited in what they can access due to sandboxing, specialized malware could be developed for certain popular apps that collected information and logged activity on your device. And there's a strong likelihood that whatever they're doing is using illegally obtained licenses at the least, and credit-card fraud at the worst.Make a donation to the Internet Archive &gt;&gt; Archive.orgYour donations of $250,000 were matched 3-to-1 by a generous donor. We raised enough to purchase 4 petabytes of storage, which helps us towards the 10 we estimate for next year. Beyond that, this will help us archive books, music, video and web sites. If you haven't donated yet, please help keep the archive open!Please donate - it's a fantastic service, due to get even better.The web we lost &gt;&gt; Anil DashThe tech industry and its press have treated the rise of billion-scale social networks and ubiquitous smartphone apps as an unadulterated win for regular people, a triumph of usability and empowerment. They seldom talk about what we've lost along the way in this transition, and I find that younger folks may not even know how the web used to be.So here's a few glimpses of a web that's mostly faded away.Late to linking to this, but it's good to think about as the new year dawns."What Are You Going to Do Next?" Introducing the Predictive Interface &gt;&gt; Stephen Wolfram logThere aren't very many qualitatively different types of computer interfaces in use in the world today. But with the release of Mathematica 9 I think we have the first truly practical example of a new kind--the computed predictive interface.Absorbing blogpost by the hugely clever Stephen Wolfram.Links and Law: Axioms of Web architecture &gt;&gt; W3CTim Berners-Lee, April 1997:Myth: "A normal link is an incitement to copy the linked document in a way which infringes copyright".This is a serious misunderstanding. The ability to refer to a document (or a person or any thing else) is in general a fundamental right of free speech to the same extent that speech is free. Making the reference with a hypertext link is more efficient but changes nothing else.2012: The year Irish newspapers tried to destroy the web &gt;&gt; Dublin Solicitors IrelandThe [Irish] Newspaper Industry (allthesenewspapers) had its agent write out demanding money. They wrote to Women's Aid, (amongst others) who became our clients when they received letters, emails and phone calls asserting that they needed to buy a licence because they had linked to articles in newspapers carrying positive stories about their fundraising efforts.These are the prices for linking they were supplied with:Your eyes will pop at the amounts.Google is attacking Apple inside out &gt;&gt; Business InsiderCall it "the worm strategy"--because Google is attacking Apple from the inside out.Over the past six months, Google has begun to systematically replace core, Apple-made iOS apps with Google-made iOS apps.The argument is persuasive - that Google is developing really great iOS apps so that it can get itself installed onto iPhones everywhere, so that it can maintain its desktop dominance on mobile. The question is, should Apple care, as long as it can sell iPhones?Innovate or die: Nokia's long-drawn-out decline &gt;&gt; TechCrunchNatasha Lomas:[Ian] Fogg [analyst at IHS Screen Digest] believes Nokia's current set of problems with Windows Phones are not explained by a failure of execution; now it's their strategy that's the problem. While Elop "rightly saw" that mobile was becoming a "war of ecosystems," choosing Windows Phone to fight the dominant players of Android and iOS has simply dragged Nokia down, he argues. "Now it's Windows Phone that is holding Nokia back. Windows Phone is proving a hard sell because of the success of Android and iOS."Adopting Windows Phone also means Nokia is now reliant on Microsoft's execution -- and Redmond continues to lag behind the pace of development on the dominant smartphone platforms. "Microsoft has been slow to innovate with Windows Phone, which has held Nokia back," says Fogg. "The current version, Windows Phone 8, is little different in consumer features to Windows Phone 7 of two years ago. In the meantime, Apple and Google have piled on numerous more features to iOS and Android.""Elop chose Windows Phone also because he could reduce costs by lowering the number of Nokia staff working on content and services. Ironically, Nokia is having to stimulate the Windows Phone ecosystem by content deals to attempt to get the platform moving," Fogg adds.This is the question on which the whole of Nokia's present and future revolves. Should it have gone with Android? Would it have been able to compete with Samsung and be as big, or would it be struggling as HTC now is, stuck in the mid-market? Though the claim that Android and iOS have added more features than Windows Phone (especially Nokia's version) doesn't quite stack up. Nokia's Windows Phone has plenty of standout features (Kids Corner, Nokia Music, City Lens).May 2011: Android leads in US smartphone market share and data usage &gt;&gt; Nielsen WireMay 2011:But while a higher proportion of iPhone owners engage in these kinds of activities, consumers with Android devices who engage in these activities consume more data on average. An analysis of nearly 65,000 cellphone bills in the US reveals that in the first quarter of 2011, Android smartphone owners consumed an average of 582 MB of data each month, compared to 492 MB for iPhone owners.This is a really intriguing set of data: there doesn't seem to be a more recent version (thoughthis Nielsen post in June 2011uses the same data). What's the cause? (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Self-driving carsGoogle is good at doing amazing. Five years&nbsp;ago, its self-driving cars were totally experimental and could only be run on special&nbsp;test areas free of humans. Then, by&nbsp;May 2012,Nevada had licensed them. California has since followed suit; expect more US states to license vehicles, so that reading a broadsheet newspaper or putting on&nbsp;makeup while you drive won't get you&nbsp;busted.Augmented realityThe successor to the smartphone. Well, sort of. Google is there again withGoogle Glass, which are spectacles that also give you an "augmented reality" (AR) view of the world – overlaying information about what you are seeing in your field of view. The first ones will&nbsp;go on sale (to the most eager Google-heads) in 2013, but it turns out that Microsoft and Apple have patents on exactly the same ideas, so maybe they will be pitching in too. Then again, everyone knows how fabulously successful 3D TV has been(cough)in trying to&nbsp;do much the same thing, except in our living rooms.Superfast mobile broadbandAlso known as 4G and LTE, this has already been popular in the US, and it is just spreading to Europe; the mobile operator Everything Everywhere (AKA Orange/T-Mobile) has been offering it since October, but all the others will get in on the act by summer 2013. Benefits: really fast connections – great for video and games. Hassle: you might need a new handset; it won't work between different networks or countries; it burns through data like it's going out of fashion.Flexible phone screensSamsung was promising to have these in "early 2012", so maybe it will make good on that in 2013. Nobody's quite sure what to use them for, though. Perhaps the flip phone will make a comeback with a giant, flexi-screen?Measure yourselfMerely signing up for a gym in January is so noughties; now you have to sign up for a gym and get a little device (such as theFitbit) that measures how many paces you have taken during the day, how fast, and logs it all so that you can passive-aggressively compare yourself with your friends all the time. Possibly by relaying your results to their Google Glasses.
A Happy New Year burst of 10 links for you to celebrate your hangover with, as picked by the Technology teamTablet Market Update: December 2012 &gt;&gt; Chitika InsightsCovering the period from 8 to 14 December:As seen in the above graph, users of the Kindle Fire family of tablets constituted 4.88 impressions per 100 iPad impressions in December - a 4.25% share of all tablet Web traffic as a whole. This is an increase of nearly 20% from Kindle Fire's 3.57% share observed in our last Tablet market update.The Samsung Galaxy family of tablets also experienced a usage share increase, albeit less impressive than the Kindle Fire, growing from 2.36% to a 2.65% share of all domestic tablet traffic.The Google Nexus family of tablets continued to see usage growth, with its share rising from 0.91% in November to 1.06% in December - an increase of more than 15%.Despite these gains by some of the bigger players in the tablet marketplace, there has been a negligible impact to Apple's dominant usage share. Users of Apple's tablets still generate over 87% of US and Canadian tablet Web traffic, coming down from just over 88% one month ago.It's hardly encouraging news for the Surface, either. Though it is at least there. Just ahead of the HP Touchpad (discontinued August 2011)..The Guardian publishes stats on the size of their commenting community &gt;&gt; Currybet.netMartin Belam wrangles some data:But one thing is clear from the numbers in thearticle.At least 20% of the comments left on the Guardian website each month come from only 2,600 user accounts, who together make up just 0.0037% of the Guardian's declared monthly audience.The other 80% come from a maximum (mathematically calculated) of 498,600 accounts, or 0.7% of the total monthly audience, broadly reaffirming the 90:9:1 rule. (At least 80 of those 2,600 are on the Guardian's Technology site.)ZTE's 5-inch full HD smartphone is official: quad-core, LTE, Titanium Body (Video) &gt;&gt; M.I.C. GadgetChinese people don't have Christmas holiday like other foreign countries, they just keep working and working. So, don't feel surprise to hear ZTE has just launched a 5-inch smartphone in Beijing, dubbed Nubia Z5. Its form factor are the same as HTC Droid DNA and OPPO Find 5, which also sports a 5-inch 1080p display. But there's some features that make ZTE Nubia Z5 quite extraordinary: 7.6mm of thickness, a MIUI-like user interface, a new built-in camera app, supports LTE, and comes with a special version that made by titanium.That's quite a phone. Photos show it as slightly squarer and shorter than a Galaxy Note, but not much. Runs a custom version of Android JB 4.1.iPad Mini in hot demand in China -- analyst &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThe Mini and the 4th-gen iPad debuted in Hong Kong on November 2 and in China on December 7.Apple recently opened new retail stores in Shenzhen, Chengdu, and Beijing, and now has eight stores in China, compared with five a year ago. Hong Kong now is home to three Apple stores from just one a year ago.The iPhone 5 is also seeing strong demand across China, according to [Topeka Capital Markets analyst Brian] White. Unlike the iPad Mini, Apple's latest phone is available for walk-in customers as its supply has improved. But the new iPhone seems to be outshining the competition."After the Galaxy S3 and Galaxy Note I/II became more popular than the iPhone 4S in recent months, our discussions now indicate that the iPhone 5 has recently become the most popular high-end smartphone at the resellers that we spoke with," White said.And around it goes. Note that this isn't website "demand", but actual walk-ins to stores. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)BlueStacks' App Player for Mac launches beta: now you can run over 750,000 Android apps on Mac &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSome mobile developers (whether mobile-first or mobile-only) are late to address the desktop market entirely. As BlueStacks VP of Business Development John Gargiulo pointed out to me, for example, the Mac beta release means that Mac users can run Flipboard on the desktop for the first time ever.For developers, BlueStacks is also hoping that the Mac launch will help make going "Android-first" more attractive, Gargiulo explains."We look at it from the POV [point of view] of our mobile developer partners - they start out by deciding, what mobile platform do we build for first? What's going to get the most distribution? Now with BlueStacks, building for Android first means they'll get on all PCs and Mac," he says. There are many ways to monetize the Mac distribution, too, in addition to the in-app purchases developers can offer (without sharing a cut with Apple). BlueStacks will announce its further monetization plans in Q2 2013.Wouldn't Flipboard really want a touchscreen? It does have deals with Acer and AMD which will see it pre-installed on Windows machines... with touch. (ATwitter comment: "old Macs will probably have better future Android app support than most current native phones will.")From 2009: Should Apple make a netbook? If Tim Cook wants to be its CEO, yes &gt;&gt; GuardianFebruary 2009:If there's a single ray of light in the PC gloom, it's netbooks. Theirsales are rocketingwhile larger models' are tanking. And there's another threat to Apple on the horizon: the upcoming Windows 7, which those who've tried it say is much more presentable and usable than Vista. If Microsoft can get Windows 7 out of the door in quick order, then the chance that Apple had to persuade people to switch from XP, or Vista, to Mac OSX will be gone.Claim chowder. Get it while it's hot.Why we've decided to stop producing TNW Magazine for Android &gt;&gt; The Next WebIn theory you simply adjust for a different format and platform and do a new export [from the Mag+ program]. But then trouble starts. As one developer put it to us: "You make a beautiful magazine for the iPad, and then you dumb it down for Android'.That meant removing movies, sound, interactivity and content. But even then we had to deal with frequent crashes, a less intuitive interface and a platform that is even more fragmented than iOS.Then there was the content. See, we pick movies from the iTunes store that people can download right to their iPads. We pick music the same way and books too. Producing for Android meant that we had to redo all that work because all our content was restricted to the iOS platform. That isn't Android's fault, of course, but because the platform is just less developed and robust we had started out with iOS and optimized for that.All of that wouldn't have been a problem if we had seen a market for our magazine on Android...We tried an Android magazine, and found out it just isn't worth the effort. Does that mean that Android sucks? Ehm, no, and there is no reason to tell us how cool Android is in the comments, because we understand it is.Still waiting for those examples of developers who have given up developing for iOS because Android is so dramatically rewarding.Big Data: don't believe the hype &gt;&gt; Kate's CommentKate Watson-Smyth:You don't need to spend lots of money on big data. First, don't worry about the storage; storage is very cheap these days (it is a poorly-kept secret that Amazon are making outrageous profits on EC2 for instance) and the sorts of data sets most people are talking about are actually quite "thin" anyway - not images/movies etc. Even a trillion data points each taking 10 bytes each would only take 10 TBytes of storage - not so large you can't get it on one machine even!Second, most competant developer-DBAs are more than capable of manipulating very large data set, and getting existing staff to tackle such challenges is a great opportunity to expand their skill set.What I'd say is more exciting is that the capacity to collect what were once very large data sets, of the order of billions of items, and that for 99% of the requirements that can be analysed with traditional techniques (relational SQL databases) on commodity server hardware.Fragmented world: what two years of traffic data teaches you about mobile &gt;&gt; Guardian Developer blogAs we set about redesigning our mobile site, one question that came up again and again was what the traffic to our existing site looked like.We'd always known mobile to be a "fragmented" space, with the number of handsets expanding seemingly by the day, but could we get a better picture of what that fragmentation looked like?A dip into the data proved instructive.Note:we've looked at the top 250 mobile phone models ranked in terms of pages viewed. We looked at traffic to m.guardian.co.uk, our native iPhone and Android apps, and mobile devices accessing the guardian.co.uk desktop site. We did not include traffic to our iPad edition app.The sheer number of different Samsung devices by 2012 is remarkable. However...LG Display seeks to block sales of Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 in South Korea &gt;&gt; Dow JonesSouth Korean display maker LG Display Co. (066570.SE) said Friday it filed an injunction seeking to ban the sales of a tablet computer produced by Samsung Electronics Co. (005930.SE), alleging the panels inside the tablet infringe LG patents.The injunction request is the latest development in the ongoing patent brawl between LG Display and the affiliate of Samsung Electronics that manufactures screens used in smartphones, tablets and televisions. It also signals intensifying competition as the two companies jostle for market share.The injunction follows a lawsuit filed by Samsung Display Co. on 7 December, which alleged that LG infringed seven of Samsung's liquid crystal display patents. LG, which filed the injunction with the Seoul District Court on Wednesday, is aiming to block the sales of the Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet computer.So the maker of the Nexus 4 is trying to block sales of the (Nexus) Note 10.1 in the home country of both makers. Google, looking on, perhaps trying to figure out which is its least favourite child. And of course this is another Android v Android lawsuit - Huawei and ZTE are already fighting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook has temporarily disabled its New Year's Eve messaging tool after a university student was able to read and delete private messages intended for other users.Jack Jenkins, a business IT student at Aberystwyth university, alerted Facebook to the privacy flaw after finding that a small tweak to a web address allowed him to view messages and photos sent by strangers using the new tool.Facebook launchedits Midnight Message Delivery appas a way for users to send New Year's Eve messages on the stroke of midnight on 31 December.Jenkinswrote on his bloghow he was shocked when he was able to view a personal New Year's message and private family photo sent by a stranger to another named Facebook user.He wrote: "I just wanted to share this. I don't know how a site like Facebook can continue to take these kinds of risks. PLEASE Don't go deleting random messages, but try and delete one of mine that I set up especially if you want."Jenkins said he discovered the vulnerabilty by tweaking the URL of a confirmation page on the Facebook app.He told the Guardian: "I was very surprised to find that this had been overlooked by Facebook, as it's such a simple security hole."I was even more surprised to find I could see photos and delete this New Year wish. It seems that Facebook treated all these messages as unique messages, but then failed to link them to a unique person to make them private to them. I don't know all the ins and outs of it, but it's a pretty big thing for a company to overlook."Facebook immediately disabled the feature after Jenkins published his blogpost.It is understood that no messages sent on the Facebook website itself were viewable as the Midnight Message Delivery app existed on aseparate Facebook Stories site.A Facebook spokesman said: "We are working on a fix for this issue now, and in the interim we have disabled this app on the Facebook Stories site to ensure that no messages can be accessed."The blunder comes at an inopportune time for Facebook, just days after founder Mark Zuckerberg's sistercomplained that her own privacy had been invaded when a private family photo was shared widely by a US journalist.The picture – of Randi Zuckerberg's family's reaction to Facebook'snew Poke app– popped up in the news feed of Callie Schweitzer of Vox Media who assumed it was public and reposted it on Twitter, where it was picked up by several prominent technology blogs.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Sayonara, netbooks. The end of 2012 marks the end of the manufacture of the diddy machines that were - for a time - the Great White Hope of the PC market.If you believed ABI Research in 2009, then next year netbooks (initially defined as machines with Intel Atom processors and screens less than 10in diagonally - though the definition became fuzzier over time) will sell 139m. (The original ABI press release with the forecast,linked from the Wikipedia page on netbooks, and still there until May 2011, hasdisappeared. But you can get a flavour of its optimism from the URL of the press release (which contains the phrase "an era begins") and theresearch paper it was offering in late 2010which had forecasts for netbook sales through to 2015 and the names of 23 vendors (including - quiz question - Nokia.)Still, there's aneWeek articlefrom July in which ABI says that "consumer interest in netbooks shows no sign of waning, and the attraction remains the same: value rather than raw performance."Actually, the number sold in 2013 will be very much closer to zero than to 139m. The Taiwanese tech site Digitimespoints outthat Asus, which kicked off the modern netbook category with its Eee PC in 2007, has announced that it won't make its Eee PC product after today, and that Acer doesn't plan to make any more; which means that "the netbook market will officially end after the two vendors finish digesting their remaining inventories."Asustek and Acer were the only two companies still making netbooks, with everyone else who had made them (including Samsung, HP and Dell) having shifted to tablets. Asustek and Acer were principally aiming at southeast Asia and South America - but of course those are now targets for smartphones and cheap Android tablets.That's something of a turnround for Acer, which in September wasstill insistingthat it would "continue to make netbooks", even though Lenovo, Dell and Asustek had all withdrawn.Intel, which made its Atom processor with the intent of aiming at lower-cost, lower-power, longer-battery-life PCs, is still going to keep making the Atom; those will be pushed into the embedded market for point-of-sale applications.What killed the netbook?There are four candidates: the rest of the PC market (including the arrival of ultrabooks); the economy; the economics of netbooks; and the iPad plus the attendant rise of tablets.The rest of the PC marketLooking at the rest of the PC market first: the writing has been on the wall for a while. Even in May 2009, when netbooks were just two years old (and the iPad wasn't even a rumour), Jack Schofield wasasking whether netbooks were losing their shine, pointing out thatUS-based DisplaySearch indicates that while first quarter netbook sales were up by 556% compared with the same quarter last year, they were down by 26% sequentially, compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. Notebook sales declined 24% sequentially, so netbook shipments are no longer growing against the market trend.As he also pointed out then, a key factor in that slowdown was that Linux didn't work well as an OS for users who were expecting to run PC software - which meant that Windows XP had to be pressed into the task. But that meant cleaving to Microsoft's demands:"the increase in specifications that has pushed up netbook prices. The classic netbook was cheaper than a notebook because it had a 7-inch screen, a small Flash drive, an Intel Atom processor, and used Linux instead of Microsoft's Windows Vista. Today's netbooks have 10- or 12-inch screens, 160MB hard drives, and run Windows XP. It is still cheaper to make a netbook than a notebook, but the gap has narrowed."The promise of the netbook was that it would be more portable, have longer battery life, and run all the software you needed. With the overall PC market shifting towards more and more replacements, the netbook arrived at the right time to create a "first-time" market - of people buying a machine purely for its portability and/or battery life.There wasn't anything to compete directly with netbooks on price. But other lower-end notebooks could offer bigger screens and more storage. The price delta became thinner and thinner, and as battery life improved on cheaper notebooks, it became harder to justify scrimping and just buying a netbook.So the availability of laptops that cost less than previously was certainly a factor.The suggestion that ultrabooks - very thin, light laptops - killed the netbook doesn't make sense, since ultrabooks have barely made any impact on the laptop market, let alone the wider PC market. But Apple's introduction of an 11in MacBook Air in late 2010 (no optical drive, solid-state storage) at $999 showed the PC industry that there was definitely money to be made at the higher end. That's what kicked off the ultrabook scheme, even though it hasn't yet repaid the investment. The MacBook Air probably didn't take any sales away from netbooks - the price difference would see to that - but it did point out to PC manufacturers struggling to make a margin that cheaper wasn't actually the way to go.The economyThe global economy cratered just as netbooks were beginning to take off. Remember the credit crunch of 2008, and how the banks nearly failed? From Q4 2008, the PC market saw three quarters in which shipments shrank. But those were followed from Q4 2009 by three quarters of growth above 20% (because the comparison with shrinking growth always looks good). And PC sales were, in the past, tied to the economy; when it grew, they grew, roughly in line.Even so, netbook shipments grew strongly from 2008 to 2009. The slowdown hit in 2010: early that year, sales "took a nosedive",IDC's David Daoud told PCWorld, falling from over 2m in Q1 2010 to only just over 1.5m by the end of the year. By the fourth quarter of 2011, US netbook sales had fallen to about 750,000.US netbook sales Q1 2010 - Q4 2011. Source: IDCA similar trend was reflected worldwide, with Q1 2010 shipments of 9m dropping to about 6.2m by Q4 2011. But that's the quarter in which overall PC sales rose by more than 20%. Clearly, the economy didn't do it.The economics of netbooksThis is a different matter to the world economy, though. What's the key thing about netbooks? That they are (or were) cheap - the Eee PC started (in its Linux incarnation) as a $199 product.The trouble with that sort of pricing, though, is that it leaves very little margin. Especially once netbooks all began running Windows XP, where the licence could cost anything from $30 upwards per unit, and more like $50 per unit for Windows 7, there just wasn't much room left for the manufacturer to make a profit.And besides that, just as pundits thought netbooks were looking forward to a grand time, other things happened. PC manufacturers needed better margins (because of the Windows 7 pricing squeeze, and a market that was slowing and shifting further to laptops). And then Apple announced the iPad.The iPad and all the tabletsIn January 2010, Apple announced the iPad. In April 2010, it went on sale. By mid-2010, a host of other companies were announcing their own tablets (running Android). Suddenly tablets were the hot thing in the computing market, and the netbook looked a bit like, well, last year's thing.It's notable that the first area where netbook sales began falling was the US market, where the iPad first had its big success. The irony is that the iPad cost more than a netbook, and arguably does less: you can't run Office on it, nor your favourite Windows app. But it did have better portability than a netbook, and much better battery life (some netbooks on sale in 2009 wereonly getting three hours- no different from pricier laptops). And like the netbook it had no optical drive, and limited storage, meaning that cloud services were key.By February this year,it was clear that the netbook was done. And here is the killer stat: shipments of tablets in 2011 overtook those of netbooks - 63m against 29.4m. (The year before it had been the other way around, at 23m v 39.4m; but that was the first year of "modern" tablets.)And for 2012, tablet shipments are forecast to hit 122.3m (according to IDC's latest forecast, made in December). Netbooks, meanwhile, don't seem to have troubled the forecasters this year. And for 2013? IDC reckons tablet shipments will hit 172m. And we know what the figure will be for netbooks - zero (apart from inventories being cleared).ConclusionNetbooks had a short but interesting life - going from the one-time saviour of the PC industry, to just another mispriced attempt to push some low-powered Intel chips and garner more money for Microsoft.But the squeeze on pricing, plus the fact that Windows licences aren't free, meant that they got pushed into a tiny niche: worse specifications than slightly pricier laptops, no margin for the manufacturers, and worse battery life and portability than the burgeoning number of tablets with custom apps.The questions that do remain is what's going to happen to the various government contracts in countries such as Greece and Malaysia to equip schools with netbooks - or whether those contracts have finished, or been discontinued.What, too, about theOne Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project? Essentially, it's trying to get netbook-like devices to classrooms in developing countries. There hasn't been much news of huge wins this year, though, going by itsend-of-year blogpost. Perhaps it will function independently of the death of consumer netbooks.So farewell, netbooks. It was nice knowing you, but ultimately, you were just another PC.
The Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthursits in for Aleks Krotoski to host a discussion of the top tech stories from 2012.  Charles is joined by the Guardian games writer Keith Stuart, media and technology writer Josh Halliday and the Guardian's digital correspondent Jemima Kiss. The team look at Microsoft's launch of the much anticipated Windows 8 and their battle to catch up with Apple and Google and the re-emergence of Yahoo alongside the past year's trends in mobile phones and tablets. Jemima Kiss looks ahead to 2013 and what might be the tech trends in the new year, including attempts by politicians to control Twitter and the rise of video tagging technologies and services.
