In retrospect, perhaps it was not the best idea to invite the creator of a gossip website to the sort of members' club where discretion is meant to be assured. There was EastEnders' Nigel Harman lunching with his dad, and Johnny Vegas loudly discussing new programme ideas with a colleague. Just imagine if Johnny shot his peas across the table or Harman senior choked on his dressed crab and both were later held up for ridicule before the entire internet nation. Hardly fair.But it takes a bit more than a careless dining incident to make it on to Holy Moly!, the site in question. Like Popbitch, its better-known and closest rival, it deals in the nasty business of celebrity misdemeanours in its weekly mailout. Sex and drugs are high on the agenda along with the greatest of all celebrity pitfalls - overt delusions of grandeur.But while Popbitch simply reports the scandal, Holy Moly! pours on the scorn. It has described the Sun's Victoria Newton as "smelling of plaque"; Mel B as a "Huffing bag of mediocrity who looks like a damp cake"; and provided unpleasantly vivid descriptions of a top-ranking broadcaster frolicking   with a young DJ.Its website includes a section called The Rules of Modern Life, to which all-comers can add their banal grievances and observations. And then there is the less than pleasant, sometimes puerile, Cunts' Corner, in which the use of repetitively bad language is obligatory.The person who runs Holy Moly! is an angry young man who does not wish to reveal his identity. This is partly because he has a responsible management job in the media, and also because he does not want to be sued. So far the most serious complaint about a story has come from a relative of a well-known comedian: "Of course it had included the usual - booze, birds, cocaine. I felt bad for a millisecond. And I did get the dates wrong. So I apologised for getting the dates wrong, but then I pointed out that there are 90 other similar stories out there about this person."Given the tone of his website, you might expect to come face to face with a Jack-the-lad who spends every non-working hour in desirable London watering holes. In fact, although only 30, and dressed in a GQ-issue pinstripe suit, he is married with children and   quite likely spends more time working and fathering than supporting the economy of Colombia in toilet cubicles. His attitude to the site is hard-headed: he wants it to be a commercial success. "I make no bones that I want to do what none of the other sites like this have managed to do, and that's turn it into a successful business model. To use the name and make it a brand - turn it into something. Holy Moly! as a brand is very desirable. Popbitch was there in early 2000 and didn't exploit it. I don't understand that. Why would anyone invest the hours put into Popbitch or Holy Moly! without wanting to make cash out of it?"He says he is not simply a wannabe celebrity writer. "I'm not a journalist. I'm never going to become the editor of a magazine." He sees himself more as a businessman, and says the first extension of the Holy Moly! brand could come in the form of a book. "It's stocking filler rubbish. The Rules of Life etc. The Holy Moly! guide to being a celebrity."But the core of the site is gossip. Holy Moly! gets its most salacious scandal from its "moles" - a group of about 100 - who are the only people who have access to Holy Moly!'s private message board. The select few tittle-tattlers are industry insiders: celebrities' PAs; A&amp;R people; well-known actors; musicians; producers; directors. Plus the special person who posts excerpts from the BBC's duty log. (Breakfast: "I was unhappy that there was no mention of the plague of hoverflies that affected Frinton-on-Sea yesterday.") Their work is distilled into a weekly email that is sent to general subscribers, but the site's creator says that only "a fraction" of the contents of the closed board is used in the public mailout.This army of insiders allows Holy Moly! sometimes to steal a march on its rivals. Of late, it has even seemed that Holy Moly! stories have reappeared on rival websites weeks or even months later.Mr Holy Moly! is scornful of what passes for celebrity gossip in the press. "The tabloids have become a parody when Rav Singh and the 3am Girls write as much about themselves as their subjects. We're only there to supply the demand. The 3am girls are just a brand. How many of them have there been now?"The language of Holy Moly! is rough, pugnacious, even pointlessly crude. But though HM likes to call himself a   foul-mouthed northerner, and one determined to overuse the C-word until it is totally devalued, he will refer rather prettily to men who sleep around as "philanderers". His lack of journalistic craft means that Holy Moly! can lack the written finesse of Popbitch, where he was once an editor. While there, he came up with an idea for a TV show based on the site. But Popbitch backed out and he changed the pitch to an imaginary site. That site was Holy Moly!; the pitch failed but the website was born.The world of the gossip website is a curious one; the creators must remain anonymous but are using the medium nonetheless to further their ambition. The secret is when to come out. Neil Stevenson, Popbitch's co-founder, went on to edit the Face after losing his Lord Tentacle disguise.Horacio Silva and Ben Widdicombe, authors of the stupendous (but now defunct) Chic Happens in the US, are, respectively, a fashion editor at the New York Times and a gossip columnist at the Daily News. This bedroom industry is a hunting ground for the media world - ever fearful of going stale - to find the fresh blood it needs.Mr HM is eyeing the mainstream,   looking for ways to shape his rowdy website into a going concern, a way to make money. Or is he perhaps looking for his own moment of glory? It is tempting to think that someone so enraged by celebrity simply wants to be one. He says: "I just dislike it. They say they are normal people, but normal people don't force their lives on to the rest of the world for the sake of making money. We have to fight back and discuss how they smell and how they're not as good as they think they are." We think: you're jealous. "I can categorically state I have no interest in being famous," he says. "I spent the majority of my 20s trying to do that, and honestly it's a balls ache."The purveyor of others' embarrassment is predictably coy about his own   life, but some background research elicits that he was in a late-90s punk band, who vied with Placebo and Super Furry Animals in the indie charts, and even had a Melody Makers' Single of Week in 1997. "We tried for five years. We went polystyrene in Belgium." At the age 25, the prospect of another low-level tour around the Low Countries had lost its appeal.Now there is a four-minute pitch for a Holy Moly! leftfield comedy show doing the rounds. There are discussions over book deals and web content provision. His conversation is littered with talk of NDAs (that's non-disclosure agreements, to you and me). Like the more salubrious The Friday Thing - a webzine cross-pollination of Salon and Private Eye, run by Paul Carr - it's about building a business out of a great idea.Holy Moly! is looking to do that and more. In the meantime, Mr HM asks for donations on its mailout. Apparently it brings in "something with two noughts on the end".He says he uses it "to buy clothes".
Did you know that Apple is getting ready to launch an MP3 player that's so small that pregnant women can swallow it and let their unborn children listen to Outkast? Or that Belle de Jour is in fact the nom de plume of Cherie Blair? Both absolutely true. As is the fact that Bill Gates actually died in 1996 and has been replaced as head of Microsoft by a giant electronic paperclip who is obsessed with writing letters. Ah internet rumours, don't you just love them?Last week it was the turn of Google to be dragged through the mill of wild speculation when a sharp-eyed technology journalist noticed that the search giant was advertising for someone with experience in voice-over internet protocol (VoIP). Before long the rumours were flying: Google is going to launch its own telecoms service; Google is developing technology to allow you to phone advertisers directly from their ads; Google is planning to add voice capabilities to its email service. In fact the only thing that wasn't suggested was that Google might just be looking to save a few quid on its phone bills. Time will almost certainly tell.But what the rumour did make embarrassingly clear is that the UK is really, really dragging its feet when it comes to VoIP. The worst offender is BT which as recently as November of last year made the incredible statement that it "sees VoIP as an opportunity not a threat". Wow, no kidding. I'm really looking forward to hearing the horse and cart industry's statement on the threat posed by the motor car. Of course VoIP is a threat to BT's business - it allows customers to make cheap, or even free, calls across the country and around the world. And that's exactly why BT should be taking aggressive steps now to grab as much of the market as it possibly can. Has it learnt nothing from its late-90s Luddism when   it hesitated for far too long before widely promoting its broadband service because it was worried about damaging its lucrative ISDN business? The result was that broadband just got on with becoming a massive success without BT's help, forcing it to play catch-up with its more forward-thinking rivals.And sure enough, as BT timidly dips its toes into the VoIP water, other providers such as the AmericanSkype.comare soaking up market share like a sponge. Skype is a PC-based VoIP service that allows users to call other Skype users for free and also to call many non-VoIP phones in the UK (and beyond) thanks to deals with companies such as Cable &amp; Wireless. To be fair to BT, it does offer a similar service - BT Communicator, which is essentially a version of Yahoo! messenger with enhanced voice features - but it feels depressingly like a sop to the early adopters and something that BT would rather that no one else found out about, lest they start saving money on their phone bills.The simple fact is that, 15 years or so from now, VoIP will be the technology that the vast majority of people in the UK use to make telephone calls. As broadband becomes a standard feature in homes - like electricity - it will make perfect sense to plug a phone or two into your home network, especially if it gives you free calls and a host of advanced calling features. BT has the opportunity, if it acts right now, of making that market its own. Rivals such as Telewest and NTL are starting to take their first baby steps into the area but none of the big telcos have really grabbed the bull by the horns and put VoIP at the heart of their plans.I'm certain, if it really put its mind to it, BT could form a partnership with a handset manufacturer and produce a proper plug and play VoIP service that cuts out the need for PCs and special software and could be forcefully promoted as the future of low-cost telephony. But the more BT and the rest of the big telecoms treat VoIP like a geeky fad, or something that should be hidden away, the more likely it is that a service such as Skype is going to take all their customers and future profitability.Come to think of it, maybe that was Google's plan. Maybe it was just making noises about entering the VoIP market in the hope that it would scare the big telcos into taking the technology seriously before an international rival shows them up. Maybe right now there's a boardroom full of BT execs saying "Oh God, we have to go big on VoIP right now. We owe it to ourselves, our shareholders and above all our customers to get this right - even if it does mean losing a few quid on call charges in the short term." Yeah. And maybe somewhere in Apple HQ there's a foetus wearing tiny white headphones and listening to Hey Ya.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of The Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk)
"A man charged with stalking his ex-girlfriend by attaching a global positioning system to her car was sentenced to 16 months in state prison, prosecutors said," reportsAP."Authorities contended that Gabrielyan attached a cell phone to the woman's car on Aug. 16 with a motion switch that turned on when the car moved, transmitting a signal each minute to a satellite. Information was then sent to a Web site that allowed Gabrielyan to monitor the woman's location."The woman learned how Gabrielyan was following her when she discovered him under her car attempting to change the cell phone's battery, police said."
Bite-sized gamesblog for your weekend pleasure.MondayDo game designers burn out like rock stars?Lower standardsTuesdayQuick mobile gaming round-upBeyond breakupDreamcast lives! Kind of.WednesdayA few forthcoming games-related eventsDS in EuropeThursdayMacrospace on Speed(ball)A video game is purchased every eight secondsDS launch detailsNintendo in ParisFridayLearning from games and games in learningPSP vs iTunes
"Verizon Communications on Friday said it will use Microsoft software to power its television service over fiber-optic lines. The service is slated for release this year. The agreement will give subscribers to Fios -- the broadband video service Verizon will launch later this year -- an interface to surf channels, record programs digitally and access shows on demand. Verizon plans to offer cable TV-like services through Fios, which will pipe in high-definition video, high-speed Internet access and eventually phone calls over a speedy fiber-optic line," reportsCNet."The deal is a boon for Microsoft, which has aggressively courted cable companies and the Baby Bell phone giants to use its Microsoft TV software. In November, SBC Communications agreed to pay $400 million to use Microsoft TV for its own fiber-based video service, U-verse, slated for release in the latter half of this year. In January, BellSouth began trials of Microsoft TV for its own video service."Comment:SBC made an impact with its demo of Microsoft IP TV duringBill Gates's keynoteat the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this month.
"Microsoft has agreed to rename the new slimmed-down version of Windows it's preparing to release in Europe, after antitrust regulators there balked at the title," reportsCNet."Microsoft announced last month that it intended to use the name 'Windows XP Reduced Media Edition' for the program, which has, by order of the European Commission, been stripped of the Media Player that's usually included."The commission was concerned the name would undermine its order by turning consumers off to the new version of Windows and prompting them to stay with the current version, according to reports. So Microsoft is ditching the name and is now busy coming up with a new one, Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said Friday."As the article notes: "the new version of Windows won't be able to do things such as play a CD or MP3 file or transfer music to a portable device -- at least not without additional software from another company."Comment:Microsoft Windows Clueless European Dorks Edition would be a suitable and accurate name, but anything remotely accurate is unlikely to satisfy the sort of bureaucrats who came up with this pointless and stupid idea in the first place. Maybe Microsoft should hold a competition so users can make suggestions....
"Parent File Scan software lets parents check their children's computers for peer-to-peer programs. It will also list all movie and music files they have on their hard drive. Parents then have the choice to remove programs and files," reportsBBC News."But some computer users who had tested the latest software reported on some technology sites that the program had identified Windows default wav files as copyrighted material and wanted to delete them."
Better late than never dept: "In a surprise announcement today [Tuesday] Sun said that it is going to give open source developers who get involved in the new open source Solaris project free access to 1,673 active Solaris-related patents that it holds. The move is an effort to tickle open source participation in Sun's efforts to establish its operating system as an open source alternative to Linux," reportsLinux Business Week."By access, Sun means that the patents will only be available to open source developers who are working on OpenSolaris under the company's newfangled Common Development and Distribution License or CDDL (say cuddle). CDDL forbids blending Solaris with Linux or any GPL code."According toLinux World: The Public Patent Foundation (PUBPAT) yesterday sent Sun Microsystems Chairman and CEO, Scott McNealy, an open letter about the announcement earlier this week that Sun was granting the open source software community access to more than 1,600 patents.""In Sun's announcement," added [Daniel Ravicher, executive director of PubPat], "they make sweeping statements about how the open source community will immediately gain access to 1,600 active Sun patents for operating systems, but the legal nitty-gritty behind the announcement shows that Sun has retained the right to aim its entire patent portfolio at GNU/Linux or any other free and open source operating system, except, of course, for their soon to be released version of Solaris."Comment:Sun got a lot of good press for this move. However, as far as I can see, the deal amounts to this:Work for us for free on OpenSolaris and we won't sue you for the inevitable patent infringement. I can't see anything either surprising or out of character about that.
Godzilla: Save The EarthXBoxSince releasing travesties like The Matrix and Driv3r that were hyped and sold as triple-A titles while obviously falling below any kind of quality control standard, Atari - like Midway - have become known for reliably producing consistently dreadful software. Godzilla: Save The Earth and its low-budget, mud-coloured bestiary seems an obvious addition to    this litany of disaster, yet plodding around its miniature cityscapes while pummelling the likes of Mothra, Rodan and Megalon is actually a bit of short-lived, throwaway fun. In single player, enemies are extremely vulnerable to cowardly repeated use of a single move, but it's not the void of dullness you might expect.&#183;Atari, £40Call Of Duty: Finest HourXBoxUntil the original Medal Of Honor sold very large quantities at retail, games based on the second world war were something of a rarity. Now you can hardly move for opportunities to fight them on the beaches, although that's not to say all Nazi-blitzing simulators are equal. While the Medal Of Honor series has suffered a steady decline in quality, Call Of Duty has an enviably blemish-free    reputation, which is why its emergence on console has been anticipated so keenly. While true to the grittiness of its PC-only precursors, the spark is missing, especially in comparison to other (admittedly non-period) shooters like Halo 2 or the unalloyed joy of forthcoming wild western bounty-'em-up, Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath.&#183;Activision, £40The Legend Of Zelda: Four SwordsGamecubeRole-playing games have an unhappy but perfectly understandable association with social rejects and those who wear T-shirts reading "404 - slogan not found". In an attempt to broaden their appeal, recent years have seen additions to the genre that do not require long periods of painstaking dice-rolling and the use of telephone directory-sized instruction    books. From its antique 8-bit beginnings, The Legend Of Zelda series is a shining example of an accessible role-playing game, and Four Swords adds the ability to co-operate with three friends, even if hooking up all four of you via a Game Boy Advance link cable may be asking a lot of your friends' devotion to Nintendo hardware.&#183;Nintendo, £40
The makers of a DVD warning children about internet paedophiles today admitted they did not get the consent of all of the victims in the real life case the film portrays.The producers of the film, Childnet International - an internet safety charity - and Lancashire police, had the consent of a teenage girl sexually assaulted by a man of 50 who befriended her through internet chat, but they did not seek consent from any of the paedophile's other known victims.The children's charity NCH expressed concern that the other victims could be traumatised by seeing the film, Jenny's Story, which is intended as an educational resource for secondary schools.Shaun Kelly, a spokesman for NCH, said there was a risk the other victims would recognise that the film, which describes the case as involving "a number of young girls", was about their abuser and be traumatised.He said: "There is a big issue about informed consent. The other victims may be able to identify themselves. Has the ... impact watching this film might have on them been addressed? There is a risk of trauma."John Carr, NCH's internet adviser, said: "Victims of child sex abuse need help, protection and support, not proxy exposure through videos. The police owe a heavy duty of care to every victim of crime whose case they investigate. That duty of care is particularly acute where the victim is a sexually abused child."Huge ethical issues arise whenever child victims are to be used as part of any kind of promotional activity ...&#91;I&#93;n this case, we are far from satisfied that those ethical issues have been adequately addressed, not only in relation to 'Jenny' but also in relation to a number of other girls who were victims of the same man, who abused them using similar methods."Mr Carr contended that it would have been more appropriate to have made a film based on a composite of several real life cases.But Childnet International said its research found children would take more notice of a film about the dangers of giving out personal information to strangers they befriend online if it was based on a real life case study.The film portrays how a girl of 13 - given the pseudonym Jenny - was groomed by a man of 50 via a real-time live internet chat service known as instant messenger.It explains how the paedophile pretended to be a female model and persuaded the girl to undress in front of a webcam and give out her mobile phone number. Then, posing as a modelling agent, he threatened to publish the webcam pictures online before getting the girl to reveal her home address. He then went to her house and assaulted her.The paedophile was caught by Lancashire police when another of his victims came forward. He was jailed last July for 11 years, placed on the sex offenders register and banned from future contact with children.The chief executive of Childnet International, Stephen Carrick-Davies, said: "While there were a number of young people involved in different cases over a period of time, there were distinct differences in what happened to this victim. We established very carefully the consent from the young woman ... The part is played by an actress in the film, and there's no reference to where she's from. Her anonymity was protected."The police felt it was not necessary or appropriate to seek out every single other young person involved in the different cases. There could have been a real risk of revictimisation, causing anxiety, and how do you know that you have spoken to everyone?"But Mr Carrick-Davies said that changes could still be made to the film.Detective Inspector Neil Hunter, head of the public protection unit of Lancashire police, which investigated the case, said: "We have to strike a balance between the low risk of the victim being identified and the enormous benefits of this film. We cannot provide zero risk, but there's very low potential for the victim to be identified. These types of offences may have multiple victims. These victims don't even know each other - and she &#91;"Jenny"&#93; didn't give evidence."The DVD and accompanying teaching resources have been piloted in 12 secondary schools in Lancashire. Of the pupils who saw the film, 80% said it would make them change their behaviour online. The film will be made available to all secondary schools in Lancashire and offered to all police forces in England and Wales.
According to astoryon Gamesindustrybiz.com today, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe is planning a music download service for PSP owners. Due for launch in the Summer, the site will initially offer game updates, before moving onto music files and eventually movies. Users would presumably pay for each MP3 download via credit card, as with Apple's iTunes service.Of course, this is something we've all been expecting, and makes a lot of sense if Sony is serious about pushing PSP as a multimedia player rather than 'just' a games machine. The company is also hoping that music and movie publishers release their wares on UMDs, but negotiations are still going on, with worries about piracy and the size of the market no doubt stalling things.The big question is, are people really into convergence? Will PSP users be willing to rely on this one machine for all their entertainment needs, or will they be happy to take a PSP and an iPod around with them? Certainly, PSP can't compete with the storage capacity of iPod, or other high-end dedicated music players. The largest Memory Stick Duo available for PSP at the moment is 1GB, falling short of even the iPod Mini.However, for those who don't feel the need to take 20,000 songs with them where ever they go, PSP is going to be a great back-up music player - which also plays astonishing games (Christ, have you seen Ridge Racer?), and movies.Anyway, back to Ridge Racer. If you haven't played it yet, I feel a little sorry for you. With great cars, gorgeous powerslides and perfectly realised circuits, it's a real treat for fans of the series. In a lot of ways it reminds me of the best of the lot - Ridge Racer Type 4 - requiring the exact same mix of discipline and bravado. And the visuals are lovely. Erm, what was I saying about music downloads?
I start with 7 card stud onwww.PokerRoom.com. I head straight for the 50c limit table and within 10 minutes I am down $5 (&#163;2.60), feel sick as a dog and have a tension headache you could sell to science. Amarillo Slim can sleep soundly still. If I were playing with my own money, I'd be having convulsions. Fortunately, the Guardian has given me &#163;100 (which translates as $188, as I'm using an American site) with the proviso that any profits should be fought over in an unseemly manner tomorrow.I spend another 10 minutes alternating between cold   sweats and endorphin rushes before deciding thata) journalistic duty demands that I engineer some more dramatic results andb) if I'm going to suffer such violent internal traumas, I may as well try to make some decent money.The first attraction of online gambling reveals itself: no-one can see my shaking hands as I seat myself at a Texas Hold'em table where bets of - steady yourselves -$3-$6 must be placed. I've heard of the game before but never seen it played. But the second attraction of the online method is that you can sit in   on the action without being intimidated by contemptuous looks and work out the rudiments before you start slinging money on the table.Or you can get bored, pitch in and hope for the best. This results in an average loss of about $14 a hand, which is due partly to my inexperience, impatience and mathematical ineptitude and partly to my predilection for inventing backstories for other players instead of noting that there are three other kings already on view, rendering it unlikely that I will get one to pair with mine in the next round.Cards are altogether too   much for me, although again I can see that the sweet anonymity of the internet and a low-betting table could be the perfect way of learning the subtleties and dispelling that out-of-control feeling that is currently dilating my blood vessels and raising my adrenaline.I cash in $10 at the roulette wheel. On the first few spins I win nothing but on the third - oh, frabjous day - I rake in $35! All of a sudden I am Bret Maverick, Beau Nash and James Bond all rolled into one. So it's on to Black Jack, where I lose $40 in five minutes.Slot machines are boring, so I lose $10 there as fast as possible and return to the poker tables. I've never tried the Omaha version, so I pull up a chair and beginner's luck nets me an easy $50.So I'm back, roughly, where I started. Another attempt to beat the bank at Black Jack fails miserably, and a few quick hands back at Texas Hold'em (for old time's sake) before I have to get back to work results in a final overall loss of $112, or &#163;60, whichever is less galling. It's an expensive way to induce a migraine, if you ask me.
We all hate spam. It's the bane of our lives.But sometimes (only sometimes) spam messages do raise a smile among the jaded recipients: either when they're from ridiculously-named senders - Billy E Delicious, Victoria P Lightly etc - or when they just hit you as plain ridiculous.Scanning the Online mailbox today, I came across a little number that had me sniggering to myself, admittedly for no good reason.We have learned from the Internet that you are interested in tents. We have been in the tent manufacturing business for many years and are currently in the process of expanding and our customer base. We are quite excited about contacting you and the potential for establishing friendly business relations with you as well as sharing the mutual benefits.Excited? You bet. Tents have always been my big thing. I'm glad you used the internet to alert me to this remarkable opportunity.Still, though I may chuckle, someone out there will respond positively to a message like this - it's that person that the spammer relies upon.Even though sometimes it raises a titter on a grey day, I can't say I'll miss spam when it's gone - if that ever really happens.
1.Need for Speed: Underground 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.The Simpsons: Hit and Run4.The Incredibles5.Fifa 20056.Pro Evolution Soccer 47.Prince of Persia: Warrior Within8.Football Manager 20059.Sonic Heroes10.Call of Duty: Finest HourLeisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (C)2001ELSPA(UK) Ltd
The creator of the world wide web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, has been named Great Briton 2004, it was announced yesterday.The physicist, who wrote the first web browser, was chosen as the winner at an awards ceremony at the Royal Courts of Justice in London last night.Sir Tim beat 21 other public figures shortlisted from the arts, science and innovation, business, public service, campaigning, creative industries and sports to win.A panel of judges not only assessed achievements in their fields in 2004 but also looked at to what extent they embodied the key characteristics of Britishness, including modesty, determination and a sense of humour.Sir Tim, now at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, earned the &#163;25,000 prize in large part for his modesty. Despite his central role in the creation of the world wide web, he gave away his browser and web software for free over the internet and has since campaigned to ensure that the web will never be privately owned.Six other individual winners will each receive &#163;3,000. They are the designer Sir Paul Smith (business); Jane Tomlinson (campaigner); architect Lord Norman Foster (creative industries); journalist Lord Bill Deedes (public service); Dame Kelly Holmes (sport); and Philip Pullman (arts).Asked about his award, the writer, former teacher and winner of the Whitbread prize in 2002, Mr Pullman said: "I feel rather shifty about it because I've never thought that what I do is about me."He added: "It's about my work. I would love to be thought of as writing great books, but I am not great."Lord Foster, whose company, Foster &amp; Partners, completed its latest project, the Millau viaduct in southern France, to world acclaim in December, said: "I am very honoured and absolutely delighted. This is wonderful news for architecture."Thousands of people were nominated by the public when polling opened on the Great Britons website in November.A final judging panel which included Dr David Starkey, the historian, the dancer Darcy Bussell and Lord Waheed Alli, decided on the winner in each category and then selected the overall winner.
David Buckingham from theInstitute of Educationintroduced theDigiplaylecture series today with a fantastic overview of the theories of learning that come into play when discussing games in education. He argues that the problem with many of the approaches, from the "Monkey See, Monkey Do" attitudes of the behaviourists to the "brain workout in the game gym" views of the cognitivists, is the assumption that there's a kind of leap across the "species barrier". They imply is that what's learned in games immediately and unthinkingly crosses into the real world. This is the argument that feeds the moral panics that are rife in media cultures, but has also nourishes an increasing abundance of funding from policy bodies around the world.Underlying the issue of bringing games into the classroom is the assumption that teachers aren't doing a good job now – that the traditional methods of learning are dull, lifeless and hard work. He cautions that a leap into the digital interactive world for teachers may both confound them (due to a knowledge gap) and give them more work than they already have – it's a difficult and demanding process to glean the learning from games.Tim Dubmleton fromBECTA, the organisation charged with advising the teaching force on ICT in the classroom, highlights that the research that's been done with off-the-shelf products like The Sims and Age of Empires indicates that these games –originally built with entertainment in mind - are crowbarred into a curriculum without considering the difference between bad and good design issues. While these particular titles do have positive repercussions for education, the important question is what it is about these games that works in both contexts, and how to incorporate these aspects into educational games.Ah, educational games. As Buckingham suggests, Will Wright may be aware that The Sims is a good tool for learning about social systems and social relations, but it's unlikely that the marketers are going to push that argument on the billboards. "Edutainment" has been plagued with economic constraints which translate into products in which play is only the reward for learning. Ultimately, the kids who play these games learn to take the sugar and leave the "bitter pill".So should traditional digital entertainment be incorporated into the classroom, bloodlust and "fantasmagoria" and all? I expect a few issues with that prospect. However, properly incorporating them into a curriculum and using them as educational aids is an option. Highlighting historically incorrect content is another. Considering them as texts, like some cultural and media studies departments do with Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Citizen Kane, is something that's already been done. But again, there are still a lot of issues, from knowledge to gender to the actual educational content of a game like GTA: San Andreas.As Buckingham argues, a lot of learning can be done through play, but not all play is learning. More soon. The day has barely just begun!
"The entertainment industry has rounded up dozens of allies to persuade the U.S. Supreme Court to hold Internet file-trading services responsible when users copy songs and movies without permission," reportsReuters."The U.S. government, 40 states and territories, and outside groups from the National Football League to the Christian Coalition of America asked the Supreme Court on Monday to hold services like Grokster and Morpheus accountable for the millions of copyrighted files traded over their networks."USA Todaysays: "Among those who filed briefs: The Eagles, the Dixie Chicks, Bonnie Raitt, Sheryl Crow, Stevie Nicks, Tom Jones and Beach Boys founder Brian Wilson. 'There is no more important case for the future of our business,' said Don Henley of the Eagles. 'These systems promote copyright violations on an unprecedented scale'."The Electronic Frontier Foundation EFF is defending StreamCast Networks, the company behind the Morpheus peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing software, in the case,which will go before the Supreme Court of the United States on March 29. See the EFF page,MGM v Grokster, for details.
The world's biggest online poker company yesterday said it may float on the London stock exchange as new figures suggested that 80% of Europe's internet gamblers are British, and roughly a third of those are women.The possible flotation would provide an insight into the fortunes being made by internet gambling companies, mostly from offshore tax havens.City analysts have already put a rough value of &#163;3bn on PartyGaming, owner of the Party Poker website. That would mean the Gibraltar-based operation is worth more than many established companies, such as British Airways, ICI and EMI.PartyGaming's announcement that it had appointed two investment banks as advisers, a common prelude to flotation, coincided with a survey claiming that almost 4 million people in Britain use the internet for betting.The YouGov research, foruswitch.com, suggested that 30%-40% of British players are female and that 14% are aged 18-29. That supports anecdotal evidence that women and students are among the most enthusiastic recruits to poker, the fastest-growing area of online gambling.Party Poker itself accounts for more than half the worldwide poker market. It claims that 65,000 people, mostly Americans, play simultaneously on its site at peak hours. The group yesterday declined to give details of its financial performance, but it is understood to have made operating profits of about $350m (&#163;185m) last year. Bankers suggest it is targeting $500m-$600m for this year.Poker websites make their money by collecting a "rake" from each pot, usually 1%-3% of the cash in that pot. The research group River City calculated last month that such revenues from the world's 200-plus poker websites now approach $2bn a year. It believes some 1.5 million people play poker online regularly for real money and that the number is growing by 100,000 a month.Nigel Payne, the chief executive of Sportingbet, which last year paid $297m for the rival website Paradise Poker and saw its own share price double, said the estimates of Party Poker's profits seemed accurate. "The industry is enormous. The profits of the industry are enormous and over the next few years people are going to realise just how big it is," he said.Paradise Poker's sale made &#163;150m for its creators, three Canadian computer engineers who insisted on anonymity, and more may follow, depending on the site's future performance.A flotation by PartyGaming would dwarf those sums. The company is owned by a handful of individuals, including   Ruth Parasol, an American lawyer who made her first fortune in pornographic websites before establishing Party Poker in 1997.The company is targeting London for a stock market listing because the legality of online gambling in the US is unclear. The US forbids gambling across state lines and so all the big online sites base themselves in territories such as Belize, Costa Rica, Gibraltar   and the Dutch Antilles. Sportingbet is hoping that PartyGaming's transformation into a public company would trigger better regulation."We are concerned about children, excessive betting and   addiction. It is too big for it not to be regulated, but it has got to be regulated properly," Mr Payne said.The government's gambling bill proposes licensing online gambling sites, but has had a   largely hostile reaction from operators. They complain the draft legislation is too concerned with the definition of terms such as "computer equipment" and does not understand their businesses.
Microsoft last night reported better than expected second quarter profits on the back of higher demand for personal computers and strong sales of its much anticipated video game, Halo 2.The company posted profits of $3.46bn (&#163;1.83bn), compared with $1.55bn a year ago, when the company took a large charge related to employee share options. Revenues climbed from $10.15bn to $10.82bn.Microsoft's Windows and Office software divisions still accounted for about $6bn of group revenues in the quarter and about 96% of operating profits.The performance of Halo 2, however, has raised strong hopes that the next generation of Microsoft's Xbox video games console will make a strong debut later this year. The video game unit posted its first profit during the quarter of $84m, compared with losses of $397m last year.The MSN internet business also turned a profit during the quarter. It made $130m against a loss of $95m.Microsoft is forecasting that PC sales will increase this year by between 13% and 15%.
"Online journals and camera phones are a 'paedophiles' dream' which have increased the risk to children, the Scottish Parliament has been warned," says aBBC Newsreport.Rachel O'Connell said adults could use weblogs to learn about children.Dr O'Connell said that the emergence of moblogs - mobile weblogs - allowed even faster transfer of pictures to the internet using mobile telephones with cameras.She said: "This is just a paedophile's dream because you have children uploading pictures, giving out details of their everyday life because it's an online journal."The psychologist, whose research and work with police and other agencies has included posing as a child on internet newsgroups, said predatory adults could use an RSS feeder program - a syndication tool - to be instantly e-mailed any picture when it was added to a blogging site."The parameters of grooming are now about to alter whereby they don't necessarily have to have contact with the child," she said.
According toBoingBoing:"A Londonder made a tsnuami-relief donation using lynx -- a text-based browser used by the blind, Unix-users and others -- on Sun's Solaris operating system. The site-operator decided that this 'unusual' event in the system log indicated a hack-attempt, and the police broke down the donor's door and arrested him."BoingBoing then quotes an unknown mailing list on the details, and gives a link to a not-very-usefulBBC Newsreport.Be interesting to see if this ever makes it to court, as it could expose what appear to be previously unsuspected levels of incompetence and stupidity.
"Microsoft Corp., the world's largest software maker, said second-quarter profit doubled on lower stock- based compensation costs. Sales growth declined to 6.5 percent as demand slowed for Windows and Office," reportsBloomberg."Net income rose to $3.46 billion, or 32 cents a share, from $1.55 billion, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the Redmond, Washington-based company said today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sales rose to $10.8 billion, beating the $10.6 billion estimate of 22 analysts polled by Thomson Financial."Comment: Microsoft's second quarter 10-Q SEC filing ishere.
"Consensus among industry observers is that Google's offering is quite limited in scope and functionality, compared with similar competing free consumer services from players such as Yahoo, America Online, and Blinkx. However, pundits also point out that the Google offering is, within its narrow scope, useful and that the company is likely to improve and expand it quickly," reportsIDG News Service."This is interesting but not earth-shattering compared to what else is already out there," says Gary Price, news editor of SearchEngineWatch.com and editor of ResourceShelf.com. "However, it's important to say that Google works fast and that what's available on Monday could be different by Tuesday."
Today's DS press conference in Paris was interesting, not only because of thelaunch and price details, but for the tone too. There was an apologetic realisation from Nintendo that they have treated Europe badly in the past - late release dates, poor conversions - and that things needed to change. "Europe is our fastest growing market", said Satoru Iwata, Nintendo's president. His attendance alone highlighted the new importance Nintendo are placing on Europe. But there was more than that. A video history of the Game Boy, intended to inform and impress, merely highlighted how nervous Nintendo is of the PSP threat. It showed that there was only a one year gap between the Game Boy Advance SP and the new DS, compared to a three year gap between Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance. There's little doubt that the hasty arrival of the DS was due to Sony's arrival in the marketplace. So it's credit to Nintendo then that the DS offers innovation, rather than just a simple beefing up of graphics and sound.Another common thread throughout the presentation concerned opening up the market. Various speakers mentioned the DS helping designers create games that get the whole family to play. But what they actually meant was getting more women playing. Nintendo have been shouting loudly about thebroad appeal of the DSand personal evidence suggests that the touch screen and simplistic mini-games of Mario DS do appeal to more casual gamers. Nintendo are obviously keen to advance this area, showing games like WarioWare (180 seemingly banal minigames that are easy to pick up and highly addictive). A video showed similarly inclusive games like the virtual pet sim Nintendogs (the title, thankfully, should change)But traditional Nintendo fans weren't forgotten. The first ever live showing of the multiplayer Mario Kart DS was the highlight of the presentation and proved that wireless gaming is a real draw. There was even the odd whoop, which would have pleased gregarious Euro Marketing Director Jim Merrick.Whichever way you look at it, £99 (149.99 euros) is a good price for the DS. But then it has to be. Sony's PSP is on the horizon and, while it won't offer the innovations of the DS, it will certainly triumph in looks and desirability. As Apple has shown, looks ARE everything. But those who see beyond the cheap ugly styling of the DS will find games that try to offer something different. Whether it's Project Rub's breathing and touching, or WarioWare's frantic anarchy, the DS offers a unique gaming proposition. Today in Paris Nintendo threw down the gauntlet. I can't wait to see how Sony responds.
Nintendo's DS will launch in Europe on March 11th for a price of £99. There are 15 games available for launch, which is a lot compared to other Nintendo launches. The games include the excellent Super Mario DS and WarioWare Touched, as well as third party titles like Spider-Man 2 (Activision) and, more interestingly, Project Rub (Sega). The press conference has just finished - am off now to check out some of the launch titles. More impressions later.
In the US in 2004, a video game was purchased every eight seconds.So claim theElectronic Software Association(ESA) in the States, a trade body similar to the UK'sEntertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association.Egads, that's a lot of computer games! It's also a very popular figure. Other things that happen every eight seconds:• Every eight seconds a newblogdebuts • Every eight seconds a child dies from drinkingcontaminated water• Every eight seconds a car isstolen• Every eight seconds men think aboutsex(or 15 seconds, three minutes, seven seconds) • Every eight seconds aburglaryhappens in the US • Every eight seconds a child dies fromhunger-related causes • Every eight seconds afog hornblows where Thelly and Ritchie had their honeymoon • Every eight seconds someone in America turns50• Every eight seconds the UCC Green School usesone kilowattof energy • Every eight seconds there's abirthin the US • Every eight seconds someone needsblood• Every eight seconds anotheracreof land is cleared • Every eight seconds a childdrops outof school • Every eight seconds theAAanswers a call about a car breakdownCatchy.
Police and child protection experts today launched a groundbreaking film warning children of the risks posed by internet paedophiles.The video, made for secondary schools, is the first to educate children about the dangers of chatting with and meeting strangers they befriend online by using a real life case study of internet child abuse.The film, Jenny's Story, was produced by Lancashire constabulary and the internet safety charity Childnet International in a bid to deter teenagers from giving out personal details while chatting online.It portrays how a 13-year-old girl - given the pseudonym Jenny - was groomed by a paedophile via a real-time live internet chat service known as instant messenger.Posing as a modelling agent, the 50-year-old man persuaded the girl to undress in front of a webcam and then sexually assaulted her. He also threatened to publish the images online if she told anyone.The paedophile was caught by Lancashire police when another of his victims came forward. He was jailed last July for 11 years, placed on the sex offenders register and banned from future contact with children.The video and accompanying teaching resources have been piloted in 12 secondary schools in Lancashire. Around 80% of the pupils who saw the film said it had challenged them to modify their own online behaviour, according to Childnet International.The charity's chief executive, Stephen Carrick-Davies, said: "Recent research has revealed that whilst the level of awareness of the dangers &#91;of the internet&#93; in the UK amongst young people is high, this awareness does not correlate with a change of behaviour with children still giving out personal information over the internet."Young people themselves ... told us that real stories from their peers would influence them more than any other awareness campaign. This is being borne out by those who have already used this resource in schools."Allison Wilkinson, head of Citizenship at Rhyddings high school in Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, said: "I had a very positive experience delivering this video and the resources to all my classes. The students liked the fact that it was a true story but it was handled sensitively and not frightening."Home Office minister Paul Goggins, chairman of the government's taskforce on internet child protection, said the video would help "the ever-growing number of children using the internet in the UK stay safe".He said: "This powerful film will help young people to see the potential dangers of talking to strangers over the internet, and it is particularly good that the accompanying resources help teachers practically to explore the safety issues and equip young people with the skills and strategies they need to be safe in this new online world."The film will be made available to all secondary school in Lancashire and offered to all police forces in England and Wales.
BAFTA award nomineeMacrospace has been telling me about its line-up of forthcoming Java titles. First up, the company is putting the finishing touches to Ancient Empires 2, the sequel to last year'sexcellent RPG strategy title. It'll feature the same bunch of characters in a new quest with new units including dragons, and you'll be able to download extra levels as you go. It's due out in March.Card games are proving pretty popular on mobile at the moment, and Macrospace is getting in there with its own contender, Black Jack Hustler. Unlike most straightforward sims, this one has a story mode in which you're a professional gambler travelling around a city unlocking new contests to get involved in - sort of like Need For Speed 2 Underground, but with playing cards.Finally, the company has finished its Java conversion of legendary Bitmap Brothers sci-fi sports titleSpeedball, and is already working on Speedball 2 which will feature a Bluetooth two-player mode. The developer is now considering other Bitmap Brothers titles for conversion - the fantastically stylish steam punk shooter, Chaos Engine, being a current favourite...Oh and Macrospace's 2D shoot 'em up, Fatal Force, has been chosen as the pre-installed game for O2's X4 3G handset launched today. More on that later...
Over at techie blog Engadget, they've got an article onhow to turn your Mac mini into a media centre.Essentially, it's that you should set up a big fileserver, run the display out to your TV, hook the audio up to your hi-fi and run the computer remotely from another machine using virtual networking. Which is fine... and, well, there's no reason that shouldn't work, but why on earth should it be so awkward?Once you've factored in all the costs and are using various bits of hardware (perhaps something fromElgato) to get around the fact that it's not really built for this kind of thing, wouldn't it have just been cheaper to buy something else?If you want a Mac mini to be your media hub, chances are it's because it's small and dinky and looks more like a space-age waffle toaster than a computer. But actually getting it to do those things makes it clunky, awkward and eradicates any savings you've made - and you'll need another computer to run the show anyway.Although I've said before that I'd have liked to see a Mac media hub, this just isn't it.
The UK's five mobile phone networks are being pressed to make more use of local newspapers to publicise their plans to place masts within local communities.A new report by Deloitte, commissioned by the networks, also recommends that representatives of the companies, or their agent who finds mast sites, should attend the local authority planning meeting at which applications are discussed. This only happens in 6% of cases.In its second report into how the industry deals with planning for new masts, published today, Deloitte examined 455 planning-case files. It found that in general the industry follows guidelines set by Sir William Stewart, of the National Radiological Protection Board, who published his first report into mobile phones and health almost five years ago.Deloitte made its first independent report on the so-called 10 commitments to best-siting practice accepted by the networks in 2003. Mike Dolan, head of the Mobile Operators Association, the industry body that commissioned the report, said: "During the past two years the operators have demonstrated marked improvement in a range of key areas related to consultation with local planning authorities and local communities on base-station siting."The latest report shows that the networks are getting better at discussing with local planning officers why they want masts in certain areas and highlighting contentious sites where the public's views will need to be canvassed.But when it comes to notifying the public of these plans, the report found a reliance on local authorities writing to residents. This happened in 46% of contentious planning applications in 2004. Just 4% of contentious planning applications, however, were publicised through notices in the press - half the figure in Deloitte's first report."Consideration should be given to increasing the use of the local press as a media for communicating operating site plans to local communities," the report said.In Wales, the report said, neither mail shots nor the local press were used at all. Instead, the public were notified about proposed masts through notices placed on or around the site itself or through informal "drop-in" sessions.Informing the local community of plans to erect mobile phone masts is supposed to allow the public to get involved in the process before an application is made.
Video Networks has signed up 15,000 customers to its Home Choice on-demand television and high-speed internet service and says it will double the number of households in London that can receive its services by June.The announcements will be made today by Video Network's chief executive, Roger Lynch, at a Paris conference. It is the culmination of two years of work by Mr Lynch and the management, who took over the failing service in 2002.Home Choice is available to 1.2m homes in London, all in areas where the company has added equipment and dedicated fibre lines to BT's infrastructure to deliver television, telephone and high-speed internet services via a subscriber's telephone connection into the back of their TV set.By June, 2.4m homes are expected to be able to subscribe. Mr Lynch said Home Choice was already taking a 20% share of new subscribers in London against AOL Broadband, Wanadoo and BT Yahoo!"Considering we only put our new marketing in place in September, to get one in five of the new subscribers is pretty good, I think," said Mr Lynch.The roll-out follows last week's launch of on-demand TV by the UK's two cable operators: ntl and Telewest in Glasgow and Bristol respectively.
One of the great tragedies of British broadcasting has been the way digital television via cable has lagged behind its satellite rival. The two British cable companies - NTL and Telewest - could offer customers all kinds of innovations. Yet, largely because of the precarious financial position they found themselves in several years ago, neither has been able to deliver groundbreaking services.Until now, that is. With whispers of a merger on the cards, the two companies last week played their trump cards. They announced the impending roll-out of video-on-demand services, while Telewest also committed to launching a Sky+ style hard disk-based personal video recorder and developing high definition TV.It is video on demand, though, that has excited the broadcasting industry. Essentially, the service enables customers to choose from a series of films and premium TV programmes and start playing them when they want. Sky only has a near video- on-demand offering, in which films start at half-hour intervals.Telewest rolls out its service in Bristol this month, with NTL premiering the facility in Glasgow. Both hope to offer video on demand to all by the end of next year.So is it cable's killer application, the service that will enable it to compete fully with Sky? Toby Hack, head of OMDtvi at media agency OMD UK, has no doubt about it. "This is the start of the next phase in the evolution of TV: viewer choice TV. With a different product available to substantial numbers of viewers for the first time, cable can finally make its mark. This is a real point of difference between it and Sky and Freeview."Theresa Wise, a partner in Accenture's media and entertainment practice, agrees, arguing that "true video on demand can deliver a competitive advantage over Sky - providing the content is powerful, the pricing attractive and the customer experience as near to plug and play as possible".But for how long will video on demand remain unique to cable companies (and broadband TV company HomeChoice)? A slew of media companies is already looking to IPTV - video streamed via broadband to homes - as the way premium television content could be distributed. Chris Gorog, the chief executive of Napster, this week talked up the possibility of offering video downloads to subscribers.The cable companies, with their huge bandwidth, could be in a strong position to offer IP video on demand services. "Of course we are considering video on demand via IP," says Telewest spokesman John Moorwood. "But for now the key is video on demand via TV, and probably will be for some time to come."
Napoleon learned the hard way: never underestimate the importance of geographical information. Tony Blair's campaign to reform government with the help of IT is still a long way from the Beresina ice, but unless it wins a couple of key battles to do with spatial data, it could be heading in that direction.Almost everything the government does involves geographical data. Not just for deciding where to put a hospital - a local authority's everyday "customers" are just as likely to be geographical locations as people. (This is why many struggle to implement commercial customer-relationship software.)For agencies that compile and control it, geographical data is now a hot commercial asset. Hence the   passions aroused by two ridiculously long-running squabbles.One concerns the aspiration to create a reliable national list of addresses. Notoriously, Britain doesn't have one. Unlike, say, France (Napoleon again), British addresses exist in a world of jovial chaos. At least three agencies maintain national lists for their own purposes: the Post Office, the Ordnance Survey and local government. The Land Registry is also building up a complete online database of every property in the country. Anomalies abound. Many properties have more than one address, others have none. As a result, council taxes go uncollected and fire brigades waste vital minutes working out which particular Rose Cottage is ablaze.Almost everyone agrees a standard address database would   be good. However, an attempt to create a standard address set, Project Mosaic, collapsed last year. The basic problem is that agencies could not agree on intellectual property - everyone wants to own it and nobody wants to pay for it.The sight of public bodies behaving like over-tired three-year-olds is unedifying, but it is not really their fault. The Treasury requires organisations such as the Ordnance Survey to operate on a commercial footing and local authorities to shave their backroom budgets year-on-year. Altruism and cooperation are for wimps.Logical addressing isn't the only casualty of this mindset. Another is the delayed attempt to negotiate a national bulk deal for geographical data on behalf of local authorities. The Mapping Services Agreement is an excellent example   of the kind of cooperative purchasing envisaged by the government's efficiency review. Except that the procurement has been anything but efficient: it was supposed to have been agreed last March. Nearly a year on, the Ordnance Survey and the Local Government Information House, representing local authorities, are still quibbling over the small print.At one level, all this is a good sign. It means senior executives are beginning to realise the value of geographical data. But time is running out. The government has convened a geographical information panel and is asking Whitehall departments how much they would be prepared to pay for a decent address list. A good start, but you can't help feeling that Napoleon would have been a bit more decisive.
The &#163;6bn programme to modernise the NHS's computer systems is having a rocky month. The National Audit Office revealed that electronic booking, the programme's highest-profile component, is behind schedule. One finding grabbed the headlines: instead of the target of 205,000 bookings handled by the end of December, the new system carried only 63.To add to managers' embarrassment, two NHS organisations have broken away from the programme and decided to buy their own next-generation systems, rather than waiting for national IT to come along. Meanwhile, a simmering row with the company that supplies a majority of GP systems has deteriorated into a public trading of allegations.Elsewhere, the programme is having a new stab at its longest-running campaign - selling to 1m NHS employees and 50m patients in England. Fears are growing that a significant number of patients may exercise their right to opt out of having their health records shared across the new Care Records Service.This week, the Department of Health appointed a top public relations firm, Porter Novelli, at a "substantial six-figure sum", to help persuade patients that the new IT programme will be more secure than today's envelopes stuffed with paper.None of this is likely to deflect the government from its plan to create a joined-up system of electronic health records by 2010. However, it does dent the NHS's ambition to break the mould of government IT projects. The programme's head, Richard Granger, is expected to move on   following the likely general election in May. Questions are also being asked about whether major contractors signed up to unrealistic promises to meet political targets.The National Audit Office report gives a hint of the technical, organisational and cultural hurdles that the programme faces. It says electronic booking ran into delays because of an "intermittent fault" with logging on to the system, reluctance of new users to engage, the limited number of GP computers that are compliant and "the limited number of GPs who were willing to use the system in the first place".It also warns that the lack of agreement with the main supplier of GP   computers, Emis, puts the implementation of booking hospital appointments from doctors' desktops at risk. Emis is a privately held firm based in Leeds, claiming to supply systems used by 55% of GP practices. It was too small and specialised to bid as a prime contractor to the programme and has failed to reach agreements as a sub-contractor. Relations between the firm and the national programme deteriorated last month when it published a leaflet entitled "Fact not Fiction", correcting what it describes as "continuing misinformation".The national programme responded with a statement accusing Emis of providing "misleading"   information and pointing out that other independent suppliers have had no difficulty signing.One of the main reasons behind the national programme was to do away with the practice of every NHS organisation choosing its own IT, which was wasteful and created incompatabilities. However, at least two trusts have decided to break ranks with the new standardised approach: Sunderland primary care trust, which is advertising in the open market for bids to computerise 28 GP practices, and Wirral hospitals trust on Merseyside.Wirral attracted attention within the NHS because it was an IT pioneer. In the mid-1990s, it was one   of the first hospitals in the world where doctors prescribed drugs electronically - one of the national programme's central ambitions. However, Wirral's IBM mainframe-based technology is now obsolete and the national programme will not have a replacement with the same functionality until "after 2007".The national programme says Wirral is in a "unique position", but is worried about it setting a precedent. One of the difficulties of dealing with the NHS is that it does not work like a central government department - each hospital and GP practice believes itself to be unique.Although no one from the programme was available for interview, the view from inside is upbeat - the world's largest single civil IT procurement is still broadly on schedule. However, managers are aware that there is a tipping point in perception, beyond which a project becomes automatically labelled a disaster.The hope is that as new technology begins to be installed this spring, credibility will build. Much is resting on systems that display x-rays and other images on screen, which look good and save hospitals money.Another step will be taken when the NHS accepts it must go digital in the same way other industries have done, whatever the pain.One anonymous contributor to e-Health Insider, an online news service, sums up the mood: "When are we going to switch from whingeing 'Told you it was rubbish' mode, and just get on with it?"
Digital radioBe buggedRadio manufacturer Pure Digital is to deliver the first electronic programming guide (EPG) system for DAB digital radios. The free guide, available with its &#163;130 Bug model, works in a similar way to EPGs on digital TV boxes such as Sky+, enabling users to view short descriptions of upcoming programmes and then schedule timed recordings. For the Bug, transmissions are stored on a Secure Digital card. The Bug also lets users pause, rewind and record digital radio programmes. If the trial is successful, Pure Digital, along with its partners Unique Interactive and the BBC, will launch an enhanced version of the EPG later in the year.www.puredigital.comMobile phonesSweet touchFrance's Alcatel, which recently formed a partnership with leading Chinese phone manufacturer TCL, is once again targeting the UK mobile market. The OneTouch 756 high-end camera phone is now available on its website, and in a month will be sold through Virgin and The Carphone Warehouse. The small chocolate bar-style handset boasts a 262k colour screen, a VGA camera with an 8x zoom, video capture of up to 30 seconds and JPeg and Gif image format support. It also features MP3 ringtones, Java for downloading games and Wap and email compatibility. The triband handset, right, has a talk time of nine hours and standby of 250 hours.www.my-onetouch.comHardwareSling it hereSlingbox, the personal broadcasting device that enables viewers to stream the signal on their main TV to any broadband internet-connected PC, is heading for the UK. It works by connecting to any satellite receiver, cable decoder or Freeview box and then sending a compressed digital version of the analogue signal on the TV to a PC. According to its makers Slingmedia, the smallish box, which goes on sale in the US very shortly for $250 (&#163;134), will reach the UK in the summer. It can also function   as a long-distance remote, enabling the viewer to control their AV devices. The company is also developing a version of the system that will work with personal digital assistants and mobile phones.www.slingmedia.comDriving directionSeagate has unveiled a series of mini hard disk drives targeted at PC users who want large amounts of storage in small form factors. The Seagate Pocket Drive weighs 63g and has a diameter of 7cm. It connects to PCs via an integrated USB 2.0 connector and is available with storage of 2.5GB (&#163;119) or 5GB (&#163;139). Slightly larger is Seagate's portable drive, which works in a similar way and offers storage capacities of 40GB (&#163;129) or 100GB (&#163;219). Finally, Seagate has also developed a 1in CompactFlash card for use with digital cameras. The card, set to launch this spring, will be available with storage of either 2.5GB or 5GB.www.seagate.comAll write for someNokia's SU-1B Bluetooth pen (reviewed in Online, April 15 2004) is a potentially killer concept. It enables you to write or draw on special paper with a ballpoint pen with micro-camera hidden inside. You can transmit the results to your phone via a Bluetooth wireless connection or put it in a docking station to back up on your PC or email it. Special software can also change your handwriting into digital form for use in word processing.The latest version comes with writing pads, including a standard A4 Black'n'Red one with special lined paper. In theory, you can take notes in a library or a cafe with the ballpoint pen, then touch a couple of special squares with your pen and your notes will be emailed to whoever you want.In practice, it was not easy to get it working properly, even after calls to the helpdesk and resets of the phone and   pen. Eventually, it did succeed with one of the pads. This could be for you - but make sure you test it first as it only works with certain phones. It costs &#163;199 plus &#163;5 a month emailing charge.www.sysnet.co.ukPhone homeBroadband hardware maker Westell has unveiled a new device aimed at taking over communications in the home. The Home Digital Assistant plugs into your broadband phone line and looks like a swish cordless phone. But this time it claims to be able to undertake voice-over- internet (VoIP) calls, video conferencing, web browsing and traditional voice calls - as well as acting as a broadband modem, Wi-Fi hub and router for your home's wireless devices. After confirming a deal with US telecoms firm Verizon, Westell is looking to bring HDA to British providers, with consumers able to buy stand-alone units by the end of the year.www.westell.comStat of the week: Digital radio salesDigital radio has gone from strength to strength over the past year. The Digital Radio Development Bureau says sales over the Christmas period means there are now more than 1.2m DAB sets in the country.
Digital hubI have a digital camera - a Nikon Coolpix 3100 - and a Motorola V220 mobile phone. Is there a way to get photos taken on the camera across to the mobile, to store and to send as part of a picture message? Neither device is equipped with infrared or Bluetooth.Paul SwetsJack Schofield replies:You don't say if you have a PC, but this is often the only way to transfer data between different devices. In this case, you could use the Motorola Mini-USB Mobile Phone Tools 2 Suite or the USB Fone Data Suite (with photo album software) to connect your V220 phone to a PC running Microsoft Windows. However, this will probably not be convenient when out and about, even if you have a notebook PC.The other obvious alternative is to move Flash memory cards between devices. The Coolpix 3100 stores images on CompactFlash cards, and I have had success using these with PCs, PDAs and cameras. Alas, the CompactFlash format has generally been too large to appeal to mobile phone manufacturers, where people want to boast "mine's smaller than yours". It is too late for you to hunt down a camera and a phone that use the same removable storage cards and compatible file systems, though the expensive Sony Memory Stick format might do the job.However, even if you bought new devices, I'm not sure you would be happy. The Coolpix is a 3.2 megapixel camera, and I'd expect it to produce images that were around 640K to 1MB in size. This is too big for many   mobile phones to handle, without extra storage, and it would take ages to upload them over a slow GSM phone link. The cost could also be prohibitive. It would be easier to move these large picture files to a PC and send them using standard email software.Photo stopperOne or two folk email me huge attachments - usually photos - which take an age to download via my dial-up connection. How can I block them?Mike VincerJS:Many email programs let you block large downloads, but each has a different way of doing it. In Outlook Express, you can create a rule. Go to Tools and select Message Rules then Mail, and create a rule by ticking the appropriate boxes. In the top window, tick "When the message size is more than size" and click on the blue "size" to set a size: 100K, for example. In the middle window, tick "Do not Download it from the server". (I gave a fuller answer in April 2001, athttp://masl.to/?B37D2115A.) In Netscape/Mozilla programs, go to Tools|Account Settings and edit the Mail &amp; Newsgroup Account Settings. The Disk Space category for POP3 accounts lets you set a size in "Do not download messages locally that are larger than ... KB". In general, searching Google for "message size limit" and the name of the mail program should produce an answer.Exploring explorerYou recently advised a reader to "open a folder in Windows Explorer...". Please advise how to locate Windows Explorer in XP, and how to put an icon on to my desktop.Cliff WatkinsJS:Click the Start button, select Programs and then Accessories, then scroll down to find Windows Explorer. Highlight the name and right-click the mouse to get a pop-up menu. Select the option that says Create Shortcut, and this will add Windows Explorer   (2) to the bottom of the menu. Select this new item with your mouse, hold down the right mouse button, drag the shortcut on to the desktop, and release it. You can now rename your new desktop icon in the usual way (eg just call it Explorer) and move it to your preferred position.Backchat&#183;Last week, Phil MacMullen asked about the Singing Coach music software shown at the Consumer Electronics Show by Carry-A-Tune Technologies. I said the website only handled US addresses, but Mike Barnes adds: "You can order their products from Kelly's Music &amp; Computers, for despatch from Canada". Seehttp://masl.to/?G19F5315A. Matthew Turner suggests an alternative: the game SingStar for the Sony PlayStation 2. "It comes with 2 microphones and the game for &#163;39.99 (but sometimes it's cheaper). It's more basic than the software you suggested, but it awards points for which of two players keeps their pitch and tempo the closest to 30 pop tracks, and it's fun." Seewww.singstargame.com.&#183;Several readers complained they had problems with the new Grisoft AVG 7 anti-virus program. Les Brook says: "My experience of daily use of AVG 7 for the past 2/3 months has been very positive, and it has given me no problems whatsoever."&#183;Arise ye starvelings! This column, which is clearly not called Ask Comrade Jack, drew its biggest response ever with about 60 readers pointing out the difference between The Internationale and the Red Flag. (I have not counted the corrections sent to the Corrections &amp; Clarifications column or to Online Feedback.) Many suggestedhttp://masl.to/?T2203225Aas a source of a suitable ringtone. Bill Best addshttp://masl.to/?B2305225A, while for users of older phones, Jeremy Green says: "I got it fromhttp://masl.to/?I1403125A, which also has the old Soviet anthem."
Multiplayer magicLegend of Zelda: Four Swords AdventuresGameCube, &#163;39.99 Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It's time to dust off your GameCube, as the big boys are coming back. Resident Evil 4 will be in the UK soon, and the latest Zelda game is out now. This isn't the 3D epic fans have been waiting for, but a unique 2D adventure for up to four people. Players on their own will find this a decent Zelda game, although it perhaps lacks the grandeur of the series' finest moments.The multiplayer element is the real draw, although gathering the required number of Game Boy Advances and cables is an expense. The majority of the game is displayed on the GameCube, with all players on screen at once. But enter a building and the action transfers to each individual GBA screen.Players can then advance at their own pace throughout the interior section, with none of the hold-ups that blighted the similar Final Fantasy: Chronicles. Teamwork is essential to solve the puzzles that bar progression. These conundrums range from the simple - standing on switches at the same time - to a more inventive use of items and weaponry.There is a surprising amount of depth, especially for a multiplayer game where refinements are usually sacrificed for immediacy. The graphics may lack 3D impact, but Zelda fans will be more than familiar with the look. Played on its own, Four Swords is enjoyable - but gather some friends and it becomes magical.Greg HowsonModest gainsThe Settlers: Heritage of KingsPC, &#163;34.99 Blue Byte/Ubi Soft, &#42;&#42;&#42;It has been a while since we have seen this "peaceful" franchise. At a time when real-time strategy (RTS) was about controlling ever bigger armies, the previous four Settlers games were more concerned with micro-management and lovingly animated production queues. So if your thing was watching bread baking rather than armies fighting, this was the series for you.Three years on, the emphasis has changed. Heritage of Kings has armies and even hero units, with formulaic and largely unimpressive powers, making it feel more like other RTS games. It is no longer possible to triumph by economic or diplomatic means: no matter how well planned the economy, it will fail if not supported by a constant flow of conscripts.You also get a 15-level campaign and a handful of multiplayer maps, although the closely scripted missions make progress easy by doing things in the wrong order. Keep getting attacked by rebels from the north? Simply locate and destroy   their base before the game triggers the moment they reveal themselves. Once you work this out, it is hard to find the campaign challenging.Despite this, Heritage of Kings draws you in with soothing music and an excellent English script, complete with comic rural stereotypes, the likes of which developers rarely re-record with this level of accuracy. There are dozens of units and buildings to find and upgrade, and it is still fun to watch the peasants going about their tasks. So, basically nothing much has changed. This is still an enjoyable, but hardly essential, game.Mike AnderieszAnarchy on courseOutlaw Golf 2PlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Hypnotix/Global Star, &#42;&#42;Conceptually, Outlaw Golf 2 is interesting. It takes the most conformist sport, and tries to instill an anarchic spirit. The irony of this exercise in futility is that the game is not badly executed, although it lacks the polish of, say, Tiger Woods PGA Tour Golf 2005.Nevertheless, it boasts a smooth and forgiving shot-making system that caters for precision and is good enough to let you play deliberate hooks and slices. Unfortunately, it insists on mating that with American frat-house humour. Thus, you can choose between playing as scantily clad babes or tattooed convicts, over courses that feature unexpected hazards such as motorway overpasses.Between shots, you are subjected to cut-scenes involving taunting and posing, which isn't amusing. One gimmick is prominently employed: a composure meter that rates your last shot. Your rating allegedly affects your ability to play the following shot to your satisfaction; you can rescue a sub-par composure rating by beating up your caddy. Unfortunately, the between-shot scenes are so tedious your inclination is to skip them, waiving the chance to alter your rating.Steve BoxerTop 5 games  PlayStation 21.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2.Need for Speed: Underground 23.The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run4.Fifa 20055.Prince of Persia: Warrior Within&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
O2 might not yet be filling the stores with 3G mobile phones, but it is offering a 3G/GPRS/ Wi-Fi data card that fits in the PCMCIA slot of laptops, enabling them to access the web wirelessly at almost the speed of broadband.The card, on sale now for about &#163;130, is accompanied by O2's Connection Manager software, which acts as a gateway to email and web browsing as well as enabling the owner to choose between 3G or Wi-Fi if they are near a hot spot. Tariffs vary according to use and on volume of data transferred.The software was easy to install and within minutes the card was searching for a 3G signal. Once connected, it had no problems streaming video or downloading large files, and regularly reached speeds of more than 250kbps. With a solid 3G connection in north London, the O2 card worked better than many of its rivals. Its only weakness is that O2's 3G network isn't as developed as that of Vodafone or Orange, and outside London, the card soon diverted to the slower speeds of GPRS.www.o2.co.uk
When one-hit wonders Buggles launched MTV by declaring that "video killed the radio star", it looked like an inevitable, if gloomy, prediction. Back then, Microsoft was still in short pants and Usenet had just been born. But 25 years later, online radio is one of the web's success stories, enjoying huge growth as the number of high-speed connections increases.To make the most of the surge, the BBC this week relaunched its pioneering Radio Player software, an innovative way of presenting the corporation's radio output as audio on demand. The BBC says it serves up more than 10m hours of radio a month over the internet, and will be hoping to give that a significant boost."The liberation from BBC radio going on-demand has been enormous," says Simon Nelson, the BBC controller of radio and music interactive. "When the original radio player launched two-and-a-half years ago, we knew it would be a success, but it has surprised us."The rejigged system will still allow streaming of BBC radio shows that are less than seven days old, but it has added about 500 hours of extra programming every week to cover 95% of all BBC national radio output and adds several layers of interactivity. As before, you must still download Real Player to be able to listen."Radio Player has made a huge impact for me," says DJ Pete Tong, whose Radio 1 dance music shows The Essential Selection and The Essential Mix last month picked up more than 300,000 listeners online. "The Listen Again option is a double whammy: people can use it if they   are too busy or if they liked something and want to hear it again. My show gets picked up and played to audiences on local radio stations all around the world, but from the personal feedback I get, I'd say 95% of the real connection all comes from online."One of the most useful tweaks is the ability to stop a show at any time and then return to the same point next time - even if you have turned off your machine. Other features include deeper content, more genre-based browsing and a "Like this? Why not try these?" feature that will be familiar to many web shoppers.As more people become technologically competent, and the number of broadband users increases, internet radio will continue to reap the benefits. Not only can it play the same role as traditional audio broadcasting - operating in the background in homes and offices - but with the ongoing integration of computers and home entertainment systems, users are finding new ways to explore an old medium."What's driving it is the choice you're giving the listener," says Richard Jones of Last.fm (www.last.fm), which provides tailor-made online radio according to your tastes. The more you listen to Last.fm, the more it learns about the music you like - and then plays tracks it thinks you might enjoy. "Online radio is interactive, not just a broadcast medium. You can give people lots of information - track listings and album covers, for example. It's more of a multimedia experience."With its large budget and public service remit, the BBC continues to be one of radio's innovators, and last   year found a way forward when it ran a podcasting experiment. The trial, which allowed listeners to download MP3 files of Melvyn Bragg's Radio 4 show In Our Time to listen to at their leisure, was taken up by more than 70,000 users. It could point the way forward for many shows."Podcasting is really close to what I'm about," says Tong. "It makes sense. And now I don't bother with trainspotter-ish lists of what I've played any more, I can just direct people to the web."The real problem with downloading, as opposed to streaming, is the murky waters of copyright. Some speech programming, and most music shows, have to agree how to placate those who would probably prefer some kind of digital rights mechanism. "The most high-profile omission &#91;from Radio Player&#93; is Desert Island Discs, where we're negotiating the rights," says Nelson. "I don't blame them for holding back because the internet seems an uncertain and turbulent situation."Even so, the large amount of material produced within the BBC means it is able to set a standard for on-demand media. The Radio Player team is "passing on the lessons" to those working on the BBC's iMP, an interactive media player that will do for TV what the corporation has already done for audio."I'm really excited with what the BBC are doing," says Last.fm's Jones. "But I'd like to see a little bit more feedback and interaction - pages that showed you weekly statistics on what different DJs are playing. The BBC are in a unique position: they can afford to innovate, in fact they probably have to."LinksBBC Radio Playerwww.bbc.co.uk/radioplayer
Why do I need two phones? With a cordless at my desk, and a mobile in my pocket, things can get confusing. I can walk out of the office with the cordless or, at the end of a long, international call, belatedly realise I made it on the mobile. I want the option of just one phone that works as a cell phone outside the house but connects to the cheaper landline service inside.IT and telecoms managers also want "converged" phones. Mobiles are so convenient that staff tend to use them inside the office - especially if the company is paying. There would be huge cost savings if one phone could simply use the best network to send the call.BT has a converged phone on the way, under the name "project Bluephone". For more than a year, the company has been testing a mobile that becomes a cordless when you walk in the door. But the industry has begun to wonder if Bluephone will ever see the light of day. BT's website (www.btplc.com/Innovation/Mobility/everywhere) still suggests a launch in April 2004."It will definitely be launched this spring," says Ryan Jarvis, chief of mobile products and partnerships at BT. He says the delays have allowed BT to move with technology changes.It seems the first BT product will be an ordinary mobile phone combined with a cordless base station. The base station needs an internet connection, so you will have to have broadband to use it.Outside the house or office, the phone uses the GSM system - BT no longer owns a mobile network, but has an agreement with Vodafone. Inside the house, the phone will send calls via the base station, which will send them over BT's broadband network.This is where the tricky stuff happens. To contact the base station, the phone will use Bluetooth. Normally used for short-range connections to devices such as headsets, Bluetooth has a surprisingly long range and can be used for cordless phones. It also has the advantage that it is built into the majority of new mobile phones: "We needed to deliver this &#91;service&#93; on a standard mobile handset," says Jarvis.When you reach home, the phone will roam from the cellular base station to the Bluetooth link, and the broadband network, and link into the GSM network that carries mobile phone calls. Apparently, it will roam without dropping calls, because the calls stay in the GSM network, even though they use a different radio sys tem for the last few feet of the call.Only the first version of the phone will use Bluetooth. Subsequent versions will use the Wi-Fi wireless standard, says Jarvis, which is becoming more popular in the home.At the moment, Wi-Fi handsets tend to be bulky and have poor battery life even when they are not used, but that will change. "In 2006, when Wi-Fi makes its way into standard mid-range phones, we will have a Wi-Fi version," says Jarvis. Other future versions will use WiMax - a standard intended to deliver fast wireless links where the phone network doesn't reach.This planned migration meant Bluephone had to become "wireless agnostic", so BT could deliver it using any radio technology. This change from a Bluetooth-only product, Jarvis says, has been the main source of the delays. Also, BT and other companies in the cell phone business set up a group called UMA (Unlicensed Mobile Access) to extend GSM over other radio technologies. "I thought it was important to work on an open standard approach," says Jarvis.Market analysts have praised converged phones based on UMA. For example, Senza Fili Consulting has predicted that there will be 55m users of UMA-phones by 2010, generating $1.6bn per year for operators.Jarvis is cagey about the price of the Bluetooth-enabled calls, but they will not be free, and could be undercut by other services.The problem for mobile operators is that they have to pay a large licence fee for dedicated wireless spectrum (3G licences, for instance, cost billions), and then build up an expensive national network. However, other parts of the radio spectrum are free, so individuals can set up localised connections or hotspots using Wi-Fi, which allow easy connection to the internet.This allows for an alternative approach, pioneered by suppliers such as Vonage. Since you can use the internet to make free voice calls, why not use Wi-Fi to make those calls mobile?Vonage, a US service provider, is offering voice over broadband. Plug a Vonage adapter into your broadband router, and you can use an ordinary phone to make as many calls as you like (via the internet) for &#163;10 a month.Vonage has announced plans for a Wi-Fi handset that makes this connection wireless, and works with an ordinary broadband router. It also claims the F-1000 handset will have a 100-hour battery life, and about three hours' talk time.Vonage's handset will work at any Wi-Fi hotspot with internet access, says spokesman Jamie Serino: "Users will be able to take their home phone number all over the world, and make and receive calls on it, at hotspots in airports, hotels and coffee shops."Like Bluephone, the Wi-phone doesn't have a definite launch date, but will be available in the UK.Vonage's approach is different from BT's, because its phone uses SIP (Session Initiation Protocol), an internet protocol designed for voice devices. (Think of an SIP address as an internet phone number.) Basing it on SIP and Wi-Fi makes it very cheap to use, but doesn't give the coverage that the cellphone has. In the US, operators are trying to limit the ability of public bodies to put in blanket "hotzones" that might threaten their monopolies.Neither Bluephone nor the Vonage Wi-Fi phone are converged services. BT and UMA want to "embrace" the unlicenced wireless networks and use them to extend the cellular network over cheaper radio connections. Meanwhile, internet telephony providers want to use Wi-Fi to create an alternative to the cellphone network."Instead of convergence, we should be talking about divergence," says analyst Dean Bubley, of Disruptive Analysis. Wi-Fi may be moving faster than the cellular standards in bringing mobile calls on to the internet, but the cellular operators still have blanket coverage and all the benefits that brings.Both Vonage and BT's Bluephone are aimed at consumers, but both promise to follow up with a business-oriented version. This means addressing a market that understands the potential of internet telephony, and will be less likely to settle for half measures.Serino reckons Vonage will have a small-to-medium enterprise version that plugs into office phone equipment in a month or so, though that may take longer to cross the Atlantic. BT's Jarvis hints that an enterprise version of Bluephone "would be a good idea".What we want is a converged phone that finds the cheapest network and quietly uses it. BT wants to keep us hooked into the cell network, and Vonage can't match its coverage. We certainly aren't there yet.
Today is a big day for Novell: the 26-year-old Utah-based software company is betting its future on the launch of its new Open Enterprise Server, which puts both Novell NetWare and SuSE Linux in one box. Customers can choose to install the one they want, and run Novell applications on either.It seems a sensible idea. Historically, Novell has been losing market share as users of its NetWare network operating system defect to Microsoft's Windows Server. Now it wants them to defect to SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 9 instead. (Novell bought the German SuSE company last January.)Obviously this involves sacrificing NetWare over the long term. However, there are two potential benefits. First, OES will encourage   defecting NetWare users to hang on to their Novell applications, and continue the maintenance and other services from which Novell makes the bulk of its income. All these revenue streams currently disappear whenever a company rips out NetWare and replaces it with something else.Second, it could persuade some corporate Linux users to adopt proprietary Novell applications running on SuSE Linux. These are not open source, but Novell argues it is helping to remove the barriers to enterprise adoption of Linux by providing some of the applications and features it lacks - while also offering enterprise-level service and support that companies would otherwise have to buy from rivals such as Red Hat or IBM.Of course, free software purists argue that as long as you depend on some proprietary software, you are still unfree. But most enterprises are not free software purists and don't care. Novell can still claim OES is more free than anything Microsoft offers. At worst, it is more free than running the same stuff on NetWare.The idea that you can't make money from selling free software need not worry Novell unduly: it doesn't make much money from selling NetWare, and it makes less every year. In 2004, only $238m of Novell's $1.2bn in revenues came from new licences, and that was down from $319m in 2002. Already, 80% of Novell's revenues come from maintenance and services, and that may not change dramatically with a switch to SuSE.However, as Novell warned in its last Securities and Exchange Commission (10-K) filing: "If this strategy is unsuccessful, our NetWare revenue stream will deteriorate faster than the growth of revenue streams from our other products."It's a real risk. Novell's revenues from SuSE - $36.2m for January to October last year - were only 3% of annual turnover, and were offset by $42.2m in expenses. Clearly this is not the sort of income needed to sustain a $1.2bn corporation. A downturn in NetWare-related revenues could plunge the company back into the losses it suffered in 2001-03.But the risk of a sudden decline is probably better than the long, slow decline Novell has suffered over the past decade. And with the business uses of Linux growing - and expected to grow - rapidly over the next five years, it must be worth Novell trying to capitalise on it.LinksNovell SEC filing (10-K) for fiscal 2004http://masl.to/?T29D26F4ABroadening the capabilities of Linux for IT infrastructurewww.novell.com/collateral/4621423/4621423.pdf
There have been some great stories about email security over the years, but surely one of the best has to be this month's news about a US secret service agent who was investigating a hacking attack on T-Mobile USA.The agent, Peter Cavicchia, was using his own T-Mobile handheld to send and receive email, so the alleged hacker, Nicolas Jacobsen, could read his messages. The hacker wasn't just targeting the agent, of course - although according to court records he did obtain confidential Secret Service documents. He appears to have had complete access to T-Mobile's servers and could therefore read messages by anyone using handhelds for email. The hacker even had access to photographs that   some celebrities had taken with their camera phones. What fun!Email security is a joke. What with spam, phishing, hacking and so on, it is becoming dangerously close to unusable. With better email security, life would be easier in so many ways - and digital signatures, as I've often said before, are the way to do it. Not only would individual and corporate privacy be enhanced, but spamming and phishing would be undermined.Yet there doesn't seem to be much progress in this area. Microsoft is re-issuing its anti-spam Sender Policy Framework (SPF), and a new IETF group on Message Authentication Signature Standards (MASS) is considering proposals from organisations such as Yahoo (DomainKeys) and Cisco - Identified Internet Mail (IIM) -   but it could be some time before the industry evaluates these and shifts to a common position.What is really odd is that working message authentication has been around for years. It is based on the 25-year-old technology of public key cryptography and the standards for using it with email are well established: S/MIME and PGP. These provide an end-to-end solution, so if I want to send a message to my friend, then I encrypt it with his key and sign it with mine. We do not care what networks or servers the message passes through. I know only he can read it. He knows only I could have sent it.It is not complicated to get started. I work in a mixed (Apple and Wintel) environment, so I know that sending encrypted and signed emails across platforms between Apple Mail, Outlook and   Entourage works fine. All of these widely used email packages have S/MIME built in, and PGP integrates well with them as well.S/MIME needs a certificate (with your email address and public key) to work. If you have Apple Mail, for example, then send Safari to one of the companies that give free certificates for email - such as Thawte - and get one loaded into your keychain. Mail will then pick it up and sign your outgoing mail automatically.With PGP, you can generate your own keys. Just remember to upload your key to a keyserver so your business partners can find it.It is up to you to demand change. If hackers are reading your email, then it is not your ISP's fault, Microsoft's fault or the government's fault. It's your fault. Pick up a certificate and start signing.
It'll never flyAs a shopfront travel agent, I feel saddened that the full story was not told about International Air Transport Association's new rules (Flight to lower fares, January 20). Britain is one of the cheapest places to buy flights, which means Australian and New Zealand, not UK, travellers will benefit from the change in rules. The changing face of UK travel agents also has a further twist.lastminute.com, ebookers and the like taught the punter to trust the web, but now more airlines have their own sites where clients can book direct - the days of the online middle man are numbered. So when will high-street travel agents die off? It was not with the introduction of bucket shops, which still have to adapt to the 21st century. And online booking systems have yet to conquer open jaws and multi-stops - the mainstay of independent travellers.Hugh StanfordCheltenhamCheap stakesI triedcheapflights.co.ukas I regularly fly to various parts of Europe and tend to do my own searches. The problem was that the price on its page was nowhere near the advertisers' price when you click through - for example, a return fare to Helsinki was nearly double on one site compared with the cheapflights price. And the feedback section doesn't work so you can't even tell them. I recommend using Kelkoo or going to the airline direct - I did, and ended up with a lower fare.Phil HuettNot very handyJack Schofield (The key positions, January 20) wrote: "Teo's design makes it possible to type fast by putting vowels under the left hand and some of the most common consonants under the right hand. This is hard if the keyboard is kept symmetrical, so Teo has split the keys: there are three rows of three keys on the left and three rows of five keys on the right." Surely this has the opposite effect, making it harder to type fast, as you'd want common consonants under the hand you write with?Brian D ElseySheffieldCut to the quickI am amazed by broadband suppliers' misleading advertising, which offers "unlimited" broadband at 256 or 512 kilobits per second (kbps) for about &#163;16 to &#163;18 per month. The unlimited refers to the amount of data uploaded or downloaded per month. Unless you are heavily into music or video downloads, this is rarely an issue. I have been with my internet service provider, Freedom to Surf (www.f2s.com) for more than six months and have just upgraded my connection speed from 1Mbps to 2Mbps with no increase in the monthly payment of &#163;14.99. I have a limit of 1024MB traffic per month, but my January usage is just 433MB and it has been that way since I started. I have had excellent reliability and no down time. The speed of the connection is far more useful than the capacity.Pete MeddingsWatlingtonOpen it upVictor Keegan's article on the possibilities of open source software development (Second Sight, January 13) is very welcome. As hinted, the enormous power of internet collaboration could have far-reaching environmental and social benefits - for wealth to increase while the physical economy contracts is a green's dream. Equating it with communism, however, feeds the neo-McCarthyism that is Microsoft's latest strategy for undermining Linux. Today, 90% of developers are paid to develop software specific to an organisation, suggesting there is no compelling reason to protect the source code or prohibit copying. Doing so introduces a market inefficiency. The economic dinosaur is Microsoft, whose protectionism is good at generating corporate wealth, while the open source model is good at providing high-quality software at true cost.Peter LockleyLondon
Show of respectThe Home Office is running an official website to help commemorate today's fifth annual Holocaust Memorial Day, which also remembers the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camps by the Red Army. With the aim "to show our respect for the survivors of Nazi persecution and mass murder, and to listen to what they can tell us about the best and the worst of human behaviour", the site offers a collection of survivors' stories, a searchable photo library and a useful set of local resources. Visitors are also encouraged to sign a seven-point "roll of commitment" that promises the holocaust will remain a "permanent place in our nation's collective memory", while condemning "the evils of prejudice, discrimination and racism".The past decade has seen a substantial amount of first-hand material uploaded to the web, as the last surviving generations of the holocaust attempt to leave an online legacy. The US site Holocaust Survivors (which commemorates the holocaust on May 3) offers audio while video testimony is available at Spielberg's Shoa Visual History Foundation. Wikipedia, meanwhile, recommends an almost exhaustive set of resources. Lest we forget.www.holocaustmemorialday.gov.ukwww.holocaustsurvivors.orgwww.vhf.orghttp://masl.to/?S14A4115ACloud atlasDescribing itself as a "navigation system for your social life", Plazes is a new Wi-Fi friendly site that helps people hunt for wireless connections and make friends while writing a "geo-specific" guide book. It is a lot easier than it sounds. First, you download software that reads your Wi-Fi location. Next, register a page that records your grid reference and makes a link to Multimap. Then you - or any other registered user - can annotate the location and post photos. Each time you log on at a new location, there's often information about the place waiting for you. While most maps of Wi-Fi locations struggle to maintain accuracy,   Plazes could be different because, crucially, you have to be in the location to make the report. If a Wi-Fi hotspot represents a data cloud, then this is the cloud atlas.http://beta.plazes.comwww.multimap.comiPod remixedSuch is the devotion of Mac lovers that it is no surprise a few enterprising graphic designers in the US are knocking up a niche sideline by turning snaps into iPod-style poster advertisements, for a small fee. All you need do is upload an image, choose a background colour, write a witty caption and fork out $19.95 (&#163;10.60). Wait a few days and your i-Podded image will be emailed back, which you can print on to a range of surfaces, including T-shirts.ipodmyphoto.comStat cityEverything you ever wanted to know about city statistics collected in one place. Thomas Brinkhoff's city population database includes statistics on thousands of cities pulled together from official websites and censuses. It can save you a lot of trouble, contains fantastic maps and is surprisingly easy to use for an academic site.www.citypopulation.deLost AmericanaFound Magazine is a collection of "found stuff, love letters, birthday cards, poetry on napkins, doodles", and "anything that gives a glimpse into someone else's life". Snaptorium is a blog of found photographs. Both celebrate lost bits of Americana in a wistful and funny way.www.foundmagazine.comhttp://snapatorium.blogspot.comblogspot.comDorian BlairA new film adaptation of Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray is in pre-production, with Ryan Phillipe (who reworked the Count de Valmont in Cruel Intentions) in the leading role. The cautionary tale, which tells how a young man's search for eternal youth leads him to a life of infamy, is also explored in a new satirical website - with the prime minister in the lead role.Visitors to The Picture of Tony Blair are invited to vote on how well they think the prime minister is performing. The results are expressed in a cartoon portrait of him. The less people believe him, the more his portrait loses its looks and vice versa.http://dev1.manme.org.uk/~davemwww.upword.com/wildeSix of the best: Net manifestosOnline communitieswww.partnerships.org.uk/cyber/manifest.htmGlobal voiceshttp://masl.to/?H3E92515AUniversal rightshttp://hippy.com/manifesto.htmCyberpunkwww.ecn.org/settorecyb/txt/cybermanifest.htmlNet artwww.art.net/about/manifesto.htmlCluetrain manifestowww.cluetrain.com/apocalypso.html
What's your favourite game?Civilization and Sid Meier's Pirates. Both offer a chance to have a wonderful adventure in an interesting world, while striving to become something great - the ruler of the world or the most revered pirate captain of the 17th century.Where do you get your inspiration from?I feel like the luckiest guy in the world to be able to make games for a living. It's something I love doing. For the most part, ideas come from things I enjoyed as a kid: history, pirates, railroads, planes etc. My 14-year-old son has also been a source of inspiration in   recent years. We play lots of games together on different platforms, which helps me come up with ideas.How did the drive to mainstream games impact on the development of the recent version of Sid Meier's Pirates?At Firaxis, our goal is to deliver the most entertaining and fun gameplay experiences possible. We focus on gameplay and let that lead the development. We then use technology to present the game in the most engaging way. We licensed NDL's Gamebryo engine and used it as a base to build the 3D engine for Pirates. 3D technology has allowed us to bring the game to life like never before. I have played games where the focus has been on bells and whistles but the gameplay is lacking.What are the benefits of resurrecting old franchises?The main reason we've remade some of my old games is   that fans are relentless in asking us to do so. As technology advances, we can resurrect the games with better graphics, sound and other features that make the gameplay even more fun. Now that consoles can support more expansive games, we can develop some titles for those platforms, too.How do you think the games industry has changed?It takes a lot more people, time and money to make games than it did 20 years ago. I am amazed at how fast the industry has grown in such a short time. Considering we're still in our infancy, it's a bit mind boggling to think about where we'll go from here.How do you think games will advance?I have my eye on the massively multiplayer, persistent world of online games. Online gaming will start to come on strong over the next few years.What's it like seeing your name on the cover of game boxes?It wasn't my idea, that was a marketing decision of Microprose years ago. I've never been one to seek the spotlight, so it is a bit strange; I think my name has become associated with good quality games. I imagine our industry will evolve the way the movie industry has, so that more names will be associated with games.
So, if you have a hobby about  which you're passionate,  should you start a business  around it? There are two ways  of looking at the question. If  you're too involved to be  objective, or it's going to take  over your personal life, the  answer may well be "no".When it works, though, it  can do so spectacularly and  addresses automatically the  notion that someone should  be passionate about a  business idea or not bother  doing it.Philip Moule is a director of  LightIQ, a lighting  consultancy, founded by his  sister Rebecca after five years  working in the city. "Rebecca  had the interest in doing the  design work, but when she  was working alone during the  first year she was probably  spending about half of her  time just doing the  administration of running the  business," he explains. "She  didn't enjoy that. It was very  time consuming. She couldn't  spend as much time as she  wanted to being out and about  earning the money."It was time to bring in a  business manager. Business  courses at all levels tend to talk  about distinct types within the  business world; the  "visionary", which is a  portentous way of describing  the person who has the initial  idea and enthusiasm, is one.  The day-to-day manager, who  gets saddled with the reality of  VAT returns and physically  paying the bills is a very  different type of person. "By  bringing me on board she was  able to spend 100% of her  time on meeting clients and  generating consultancies,"  says Moule.In this case it has worked  well; turnover doubled within  12 months. The lesson is that  hobbies and interests can  make profitable businesses -  but once business rules are  applied, they are likely to do  rather better than they would  otherwise have done.
&#183;Thus has joined the near legion  of companies aiming  broadband connections at the  small to medium enterprise  market. Aimed squarely at the  smaller end of the market, the  new package is called Demon  HomeOffice and offers  megabyte connections - this  means about twice the speed  of what many companies call  broadband - to home  workers. The key points to  bear in mind about this is that  it includes a dial-up  connection, which is useful  when you're on the road, and a  fax companion so you can  receive faxes across the ether  from anyone who wants to  send one. The megabyte  version costs £29.99 a month  while a slower 512Kb - which  will still be an advance if  you're on dial-up - is available  for £24.99 per month. Seewww.demon.netfor details.&#183;Hewlett-Packard has been  surveying its small business  customers to find out a bit  about their priorities and  hopes and fears for the new  year. The clear message is that  companies want security, cost  control and solid returns on  investment. Security topped  the wish list - which, after a  year in which spam, viruses  and other attacks had such a  high profile, was not a surprise  - with 37% of respondents  finding it a source of concern.  The perception of security  threats was higher in the UK  than elsewhere in Europe.  Perhaps alarmingly, around  half the companies polled had  been subject to some sort of  security alert during the  previous year.&#183;Often, companies are so  busy implementing computer  systems for the more complex  tasks they face that they forget  the simple stuff can benefit  from automation as well. This  is why L-Mail (www.lmail.com) has set up its  trading community - news  automatic letter-sending  service; you type your letter  in, hit the "send" button and it  charges you a small amount -  49p for an individual letter in  the UK, for example - to send  the thing. It's more expensive  than a stamp but, once you've  factored in the cost of  queueing (or paying someone  to queue) in the Post Office,  it's likely to be worthwhile for  many people.&#183;Total Conflict Management  (TCM) has announced what it  believes to be the world's first  dispute resolution conference.  It will take place on May 17 at  the Business Design Centre,  Islington, and will include  spokespeople from the TUC,  ACAS and other bodies. The  company says that interest in  the field has ballooned over  the last few months (demand  for the company's services  increasing 200% in the last six  weeks of 2004), no doubt  because of legislation in  October that forced every  company to have a formalised  dispute resolution process.  Booking costs £395 with  discounts for charities and  voluntary organisations. If  you get in quick there's also a  10% discount to anyone  booking online atwww.workplacemediation2005.co.ukbefore the end of  January.&#183;Oki has launched another  multi-function product - this  being industry jargon for  something that prints, faxes,  scans and copies. The item  comes in two flavours: the  B4520 MFP is aimed at the  single user who wants to do all  of the aforementioned  activities but only buy a single  unit that won't take up too  much space, and the B4540  MFP, a similar model which  allows for a network  connection rather than a  single user. Both have a 50-sheet document feeder so it  should be possible to leave  large jobs to handle  themselves while the owner  focuses on something more  important for a while. Prices  start at £456 RRP; seewww.oki.co.uk.&#183;Numerous online retailers  and web-shop makers have  hailed the Christmas season  as a corker for the online unless  of course you happened to be  a customer with some sort of  disability, in which case you  would have been lucky to find  a website to accommodate  you. Charity AbilityNet has  issued its sixth quarterly e-Nation report, which looks at  how and whether people with  disabilities are likely to  manage in the online world,  and it found that none of the  10 retail sites it examined  scored the three stars needed  to be compliant with the  needs of people with dyslexia,  vision impairment or a  physical problem which  makes the use of a mouse  difficult. Typical of the  problems encountered was  that text size would be  hard coded rather than  adjustable by the viewer,  and pictures wouldn't be  labelled clearly (which is  fine until you're a visuallyimpaired  person who  needs to have the labels of  a picture read out, in which  case "cat.jpg" is a lot more  expressive than  "pic0001a.jpg"). Extensive use  of JavaScript was also felt to  be a problem since many  disabled people have older  computers that can't handle  the code. Details and  guidelines on how not to  exclude people with  disabilities (which in terms of  market size means 1.6 million  vision-impaired users; 1.5  million people with cognitive  difficulties; and 3.4 million  with disabilities) can be found  atwww.abilitynet.org.uk.
A new year, and with it the thought of a new start. And while most of us look at new year resolutions on purely a personal level, a few might be looking at a slightly larger canvas - and considering starting their own business.But after the corks have popped, and the hangover has subsided, who do you turn to next? There are a lot of places to go to get input and advice, depending on the sort of business you want to run.But before even doing that, it's worth stepping back and asking what sort of business beginner you want to be. Are you the type who has a strong idea and needs the money and advice to make it happen? Or are you actually the type who has no original thoughts at all but know that you would rather run a business by yourself, without having to worry about the middle people?The first tend to be the most common, but having an idea doesn't make you a serious candidate to run a business. Rupert Merson, partner in the growth service at BDO Stoy Hayward, says that a business doesn't start with an idea but with a plan to get the idea out of the shed and into reality.He points to various places that may help with input: "There are lots of places, friends, colleagues and the usual networking opportunities," he comments. "Other avenues to explore nowadays are around business schools and universities in general - the technical universities, imperial science departments of Oxford and Cambridge and the like will have shedloads of ideas and precious little ability to convert them into commercial reality. Quite a few of them have some sort of commercial spin-offs where there's an opportunity for businesspeople to meet an idea." Business schools are different because obviously they have business people attending them, albeit in embryonic form.In fact talking to a local educational establishment can be a good way of developing an idea - a great many of them have links to the business community. Andrew Stevenson is business incubation manager at Sparkhouse Studios, which is attached to encourage the retention of graduates from the University of Lincoln but which encourages applications from graduate-level applicants regardless of any connection with the university."This sort of activity goes on through universities through the government's Third Leg funding scheme, encouraging universities to interact more with business," he says. "Just about every university has some sort of business integration - usually driven by trying to capitalise on the intellectual property coming out of the research."Lincoln is a little different; as a relatively new university it tries to keep graduates in the area. "Typically graduates will return to their home areas after leaving because there hasn't been such a high quality of job and opportunity for them in the area."A similar scheme works across the Midlands and is called the Enterprise Fellowship Scheme (EFS). It specialises in technology-based ideas and offers mentoring, interest-free loans and help with proof-of-concept development grants. You do need a link with a participating university and only one in 10 applicants is successful, but director Isabell Majewsky takes this as a sign of the scheme's success."People have two mentors, one is an academic mentor and advises on the research and development and intellectual input into the business, and the other is a business mentor who obviously has commercial experience, operates in the sector and can find the commercial edge." There is also a customised training and development programme for would-be entrepreneurs.These are only examples; it can be worth calling your local university and finding out what's going on, assuming you have an idea. Not that more established ideas like "go and see Business Link" ought to be discounted - indeed, Stevenson and his colleagues are interested in maintaining links with the organisation.Personal trainer William Baldwin praises Business Link in Watford for the advice he received when considering moving into catering. "They made me think. I had a lot of ideas but I hadn't covered everything myself; they were asking about target audience and getting me to think about what would happen when I had bigger turnover than I'd considered so far." In the event, the market research he did on their prompting shifted him away from catering as the competition meant it would be over a year before he could retrieve all of his outlay; he is now a successful enough personal trainer to move into limited company status.No matter what sort of entrepreneur you decide you are, however, it's important to get one thing straight, according to Merson - you need to balance your personal objectives against those of your business. "Most of the business books and courses are sponsored by big research organisations or plcs, and they don't represent how small business works," he says. The standard business textbook will often tell you to serve the business above all else; this isn't what everyone wants from a business they actually own.Once a business gets off the ground it will often have its own existence and commercial imperative. "I was working with a business a few years ago founded by four guys - it was a typical entrepreneurial situation, they were made redundant and in the same business, computer software people. They went way with one project which went well, then there were five projects, 10, and within three years they were running a successful business turning over £7-8m. One Monday morning they get an offer on the table to buy them. One guy wants to sell, another guy doesn't want to sell, and the other two don't know what they want to do, and from that moment on, when the business had been moving nicely, they were at each other hammer and tongs."It might seem a little premature or indeed arrogant to consider an exit point when planning a business that has yet to be established, but if the men in the anecdote had done so it's worth bearing in mind they would have had an idea of where the business was going and not fallen out over it.That applies if someone has a strong idea and knows about the business they want to manage. This doesn't always work out. Neil Errington knew he wanted to run his own business and decided that franchising was the best way to move into it, which piggybacks someone else's idea - in this case he is part of Card Connection, which sells greetings cards to garage forecourts and elsewhere. He admits that selling cards wasn't a childhood ambition. "I'm an engineer by training and my wife is a midwife; we've no real retail skills and I felt that a franchise gives a really good grounding to kick things off."Yes there's risk, but the franchise route seems to mitigate that risk. You can say we won't make as much money, which is true, but this is our first stab at a small business and it's given us confidence." He researched the idea on the internet and found a seminar in Leeds, and eventually alighted on cards because of the opportunity. "I thought, you work from home, there's no massive lease and it all sounded as though there was a lot of lifestyle flexibility." He hasn't regretted it.The other way of building a business is of course to get someone to fund it, if you can. Clem Chambers, chief executive of Stock Market investment website ADVFN, did precisely that for a job applicant who mentioned among his hobbies at the interview that he had a small dating website. Chambers spotted an opportunity that could only grow with some hard input from outsiders. "It was originally a hobby for a pretty talented developer, but we have marketing experience of over 20 years," he says. "He had a good site that was doing the right kind of thing and we took it forward." Differences the new owner made included the addition of advertising: "The original developer was trying to get to the situation of having enough critical mass to have expensive premium subscriptions, and we went away from that to a free site - based on experience of building numbers. What you want is something that's free - you have to have a certain scale before you can charge, you need thousands of people to interact before it's worth someone's subscription fee."He agrees, though, that getting the hard-nosed business entrepreneur in isn't always essential if you feel strongly about what you want to do. "It depends on your goals. If you want a lifestyle business then you're not necessarily doing it to make lots of money. You're doing it to do the thing you love and as the Americans say, pay the grocery bills. Then it might be more about doing it your way and being happy. As the Americans also say, do you want to go big or go home? If you want to do something large, then unless you're already a genius you need input."
Archimedes had his  "eureka" moment  in the bath, while  Newton's most important  idea came  courtesy of a gravitationally challenged  apple. Elegant  thinking and flashes of insight  are the lifeblood of entrepreneurs  of all kinds, from artists  to scientists to inventors to  business brains. But where do  ideas come from? Can they be  invoked at will? Once you've  had a seriously brilliant  thought, how do you turn it  into a business?New research into entrepreneurial  thinking conducted by  mobile phone company Sony  Ericsson - revealed here for  the first time - offers an intriguing  glimpse into patterns  of creativity. A survey of men  and women working predominantly  in "progressive" areas  such as IT and biotechnology  found that 81% of people have  their best ideas outside of the  office, specifically while in the  car and in bed.One quarter of those asked  said their last good, implemented  business idea occurred  while they were  socialising, while 18% again  found bedtime the best time  for moments of clarity. It may  come as no surprise to some  that 6% of respondents had all  their best ideas while in the  lavatory. Less shocking is the  news that just 4% of good  ideas that were actually carried  out had their genesis in  the pub. Can it really be true  that 96% of ideas generated in  a pub fail to make the grade?The research also showed  that, while 65% of people felt  creative at their desks, 80%  thought meetings helped -  and even more thought brainstorms  a good vehicle for creative  thinking. Off site  meetings were seen to be more  creative by a majority, although  fewer saw the need for  outside influences or triggers  for more creative ideas.So what can be done to cultivate  creativity? In an essay for  the East of England Development  Agency's Space For Ideas  campaign, lateral thinking  guru Dr Edward de Bono suggests  practical steps towards  cultivating creativity. These  include allocating creative  thinking time; designating  one person at work as a "new  ideas champion" and introducing  formal creative training.But, despite its good score in  the Sony Ericsson poll, he  gives brainstorming, with its  emphasis on an uninhibited  splurge of ideas, short shrift.  "A person whose hands are  tied to his side cannot play the  violin. But cutting the rope  does not make that person a  violinist," he says.Other practical methods of  maximising creativity at work  include brain-priming exercises,  where you focus on a  problem, move on to something  else, then come back to  it; creating a dedicated space  for ideas and even re-organising  office layouts to enhance working relationships.At 28, Jennifer Irvine is already  an old hand in the world  of entrepreneurship. Her London-based business, The Pure  Package, delivers nutritionally  balanced gourmet food to a  burgeoning roster of high-flying  clients. Since it started  selling to the public last year,  its seven staff have delivered  30,000 meals and snacks.Irvine had her first business  idea aged eight, when she  started selling eggs from her  family's farm in Ireland to local  people and cafes. She progressed  to selling chickens  and eventually moved into retail  when she got a street trading  licence to sell T-shirts.She says: "We all have great  ideas but it is important not to  always act on them  immediately. Every few days I  come up with what I think are  brilliant ideas. They can come  at any time and I have books  full of them. The key is to sleep  on it, give yourself some  breathing space."Belief in what you are doing  is vital to success, she says. "As  an entrepreneur you have to  be really proud of your product.  I couldn't throw myself  into something 16 hours a day  if I didn't really believe in it. I  wouldn't even be able to talk  convincingly about it, so I  would never get any publicity  and it would fail."Having a great idea is all  very well. What do you do  next? Research, and lots of it -  on the potential market, rivals,  their strength and the  value of the market to you.Irvine's first step in turning  her idea into reality was to  embark on months of market  research. She says: "First I  asked everybody I knew if they  thought it was a good idea.  Then I made up mock bags of  food and sent them to friends  of friends of friends - people I  really didn't know - and  asked them how much they  would be willing to pay and  about quality issues. I didn't  go completely on gut instinct.  Then I had to test whether the  market was ready and  whether I could actually make  money doing this."As for stopping others ripping  your idea off, your next  move depends on whether  your business is based around  a service or a physical product.  If you have invented a product,  you could apply for a  patent. This is a fairly straightforward,  relatively inexpensive  process and can be done  through the Patent Office.If your idea is service-based,  you could apply to register it  as a trademark. This is also  done through the Patent Office,  which has advice on what  is eligible for registration and  how to go about it.And when you are registering  domain names and company  names, it is important to  think how your business may  change in the future . Irvine  says: "It's hard to protect  something as basic as three  meals a day, but I registered  The Pure Package immediately.  To keep future options  open I also registered it for  clothing, cosmetics, books,  magazines - everything I  could think of."How to sell your ideaHaving a brilliant business  idea is pointless unless you  can turn it into a viable  enterprise. At some point you  will have to make the leap from  paper idea to physical  research, otherwise known as  marketing.&#183;The first thing to do is  develop your overall strategy.  Before you write your  marketing plan, which will  form part of your business  plan, which will enable you to  get money from a bank, you  must understand your market.  Who uses products like yours?  What can you offer that your  competitors don't? Work out  how big your market is and how  to reach it. Test your product.&#183;Draw up a profit and sales  forecasts. In fact, draw up three:  one realistic, one optimistic and  one pessimistic. Be  ultraconservative until proved  wrong.&#183;Carry out a SWOT (Strengths,  Weaknesses, Opportunities and  Threats) analysis. Strengths and  threats could come from your  own weaknesses or the wider  business environment.  Opportunities may include a  competitor going under.&#183;Write your marketing action  plan by taking each element of  your strategy and allocate  detailed budgets, targets and  deadlines to it. This will form  part of your overall business  plan and must be thoroughly  researched and well written.&#183;Measure your marketing  success. Track your progress  monthly or quarterly and use  sales enquiry forms to record  how people find out about  you. Monitor the average  value of each transaction and  customers won and lost.&#183;Further information on  marketing can be found at the  Institute of Directors website  (www.iod.com) and at  Business Link  (www.businesslink.gov.uk).
After leaving their multinational companies and forming five-man firm Taste Connection, its founders were  in for a bit of a culture shock when it came to processing their expenses  Once you've  signed the bit of  paper they can  have it up and  running within  half a dayGC:Tell me about your  business.AS:We set the business up  about two and a half years  ago. We are a food ingredients  company: there are three of us  as directors and two others  who work part time. All of us  as directors came out of large  multinational food ingredient  companies - the typical story,  we decided we'd had enough  and could either do it better or  differently ourselves.GC:So, when you started up  what did you do in terms of  IT in the first place?AS:We're all rural - well, my  colleague Simon is out in  Hampton Court but myself  and my other partner are  based in Gloucestershire out  in the Cotswolds, and one of  our employees is in Milton  Keynes with another in Bristol  - so we're all in remote  locations. Having come out of  a large business where all that  infrastructure is provided for  you, that was our initial  culture shock.GC:You sort of sit there  wondering why nobody's  brought the tea...AS:That's it! IT these days,  you can obviously set up your  own laptop, then you're sort of  scratching your head thinking  that's fine, but what about the  other stuff we used to do? Like  our expenses system, for  example, accounts, all these  other bits and pieces. The  initial headache was how we  would manage orders and  accounts and things like that,  shortly followed by expenses  when we were travelling a lot.  None of us were what you'd  call accountant-type people.GC:So where did you start?AS:The first thing we bought  was Sage. I wouldn't have said  that was an informed choice at  the time - we'd heard from  quite a lot of other people that  Sage was probably the easiest  package to use out there, and  we bought Sage Line50. And  indeed it was straightforward.  It manages all the orders, cash  flow, the processing part of the  business. The next headache  for us was expensing. We'd all  come out of places where a lot  of us were on Lotus Notes  systems - where you enter  your expenses and someone  goes and deals with it. We set  up an initial system based on  spreadsheets and moving bits  of paper around, which was  inconvenient and made it  difficult to keep track of  things when people were on  the move.GC:So what did you do?AS:We sort of struggled on  with our - I won't say  antiquated system - but  using Excel and those sorts of  products, and it wasn't ideal.  My wife works for MPower  and she thought someone  must have an off-the-shelf type  of expenses system we could  use.GC:And where did you look?AS:Initially looking on the  internet, in magazines, that  sort of thing, talking to  various accountants we know.  A lot of people came up with  'oh, you can do this, you can  do that', but that depends on  you having your own network,  which is fine - we could have  a virtual private network, but  given the number of us that  there are it's not economic.  That ruled that out. I thought  there must be some kind of  software that would link in  through the email. I have to  say I didn't have much luck  finding it. I was looking for a  while, searching the internet  and I saw something about  Signifo in one of these  accounting magazines. I  thought, 'this looks fantastic,  but it looks horrendously  expensive and it probably  won't deal with people our  size'. However, after speaking  with them, neither thing was  true. It was more feature-rich  than I was expecting it to be. I  was expecting a web-based  system where perhaps people  enter things online, and that  sort of merges it all together,  but I found that Signifo had a  link with Barclaycard so we  actually get a direct download  of our Barclaycard statements  straight into the Signifo  product, and our claimants  don't have to do anything  except code it up when their  expense appears. The other  clincher for us was that you  can load the data directly into  Sage Line50. Regardless of the  control of expenses, one of the  biggest things for a business  our size is the amount of time  it takes to do things. It's not a  valuable use of our time. Now  if I put in a description of an  expense then code it to the  correct cost sector, after that  there's no real intervention -  it gets loaded to Sage.GC:How much did it cost?AS:We're paying £790 for an  entire year. They charge us per  user and, in addition to that,  the Sage upload facility. Then  if you want there's helpdesk  on top of that. We could have  paid that monthly. We don't  get much cost benefit yet but  it will come as we grow.GC:How long did it take to  get the system running?AS:Once you've signed the bit  of paper they can have you up  and running within half a day.  It's all web-based, so as long as  you've got web access.GC:Was staff training an  issue?AS:I think they do offer  training but we haven't taken  it. Most of us are reasonably  IT-literate. One of our team  isn't, but he doesn't have any  trouble.GC:So will you expand your  system?AS:Yes, as we take on new  people they will be brought  on to this as we buy extra  licenses. The other useful  thing is the analysis tools -  all your data is stored in one  place which is good, but there  are analysis tools so you can  drill down into that data  without having to drop it  into Excel. One new thing  they've just launched which  we haven't tried yet is the  ability to send a text message  and text an expense to the  system.
