Are old electrical goods dangerous just by virtue of being old? The Japanese government clearly thinks so. Almost five years ago, it fired a warning shot across the bow of the secondhand electrical goods industry with the cheerfully named Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law, a motion passed in the Diet in early 2001.The aim: the eradication of the supposedly dangerous and aged electrical goods finding their way on to the secondhand market. Who could possibly object?The law was due to come into full force at the end of this week, replacing and updating the Electrical Appliance and Material Control Law, passed in 1999.The more recent law caused more consternation, though. It would ban the sale of goods manufactured before the year 2001, unless they fulfilled a safety test - which in many cases could cost several times more than the item was now worth.The Japanese secondhand electrical goods market was officially estimated last year to be worth around &pound;500m - though this figure isn't close to being accurate; it's much more lucrative. The ambiguity is due to the lack of regulation of secondhand shops and their quick turnover. Shops are often gone from one month to the next.The government probably hoped the law would go largely unnoticed and bring a variety of benefits. By taking the money out of the secondhand market and injecting it into the market for new goods, regulation (of old products) and revivalisation (of the economy) would be achieved in one fell swoop. On paper, anyway.In practice it was rather different. Public resistance has been vociferous and virtually unanimous. Famous Japanese musicians such as Ryuichi Sakamoto led a 75,000-strong petition, stating in the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper that "whether something is vintage or not is not a matter for government officials to decide".Musicians particularly despised the law because new instruments are almost always beyond the meagre means of budding musicians. Putting secondhand electronic instruments beyond their reach would kill a vibrant music industry. Sakamoto backed this up further in a joint statement with the Japan Synthesizer Programmers Association, saying: "This will greatly hinder the development of Japanese music and artistic culture."The law would also have affected the sale of secondhand and classic gaming hardware, a market that has fuelled the finances of many a shopkeeper and helped keep the games industry in line. With punters able to experience the history of gaming through the ease and affordability of access to such hardware, Japanese games developers have had to craft increasingly innovative titles. Games creators such as Keita Takahashi, the principal designer of the Katamari Damacy games, cite gaming history as a touchstone for "making games fun".Musicians, gamers; add in a large swath of the press citing this law as simply the "worst law ever" and the government had a big problem on its hands.So on March 14, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry agreed to conduct the safety tests free of charge for six months, and rent out the testing equipment. It even exempted the hotly contested "vintage" musical instruments.However, while the musicians were now safe, the shop owners appeared terminally threatened. As one told the Daily Yomiuri newspaper: "I didn't know of the measure until recently, and now I'm almost out of business."With the law's implementation looming, there was panic buying and emergency sales of secondhand stock. Not quite the stealth law hoped for.Thus last Friday the law was revised, making 1989 the cut-off date for "old" rather than 2001. In addition, many of the older items won't have to be certified with the requisite safety tests either. It was an almost complete reversal - something that is almost without precedent in Japan.Had the law gone ahead unchanged, on April 1 more than 450 types of electrical appliances would have been deemed unsafe in Japan. The ban would have released a flood of secondhand games, gaming hardware and musical instruments on to the export market. As it is, if you want to import that rare piece of gaming or musical heritage, it will still cost you a small fortune.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There must be something in the application form for staff at videogame shops that says "do you think about what you say?", and applicants who answer "no" are automatically hired.The main problem is gender. About 80% of staff are male; the rest are intelligent, but usually out the back. Walking into a game shop is a problem if you're female. First, because you're a rare sight and the lads don't know whether to talk to you, ignore you or proposition you. Second, because they then assume you're there to buy something for your boyfriend, in which case the latter cause turns futile.The good thing is you are virtually left on your own. The bad part comes when you want to know or buy something.I don't know how well these guys answer the questions of people they don't despise (ie males) but if you're a woman you won't get anything other than a three-word reply, spat at you with an air of cool indifference. And make sure you never buy anything, ever.If you ever try this trick with a copy of the Halo 2 Multiplayer Map Pack for instance, be prepared for this encounter:You: Hi. How are you? Just this please.Him: Hi ... umm ...OK... you do realise this isn't the game right?You: Oh what, really? Oh I so didn't realise that! My reproductive organs must be inhibiting my ability to think again!There are also times when you will genuinely need advice on a game, be it something technical or gameplay related. But once again, gender issues are rife in yet another psychotic exchange with the male staff.Which game is better? Umm, probably Game B. Why? It's less violent. Oh, is the other one extremely violent? No, it's cool but it can be a bit scary you know ... No, I don't know. Well, I wouldn't recommend it for first-timers. What makes you think I'm a first-timer? I don't know, I just assumed...These exchanges often leave you penniless and enraged. The former because you endeavour to buy all the violent games just to prove the fools wrong; the latter because you're tired of defending yourself to lame-o boys who are too dumb to realise how cool it is for girls to play videogames.The only solution is an all-girl-staff, all-girl-customers shop. Same games, same passion. But with pink walls.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lovers of the Alla Hornpipe from Suite number 2 of Handel's Water Music are in for a treat. Even if you don't know the title, you know the tune. It's the one invariably played while you're on hold to speak to an operator at one of the "shared service centres" that have taken over from individual branches and departments as the public face of big businesses.Keep holding: big government is next. The next phase of the government's IT strategy, published this week, includes plans to drastically cut the number of departments running the government's "back office" chores such as hiring and paying staff and processing payments from citizens. "Common infrastructure" is the name of the game.The aim, of course, is to try to cut the ever-growing cost of running the government machine just as banks and supermarkets have cut their costs of doing business. In theory, there is huge potential for doing so. In practice, the demands of public policy and organised opposition by staff and local interest groups may make it rather difficult.The theme of common infrastructure runs through the Cabinet Office's implementation plan for its IT strategy "Transformational Government" published last November. Although the document was due to be published after Technology Guardian went to press, early drafts show a clear theme of reducing the multiple duplication of government information systems. Apparently a "common infrastructure roadmap" will be published in July.Apart from payroll and personnel, one source for rationalisation is in government websites. By November, according to the draft, each central government department should have produced a plan for reducing the number of websites it runs. Three departments are already working together to procure a "common content delivery and management application for critical government websites". This will replace the system developed in-house by the old Office of the e-Envoy.Not everyone will agree with this vision. In its response to the Transformational Government Strategy, Microsoft warns against one proposed piece of common infrastructure, a citizen index based on a single identity number. "It runs counter to best industry security practice and could produce major security and privacy compromises of the type Canada and USA are trying to design out of their systems," Microsoft's submission claims.Once you have swallowed the remarkable cheek of a Seattle company lecturing the UK government on the need to "transition the civil service risk/reward model", this objection does make sense.More potent opposition may come from local government which, the plan concedes, runs most public services that matter to people but is not under the direction of Whitehall. Here the hope is that councils can be squeezed into sharing their IT and other back-office functions. Some have already started doing so - but the trouble is that everyone wants to be the organisation selling shared services for others.Embarrassingly, the two departments promoting this culture of shared services, the Cabinet Office and the Treasury, have not managed to put their own back offices in order. Although the neighbouring Whitehall departments have almost identical needs for personnel and payroll systems, an attempt to create a Whitehall shared services centre was cancelled last year. Senior officials are now banging heads together to revive it.No doubt we'll learn more in November, when the first annual report of Transformational Government is published, along with other key elements of the strategy such as citizen-centred public services and closing the digital divide. Possibly it will do better than the Treasury, which last week enraged the computer industry by killing off Home Computer Initiatives, which gave a tax break to people buying IT equipment through their employers.The move took both the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department for Work and Pensions by surprise: they were just setting up home computer schemes to their staff. Although nobody loves common infrastructure and shared services, some joining up across government seems to be in order.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A French wireless bunny with over-active ears might not sound like a contender for geek toy of the year, but the Nabaztag (&pound;79.95) is a cute gadget that latches on to your wireless network.It grabs information from the internet and lets you know it has arrived via a grandiose light show, or by reading the information. You can set it to read the latest headlines from your favourite websites - it grabs their RSS feeds - or it can tell you how your shares are performing.You can get friends to send messages to the device that can be read out in funny voices. It also annoys you by telling dreadful jokes. It is early days, which is probably why the web interface, where you program the little critter, is confusing.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nikon was one of the first companies to offer a camera with built-in Wi-Fi when it launched the P2 last October. Now it has reached the second wireless generation with the arrival of the S6 six-megapixel compact snapper (&pound;300).It is a significant improvement on its predecessor. Even though it has the wireless transmitter, it is smaller, thinner and lighter than any other Wi-Fi endowed models. It also scores highly for a three-inch colour screen. It takes excellent quality images for a compact snapper. However, it has an aggressive flash, which tends to bleach out images on some low-light shots.Nikon has added several features - the most useful is the one-press portrait mode button. There's no wireless remote control and it can't send images from hot spots, but it uses the faster wireless format 802.11g, which means large images were delivered to the PC in seconds.It's a solid compact camera, but whether the wireless facilities are worth the &pound;50 premium is open to debate.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Samsung's attempt to steal the music player market from Apple continues with the launch of the YP-Z5 (&pound;130). It's a striking-looking model, a tad thicker and sturdier than its Apple counterpart but still small enough to be pocketable.It has a two gigabyte hard disk and is also slightly cheaper than the nano. Its best feature is a battery life of about 35 hours, which dwarfs the nano's 14 hours.Other advantages include a larger and brighter colour screen, while files can be dragged and dropped on to the player if you don't fancy using Windows Media 10 software.The sound quality is excellent, but what could scupper the player is its control system. The YP-Z5 system is controlled by the user gently flicking the player. I constantly ended up on the wrong track.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At least 10% more programming effort is being poured into software released under the General Public Licence (GPL) - the legal underpinning of three-quarters of all free software such as the Linux operating system - than the combined output of all the programmers in Microsoft.So says Eben Moglen, who has been analysing the coding hours per week people have done. And he should know: this hacker lawyer has for the past 12 years been official guardian of the GPL, and is overseeing the important process of crafting version 3 of what amounts to a constitution for the world of free software.Moglen has had an unusual career. At 16, he helped write the first networked email system. He later worked on designing programming languages at IBM, but left the company in 1984, increasingly disillusioned after an epiphanic encounter with the Apple Lisa - a precursor of the Macintosh - and by the shift to what he calls "the cave-man interface: you point and you grunt". He did a history degree and then a law degree, and ended up teaching and writing about the roots of intellectual property law.The crypto warsBut he retained contacts with the world of computing and, in the early 1990s, volunteered his services as a defence lawyer to Phil Zimmermann, whose Pretty Good Privacy encryption program had incurred the wrath of the US government, which was trying to keep such tools out of the hands of ordinary users, in what came to be known as the crypto wars.That brought him to the attention of Richard Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation and author of the original GPL. Moglen recalls: "I wrote him an email in which I said I use Emacs [a powerful editor and hacker tool written by Stallman] every day; it'll be a long time before you exhaust your entitlement to free legal help from me." Stallman, for his part, notes: "a lawyer who is also idealist is a refreshing combination."The pair began thinking about revising the GPL almost immediately: Moglen says their discussions fill a large proportion of the 16,000 email messages they have exchanged. He explains why it is only now, after 12 years, that they have released a draft (http://gplv3.fsf.org) for public comment."I believed there would be a strategic advantage in releasing the GPL for discussion at a time when its most committed adversaries had other things on their mind. To have Microsoft busy getting a release of Windows together and engaging in heaps of positive publicity about itself seemed better than bringing a licence out at a time when they would not pay any substantial price for engaging in a lot of name-calling."But the main trigger was "the immense embedded revolution around free software going on", he says. "Embedded" software runs devices such as mobile phones or MP3 players - devices where users aren't aware there is an operating system, let alone that it is likely to be GNU/Linux. "You have companies who we don't even think of as very big companies, who have 40 million units in the field with free software inside," says Moglen. "We're talking about a scale of commercial use and of a presence in people's lives that is overwhelming."From a practical viewpoint, it was important to make sure that version 3 worked well for embedded devices - an area not envisaged when version 2 was drawn up in 1991. But Moglen emphasises that the principal reason embedded devices needed to be addressed was that they will have profound implications for users' rights - an issue at the heart of the licence. "One feeds directly into the other," Moglen says. "You're going to live in a world of devices, [and] you're going to have problems protecting users' rights in the devices."He explains: "In the year 2006, the home is some real estate with appliances in it. In 2016, the home will be a digital entertainment and data processing network with real estate wrapped around it. The basic question then is: Who has the keys to your home? You or the people who deliver movies and pizza? The world they are thinking about is a world in which they have the keys to your home because the computers that constitute [your home's] entertainment and data processing network work for them, rather than for you."Users' rights have no deeper meaning than who controls the computer your kid uses at night when he comes home."Digital restrictionsSome companies, notably those who sell music and films, want to control users' computers and entertainment devices through digital rights management (DRM) although Stallman prefers to call it digital restrictions management. The new version of the GPL licence says that creators of programs and embedded devices are free to add DRM to systems that use software released under the GPL (like GNU/Linux) - but on one condition: that users can change the underlying software."GPL 3 is like GPL 2," Moglen says. "It wants you to be able to use free software in combination with non-free software, providing you do so in ways that don't obscure the user's rights in the free software parts." In practice, this means users must always have the freedom to circumvent DRM schemes by modifying the accompanying GPL software. If they can't, they lose a vital freedom that Stallman's licence guarantees: to be able to change a program in any way they choose.Manufacturers of embedded systems have a strong incentive to play along. As Moglen points out: "What they want is a very robust, highly debugged, completely stable, omni-competent, zero dollars per unit software platform for agile manufacture of devices in the future." Only one meets all those requirements: GNU/Linux.The requirement for circumventable DRM is not all that outrageous. It already happens with DVDs. "Think of all those [multi-region] Korean DVD players," he says. "It's always been in part a lip-service game. When people cosh you in the alley again and again, eventually you start giving them play money when they hold you up, because there's contempt on both sides."We want to take a position that moderately and modestly insists that users have rights. And we think that's a position that ultimately has traction, even though business is big, because business consists of people who have rights." Those rights need protecting, too.Version 3 addresses these issues, he says, because "this is the right moment to be having this conversation. Much earlier than this year, and there wouldn't have been as much support for our position. Too much later, and it would have been too late."Age:46Education1976-1980Swarthmore College, History and Literature1985Yale University Juris Doctor and M Phil. in American Legal History1993Yale University PhD History: Development of Law in NY 1660-1774Career1979-1984IBM, designer and developer computer programming languages1985-1986law clerk to Judge Edward Weinfeld, NYC1986-1987Clerk to Justice Thurgood Marshall, US Supreme Court1987-Associate Professor then Professor of Law, Columbia Law School1994-Free Software Foundation general counsel2000-board member, FSF2005-founding director, Software Freedom Law CenterHobbies:Life in ManhattanIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Unreadable picturesI can no longer read some old PDD files of scans of photographs I took on film a number of years ago. I have downloaded Total Image Converter Version 1.0 from CoolUtils.com to convert them to JPeg and Tiff files to be able to access the images. Every conversion brings up a black screen with the words "Photoshop 3 is required to open this file". Curiously, this screen comes up when I attempt to open it with Adobe Photoshop Album Starter Edition 3.Julian AmosJack Schofield replies:PDD is or used to be a standard file format for files created in Adobe PhotoShop, so your best chance of reading these files is to use your original program, if it's still available, or another program from the same family. PhotoShop is expensive but you may know someone who has a copy, and will load the PDD files and save them in a more common format, such as JPeg. PDD is a layered format and files can become corrupted, so there are also programs designed to rescue valuable images. Examples include Advanced PSD Repair (www.psd-repair.com), which costs $149.95, and PhotoshopRecovery (www.officerecovery.com/photoshop/) which costs $99.Because there are hundreds of image file formats, many programs will convert between them. The first ones to try are Irfan View (www.irfanview.com), XnView and Nconvert (http://tinyurl.com/4y64r), and both are free for non-commercial use. These are still worth a go, but if Total Image Converter (www.coolutils.com/TotalImageConverter) can't read the files, I would not hold out too much hope. It could be quicker and easier to go back to the original images or have fresh prints made for rescanning.In general, it's a good idea to avoid saving important data in proprietary file formats or formats supported only or mainly by one company. These have their uses, but it's always worth saving a back-up copy of a file in a different, widely supported format. For example, save a JPeg as well as a PDD or PSD file, save an RTF or HTML file as well as a DOC file in Microsoft Word, save a CSV file in a database, and so on. The internet answer to the image file format problem is PNG which stands for Portable Network Graphics or, recursively, PNG's Not GIF (www.libpng.org/pub/png/). However, it has not been as successful as expected. PNG is lossless so file sizes are larger than "lossy" compressed formats such as JPeg.Hire programmingI am a software engineer graduate living in Kenya. Can any companies harness my skills over great distances?Norman WanyonyiJS:Companies do hire remote programmers, but only on an individual basis. Otherwise the web offers a large and growing freelance market for competitive codeslingers. The leading site seems to be Programming Bids (www.programmingbids.com), but alternatives include (Getacoder.com) and (Coder4rent.com).Which version?Many downloads specify particular versions of software, for example IE7 or WMP9. How do I know which version I have? I use Windows XP Home.Dr Philip RaynerJS:You should always be able to find the version number of a Windows program by clicking the Help menu item and selecting About. The simple version number (eg 5.1) is often followed by a Build Number (2600.xpsp_sp2 etc). Sometimes you can find the information without running the program. Right-click on the program file (whatsit.exe) and select Properties, then click the tab marked Version. This should have the version number at the top, and a box where you can select headings for more details, such as Company, File Version, Internal Name, Language and so on.Backchat&middot; Re registry cleaners, Ian Smith, John Case and others have pointed out that RegScrubXP is still available from various download sites if you Google it. I hadn't intended to imply that it wasn't! Ken Stanford reports that Jouni Vuorio's RegCleaner has continued to work correctly since he upgraded to SP2.&middot; Ken (aka trkini), Adam Elgar and others wrote in about the nvsvc32.exe file. This is supplied by nVidia with some graphics cards and is not related to nvsc32.exe, the W32.Bropia worm.
When it comes to security, the net hates hubris. No matter how technically adept you may feel, the internet has a way of slapping you down. And it is hardly consoling to know that this is as true for those staffing the firewall frontlines at big corporations as it is for the home computer user. We can all get hacked.Such was the case recently with a discussion board I run. I have no programming skills but, like many people, feel confident enough to have set up a few websites - two basic information websites, a few weblogs and two bulletin boards using the open source phpBB program (available free atphpbb.com).I was particularly proud of setting up the phpBB boards. I had read the documentation thoroughly, made good use of the detailed advice from the help boards on the phpBB site, and enjoyed the learning process of the installation. But we all know where pride goeth.On the fateful day, as the site came up, so did a dialogue box explaining that my Mac laptop couldn't run a script because it didn't recognise the file type. About the same time I received an email from a board member noting her PC was throwing up virus warning dialogue boxes when she went to the main page of the board.It was not hard to guess what was happening - my site had been hacked. To prevent the virus spreading, I took the site offline until I could figure out what to do next. That took calls and emails to techie friends, to my hosting company and a lot of Googling for explanations and possible solutions. Before long, I had my answer - I had been hit by an "iframe" exploit, increasingly common on bulletin board software like phpBB."An iframe exploit is basically an attack on the website's HTML," says Candid Wueest, a security response engineer with Symantec. The iframe HTML tag has legitimate uses, to link to another website for example, he says. But malicious iframe code takes advantage of holes in unpatched Internet Explorer browsers to redirect users to a website or open an image that implants a virus (in my case, the Trojan Moo virus) on the visitor's computer. The virus can then give a hacker access to the compromised computer and mails itself to the user's contacts list.Malicious iframe code is deliberately used in some decoy websites and banner ads to cause these redirects, but can also be planted into a compromised website, either because the hackers gained access to the hosting company's servers and, thus, the files for the site, or they entered through holes in the website itself.Favourite targetsWidely used web applications such as phpBB are favourite targets - not least because users often aren't very adept. "The trend is that web applications in general are getting a lot of focus from the bad guys," says Wueest. "More and more people are using these applications, and people don't know how to configure their software correctly or do the updates."Unfortunately, the attacks tend to be automated, too, he adds. They simply use "scripts" - small programs that get a computer to do tasks a human could - that will employ search engines to find boards running older versions of standard board software, then launch automated attacks to insert the malicious code. Such a security breach can be a nightmare for the site owner, but can have knock-on effects for every person with websites or email facilities with the same hosting service. Once access is gained to a single site, doors may be opened to the host's servers and everyone's passwords and data.Therefore, hosting services need to be chosen carefully. Basic protections from the host provider should include requiring the use of different passwords for the user's general account and their database, site backups held on a separate server, and having each user account isolated on its own virtual server space.Andrew Michael, the chief executive of hosting service Fasthosts.co.uk, says: "From our side, as a shared hosting platform provider, we ensure that the hosting we provide is provisioned on the latest stable version of each and every OS and scripting version available - this ensures that most known hacks are dealt with by the OS/scripting at source."He says they monitor for breaches and if one is found "we rename the script (which prevents a hacker from running it remotely) and inform the site owner that the script has been compromised and that they need to take a look at the code."But the first defence is for site owners to install software updates as they come out and, if possible, add security features to their website, he says.To fix an iframe exploit if you have been hacked, first change your passwords. Then track down the file with the bad code (there are thousands of lines of code in dozens of files, plus a large database of content information), remove it and update to the most recent version of the application software.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Are old electrical goods dangerous just by virtue of being old? The Japanese government clearly thinks so. Almost five years ago, it fired a warning shot across the bow of the secondhand electrical goods industry with the cheerfully named Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law, a motion passed in the Diet in early 2001.The aim: the eradication of the supposedly dangerous and aged electrical goods finding their way on to the secondhand market. Who could possibly object?The law was due to come into full force at the end of this week, replacing and updating the Electrical Appliance and Material Control Law, passed in 1999.The more recent law caused more consternation, though. It would ban the sale of goods manufactured before the year 2001, unless they fulfilled a safety test - which in many cases could cost several times more than the item was now worth.The Japanese secondhand electrical goods market was officially estimated last year to be worth around &pound;500m - though this figure isn't close to being accurate; it's much more lucrative. The ambiguity is due to the lack of regulation of secondhand shops and their quick turnover. Shops are often gone from one month to the next.The government probably hoped the law would go largely unnoticed and bring a variety of benefits. By taking the money out of the secondhand market and injecting it into the market for new goods, regulation (of old products) and revivalisation (of the economy) would be achieved in one fell swoop. On paper, anyway.In practice it was rather different. Public resistance has been vociferous and virtually unanimous. Famous Japanese musicians such as Ryuichi Sakamoto led a 75,000-strong petition, stating in the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper that "whether something is vintage or not is not a matter for government officials to decide".Musicians particularly despised the law because new instruments are almost always beyond the meagre means of budding musicians. Putting secondhand electronic instruments beyond their reach would kill a vibrant music industry. Sakamoto backed this up further in a joint statement with the Japan Synthesizer Programmers Association, saying: "This will greatly hinder the development of Japanese music and artistic culture."The law would also have affected the sale of secondhand and classic gaming hardware, a market that has fuelled the finances of many a shopkeeper and helped keep the games industry in line. With punters able to experience the history of gaming through the ease and affordability of access to such hardware, Japanese games developers have had to craft increasingly innovative titles. Games creators such as Keita Takahashi, the principal designer of the Katamari Damacy games, cite gaming history as a touchstone for "making games fun".Musicians, gamers; add in a large swath of the press citing this law as simply the "worst law ever" and the government had a big problem on its hands.So on March 14, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry agreed to conduct the safety tests free of charge for six months, and rent out the testing equipment. It even exempted the hotly contested "vintage" musical instruments.However, while the musicians were now safe, the shop owners appeared terminally threatened. As one told the Daily Yomiuri newspaper: "I didn't know of the measure until recently, and now I'm almost out of business."With the law's implementation looming, there was panic buying and emergency sales of secondhand stock. Not quite the stealth law hoped for.Thus last Friday the law was revised, making 1989 the cut-off date for "old" rather than 2001. In addition, many of the older items won't have to be certified with the requisite safety tests either. It was an almost complete reversal - something that is almost without precedent in Japan.Had the law gone ahead unchanged, on April 1 more than 450 types of electrical appliances would have been deemed unsafe in Japan. The ban would have released a flood of secondhand games, gaming hardware and musical instruments on to the export market. As it is, if you want to import that rare piece of gaming or musical heritage, it will still cost you a small fortune.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft has delayed the release of Windows Vista by up to eight weeks - and become the Grinch that stole the PC industry's Christmas. Vista, the next version of Windows, will still be delivered to corporate users this year. But, as the company put it in a masterfully spun press release last week, after consulting with PC manufacturers and retailers, "broad consumer availability" will be delayed until January 2007. In other words, too late for PC manufacturers to put on the machines that will be in shops at the biggest selling time for consumer PCs.Possibly more significant, two days after the announcement of the delay to Microsoft's flagship product, the company announced a reorganisation: the Windows division is being broken into eight units, with the next version, code-named Vienna, coming under the charge of Steve Sinofsky, the 40-year-old senior vice president who was in charge of Office, Microsoft's biggest money-spinner.Sinofsky, a 16-year veteran who joined the company as a software engineer, was described by Microsoft Watch author Mary Jo Foley as having "the reputation of a strict, schedule-bound manager who keeps the trains running on time". That phrase, to European ears at least, might seem a backhanded compliment both to him and to Jim Allchin, who is in charge of the Vista effort but (as was already known) will retire when it is delivered.Security delaysStill, the Vista train is late - arguably by three years. It was delayed after Windows XP, released in 2001, came under attack from worms and viruses: Microsoft took 18 months off, beginning in 2002, to re-educate its programmers in trustworthy computing, and to create what amounted to a new, more secure version of the code. This shipped in the summer of 2004 as XP Service Pack 2 (SP2).In 2004, there was what Microsoft staff call "the reset," when Allchin decided to abandon all work in progress based on the Microsoft.net 2.0 programming framework, and start from scratch using the (successful) Windows 2003 Server code base. Pop, that's three years gone, though members of the Windows group get annoyed by suggestions they haven't shipped anything since 2001.Brad Goldberg, a general manager on Windows, pointed out to the New York Times that, as well as SP2, Microsoft has released two versions of the Windows Tablet PC software for pen-based notebooks, and four versions of Windows Media Center. Those are areas where Microsoft is still ahead of the market.Reorganisations are common at Microsoft, but this is the second in seven months. It follows a company-wide one last September which created three divisions - platform products and services, business, and entertainment and devices.Two questions arise: Is the delay dramatic news for Microsoft and its partners? And are there deeper troubles in the company and is this only a symptom? While the delay has made headlines (some of them wrong: it is unthinkable 60% of Vista's code would be rewritten so close to release; and Microsoft has firmly denied any Xbox programmers are being put on the Vista team), industry analysts mostly think it will not have a great effect on annual revenues. Paul Jackson, a principal analyst at Forrester Research, says: "It's a bit embarrassing, and the investors won't like it, but the long-term effects are likely to be minimal."High hopes dashedHowever, it will push back revenues for Microsoft, says Joe Wilcox at Jupiter Research's Microsoft Monitor: "While Microsoft says Windows Vista will be available [in 2006] to businesses through volume licensing, the company's own financials show only a small percentage of customers purchase that way. About 85% of Windows revenue came from OEM sales during Microsoft's 2006 fiscal second quarter. Most businesses buy Windows on new PCs and these won't be coming until 2007."However, Brian Gammage, a research vice president at Gartner, is less sanguine about the impact on the retail market. He says: "There's a desire to find some new thing to sell, and everybody had pinned their high hopes on Christmas 2006. Vista would have been just in time for peak consumer demand." The fourth quarter, he says, accounts for about a third of annual PC sales in the UK.Instead of appearing in the peak selling season, Vista will appear in January when consumers want bargains in the sales, adds Gammage. "It's a double hit, to be paid for by computer manufacturers and retailers, and component suppliers such as memory manufacturers. It's a losing scenario for all of them," he says. "I don't think there's a plausible way of wrapping this up as a benefit for the PC industry."David Weeks, Windows client marketing manager at Microsoft UK, is willing to have a go. He points out that Microsoft has many different partners who can get to the market at different times. "There are a number of partners that possibly could have made it into retail with Windows Vista, and some wouldn't, so there would not be the customer choice," he says. "We consulted with partners and major retailers worldwide, and they were supportive of us moving [the launch] to January, so that all partners would be able to sell Vista from day one."A split could have had a real impact on the two largest PC manufacturers, Dell and Hewlett-Packard. Dell manufactures to order then supplies PCs direct, so it could load Vista quickly. HP, however, builds most of its HP and Compaq-brand PCs in advance then sells them via retail channels, which takes longer. This would give Dell a significant advantage in the Christmas market, and Microsoft's US anti-trust controllers forbid it from favouring one supplier over another.While both manufacturers declined to discuss the issues, they issued similar statements supporting Vista. There might be anger in private, but the industry seems to be supporting the decision in public.There is another effect besides the financial one. Morale has been hit. Within and without the company, from staff bloggers, manufacturers and shareholders, there have been calls for heads to roll - and that may be happening behind closed doors. The Mini-Microsoft blog (minimsft.blogspot.com), written by an anonymous staffer who thinks the company has grown fat and torpid, made the simple call: fire the leadership. Mini-Microsoft has become a lightning-rod for disaffection within the company. Managers and programmers gather there and leave comments, some supportive, some angry, but all with suggestions on how to improve the company.But is the leadership listening? Asked last September whether he reads Mini-Microsoft, Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer replied: "I do not", though he confirmed he knew of its existence. He said internal data suggested an 85% satisfaction rate among staff. One wonders if Ballmer thinks the blog is worth reading now it wants senior managers fired.It would also be interesting to know Bill Gates's view. He has always believed in giving bad news a conduit. In his 1999 book Business@The Speed of Thought, on effective business practice, he said: "Sometimes I think my most important job as a CEO is to listen for bad news. If you don't act on it, your people will eventually stop bringing bad news to your attention. And that's the beginning of the end."Either way, Microsoft's culture is changing. The September reshuffle put two sales and marketing people - Ballmer and Kevin Johnson, promoted to joint head of platform products and services - in charge of a company that used to be run by software guys, Gates and Allchin.The blogger who writes Mini-Microsoft used that title because he believes the company needs to shed staff from its 63,500 headcount. Microsoft's challenge now is not to turn into the sort of slow, bureacratic company it tore apart - IBM. But that may be happening. "The constant these days is reorganisation," one Microsoft UK executive said last week. That's reminiscent of what IBM's employees used to say - that the company initials stood for "I've Been Moved".And while Microsoft struggles with its internal identity, Google and a host of other online companies are throwing out new ideas quicker than ever. Many of them flop, but some stick. Is Writely a better way to produce an online collaborative document than Office 12? It's certainly a lot cheaper. Is 37Signals' Basecamp a better project management system than Microsoft Project? Maybe not but if you're a startup, you'll have much more money left over if you use Basecamp.Advantage, AppleApple Computer, 30 years old this week (a year younger than Microsoft) has already won the digital music crown with its iPod; it could win quite a few extra customers for its computers this Christmas, since there will be no Microsoft marketing campaign to drown it out, and the only Windows machines on sale will have a five-year-old operating system.But even when Vista arrives, there's a problem. "Basically, consumers are not clamouring at the doors of Redmond saying 'We need a new operating system'," observes Forrester's Jackson. And that may be part of the problem: even within Microsoft, nobody seems to have a snappy answer to the question: "Why is Vista better than XP?" As in, why lay out the cash? Mini-Microsoft saw a fellow employee asked that question at an internal conference. "Not only could you tell her brain was momentarily frozen (uhhh), you could feel the entire crowd hit a panicked brain freeze. The lady then came up with an almost apologetic answer saying Vista is more stable, safer, and faster than XP." Not, he comments, the greatest reason for either splashing out on a new PC or going through the pain of an OS upgrade on your new machine.The giant Microsoft is seeing its picnic being eaten by ants. Some are tiny, some huge, but all chewing at some part of its revenue-generating structure - whether it's Windows, or Office, or media.It used to dominate in search; if you mistyped a URL in Internet Explorer, you'd end up on the MSN page. These days, Google is the most popular starting point for searches online.And the longer Vista is delayed, the more the ants carry away.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last week Sony announced that it would beceasing production of PSoneafter an astonishing eleven years. I thought we couldn't let this landmark pass without a moist-eyed stroll down memory lane, so here are eleven things the original PlayStation did for us... in my opinion. You are, of course, welcome to disagree...Introduced dozens of key series'...Many of the major brands we're still playing today were established on PSone. Silent Hill, Ape Escape, Medal of Honor, Wipeout, Driver and Gran Turismo spring immediately to mind. Despite dalliances with Sega Saturn, Resident Evil and Tomb Raider can be snuck onto the list too. Oh and we can add the early PSone flight shooter Warhawk - a sequel now forms part of the PS3 launch plans......and rejuvenated old onesThe combination of Sony's relatively powerful hardware with a burgeoning mainstream audience allowed developers to re-think several classic series'. It was here, for example, that Square practically re-invented Final Fantasy with the legendary seventh incarnation. PSone also saw the unlikely re-birth of Hideo Kojima's cult MSX series, Metal Gear, and provided the defining Castlevania title, Symphony of the Night. Konami's ISS series also came of age here.Broke the Sega/Nintendo monopolyThe two behemoths of the console manufacturing business quite spectacularly dropped the ball in the early nineties. Having dominated the business from the mid-eighties with its NES and SNES machines, Nintendo spent far too long prototyping and developing the N64. Sega, meanwhile, having given the SNES a run for its money with the Mega Drive, refused to part with its 16bit hardware, planning and poorly executing a series of ridiculous add-ons.With PlayStation, Sony offered a fresh, less restrictive business model to publishers (no expensive cart production for example) and spent a year travelling the world, talking to studios and creating libraries and APIs to suit their needs. PlayStation, in effect, seduced the whole industry.Became a lifestyle accessoryIt was on PlayStation that developers first started toaccuratelyread and exploit what was going on in other areas of yoof culture: Tony Hawk's Pro Skater brilliantly captured the whole lifestyle of vert skating, from the clothes and downbeat venues to the seamlessness of the activity itself; WipEout flirted outrageously with the music and iconography of the clubbing scene; Lara Croft managed to become a style iconanda pouting symbol of mid-nineties laddism. All the time, Sony was out and about, sponsoring club nights and music festivals, handing out serrated cards at Glastonbury emblazoned with the 'PlayStation is more powerful than God' quote from Edge magazine... Run-of-the-mill stuff now. Groundbreaking back then.Courted non-gamersMusic titles like PaRappa the Rapper, Beatmania, Bust a Groove and Dance Dance Revolution captured a whole new audience and contributed heavily toward the omniscience of the PlayStation brand. PaRappa was especially important, representing Sony's first in-house experiment with casual music-based gaming. Its success no doubt paved the way for the likes of EyeToy and Singstar. The game's creator Masaya Matsuura, also responsible for the bizarre and highly experimental Vib Ribbon, was the original Keita Takahashi...Took 3D seriouslyWith its dedicated Geometry Transfer Engine technically capable of spitting out 1.5 million flat-shaded polys a second, plus the powerful Graphics Processing Unit aligned in a clean, logical architecture, PSone was built with 3D gaming in mind. In contrast Saturn was designed to keep one eye on Sega's 16bit audience, maintaining 2D performance at the expense of easily accessed polygon-pushing power. At the time, many coders loved the rawer, more challenging internals of the Saturn, appreciating the fact that they could programme right to the metal, without having to go through Sony's high level libraries and programmer applications. But coders don't buy millions of consoles...Redefined the term 'arcade perfect'Although flawed, the early conversions of Ridge Racer and Tekken were impressive statements of intent from Sony's close ally, Namco. But closely mimicking arcade hits was just the start. PSone allowed developers to extend their key coin-op franchises, so that Ridge Racer eventually spawned the brilliant R4, Konami produced the frenzied tribute to button bashing, International Track and Field, and Street Fighter went off on a completely new tangent with Super Puzzle Fighter 2. The traditional arcade to home console route was also re-directed, the PlayStation hardware forming the basis of both Namco's System 11 arcade board, the original home of Soul Edge, and System 12, birthplace of Tekken Tag Tournament. (Of course, Sega went down the same route with its Saturn-based ST-V board, but this is a PSone story...)Boasted excellent peripheralsThe original PlayStation controller was pretty good, but the subsequent Dual Shock version is arguably the finest controller since the epoch-shattering NES pad. Comfortable, versatile, more sturdy (and better looking) than the N64 controller from which it borrowed the rumble feature and analogue stick. PlayStation also enjoyed the bizarre twisty Namco NegCon controller, the cumbersome Densha De Go controller (with realistic train levers), the Beatmania DJ Station Pro with cute little scratchin' deck, the Guitar Freaks guitar, etc, etc. The link-up cable was excellent too - for those people who had two PlayStations, two TVs right next to each other and two copies of WipEout 2097...Had a few hardcore momentsAlthough PlayStation is widely considered (and often vitriolically condemned as) a mainstream console, it did have its cult hits. Treasure delivered (ordid it?) the merciless shooter, Gunners Heaven, Atlus remade near-future RPG Shin Megami Tensei If, Irem had R-Type Delta, Konami unleashed my personal favourite,Bishi Bashi Specialand from the west came Oddworld: Abe's Oddysey and Fear Effect. It wasn'tallLara Croft and Solid Snake...Actively encouraged bedroom codersLaunched in 1997, Sony's Net Yaroze project, consisting of a modified region-free PlayStation console, library discs, manuals and online community support, represented a cheap and accessible route into console programming for lone coders. It was followed by the PS2 Linux kit (and admittedly preceded by the Japan-only Develo kit for NEC's PC Engine).Set a new standard for videogame advertisingYes, there were some early errors of judgement - the briefly amusing but not-at-all-coolS.A.P.S adsfor a start. But'Double Life'was a work of absolute genius, brilliantly juxtaposing the epic imaginative lives of gamers with an array of gritty, downbeat locations. The image of the starey-eyed boy will be burned into our brains forever - right alongside that weird-headed elf girl from the Third Place...
The new Grande Punto from Fiat is not my eight-year-old son's favourite car to drive - he prefers the Lamborghini Gallardo - but put him in control of one of these highly manipulable Italian gadabouts and, as I discovered the other evening, he is happy enough. I know: I shouldn't have let him really, what with it being quite late and a school night. But there was no one around, so no harm done.Well, when I say no harm, I'm omitting to mention the radical damage to the Punto's bodywork that my son soon caused by wiping it against the central reservation in a surprisingly ungainly overtaking manoeuvre. As with a lot of kids his age, I have noticed, his approach with cars, overtaking or otherwise, is pretty much to floor it and leave it there, which is not, you would have to say, textbook.It's also bound to attract trouble sooner or later and, sure enough, the sound of wailing sirens was soon audible above the Punto's brutally over-revved keening. Credit to the boy, he held out for a while - and this despite rupturing the fuel tank on an unseen fire hydrant. But the police cars pulled him over in the end, with a rolling roadblock move that I thought he was unlucky not to be able to accelerate out of.And further credit to him because, even though I have many more years of legal, on-the-road experience than he does, I fared far more miserably when it was my turn, having never really got the hang of Need for Speed: Most Wanted. Let's say it's a generational thing.Still, I was excited to think that the test car, which was at that point outside on our drive, had been cast as one of the stars of a best-selling computer game. And Fiat is so proud of the connection that you can order your new Punto with a specially branded, positively wideboy-tastic Need for Speed kit, which adds road-scratching skirts and a fruity steel exhaust pipe to bring your car to within a few pixels of the game-ready version. Call it a case of life imitating art, followed shortly afterwards, presumably, by a life crashing and then getting arrested and sent to prison for a very long time.Skirtless, this newly rethought city-mobile is entirely polite and sedate. The remote fob unlocks the doors with a noise like the tight crack of an air pistol, but that was about as unruly as things got for me in my Punto. It would be possible, I'm sure, among the 13 versions of the car available in the UK, to find a quick one. But the 1.3-litre 90bhp Multijet diesel Punto, though unarguably frugal, is not that car. Sparking up the engine on a cold morning was like waking the dead. And the dead would only be marginally less quick away from a standing start. Need for speed, indeed. At any given point in the acceleration phase, we were in danger of being caught by the local community plod on his bicycle.Chiefly (and the clue is in the newly appended word "Grande"), the new Punto is bigger. It is now officially the biggest car in the supermini class, which Fiat seem to think is something to boast about, though, as we have said before in this space, we are saving our applause for the first company to build a car that is noticeably smaller than the model it replaces.The advantage of this new-found girth? Well, it's safer. Fiat claims to have devised, during the production of the new Punto, 60 different ways to crash it, which is fully three more than my son managed. And as a result of this commitment to wrecking and re-wrecking the vehicle, the finished Punto walked away with five stars in the EuroNCAP ratings, the Oscars of the car-occupant-safety business. However, the sight of the company that is famous for the production of unashamedly tiny motoring packages (the Fiat 500, the Panda, the Uno) following the herd in the production of creepingly larger cars is apt to induce a small sinking of the heart. Wasn't the point about an urban Fiat that you could park it at 90 degrees to the pavement, in the kind of slots that even moped owners are wary of, if they happen to have panniers fitted? And isn't the sight of an opportunistically parked small Fiat one of the most inspiring and uplifting aspects of a visit to any Italian city? Whereas today's Punto owner appears to be destined gloomily to sniff out a regular bay with all the Ford Fiesta drivers.The good news is that Fiat is able to offer the base model at &pound;1 cheaper than the old Punto, at &pound;7,594. Price slash! But at least it signals some kind of deflation. If only the car did.ModelFiat Grande Punto 1.3 MultijetPrice&pound;10,195Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.9 secsConsumption61.4mpg (combined)Emissions122g/kmAt the wheelTony HawksThey'd rather walkNigel MansellOn the stereoWeezerEn route forDetroit
Changing all the clocks may be a drag, but I am extra-grateful for the arrival of British summer time. If I leave work in time, I can get home without bike lights.What a liberation. The worst thing about cycling through the winter is not the cold, nor the wet, but all the clobber you have to schlep: the lock, the waterproofs, the gloves ... and the bike lights. They're always switching themselves on at the bottom of my bag, blinking away in the dark so that the batteries are flat when I need them. I keep several corner shops in business with my demand for Duracell AAAs.So I will be glad to dispense with lights for a few months. And not only my bike bag, but also my conscience will be lighter: it means I can cycle without breaking the law - because my bike lights, though excellently fit for purpose, do not conform to British standard and are therefore not legal.But if they were, I would still be riding in breach of regs, since my bike does not have reflective amber strips on the pedals. That's right: the law says even grown-ups have to have them. Unless you do, you too are a felonious bike rider.Despite consultative papers from the Department for Transport, and yards of advice from assorted interest groups, somehow the muddle continues over statutory recognition for the now- ubiquitous flashing LED light. In short, you would have to be using a pair of those huge, clunking, paleolithic Ever Ready lamps - the ones that took two DD batteries, each weighing about a pound - to be sure of being legal. If you could get them to work. My memory is that they would conk out and refuse to work if you so much as went over a bump.But does it really matter if you use the modern "illegal" lights, as long as you are lit up? Day to day, it seems not. Provided you display a reasonable level of "conspicuity", as the jargon has it, then the police turn a blind eye; only those riding without lights are ever likely to get a ticket. The only hitch might be if you were knocked off by a car and ended up in court, where the motorist's smart-arse lawyer would argue that your failure to use lights and reflectors complying with BS 6102/3 constituted "contributory negligence".Laughable perhaps, but this is a phrase we could be hearing much more if a proposed change to the Highway Code goes through. A seemingly innocuous piece of re-wording now implies that cyclists must use cycle routes and cycle lanes if available; not to do so - by choosing to stay on the main road, for instance - could be construed as contributory negligence. Having spotted the danger, the CTC is leading a campaign against this nonsense, which you can sign up to online (www.ctc.org.uk).It seems a good idea to support it - with conspicuity.Bike doctorDear Matt,I am planning to ride from Land's End to John O'Groats and hope to avoid main roads where possible. Having used a sat nav system in the car, it would be brilliant to have a little box guiding my route rather than dealing with a map. My question is: are all such systems programmed at the same level? The moorland roads we drove along are perfect cycling routes but the sat nav box could not see them.Lesley Close, via emailThere are systems for walkers, so there must be ones for cyclists, too. Numerous models claim to be "portable", but some don't have batteries and need to run off a car's juice. My brief survey dug up one promising item specifically designed for pedestrians and cyclists, which comes with a bar-mount. The Bluemedia 6300/6380 has rechargeable batteries and claims to have full street-level maps of the UK and Ireland as standard, down to the scale you will need. At &pound;300, it's reasonably priced, as this kit goes; but check some product reviews online, because cheaper models sometimes have trouble "seeing" satellites. Visit a reputable dealer for advice before you buy.
It's time to chat!
It seems to be time for the annual "Apple to launch iPhone" story to do the rounds, andRethink Researchhas the latest version, republished byExtremeTech. You really need to read the whole thing, but the key bits are:The thinking is that Apple is going to emerge with a phone that can talk to iTunes, dubbed the iPhone, which will run on Apple's own MVNO cellular network, that it will set up towards the end of this year. Somehow the Morgan Stanley analysts have even put a value on this activity, at around $1.2 billion a year for Apple.Well, we see an awful lot wrong with what's being said. We don't think Apple would start an enterprise worth just $1.2 billion, not when most companies in this sector are bigger than that.It makes more sense for Apple to offer whatever device it comes up with to other existing operators, rather than turning itself into an MVNO operator. That way Apple would be forced to subsidize the devices it makes to the tune of a few billion dollars, which would take Apple away from its existing business model and confuse investors. Apple could of course make this a retail proposition, telling customers that before they sign up for an MVNO, they have to shell out maybe $400 for a phone, but that would act as a major drag on its success and we don't think it should risk it.Comment: Apple probably is doing something, because Steve Jobs must have seen theSony Ericsson W800by now, and realised that it's the writing on the wall for the iPod -- not immediately, of course, but within the foreseeable future. A 99g smartphone that takes decent pictures, has a built-in radio, runs Java games and plays MP3/AAC files is a no-brainer, especially if network operators are giving them away with contacts. And while it's not perfect, next year's models will be better.
A group of Flickr users have set up a dedicated photo pool of PS3 images. NamedAll of PS3, the collection includes highlights from Phil Harrison's GDC presentation. Skip through them very quickly with some motivational music in the background and it's almost like being there...
UK mobile games publisherI-playjust mailed me a selection of new Java titles - among them a second Mobile Edition of Boulder Dash, one of my favourite C64 titles. The original Boulder Dash ME, released back in 2003 was a bright, cheery adaptation of the 8bit legend, offering 16 new level designs and all the classic features veterans remember. In case you weren't there the first time, it's all about scurrying through a series of 2D levels, avoiding enemies such as fireflies and butterflies and then crushing them beneath dislodged boulders. The ultimate aim on each stage is to collect as many diamonds as possible, then reach the exit before the time runs out.Boulder Dash ME 2almost doubles the number of levels and adds new challenges to the familiar recipe. The visuals once again depart fromFirst Star's original vision of grim, muddy tunnels - there's more of a chunky 16bit look to the visuals. But the old gameplay remains - it's still gripping, pleasantly challenging stuff, absolutely perfect for current mobile phones. I've asked I-play if they're planning to publish a Boulder Dash Construction Kit, but they haven't got back to me on that yet...Elsewhere, If it's true that all people want from mobile phone gaming is the sort of incredibly simple titles you get on PC download sites, Slyder should do pretty well. It's a smart little mobile conversion of a well-received maze puzzler from Sandlot Games, availablehere. The idea is to guide a circular character named Slyder through a series of mazes avoiding various traps and enemies en route. The catch is, once you've hit the direction pad, Slyder will slide in that direction until he hits an obstacle - or trap - so every move has to be planned beforehand. Obviously, this stuff iseverywhereonline and there are dozens of competitors on mobile phone, too, but Slyder is a nice, unassumingly addictive title - a step backwards for Java game design, perhaps, but there you go.Finally, there's the more advanced Freestyle Moto-X II, sequel to last year's Nate Adams Freestyle Motocross. It's a 2D freestyle bike sim where you carry out a series of stunt runs, attempting various tricks to open up new stages. This time the impressive physics engine is more forgiving so your bike hangs in the air longer. There's also a garage area where you tune your bike for specific challenges, plus the visuals are more advanced, ditching the rather abstract feel of the original for various street backdrops. It's certainly more involving than some of the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater conversions on mobile, although, as with Bouder Dash, I'd like to see a level design option. If we can't expect significant advances in visuals this generation, we should be getting more imaginative and interactive design features...
Over at TechCruch, Michael Arrington hasan interesting postaboutEvoca, which lets you record and publish voice recordings, including (for a fee) Skype calls. As he says, "Evoca has basically created a podcasting blog for each user."This young space is already crowded - competitors include Odeo, Springdoo, YackPack, Waxmail and others (of these, Odeo clearly has the branding lead). I can see each of these companies struggling to find the right business model, feature mix and consumer messaging. Evoca has a strong case for getting it at least mostly right.Coment: About 14 months ago, I got quite excited aboutOdeoafter seeing Ev Williams (founder of Blogger) demo it at the ETech conference. But so far, this whole field has resolutely failed to take off....
From todayWorld of Warcraft'splayers will have more to talk about than the latest epic weapon. Yes, weather is finally coming to Azeroth with rain and snow belatedly arriving in the game. Other features of the new patch include simplified flight paths and the usual focus on the high level dungeons. What about more content for the lower levels or those not willing/unable to commit six hours at a time? I'll be getting the patch later, of course, but since Oblivion arrived I've been spending less time in WoW. The prospect of getting soaked inElwynn Forestis enough of a temptation to go back. Or is it? Anyone got the new patch yet?
Heroine Sheikpointed me in the direction ofGeeks at Play: Doing Masculinity in an Online Gaming Site, an article by Natasha Christensen in the current edition ofReconstruction: Studies in Contemporary Culture. While more esoteric than most of the references on this blog, this is a worthy (if highly theoretical and academic) article on how (presumed male) players of highly aggressive online games "construct" their manliness.She takes her population from multiplayer first person shooter Quake, and uses this non-real world to understand how people act out gender in virtuality. Obviously, the activities are fierce and require an element of machismo. Similarly, the physical strength is uniform; no one is stronger or has any special muscle abilities over another. Furthermore, avatar representation is limited by the options in the selection library. So how do people enact gender? A lot of trash talk.As this is an academic paper, Christensen approaches the issue from as objective a direction as she possibly can. However, she is female and may tune in to different things than a male researcher (or player for that matter). Accordingly, she argues that men demonstrate their masculinity in this already macho environment by bragging (I've got the most leet graphics card!), though sexual aggression, homophobia and, conversely, homoeroticism.From the article:Men who play sports and war games are able to demonstrate male superiority and male sexual superiority through the use of physical strength. In the bodiless realm of cyberspace, it is fascinating to note that men who are able to create an alternate world where masculinity is defined differently do not take this opportunity. Instead, real life is mimicked not only by taking on the physical attributes of strength, but also by using ways of talk that emphasize aggression and sexual dominance.Bet you never knew what lurked under the surface while you were fragging.Even if this particular topic isn't your cup of tea, it's worth checking out some of the other articles in the special edition of Reconstruction -The Play's the Thing: Games, Gamers and Gaming Cultures.
On April 1, Apple will unveil an 893,240 square metre advertisement that can be seen from space. According toboakes.org:The ad, which depicts Apple's flagship iPod product has been constructed on the site of an abandoned mineral mine in remote western Australia. It has been in development for almost two years since Apple's founder Steve Jobs aquired (sic) the location during a game of poker with (the late) Australian publishing and gaming tycoon Kerry Packer.Check it out inGoogle Maps(remember, you can zoom in on it).Appropriately enough, April 1 is the date Apple plans to celebrate its 30th birthday....Comment: half a million Mac fans are still combing the Australian desert looking for the mile-high Flower Power iMac that Jobs lost to Olivia Newton John in a game of Scrabble....
If you've accidentally taken your eye off the homebrew development scene for a couple of days, you may have missed the news that someone has written a NES emulator for the Xbox 360. A coder known as Xexter placed a link to his creation on the Xbox-scene.com forum (here) two nights ago.You'll need Media Center 2005, and there's no sound or working ROM menu, but judging by the feedback beneath Xexter's forum post several gamers have got it working.So that's Mega Drive, SNES and PC Engine games on Revolution and NES titles on Xbox 360. Apparently some new games will be available on Next-Gen consoles too...
Yes, chances are the Godfather will be at number one next week, but Oblivion's achievement in reaching number one should be applauded. I saw full page adverts in the UK national press for Godfather but Oblivion's awkwardly beautiful world was still more appealing to punters. Perhaps more interesting was the success of Buzz - another example of Sony Europe's mainstream gaming genius - compared to the latest Driver title. Once upon a time - i.e. 5 years ago - the latest Driver would have trounced a quiz game in the sales. Not any more. Gaming still has strong appeal to its hardcore - see Oblivion's success - but "casual" gaming can no longer be ignored. The charts in full:1. Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion (2K Games)2. The Godfather (EA)3. Buzz! The Big Quiz (Sony)4. FIFA Street 2 (EA)5. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft)6. Fight Night: Round 3 (EA)7. Driver: Parallel Lines (Atari)8. 24: The Game (Sony)9. Black (EA)10. The Sims 2: Open For Business (EA)
The third annual Game Design Challenge took place at the close of GDC last week. Once again three leading game designers were brought on stage and asked to create a game concept based around a given theme. In 2004 it was love, in2005it was the poetry of Emily Dickinson, and this year the task was to come up with a game that could conceivably win the Nobel Peace Prize.The competitors were Keita Takahashi (Katamari Damacy), Cliff Bleszinski (Gears of War) and Harvey Smith (Deus Ex). It was Smith who walked away as winner - his idea was for a DS game that set up peaceful flash mobs throughout the world at which participants would need to compare and trade virtual goods. Sounds like an interesting idea, but a game designer winning the Noble Peace Prize? Considering that last year's laureate was Mohamed ElBaradei of the International Atomic Energy Agency who won for ensuring the peaceful and safe use of nuclear energy, I think the videogame industry has some way to go...Morehere.
Get chatting.
Famed Sims and Spore designer Will Wright has taken the helm at this month'sWired Magazine, acting as guest editor on a special game-centred edition. There's a bounty of great stuff in there, fromgames and emotionstothe convergence of virtual worlds(seeTerra Nova'sless-than-optimistic take on this issue) and an overview ofThis Spartan Life, a talk show filmed inside Xbox title Halo. There're even top tips for using the skills you've learned playing World of Warcraft to get a job.
In a not altogether unexpected move, Blizzard has announced that it will be indefinitely postponing work on its long-delayed action adventure title, Starcraft: Ghost. Meanwhile, the company will be, "evaluating opportunities for utilizing the additional power of the new and upcoming console systems" according to a press release sent out on Friday. Also from the release comes this cryptic statement:"In the months ahead, Blizzard will further evaluate the next-gen console technology and determine the best plan of action for offering a StarCraft console-gaming experience that meets the company's expectations and those of its players."There is a suggestion that the company remains unimpressed with the game as it stands, even aftermoving developmentfrom Nihilistic Software to Swingin' Ape Studios. Indeed, Blizzard's VP of business operations, Paul Sams, voiced his dissatisfaction with Ghost in aninterviewwith Gamesindustry.biz last year.The many delays in development (production originally began in 2001), the rumoured bust-ups and re-builds, and the limbo-like status of the project put it up there with the likes of Duke Nukem Forever and Nightmare Creatures 3 as a game that will not die... but also cannot live...
"Apple Computer Inc and Apple Corps Ltd are due to face off in the courtroom in a case involving Apple's iTunes music store, which violates an agreement intended to keep the U.S.-based computer company out of the music business, according to Apple Corps -- the multimedia company founded by The Beatles," reportsMarketWatch."It will be the third time Apple and Apple Corps will have squared off in the courtroom. In addition to the 1991 settlement, in 1980, Apple paid Apple Corps to end a dispute over using the Apple name, and also to stay out of the music business."Update: There's nowa Guardian story
Theheadlines scream shock horrorat the virtual world sweatshops in developing countries, where workers are employed to play online games like World of Warcraft and EverQuest in order to sell their bags of gold booty and other assets for real-world cash to money-rich/time-poor gamers. Virtual worlds player shout and gnash when their servers are taken over by these Chinese "gold farmers", leading toincidentsworthy of examination in political science classes. Oh the hysteria.Now you can see it for yourself, inthis previewfor a documentary about Chinese gold farmers. Apart from playing games and eating soup, this 6 minute movie doesn't give much away about the process and the phenomenon, but there are a few titbits which suggest that the doc will approach more challenging questions when it is complete.Worth a look.ViaJoystiq
"The line between living organisms and machines has just become a whole lot blurrier. European researchers have developed "neuro-chips" in which living brain cells and silicon circuits are coupled together," reportsLiveScience.com at MSNBC."The achievement could one day enable the creation of sophisticated neural prostheses to treat neurological disorders, or the development of organic computers that crunch numbers using living neurons."Comment:This paper(PDF) has some interesting background.
No sooner does a social site get popular with teenagers than The Man decides it's dangerous. You've seen it all from James Dean onwards (Elvis Presley's wiggling hips? Ban them!) and nowNorfolk Council has put out the word that bebo.com- which we wrote abouthere- is a risk.Bebo.com has gained 22 million members worldwide since its launch last summer and is at the heart of a growing social networking craze among schoolchildren.But County Hall has sent an e-mail to all Norfolk schools warning them that the site is being used for "bullying, pornography, drugs references and other unsavoury activities".Bebo - based in America - encourages youngsters to post details, pictures and messages about themselves and members of staff at their schools.There is growing concern in Norfolk that children are giving out personal information which puts them in danger from paedophiles and other criminals who prey on the vulnerable over the internet.And that's not all - you can even access it on a home computer, no doubt paid for by thatevil Home Computer Initiative- thank goodness the Treasury has slapped it down, no knowing what it would have led to....Bebo vice-president Jim Scheinman said he was not aware of the Norfolk warning but was concerned at calls for bans and said such action "would not make it go away."No, but hope springs eternal in the minds of those with no better solution. Coming soon: children to be wrapped in cotton wool. (By the way, we particularly like "drugsreferences" above. After all, it's not as if you hear that on any song these days. And there's no pornography in newsagents in Norfolk either - is there? Perhaps readers in the area who have spotted any could alert the council and get those shops closed to schoolchildren too.)
Sega has been bombarding my in-tray with news over the last week, so just in case you've missed any of this here's a re-cap. First up, the obvious biggie (mentioned very briefly by Andrew Oliver in his GDC diary last week) - the company will be making classic Mega Drive titles available for download via Nintendo Revolution's Virtual Console. According to the press release:"With a game library of more than 1,000 titles for the MEGA DRIVE, SEGA is planning to provide a "best of" selection for gamers, enabling them to relive their favourite titles."No specific games have been mentioned, but naturally, titles like Golden Axe and Afterburner have been bandied around by excited retro gamers. Hudson will also be providing classic PC Engine titles...Back to the 21st century...Sega has also announced a partnership with Obsidian Entertainment, developer of Knights of the Old Republic 2: Sith Lords, to create an original RPG for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. This is the latest in a long line of deals with Western studios - Sega has also teamed up with the likes of Bizarre Creations, Silicon Knights and Creative Assembly. It is, perhaps a smart agenda - a recognition that Japan is no longer the absolute epicentre of development culture.But having written that...Sega has also announced that it's bringing hit Japanese footie management series, Soccer Tsuku, to Europe under the title, Let's Make A Soccer Team. This offbeat take on the manager sim includes narrative and RPG elements as well as the usual recipe of transfers, tactics and training. Sega's press release states:"Let's Make a Soccer Team! allows you to create your own football club from scratch and control every element of its progress against real-life teams and players. Your career begins when you take charge of your own club in England, France, Holland, Italy, Germany or Spain with just three matches of the season remaining. A ruthless rival is threatening to take over your club, to safeguard its future you must guide your team to promotion to the second division."The series first emerged on Dreamcast along with fellow management titles Let's Make A Professional Baseball Club and Let's Make A Derby Stallion - none of which received a UK release. It'll be interesting to see how this more 'lightweight' approach to footie management fares in the west, where the likes of Champ Man and then Football Manager have bred an obsession with straight-faced authenticity. Sport and role-playing aren't the easiest of bed-fellows - remember Square's Racing Lagoon on PSone? No, probably not...
Get in there and tell us how your weekend of gaming was.
Introversion, a British indie games company,won three awards -- including the Grand Prize -- for Darwinia(and pocketed $25,000) at the Independent Games Festival, as Thomas Arundel notesin his GDC diary on our Games blog.He says; "I got a touch carried away, and vocalised a view on publishers that touched a chord with the audience." What he said was: "We didn't take any money from publishers because we didn't want any publishers fucking up our game." (NeoThermic has posteda small avifrom the Gamespot stream, which bleeped the offending word.)Related:We spoke to the chaps from Introversion last year in a pieceon independent developers.
Buena Vista Games, Inc has revealed that it is developing a PC game based around hit TV series Desperate Housewives. Due out this Autumn the title will put players in control of a new wife moving into Wisteria Lane and becoming involved in all the usual intrigue. Apparently, players build their own in-game persona, chosing to be as nice or nasty as they like. Brenda Strong, the actress who voices the show's narrator, Mary Alice Young, has been brought aboard and negotiations are going on with other cast members.The game's lead producer, Mary Schuyler, hastold Reutersthat - suprise, surprise - she hopes the Desperate Housewives title will be a hit with the show's female fans, converting some of them into gamers. Strangely though, the developer given the task of converting the TV show to PC is Liquid Entertainment, creator of heavyweight D&amp;D strategy adventure, Dragonshard - I'm not sure how much of a role sex and gossip played inthattitle...Well, anyway, thiscouldbe interesting if taken seriously. I'm imagining a cross between Silent Hill and the Sims...Whatever happens, the concept has provoked a predictably downbeat response from gamers. The story can be found linked to onDigg, under the header, "This could be the worst videogame ever". A bit harsh, non?
Newsweek photo: Butterfield and Fake with non-digital PolaroidsFlickr's delightful founders Stewart Butterfield and Caterina Fake have made the cover of Newsweek magazine, where the cover line is about "Putting the 'We' in Web". The lead story,The New Wisdom of the Web, provides a quick overview of the Web 2.0 landscape ("all the usual suspects," asPaidcontentsays), but otherwise focuses more on Flickr and MySpace. (Startups such as Digg are covered in the related story,Who's Building the Next Web?)Not much new here, but there is a great quote from Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt:Schmidt says that he doesn't understand why people think his company wants to be the next Microsoft. "Everybody thinks we're building operating systems, PCs and browsers. They clearly don't get it," he says. So where does Google want to go? "Look at MySpace," he says cryptically. "Very interesting."Not everybody, Eric!
Expect to be overwhelmed with PSP advertising from today, according toMCV. Sony are putting 3 million towards blanket coverage of the device across the nation, emphasising the gizmo's functionality beyond games. Londoners have been innundated with the new approach, already causingcriticismandcontroversy. For folks not in the Big Smoke, check out what you can expect at Weefz'sFlickrphotoset.Sony will seek to make clear to consumers that PSP is far more than just a games system, with the recognisable media icons representing movies, photo storage, MP3 music storage and wireless Internet connectivity at the heart of the creative.Certainly lacking a gaming "killer app" has hampered the machine's desirability. Sony are now intending to aim the PSP at broader audiences in an aim to capture the imagination away from the climbing reputation of the Nintendo DS.Of course, Sony do have thebest ads, so I'm looking forward to see what they have on offer for this media glut.
So, the first weekend of Oblivion then. Thereviewshave been unanimously positive, but how has it been for you so far? Enjoying? Hating? Mild feeling of disappointment? Concerned about rampant beard growth? I'm still thoroughly enjoying it and haven't yet got tired of wandering into the hills and admiring the view. I finally got round to getting a hi-def TV this weekend which has made things even prettier. And after a year of WoW I'm enjoying the variety of quests - I haven't come across a "find 20 of these" quest yet. So, how has Oblivion been for you?
With the second coming of the internet boom now firmly established, its most fervent apostle is the man who seemed to virtually ignore the web when it first flourished in the late Nineties. But in the year since Rupert Murdoch announced that publishers - himself included - had been too complacent about the changing media landscape, he has committed $2bn to new acquisitions.The first of Murdoch's major purchases, Intermix Media, the parent company of the highly popularMySpace.com, gave News Corp instant access to millions of computer-literate teenagers and is adding on average four million more every month. But the media mogul is by no means finished: he recently appointed 33-year-old Jeremy Philips to head News Corp's internet-acquisition strategy and work alongside Ross Levinsohn, president of Fox Interactive Media and a former Fox sports executive who fashioned the MySpace deal.The plan, so far as it is known, is to turn MySpace into a full-fledged competitor to portals such as Yahoo and MSN. Murdoch plans to add the features that make sites 'sticky' - a sticky site is one that attracts more users to spend longer on it - and that, the theory goes, is no longer solely about supplying content but about allowing music and video downloads, instant-messaging programs, internet telephone calling and sophisticated Google-styling search engines. Rather than launch and brand a new Fox rival to existing portals, News Corp is to build out on MySpace. So far, acquisitions include sites and technology aimed at fans of videogame, film and sport.Late to the game as he is, Murdoch is in a shopping mood. In Silicon Valley and Silicon Alley, its Manhattan, media-heavy counterpart, Levinsohn and Philips have their chequebooks out. At a tech conference near San Jose, California, earlier this month, Levinsohn told the web start-ups: 'Look, we're buying everything. I bet you we'll buy five companies in this room.'Not surprisingly, the urge to spend by News Corp and other 'old media' companies is being called a new tech boom. Five years after the bubble burst, the media is again looking to the web to rescue it from falling newspaper and television audiences. Ten days ago NBC announced it would pay $600m for the women's portal iVillage, a survivor of the first boom and bust. Viacom, the owner of MTV and Paramount, has bought several web properties, including NeoPets, a popular children's site, for $160m.Some familiar faces from the earlier boom have resurfaced. AOL's Bob Pittman put Daily Candy, an email newsletter about fashion and food, up for sale at $100m (he paid $3.5m for it.)The economic theory is simple: as traditional media struggle to sustain advertising, internet advertising is expected to nearly triple by the end of the decade, rising to more than $25bn, because that is where audiences have gone. To maintain their revenue, media giants must buy websites. But providing compelling content is no longer as important as it was - stickiness is what counts as well as the instant word of mouth that online communities like MySpace afford advertisers.The two men at the head of News Corps strategy are relatively unknown. Philips is the company's youngest executive vice-president and a member of the executive committee. He has been given responsibility for identifying takeover targets and negotiating acquisitions. He joined News Corp a year ago from management consultants McKinsey. Philips is a former world debating champion and graduate of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.Levinsohn, who is responsible for running the online businesses the company buys, says News Corp's plan is to improve on the portal model by making MySpace inherently sticky using both technology and content. What we needed, he told Fortune, was an internet audience that was large and sticky and then add News Corp's TV, publishing and sports content.'So that it doesn't seem like we're buying all these idiotic, disparate businesses, here's the thing that sort of runs throughout what we're doing: we've bought audience, youth and communities that play to the sweet spots of News Corp's strengths. We'll try 50 different ways of co-mingling content from News Corp properties with our new internet distribution properties. Some will fail. Many will work.'But the audiences of teenagers and young adults Murdoch and all media seek to bring to the bosom of advertisers are flighty and elusive. MySpace could lose its appeal as another social network, Friendster, did after a brief moment in the spotlight a few years ago. Some still question what kind of community MySpace has created. It looks a lot like school - tribal, full of cliques, a place where favours are exchanged and scores settled.'We are endlessly fascinated with each other, almost as much as we are fascinated by ourselves,' says Paul Saffo, a strategist at the Institute for the Future. 'The early promise of an expansive and idealistic vision of cyberspace has ended up in a kind cyburbia, a vast, bland wasteland of people looking at pictures of each other and pictures of starlets.'That may be disappointing but others believe we are entering an exciting era in web technology. This time around, MySpace and others seem to show, the user is firmly in charge and successful new technologies are geared to reinforcing the power of the individual. Bruce Sterling, the man who coined the term cyberspace and a keen observer of the new trend, told a tech conference in Austin, Texas, recently that he believes we are in 'the hottest period of invention since the invention of the browser'. Sterling identified two sites - Flickr, the picture-sharing service bought last year by Yahoo - and Wikipedia, the user-generated online encyclopedia. Neither, he told the conference, 'is a copy of anything else'.Rupert Murdoch, it seems, is of much the same mind as Sterling and he's got a big roll of dollar bills to back it up with. He may not know exactly what he does want, but he knows what he doesn't. 'The portal model is in danger of becoming out of date,' he said earlier this year. 'Young people know exactly what sites they want to go to, and they go there. They don't have to work their way through Yahoo or MSN's home page.' If he or his tech lieutenants have their way, the upcoming generation of internet users won't ever get far beyond the attractive cyburbia neighbourhood of MySpace.
The New York Timeshas a piece about the concerts you missed, because they were in New York:Well, that concert will come to you in high-quality sound on Tuesday, when DG Concerts offers it for digital downloading via the iTunes Music Store (itunes.com). What's more, two programs from the Los Angeles Philharmonic's hip "Minimalist Jukebox" series, performed this weekend, are scheduled for release through DG Concerts and iTunes on April 4. Although pricing is not final, each live concert will probably cost about $10 to download, less for complete individual works.Both orchestras are part of a new initiative by the Universal Music Group built on its Deutsche Grammophon and Decca labels. Christopher Roberts, president for classics and jazz for Universal Music Group International, says that DG Concerts and Decca Concerts will, between them, ultimately service about 10 orchestras in the United States and abroad. Negotiations are under way with orchestras in London, Paris and three German cities. The current intention is for each orchestra to offer, on average, four concerts a season for digital downloading, and one of the four would also be released on CD.If a concert is already being broadcast, it doesn't cost much more to make it available as a download (though $10 is usually going to be too expensive, given the price of new classical CDs on the Web). The major drawback is the use of iTunes as an outlet. There is zero chance of me ever buying anything in such a transitory DRM-bound lossy format: not only would I never pay for it, I wouldn't take it if they giving it away free. (I won't buy Microsoft or Sony DRM music orDRM CDseither.)The article says:sound quality remains an issue. "Lossless" technology, still in the wings, is expected to improve the quality of the download itself. Unfortunately, it will require faster Internet connections and download times longer than the two minutes or so it now takes for a symphony. And the sound will still be more compressed than that of a CD, let alone a Super Audio CD."The audiophiles are probably never going to be happy with digital download sound," Mr. Evered of EMI said.But this is rubbish. There's already a perfectly acceptable lossless format --FLAC-- that's supported by several portable music players, Slim Devices' Squeezebox,Yahoo!'s Music Engine, and you can do live 24-bit recording at up to 96kHz in WAV or FLAC withLive2496on a PocketPC or Windows Mobile 5 phone. (That could make live concert recording interesting!)The question is whether something free, open and genuinely good -- non-protected FLAC -- can thrive in a download market that Apple has in its low-quality proprietary deathgrip.
"Have you been recently called a geek, a dork, a NERD?" asks thenerdtests.comsite. So you can spend 5 minutes doing the quiz and three days arguing about the difference between anerdand ageek.....Update: Newsweek magazine also has quiz,How Geeky are you?, with more questions along the lines of which book/comic/movie you'd take to a desert island etc. Newsweek even thinks it's geeky to use a BlackBerry, send text messages, or listen to satellite radio....
Discussions in online forums are notoriously vigorous, not to mention rude. For a long time, the question of who was liable for defamatory statements in such public arenas was an unexplored area - until a celebrated case in which a British lecturer, Laurence Godfrey, felt that he had been libelled by a contribution to an online discussion forum that had been forged in his name.Godfrey complained to Demon Internet, the internet service provider (ISP) that hosted the offending discussion group, but the company took no action. He then sued Demon - and won. Initially, the ISP planned to appeal, but for reasons that are still unclear, it eventually declined, establishing a precedent in law which says that if an ISP does not investigate a complaint, it may be held liable for content published on websites or discussions it hosts.This has had a chilling impact on the web because it means that - in Europe at least - it is relatively easy to shut down a website. All you need to do is to get a lawyer to write to the ISP that hosts the site alleging defamation or copyright infringement, and chances are the company will take it down without much more than a cursory glance at the supposedly offending material.In 2004, a group of activists conducted an experiment to see how much pressure was needed for an ISP to take down a website hosting public-domain material. They signed up with 10 providers and put online a work by Dutch author Multatuli, who died more than 100 years ago. They said the work was in the public domain and was written in 1871. They then set up a fake society claiming to hold the copyright of the work. From a Hotmail address, they dispatched complaints to all of the providers. Seven out of 10 complied and removed the site, one within three hours. Only one ISP pointed out that the copyright expired many years ago.This week saw the setting of an equally momentous precedent in Britain. Michael Keith-Smith, a Ukip activist who stood in Portsmouth North in the last General Election, became the first person to win damages from an individual internet user after being accused of being a 'sex offender' and 'racist blogger' on a Yahoo! discussion site. It was also claimed that his wife was a prostitute.Keith-Smith sued Tracy Williams, of Oldham, for comments posted after she joined a right-wing online forum in 2002. The High Court judge decided that Williams was 'particularly abusive' and 'her statements demonstrated that ... she had no intention of stopping her libellous and defamatory behaviour'. Accordingly, he ordered her to pay &pound;10,000 in damages, plus &pound;7,200 costs.This is a significant milestone for the net, because it illustrates the extent to which original libertarian fantasies about it were misguided. In the early days, it seemed that the network was completely beyond the control of the established order.'Governments of the industrial world, you weary giants of flesh and steel,' wrote John Perry Barlow in his 1996 'Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace', 'I come from cyberspace, the new home of mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. Where there are wrongs, we will identify them and address them by our means. We are forming our own social contract. This governance will arise according to the conditions of our world, not yours. Our world is different.'What a difference a decade makes. Although the established order struggled initially with the challenges posed by the net, in general it has made astonishing strides in getting the unruly beast under control. That control will never be perfect (witness the way the file-sharing genie escaped from the bottle), but the long arm of the law has had little difficulty reaching into cyberspace when it chooses to make the effort.And although libertarians will no doubt protest, sometimes these intrusions may have beneficial effects. Those of us who want the net to serve as the Speakers' Corner of the 21st century have to accept that speakers must take responsibility for what they say.Even in the US, freedom of speech does not include the right to shout 'Fire!' in a crowded theatre.And in Britain it should not include the right to call somebody a sex offender when he is not.
Nineteen years after her husband, Edgar, died, Joan Rivers has admitted joining match.com and using a disguised profile of herself in search of romance with a funny and/or elegant man. She has been attempting to lure unsuspecting males between 65 and 75, by telling them that she is very good looking for her age and very funny.To the many concerns expressed about the internet is added a new one: that famous people may be communicating with unsuspecting members of the public.'I know Pete Doherty is on myspace.com,' says Jordan Paramor of Heat magazine. 'To be honest, celebs online happens much more than people realise. I've read on popbitch today about two more incidents.' One such story concerns a 'bi megastar singer' who surfs chatrooms using a pseudonym. Self-confessed surreptitious chatters are Stephen Fry, Mick Jagger and Rose McGowan of Charmed. JK Rowling has admitted to 'pottering' in chatrooms without revealing her name, to try and find out what children really think about her books.To research his role for Saved, Macaulay Culkin posed in Christian internet chat-rooms. Carrie Fisher has a habit of chinwagging in 'any Star Trek chatroom I can find', as well as in an over-60s chatroom for gardeners. Robin Williams has said he enjoys playing games online and even posing as a nine-year-old girl. Natalie Portman, meanwhile, says she has been 'my deepest, my most profound self' while anonymous in a chatroom.Those who visit internet dating chat-rooms are now faced with the thought that, far from talking to a New Jersey housewife as they believed, they may have been conversing with Halle Berry, who admits to visiting such sites for 'a little fun stuff'.
A lava lamp that you can stick in your pocket. A mobile phone charger that powers up with a single shake. A new, efficient mode of large-scale electricity generation. These are just some of the possible applications for a mysterious goo called ferrofluid.It's not the easiest thing to explain. The latest edition of New Scientist magazine states: 'Ferrofluids are simply a suspension of magnetic nanoparticles in an inert liquid of some kind.'Wikipedia, the collectively compiled online encyclopaedia, attempts to summarise: 'A ferrofluid is a specific type of liquid which responds to a magnetic field. The solid particles are generally stabilised with a surfactant layer.'So far, so what? Enter Jeffrey Cheung, a materials scientist at the Rockwell Scientific company in Los Angeles. In a laboratory accident, he spilt a commercial ferrofluid over himself and his workbench, which happened to have a bar magnet sitting on it. The magnet started following him, until it flew off the bench right at him.The magnet had globs of ferrofluid tightly bound to each end, which had greatly reduced its friction with the bench, making it more mobile. Cheung realised that ferrofluid can act as a super-efficient lubricant. He has set up a company to make his ideas commercial, with products including TV remote controls, computer mice and a shake-as-you-go mobile phone charger.
A new phobia has exploded among mobile phone users in Greece. The 'fear of fear' has been brought on by revelations of eavesdropping at Vodafone, the country's biggest mobile operator, say psychoanalysts reporting a boom in patients.Greeks, anxious their phones may have been tapped by bosses or spouses, have sought medical help. 'The afflicted show all the signs of a classic phobia,' said Dr Dimitris Souras, an Athenian psychotherapist. 'I have had at least 25 people, of all ages, displaying what I can only call a "fear of fear", that is fear of their own fear that their private conversations may have been monitored.'All had complained of anxiety, sleep disorders, irritability and an inability to function properly. 'There is no doubt in my mind that this is connected to what we now know: that in Greece mobile phones are not safe,' said Dr Souras who includes the phobia in his latest book.This is the latest bizarre twist to revelations that Greece's political and military elite were listened into by 'persons unknown' for nearly a year before and after the 2004 Olympic Games. Evidence that the operation was much larger than first thought - insiders believe thousands may have been monitored - has fed conspiracy theories.With Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis and most of his cabinet on the 'hit list,' rumours abound that the ruling Conservatives, whose popularity ratings have nosedived, may be forced to call early elections because of disgruntlement with their handling of the matter.Polls show about 65 per cent of Greeks blame Karamanlis for the imbroglio. Scepticism with the official account has been reinforced by the decision to disclose investigations almost a year after the eavesdropping devices were found in Vodafone's central computer system.
Kerry Kirwan has built an unusual mobile phone for himself. The cover is made of biodegradable plastic and inside is a sunflower seed. It's a perfect marriage of ecology and technology, he believes.'When I've finished with my phone, I will plant the case in a pot,' said the Warwick University researcher. 'Its biodegradable material will disintegrate to provide nutrients for the seed. After a few weeks, I will have a nice sunflower in my garden. It will even absorb carbon dioxide that should make up for some of the emissions created in making it.'Turning phones into flowers may seem odd, but its time is coming, say scientists and engineers. The explosive growth in mobile ownership over the past decade means the country is deluged by old phones, each packed with lethal cocktails of mercury, nickel and other compounds.Every hour, 1,700 mobiles are dumped by Britons buying better ones to take advantage of offers from the networks. This accumulation of dead ringers is an onslaught on our ecology: 15 million phones, each bursting with toxic chemicals, are thrown out to be buried in landfill sites or left in drawers and cupboards.'We are creating a dangerous legacy, given the incredible rate of new devices dumped daily,' said Alison Conboy, one of the designers of an exhibition on the future of mobile phones, Dead Ringers?, at the Science Museum this week.These mounds of discarded Nokias, Samsungs and Motorolas are just one aspect of a major new ecological threat: electronic waste. Other sources include TV sets and computers. 'People keep electronic devices for shorter periods,' said Zeina Alhajj of Greenpeace. 'A decade ago, the average life of a PC was 10 years. Today it is three. But that is nothing compared to mobile phones': 18 months.'Mobile phones could last for 10 years, with occasional battery replacements. However, consumers - particularly people aged under 30 - are constantly pressed to change. The early mobiles were simple but clunky. Current models act as cameras, diaries and contacts books as well as phones.Newer 3G (third generation) devices allow owners to create their own video diaries, commentaries and documentaries in which they talk to the camera in their phone. People are using phones to create visual records of every aspect of their lives, including taking pictures of clothes and records to send to their friends to check if they should buy them. All of this puts even more pressure on people to replace devices.Every mobile is stuffed with different metals and plastics. There may only be tiny amounts in each, but given the millions dumped each year that represents a formidable ecological onslaught.'It takes an incredible amount of energy and material to make a mobile,' said Fiona-Grace Peppler, of the Science Museum. Estimates suggest that about 2 kilograms of raw materials are used to make a single phone. 'These include nickel, lithium, tin, mercury and lead as well as plastics and liquid crystal display materials,' she added. Most of these substances are now simply dumped with household refuse. But landfill sites are being used up, and there is a danger of the metals leaching into underground water supplies. As a result, Britain is now preparing to implement Europe's legislation on electrical and electronic equipment waste this year.Ideas for tighter laws include pressing manufacturers to introduce more biodegradable materials such as those in Kerry Kirwan's phone. NEC is one firm investigating such devices. Other plans include measures to cut dumping. 'We have to stop people throwing their phones into rubbish bins,' added Peppler. 'However, it is still not clear whether that should be the role of manufacturers, who may be required to give out phones only when old ones have been returned, or should the onus go on customers or councils. It is a tricky issue.'&#183;Dead Ringers? opens at the Science Museum in London on Wednesday.How Britain got the messageJanuary 1985: Ernie Wise makes Britain's first mobile phone call from London's Docklands to Vodafone HQ in Berkshire on a brick-sized handset.1987:75,000 Britons, mainly bosses typified by Michael Douglas in the film Wall Street, own mobiles.1994:Text messaging launched.1997:9.1 million Britons use mobiles.August 2001:Britain sends 1 billion texts each month.June 2002:Nokia launches its first camera phone, the 7650, at &pound;350.2002:Collins launches its first textspeak dictionary. This includes imho (in my humble opinion) and bbs (be back soon).May 2004:James Trusler, 30, breaks the world speed-texting record, taking 67 seconds to dash off: 'The razor-toothed piranhas of the genera Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus are the most ferocious freshwater fish in the world. In reality they seldom attack a human.' iJanuary 2006:Britons send 3.1 billion texts a month.March 2006: Vodafone reveals annual profits of &pound;10.3bn.Katy Heslop
It is quite easy to develop an online T-shirt buying habit at the moment. Especially when, taking note of the exchange rate, it's cheaper to buy obscure US T-shirts that your mates don't know about to overpriced UK ones that everyone wears. Best site isthreadless.com, where you can pick up unique designer Ts (as well as design your own) for about $15 (roughly &pound;8.50).Elsewhere, alabel.netalabel.netspecialise in poker faced irony; my favourite continental short-sleeved peoplelafraise.comare Europe's leading purveyors of cute surreal images; andwww.goingpostal.ccmake cool shirts featuring postage stamps.Ravetorock.comsell apparel for non-existent rock bands, whilewornby.co.ukremake manky old tops that were once adorned by real rock gods such as Lennon and Bolan.
If Bowiechick (Melody) has an Amazon wishlist, Logitech should buy her something nice. The 17 year old American girl posted a YouTube video aboutbreaking up with a boyfriend, but what really attracted attention was the video effects she used via her webcam. In response, she's just madeanother videoto demonstrate them (above).CNet covered the story, and says: "Though it's too early to tell whether Bowiechick's clips have affected Logitech sales, it's plain that many more people are aware of the company's visual graphics as a result of her videos."
Bill Gates gave the opening keynote at last week's Microsoft Mix06 conference, featuring Aber Whitcom from MySpace (which uses SQL Server) and Ashley Highfield from the BBC. The speech ended with a dicussion between Gates and Tim O'Reilly, followed by a Q&amp;A. There'sa transcriptof the whole thing online.Gates made an interesting remark which I haven't seen a Softie make before. Talking about Atlas, Microsoft's AJAX programming utility, he said: "If you think of Atlas as sort of raising the floor, sort of the just pure browser experience to a significant higher level, we also want to raise the ceiling."Dion Hinchcliffe hasa good round-up of Mix06with useful links to further coverage.
