Hey, this could mean processors at dawn.John Siracusa, the man who writes possibly themost in-depth reviews of Apple operating systems seen on this earth, has posted ahead of next week's Apple event, where Steve Jobs is expected to unveil, oh, new Intel-based desktop pro Macs, an iPod or two (mebbe) and show off the next version of OSX.And what's he posted? AKeynote bingo card.Regular readers may recall thatwe've already done this- back before this year's Macworld keynote. And I myself thought that I kicked off theSteve Jobs keynote bingo memewayyyy back in January 2005. A Google on "keynote bingo" brought up the link to the latter at the top, at least this morning.While imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and Ars Technica's one does have the snazzy design at the top, we're obviously wondering whether the idea exploded full-blown into his head, or whether he, you know, sort ofheardabout it. It would be nice to feel the Guardian's reach goes that far.(Actually, "thief" is the wrong word. You can't steal a meme, can you.)And what about the content? Well, apart from having the absolute certainties - stuff like "Boom!" and "One more thing" (he seems to have left out "Oh - that wasn't meant to happen"), it's stuff that you could pretty much expect - perhaps new video iPod, new iPod nano, demo of Leopard, movie rental service.. Precisely the stuff that Apple is going to have to do if it's going to stay ahead ofMicrosoft's Zune thing.Update:John emails - and posts - to point out that he'd been doing this privately for years for WWDC keynotes. But he graciously acknowledges that the examples above seem to have been the first on public view, though of course "buzzword bingo" has been around for years (examples: an Al Gore commencement address; a Frasier episode where they had a drink while watching Antiques Roadshow every time someone said "veneer").The more interesting question he raises is why Apple doesn't publish the sessions from the Worldwide Developers' Conference online or as a DVD or similar. That would help people who can't or won't go to the show but want to develop stuff - and surely Apple needs more of those people, not fewer. Those who can afford get the hands-on detail. Those who can't watch videos. Except - no videos if you're not there. Why? We'll ask..
Billboard's coverage of Zuneis based on an iinterview with Chris Stephenson, Microsoft's new GM of marketing for MSN Entertainment Business. The story says:Zune users will be able to view each other's playlists, recommend music and sample tracks in what Stephenson describes as a multifaceted music discovery experience. This capability will extend to the Xbox 360 game console, PCs running Windows Media Center and mobile phones using the Windows Mobile operating system."The ability to connect the different devices is a key part of the strategy," Stephenson says. "Whether it's a portable media device, or a phone, or the Xbox or Media Center PC, the idea is you can access your entertainment from anywhere."The music industry seems reasonably keen on Microsoft getting involved. Billboard says:While publicly praising Apple's success in building the digital music space, music industry executives have expressed frustration at the company's my-way-or-the-highway tactics. Competition means more opportunities to sell digital music in ways Apple won't allow. For instance, Microsoft is more open to variable pricing, whereas Apple is not."We definitely see the need for really strong competition in the marketplace," says [Warner Music Group's George White].. "We'd love to see more players getting in and offering more types of digital content. We think that having more, stronger competition is more likely to yield that outcome."
Vespa LX 125CCPrice:&pound;2,449Top speed:57MphSeats:2Good for:Roman holidaysBad for:British wintersThe scooter looms large in my imaginings of my parents' early years. Dad had a little green and white number, with an electric start he'd paid extra for. With his blond quiff and brothel creepers, it completed a look even Shakin' Stevens would have been impressed by. My mother certainly was. However, that scooter was almost their undoing. Returning home from a dance late one rainy night, the bike skidded on wet cobbles. Mum was thrown into a ditch - though anger turned to expectation as she considered the romantic possibilities of being rescued by her gallant beau. Lying in the mud, dress torn, she heard him approach: 'Don't worry, darling,' he whispered. 'The scooter's going to be fine...'Vespa is celebrating its 60th birthday, and few other marques conjure up as easily the feelgood factors of romance, hedonism and freedom. The two-wheeled 'wasp' (vespa is the Italian for wasp and, to non-believers, the irritating drone of their engines and the way they buzz about maddeningly in traffic means they are aptly named) came into being in 1946 when Enrico Piaggio arrived at Florence's patent office and posted a trademark for 'a motorcycle with a rational arrangement of organs... and with covers concealing all mechanical parts'. This 'arrangement of organs' has gone on to thrill 17m Vespa owners over the decades and led to the development of 98 different models - most of which have stuck incredibly closely to Enrico's original blueprint.Having completed my CBT (compulsory basic training) - a one-day course designed not so much to keep sedate fortysomethings at bay as to stop 17-year-old wannbe Valentino Rossis from killing themselves - I straddled a lipstick-red Vespa 125 LX (a modern version of the Roman Holiday classic) and headed for the potholed streets of the capital. For a style struggler like me, who has spent most of his life fighting relegation to the lower divisions of urban cool, the very act of sitting on a scooter feels like instant promotion. The LX is fully automatic. It's a 'twist'n'go', which sounds more like a hair-care product, and, sitting up, feet planted squarely on the runners, it doesn't so much feel like riding a bike as steering your granny's (turbocharged) mobility chair.The LX has a flip seat with storage for a helmet and wet-weather gear, and it only costs a fiver to fill up. For that, I managed about 80 miles to the gallon. It's also Congestion Charge exempt and free to park.I've been a London cyclist for 20 years now and so felt I'd take to scootering like Pete Doherty did to heroin, but I was surprised at how vulnerable I felt. The Vespa, however, did give me all the other benefits of two-wheeled city transport (little pollution, quick journeys and a feeling that crisscrossing the city is less impossible than, say, a colour-blind man solving a Rubik's cube), but the one thing it didn't give me was exercise, which is why, when this nifty Vespa goes back, me and my stomach will be returning to pedal power.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Although lots of A-list bloggers sneered at one2one, Dell's corporate blog (which led someone to comment that the A stands for asshole), but it's going pretty well, by corporate blog standards.The latest topic to be addressed isNo Bloatware, Please, which responds to people like me havingextended whingesabout Dell bundling software we don't want.The post points out that Dell is streamlining the process, and at least shows the company is aware that some customers are conerned about it. However, it doesn't mention that Dell gets paid for installing all this crap, and it doesn't offer a useful solution. But there is one.Come on, Dell, all you have to do is provide a check list of bundled software and let us untick the ones we don't want. This need not be free.I am willing to pay moreto stop you from installing Symantec, RealNetworks, Apple and Sun adware, and I bet I'm not the only one.If there's anything I need, I can download and install it myself -- and that way, I'll know what it's installing and exactly where it's installing it. On my PC, those are things I consider it my right to control.I'm sure there are plenty of people who will be happy to have whatever software you want to bundle, and they'll be happier too, because you will have given them the choice.Update: AndMichelle Pearcy has responded on Dell's blog:Michelle Pearcy, WW Client Software Manager said: Hi Jack, Dwight, et al., thank you for your response. As you point out, there are several business models which drive the distribution and installation of software on PCs. The combination of these business models allows Dell to sell competitively priced systems - yes, we make money on software but the majority of the revenue is based on software that customers select at point of sale.However, to balance the complexity of the online PC configuration process as well as target a wide range of customer types, we provide point of sale and after point of sale choices in software for our customers. Your point on flexibility and choice is a good one and we will continue to move in the direction you mention - allowing customers to select and install the exact software titles they want. We started with our XPS products as these customers are generally more sophisticated and do not need as much help from Dell in selecting key software titles. Other folks actually want Dell to recommend software - both at the time they purchase their PC and later when they start to use their PC. We agree our model allows us to serve both types of customers and we need to capitalize on this model more often.Thanks again for your suggestions and response to this interesting topic.July 22, 2006 5:49 PM
Microsoft has announced Zune via an article that you're not allowed to read because it's behind a paywall inBillboardmagazine. The blurb says:In an exclusive first interview with Billboard, Chris Stephenson, Microsoft's new GM of marketing for MSN Entertainment Business, says the company will later this year launch Zune, an umbrella brand for what he says is "a family of hardware and software products" targeting various digital entertainment services.The first implementation of this will be the portable music player and digital music service, in what is the company's strongest effort yet to rein in Apple Computer's iTunes/iPod juggernaut, currently responsible for about 70% of the digital music market and 75% of the portable digital music player market.However, there are a couple of Zune blogs fromCesar MenendezandRichard Winn. Also, you can sign up for a newsletter (after listening to Us by Regina Spektor) athttp://comingzune.com/There's also aReutersstory.Michael Gartenbergat Jupiter Research has also commented, and there's an article atBetaNews.Other souces of info includeZune Info,Zune NationandWikipedia.Comment: It looks as though there will probably be three product families in the range: a music player with Wi-Fi), a video player and, later, a portable games console. The use of Billboard suggests music will be the prime focus to start with. The team behind Zune is the team behind the Xbox so you can also expect live community features to be a major selling point.
Chromehounds XBOX 360The Japanese love for giant walking robot tanks is an idiosyncrasy that's launched a cornucopia of games, from the actually mad Steel Battalion and the won't-work-without-it 40-button joystick and pedal set, to the more sedate Armoured Core series. Chromehounds sits comfortably at the latter end of the spectrum, focusing on building your death machine from the tracks (or huge walking legs) up to its shiny, pointy armaments, then taking it into battle with similar behemoths. The game's expanses of countryside are sadly not matched by your tanks' walking speeds, leaving you to barrel at low speed across vast tracts of open grassland before you can engage in a bout of its blundering, camera-hampered combat. Tedious, clumsy and featuring way too much extremely dull driving, the game is only marginally less unrewarding in multiplayer mode.&#183;Sega, &pound;40Electroplankton Nintendo DSWithout levels, scores or any sense of competitive achievement whatsoever, Electroplankton is defiantly not a game. Described as "touchable media art", it's a mildly hypnotic blend of interactive light and sound, with 10 breeds of plankton responding to movement on the screen and, in some cases, voice sounds. While stopping short of recognisable music, the plankton's tinkly melodies, rippling lights and subtle adjustments in response to touch are genuinely relaxing, especially with a decent set of headphones. If you know what "synaesthesia" means you're probably already running to buy a copy. If not, Electroplankton is still a fascinating and deeply unconventional experience - but definitely not a game.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Nintendo newsNintendo WII experienceNintendo announced last year that its new Nintendo Wii Experience console wouldn't use a conventional joypad, but instead rely on gamers waving around what looks like a stunted television remote control. Getting its first UK demonstration in London recently, it became clear that seasoned gamers have practically no advantage over those trying it for the first time - your carefully nurtured ability to lord it over friends and elderly family members may soon be irrelevant. Tennis and Golf get you to hold the remote like a racket and club respectively, hitting the ball as you would in real life; Duck Hunt makes you aim the remote like a gun, and Conductor turns it into a baton. Inventive, silly and fun, Wii could actually live up to its hype and draw in an audience whose previous experience of games was only repeated ignominious defeat.
MondayPlay(ing with) moneyPortable gaming rules: but is it an interim regime?PS3 costsTuesdayVegas says no to Rainbow SixScientists seek virtual telepathyWii rule?Is Wii the new Quasar?WednesdayGames go to collegeStory ends for God of War creatorJerico thenMore PSPThursday"Satirical" game sparks ethnic controversyTesting the waterCommunication breakdownSteamship launchesFridayIs WoW factor killing PC gaming?Virtual purchases become real
Two memes collide in a great video you can watch atRageboy's site, along with links to the forthcoming movie, the Wikipedia page etc.
Over on our supersisterblogComment is Free,Jon Ronsonmakes the case forGary McKinnon, the hacker who looks set to be extradited to the US. At a time when immense hoo-ha has been generated over the extradition of the "Natwest 3", Gary's case has been largely ignored. Why?Ronson saysit's because he doesn't have the skills or contacts to make a fuss -"The NatWest Three have secured the services of a PR company; Gary McKinnon hasn't: he can barely afford to pay his phone bill. People such as Sir Digby Jones, the former director general of the CBI, have been giving speeches about how US-UK business relations are suffering in the wake of the NatWest Three's extradition; nobody is giving influential speeches in support of Gary McKinnon. The only people who seem to care much about him - besides the odd Lib Dem MP - are his fellow stoner UFO nerds. And who is going to listen to them.I think there's a bit of a misunderstanding going on, because US federal prosecutors don't recognise his social type. Gary McKinnon is a dork. To fellow dorks such as myself it seems crazy that they are taking him so seriously. But federal authorities - not really knowing the Nick Hornby-reading, north London geeky stoner type - have lumped him in with the terrorists. I would suggest some kind of rally, but it seems like a lot of effort, and nothing would come of it anyway. Perhaps people can support him by watching Richard and Judy tonight."Regular readers of Technology Blog will know that we've been following Gary's case all the way. May I suggest those of you with opinions head over toComment is Freeand make your thoughts known.
"Jessica Simpson's A Public Affair went on sale this week at Yahoo Music, and unlike every digital song sold on competitors Apple iTunes, Napster and Rhapsody, it is compatible with all portable music players. The song is in the open MP3 format and can be transferred to an Apple iPod or players by Creative, Samsung and others," saysUSA Today.Unfortunately this is probably not the start of a trend:Sony BMG played down the significance of the release. The song, on Yahoo, is "personalized" -- there are 500 versions, each including a different first name, from Aaron to Zach, that consumers can search for. The label says it would have been too complicated to release all 500 with DRM.Yahoo thinks it could wipe out iTunes and become the top online music store just by selling tracks in unprotected MP3 format, like eMusic and AllOfMP3.com:"As you know, we've been publicly trying to convince record labels that they should be selling MP3s for a while now," [wrote Ian Rogers, who runs Yahoo Music]. "Our position is simple: DRM doesn't add any value for the artist, label ... or consumer. The only people it adds value to are the technology companies who are interested in locking consumers to a particular technology platform."But don't hold your breath....
Panama is not only a central American country through which passes one of the industrial wonders of the 19th century - the canal - it is also the name given by Yahoo! to its enterprise designed to help advertisers navigate one of the industrial wonders of this century, the internet.This week Yahoo!, one of the pioneers of the internet portal, said its new system, created to strengthen its hand in the battle for a larger slice of the lucrative online search advertising market, will not be ready until next year.Yahoo!'s shares suffered their biggest one-day fall on fears that the setback would allow Google to increase its dominance among search engines and could provide the window through which third-placed Microsoft might slip.There is a lot to play for. Search engines on the web have not only opened up the world's wealth of information to anyone with access to a computer and an internet connection, they have also become amazingly lucrative vehicles for the companies behind them.Allowing firms to advertise their wares alongside relevant search results has been one of the truly revolutionary business models of the so-called new economy - the new business environment that the net is supposed to have created.Last year the online advertising market in the US, where it is most developed, was worth more than $12.5bn (&pound;6.76bn), up 30% year on year, according to a survey by the Interactive Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers.In the UK, the market was worth &pound;1.4bn and this year the amount spent by British advertisers online looks likely to outstrip that being spent on national press advertising. Advertising linked to web searches is the largest component of online advertising. In the US it accounted for 41% of the market last year; in Britain it makes up over half the market. It is also the most lucrative area of online advertising.Google, which makes a whopping 98% of its revenues from search adverts, has profit margins of more than 60%. Yahoo!, which makes use of its position as the web's most visited portal to sell display advertising while also trying to increase its share of search revenues, has margins of just over 40%.The sheer power of Google's momentum was clear in quarterly figures last night which revealed that its profit had soared by 110% to $721m in the three months to June, compared to a year ago.The search company's revenue was up 77% at $2.46bn. Google is growing faster outside its home market than it is in America - the company revealed that the proportion of income earned overseas had risen from 39% to 42%.Google's earnings were released after stock market closed in New York. Its shares had slipped by 3% during the day on fears that it might be afflicted by the slowdown affecting its competitors.Search is dominated by Google. According to the research firm ComScore, in May Google had a 62% share of global search traffic, up from 55% in the same month the previous year - a rise assisted by its controversial decision to move fully into the Chinese market.Yahoo! was firmly in second place with just over 20%, down from 22%, while Microsoft languished in third at under 9%.In the core US market, Google, according to ComScore, increased its share of monthly online searches in June this year to 44.7%, from 36.5% during June 2005.From all these statistics one thing is clear: Google dominates. Yahoo! and Microsoft will have to increase both their share of search and the revenues they make from allowing advertisers access to that search audience, to stop the behemoth from Mountain View, California, taking over.Internet users do not seem swayed by the effectiveness of online search engines. Nate Elliott, an analyst at Jupiter Research, suggests that this is because branding is the important factor. "It is quite ironic that the actual quality of the search itself does not matter. Obviously, if a search request brings back no relevant results people would stop using it, but all the search engines are quite similar."To increase audience share, search engines have become interested in partnerships with online firms that have a strong brand awareness. In May, Yahoo! linked up with online auction site eBay, one of the web's largest e-commerce players, in a partnership that includes using Yahoo!'s search facility on the eBay site.That deal came after Google beat Microsoft to a link-up with AOL, paying an over-the-odds $1bn for a 5% stake in the company, giving it the right to keep its search engine at the heart of the Time Warner online property. Google is keen to retain its position within AOL and the company is rumoured to have agreed to hand back to AOL 90% of the advertising revenues it gets from searches carried out through the portal.A deal with AOL was Microsoft's chance to get back in the game, Mr Elliott reckons. "The AOL deal was their shot and they missed it. There are only a handful of partnerships that matter, with the portals that do not have their own search functions and AOL was the largest of those."Microsoft is now expected to roll its MSN search facility into its new Windows Vista operating system but there are doubts about whether that will help to boost its market share.To meet the second challenge - of finding ways to increase revenues generated by paid-for searches - Microsoft has already developed a new tool. This is called AdCenter and it is designed to compete with Google's popular AdWords, which allows advertisers to create adverts and choose search keywords so that when those subjects are searched for the advertiser's campaign appears on the screen.Microsoft has yet to aggressively market AdCenter to the advertising community and some on Wall Street believe that the delay in the roll-out of Yahoo!'s new advertising software - Panama - could present the software giant with just the window of opportunity it needs.For Yahoo!, the delay in the roll-out of Panama has been a severe blow."From a search query standpoint, Yahoo! is maintaining share," said Jefferies analyst Youssef Squali. "But from a revenue perspective, they have certainly lost quite a large share to Google, and that is why Panama was so important and why Panama continues to be important."
Some people get paid for breaking in.Dark Readinghas an example....On the day we planned to get into the building, I decided to try the magnetic swipe system. In a worst-case scenario, I figured I could fumble my way in, acting as if my card had malfunctioned and asking an employee to open the door from the inside.Without having an "official" magnetic access card to duplicate, I pulled every card with a magnetic stripe from my wallet, including my bank ATM card, a credit card, and a shopping card from a major grocery store. To my surprise, the first swipe from the shopping card opened the door.Once inside, we knew that blending into the environment was going to be a necessity. I needed to get my colleague to a conference room to jack into the network and start port scanning, while I started looking for logins and passwords by flipping keyboards and pulling yellow sticky notes from monitors. We located a men's room that also served as a changing facility for employees. Conveniently, it also contained clean smocks and scrubs for us to use.
Pop! Into the inbox comes a charming missive telling us thatour story about the 1% rulehas won a "Gold Reddit" because it's "the source of today's top link on reddit.com" - seehttp://reddit.com/info/al9n/comments.So what do we do? Dance around the room? Yes, but also bury face in hands. (It's quite hard to bury your face in your hands while you dance around the room - you keep banging into things. But we managed it.) Why? Because we got the sums wrong in the story. More precisely, I - me - Charles - didn't check the sums on Antony Mayfield's site.Don't panic, now. The 1% rule still holds (and if you need a quick recap, it's this: in an average population of 100 people online, 1 will be a content creator, 10 will be content tweakers (adding comments or making suggestions) and 89 will just read/view/listen to it. There's independent evidence suggesting it's a pretty good rule of thumb. It's just that the proportion of people uploading stuff to YouTube is wayyyyy below 1%.Here are thestats from Antony's site(now, you'll note, marked "Updated, corrected"):60% of all videos watched online are on YouTube100 million downloads a day65,000 uploads a day (that's 1,538 downloads per upload)However when one does the calculation of the ratio of uploads to downloads, you discover it's not 0.5% (as Antony originally said and I repeated) but 0.065%. Which is 15-fold shy of 1%.In other words, there are far fewer "creators" on YouTube than metrics from other organisations would lead you to expect. But I alluded to that in the story: video creation (even doing video grabs and preparing them in a format for upload) is difficult, much more difficult than writing a blog post. So I'm not surprised at the disparity.Oh, but in future, the calculator will come out on it all.Update:some more data points:Top 100 Digg Users Control 56% of Digg's HomePage Content: "of all stories that make it to the front page of Digg, more than 20% come from a select group of 20 users. Digg isn't shy about hiding this fact, their top users page plainly displays the statistics". Of course, with Digg, the story has to get dug(g) by others to reach the front, but that's your 10% in action.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Internet search giant Google saw profits more than double in the second quarter of its financial year.Profits were up 110% to $721m in the three months to the end of June, the company told investors after the stock market closed in New York last night.Revenues were up 77% to $2.46bn, while the proportion of income from outside the US increased from 39% to 42%.The figures underlined Google's dominance of the web search market.In May the firm had a 62% share of global search traffic, up from 55% a year earlier.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Amy Jo Kimhas recently spotted a new trend in - as she describes it - the "canary in a coal mine" industry that is the Far East. Virtual world Habbo Hotel (Chinese sitehere, UK sitehere) has recently begun selling items in virtuality for its millions of residents to use both on and offline. From the article:Habbo Hotel in China , developed bySulakeand apparently operated by Netease, is now allowing online purchases of virtual items that are paired with real-world sales. Flowers, clothes, and movie tickets can be purchased online through Habbochina and the matching real items will be delivered to the purchaser the next day.There have been attempts to do this in the West with designer items likeLevis and Nikefor sale inThere, but this has never been viable enough for brand marketers to sink a sizeable chunk of their budgets into these virtual spaces. There is a movement in that direction, if we choose to believe thehubbubfrom theSecond Lifecamp, wherehigh-end designers have paired their virtual clothing with bespoke real-life garments for their choice customers. Potential innovators in this direction would be wise to readthis article from Clickable Culturewhich outlines some of the larger marketing mistakes which have been errantly attempted in that virtual world.Many of these approaches have been one-offs or limited releases. Hungry gamers can alsosend an online request for a pizza, but the use of the pie in the EverQuest II universe has its limitations. That Habbo is now pairing the sale of frequently used services, like movie tickets and flower deliveries, is a step towards integrating the real and virtual.
Last week, Epic Games' Mark Rein wasblaming Intels Integrated Graphics chipfor the decline of PC gaming - now another veteran developer has come up with an alternativescapegoatpossibility: the success of World of Warcraft.Speaking toGamasutra, Brian Sullivan, co-creator of Age of Empires and now president orIron Lore Entertainment, feels the MMORPG's huge success could be proving detrimental to other areas of the industry:"For retail PC games, I think the biggest problem is World of Warcraft. It is such a compelling MMO game that it sucks up a lot of money and time that would normally be spent on other retail PC games."He has a point. As we all know, MMORPGs make considerable demands on our leisure time, not only because they're incredibly immersive, but also because the subscription model itself encourages longer play. However, MMORPGs have been around for several years - plenty of time to come up with a competing business model, or an innovative means of engaging the same audience. I'm not sure if developers of retail PC games are really meeting the challenge. The industry is going round in circles endlessly re-inventing the same two or three genres.Iron Lore's own game, a mythological RPG adventure named,Titan Quest(pictured above) is due out later this year.
Another interesting game - this one I meant to write about ages ago.The Shipis a multiplayer FPS set on a series of luxurious cruisers. Developed by Outerlight and Published by Mindscape, it's kind of an interactive Agatha Christie romp - each player is given another character who they must hunt down and kill, but this has to be achieved out of the sight of security staff (or you'll be chucked in the brig) - oh and you'll be kicked from the server if you take out too many innocent by-standers.There's also an interesting naturalistic element - your avatar needs to eat, wash, sleep and interact with other characters as well as trying to murder his or her nemesis. The Sims meets Manhunt on a big boat...Originally developed as a Half-Life mod, the title is now available as a self-contained game, via Steam.
Saw this onTIGSourceand was immediately intrigued. It's an indie game entitledIllegal Communication, a 'cyber adventure' with wireframe green on black visuals and... well, that's all I should say. The programmer deliberately gives no information about the plot, the objectives or even the controls - players have to figureeverythingout for themselves. In the whole ludology vs narrative debate, this is surely the ultimate realisation of the former standpoint?There have been a few titles like this in the past - most notably Activision's 1985 classic,Hacker, but I can't imagine a commercial release ever trying it again.
The news thatTest Drive Unlimitedwill be released for the relatively cheap 39.95 USD is not quite the bargain - in 360 game terms - that you may think. Monthly "car packs" will be released soon after launch which will include at least 6 cars and genre-specific radio stations. Hmm. So this is the brave new world of downloadable/episodic/whatever gaming? Developers finish a game and shave off the edges, then the the publisher flogs an incomplete title for a few pounds cheaper safe in the knowledge that the press will focus on perceived "generosity" rather than what is missing.To give Atari some credit TDU is actually looking like a decent game - in sharp contrast to 98.2 % of their recent output - and the monthly downloads are optional rather than essential. But if this is a success you can bet even more publishers will give it a go.Horse armourand extra cars are one thing, but how long before you have to cough up extra cash to complete a game you've already bought?
Microsoft has published three guidingprinciples for Windows, and 12 tenets that it says will promote competition.It's not clear that there's anything new here. It's hugely important that Microsoft now sells Windows at rates published on "a standard volume-based price list," but Microsoft was already doing that. No more special deals for companies such as IBM, which at one stage was apparently paying only $9 a copy. (In fact, removing the secret deals might actually have increased the average cost of Windows.)Similarly, PC manufacturers have always been able to add their own programs to Windows, and the ability to remove access to Microsoft programs, shocking as that may seem, was already a consequence of the last anti-trust trial. As Microsoft's pledge sheet says:In order to provide competitors with the opportunity to attain essentially exclusive end-user promotion on new PCs, computer manufacturers will have the right to remove the means by which end users access key Windows features, such as Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player. The Set Program Access and Defaults utility developed as part of the US antitrust ruling makes it easy for users and computer manufacturers to exercise these options.But new or not, the effect of the pledge will be to give the green light to even the most timid maufacturers, who can now screw around with Windows knowing Microsoft will not retaliate.And no one should have the slightest doubt that they are going to use it to our disadvantage.The fact is that PCs are generally sold on price, and most PC manufacturers will ship whatever software houses pay them to ship, and they will bundle it however they are paid to bundle it. In some cases, that already means three broadband services, an anti-virus/firewall suite, two or three bloated media players, a graphics package and perhaps an alternative browser that defaults to Google -- and this is Dell, the largest and probably the most powerful of the bunch.What the third-tier monkeys are going to do hardly bears thinking about. What's to stop them from installing pop-up adware and rootkits?None of this has anything at all to do with providing consumers with a better product, and it has even less to do with putting together a rational selection of quality software. If that ever happens, it's probably an accident. It's really about who pays the most. "Your" desktop has simply been pre-sold by the manufacturer.It's clear from things like theDell Decrapifierthat a lot of users don't like spending their first three hours with a new PC trying to get rid of intrustive junk they didn't ask for, and finding the stuff they actually paid for. However, this is what the US Justice Department wants, so the rest of the world is stuck with it.Next time you buy a Windows PC, try telling the manufacturer that you are on a nostalgia trip. Say you'd like to have just Windows installed, please, and by the way, it would be pretty nice to have a Windows CD and a manual, too.Consumer choice is nice, but I doubt whether consumer choice will extend quite as far as that....
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yesterday the BBC made another proclamation on its digital future, announcing a shake-up in the way the corporation is organised to deal with multimedia more fully (they call it a "360 degree" approach). From Owen Gibson'sreport in the Guardian:The changes were designed to make the BBC "the most creative organisation in the world" by streamlining decision-making and production, [director general Mark Thompson] told staff. "We need a BBC ready for digital, for 360-degree multi-platform content creation."Acknowledging the central role of technology and marketing in the new media age, Ashley Highfield will lead a new Future Media and Technology division with a budget of £400m, while former Pepsi marketing chief Tim Davie will get a beefed-up role as head of marketing, communications and audiences. BBC Vision will oversee channels such as BBC1 as well as inhouse programme production.Interestingly. Former BBC staffer Tom Coates, who left Auntielast yearto work on Yahoo's efforts at tech strategy, has written an analysis which is critical of the Beeb's inability to finish off the high-profile projects initiated by Highfield.Referring to the (announced three years ago), Coatessays:Highfield's most recent speeches from May this year are still talking about these projects, with him showing mock-ups of potential prototypes for the iMP replacement the 'iPlayer' that could be the result of a collaboration with Microsoft. Are you impressed by this progress? I'm not.It is, he says, "with a bit of a heavy heart" that he found out Ashley Highfield was going to get a much bigger role, encompassing pretty much everything that the BBC's doing in new media. "I don't know enough about the nature of the restructuring to know whether it's a good or a bad thing at a more general level," he says. "But it's pretty bloody clear to me that it's an ominous move."And he's not alone.Euan Semple, who was head of knowledge management at the BBC until recently, says that he agrees - and points out what he calls "Ashley's incompetence and inability to harness, or indeed retain the considerable talents of the people available to him". Strong words indeed.Now, perhaps this is just two ex-BBC chaps expressing frustration at the organisation - one which they clearly care for and believe should really be at the cutting edge of broadcast/internet interaction and developments.But how much more frustration is going to come out in the open? And are the guns out for Highfield?Update:Tom got in touch to say he didn't leave the BBC to "head up tech development for Yahoo UK" as I previously said. The text is now amended.
Now that Windows 98 is in effect history, with the withdrawal of support by Microsoft, could you recommend a distro of Linux that runs on a 200MHz Intel processor with 64MB of main memory? Ian CuthbertIs this a serious question, or do you just want a plug for Linux? Either way, there are several small versions of Linux listed athttp://bengross.com/smallunix.html. These include "live CDs" such as Knoppix, which let you experiment by running Linux from a CD without disturbing the version of Windows installed on the hard drive.Damn Small Linux (www.damnsmalllinux.org) could be worth a go, and is claimed to run on a Pentium 486DX with only 16MB of memory. The main drawback is that it has its own desktop, and does not offer either Gnome or KDE. These are the two most popular Linux desktop environments, and worth learning. Also, even DSL needs 128MB to give its best, but memory is so cheap now that it always makes sense to fit the maximum convenient amount, if you can find the money.How many Windows 98 users might be willing to switch is another matter. I'd assume their PCs work well enough to do what they need, as they have skipped several convenient and beneficial upgrades to Windows. Are they likely to risk a relatively inconvenient upgrade to a new operating system, which they will have to learn from scratch, just because Microsoft no longer supports it?PCs running Windows 98/98SE and Me are going to keep on working exactly as they do today. Although Microsoft will not be supplying security patches, the old DOS-based versions of Windows are no longer primary targets for malware writers, so it may not make much practical difference. From a security point of view, it's probably more important to have a good firewall and anti-virus software (such as the free AVG). If using broadband, I'd also recommend installing a router with a built-in firewall rather than using a USB modem.Comment: Careless readers should note that I'm not saying Linux isn't worth a try. I think it is. I just have strong doubts about how many Windows 98 users might be interested or adventurous enough to try it....Backchat(in response to comments below): Last week, I suggested Damn Small Linux as a version that would run on a low-power PC. On the Ask Jack blog, sjwells53 says the "easiest small distro to use in a transition from Windows 9x is Puppy Linux. This actually looks like Windows 98 and runs very well as a live CD. It also installs very easily -- especially since version 2 appeared recently."Also, I should not have said that Damn Small Linux would run on a "Pentium 486DX". The Pentium was a 586, as its name implies, and the 486DX chip was used before Intel changed its naming strategy. Sadly, the Sextium, Septium and Octium signally failed to appear.
In last week's Newsbytes, you said Microsoft had released Private Folder 1.0 on the Windows Genuine Advantage site. I spent a lot of time searching and then rang Microsoft and they said it was not available. John BroughtonPrivate Folder was on the WGA site but was withdrawn after corporate users complained their users would be able to hide and perhaps lose important data. On Sunday, I posted a direct link on our Technology blog, which I'd now expect not to work. It's anybody's guess when Private Folder might reappear, if ever.However, there are numerous alternatives such as Magic Folders (http://pc-magic.com/des.htm), which is shareware. Also, you can keep data private by compressing it with a Zip archiving program or WinRAR or something similar, and using password protection. You can drag and drop files into an archive so it works a lot like a folder.Windows XP Pro has built-in encryption, which I don't recommend because it only works with NTFS and the keys are tied to your user account. Enterprises don't like Private Folder because it allows a free choice of password, which IT staff can't know and users might forget.
Is there a gadget available to hold SD cards safely when not in use? Barry GoodmanA purse or wallet may have a pocket suitable for holding one or two memory cards, but there are dedicated card carriers. I did aGoogle searchand the first hit is the £3.99MyMemory memory card holder, which holds eight SD or MMC cards. There are also versions for CompactFlash cards and Sony Memory Sticks. Proporta (www.proporta.com) also has a few options, including a leather "memory wallet" for £24.95.
I have been using Norton Password Manager 2004 with Internet Explorer, and cannot access certain sites using Firefox. The trouble is, I have not been noting passwords recently, and there appears to be no way to reveal them. Paul MartinI haven't used Norton Password Manager, but as far as I can see, there is no way to export your passwords to a plain text file. Using it therefore contravenes Schofield's First Law: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out. Also, passwords ought to be associated with the site, not the browser. Even though Firefox probably didn't seem important when NPM 2004 was written, it looks like a flaw in the program that Symantec (which owns Norton) ought to fix. In the meantime, start retrieving your missing passwords. Websites will usually email your password if you say you have forgotten it.
The switch-off of analogue TV transmitters over the next few years doesn't only mean viewers will have to upgrade to digital sets. It will also make redundant millions of portable TV sets. Users will then have to upgrade to sets like the &pound;230 Roadstar LCD9283D. It might not be the first small-screen LCD set with an integrated digital TV tuner, but with its 9.2inch wide screen, it is one of the best.It is easy to set up and within minutes had pulled in all the Freeview channels and radio stations. The leap in picture quality from an analogue portable was incredible. Gone were the crackles and the snow and in their place were pristine, colourful and stable digital images. The set has plenty of features. It can moonlight as a mini PC monitor, includes a few games and has an analogue tuner as a fallback. Its one weakness is audio performance: it is a little too tinny and compressed. Nevertheless this is an excellent quality set.
With all the talk of the next generation video iPods and Microsoft's forthcoming Zune player, it is surprising that Sony should still be championing portable DVD systems. However, there is much about the D-VE7000S that is attractive. The tablet-style player is thin and light for a DVD player.You could almost fit it into a jacket pocket. Most striking is the superb quality of its seven-inch widescreen. It delivers detailed, colour-rich images. The &pound;200 player is versatile: it comes with a dock that includes reasonably good integrated speakers. In the dock the battery is recharged to deliver three hours of playback. The only other notable features are its credit card-style remote control and two pairs of earphone inputs.But the player's low price means there's little innovation: no integrated TV tuner or DivX playback, for example.
Vodafone this week took mobile communications to another level with the introduction of the UK's first HSDPA (High Speed Data Packet Access) card for laptops. Costing &pound;49.99, plus a subscription fee from &pound;25, the card takes advantage of a software tweak to Vodafone's 3G network to enable the user to achieve download speeds of up to 1.8Mbps and uploads of 384kbps. The card, made by Belgian company Option, grabbed a 60MB high-definition video file in less than seven minutes, reaching speeds close to 1.8Mbps. The increased data rate also delivers much more reliable video streaming. The downside is that the HSDPA network is limited to the M25 area and a few major conurbations. If HSDPA isn't present the card defaults to the standard 384kbps 3G connection or, as a last resort, GPRS.
Damn Small LinuxNow that Windows 98 is in effect history, with the withdrawal of support by Microsoft, could you recommend a distro of Linux that runs on a 200MHz Intel processor with 64MB of main memory?Ian CuthbertJack Schofield replies:Is this a serious question, or do you just want a plug for Linux? Either way, there are several small versions of Linux listed athttp://bengross.com/smallunix.html. These include "live CDs" such as Knoppix, which let you experiment by running Linux from a CD without disturbing the version of Windows installed on the hard drive. Damn Small Linux (www.damnsmalllinux.org) could be worth a go, and is claimed to run on a Pentium 486DX with only 16MB of memory. The main drawback is that it has its own desktop, and does not offer either Gnome or KDE. These are the two most popular Linux desktop environments, and worth learning. Also, even DSL needs 128MB to give its best, but memory is so cheap now that it always makes sense to fit the maximum convenient amount, if you can find the money.How many Windows 98 users might be willing to switch is another matter. I'd assume their PCs work well enough to do what they need, as they have skipped several convenient and beneficial upgrades to Windows. Are they likely to risk a relatively inconvenient upgrade to a new operating system, which they will have to learn from scratch, just because Microsoft no longer supports it?PCs running Windows 98/98SE and Me are going to keep on working exactly as they do today. Although Microsoft will not be supplying security patches, the old DOS-based versions of Windows are no longer primary targets for malware writers, so it may not make much practical difference. From a security point of view, it's probably more important to have a good firewall and anti-virus software (such as the free AVG). If using broadband, I'd also recommend installing a router with a built-in firewall rather than using a USB modem.Memory card carrierIs there a gadget available to hold SD cards safely when not in use?Barry GoodmanJS:A purse or wallet may have a pocket suitable for holding one or two memory cards, but there are dedicated card carriers. I did a Google search (http://tinyurl.com/n6geu) and the first hit is the &pound;3.99 MyMemory memory card holder, which holds eight SD or MMC cards (http://tinyurl.com/o9wyn). There are also versions for CompactFlash cards and Sony Memory Sticks. Proporta (www.proporta.com) also has a few options, including a leather "memory wallet" for &pound;24.95.Disappearing folderIn last week's Newsbytes, you said Microsoft had released Private Folder 1.0 on the Windows Genuine Advantage site. I spent a lot of time searching and then rang Microsoft and they said it was not available.John BroughtonJS:Private Folder was on the WGA site but was withdrawn after corporate users complained their users would be able to hide and perhaps lose important data. On Sunday, I posted a direct link on our Technology blog, which I'd now expect not to work. It's anybody's guess when Private Folder might reappear, if ever. However, there are numerous alternatives such as Magic Folders (http://pc-magic.com/des.htm), which is shareware. Also, you can keep data private by compressing it with a Zip archiving program or WinRAR or something similar, and using password protection. You can drag and drop files into an archive so it works a lot like a folder.Windows XP Pro has built-in encryption, which I don't recommend because it only works with NTFS and the keys are tied to your user account. Enterprises don't like Private Folder because it allows a free choice of password, which IT staff can't know and users might forget.Password problemI have been using Norton Password Manager 2004 with Internet Explorer, and cannot access certain sites using Firefox. The trouble is, I have not been noting passwords recently, and there appears to be no way to reveal them.Paul MartinJS:I haven't used Norton Password Manager, but as far as I can see, there is no way to export your passwords to a plain text file. Using it therefore contravenes Schofield's First Law: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out. Also, passwords ought to be associated with the site, not the browser. Even though Firefox probably didn't seem important when NPM 2004 was written, it looks like a flaw in the program that Symantec (which owns Norton) ought to fix. In the meantime, start retrieving your missing passwords. Websites will usually email your password if you say you have forgotten it.Backchat&middot;Ben Mango, a "website and database designer", asked about time and file tracking software. Software engineer George Czernuszka says: "I would have thought he would be using a source control system - and if not, why not? I can't speak too highly of Subversion (http://subversion.tigris.org). Since he's using Windows, then TortoiseSVN (http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org) is an excellent complement. Both are open source and free."
Apple revealed its latest financial results last night (webcast here) and pretty much hit analyst's expectations by making $4.37 billion in revenue, shifting 8.1 million iPods and 1.3 million Macs (75% of which were Intel-based) along the way.Music products - that's the iPod, iTMS and accessories - now account for almost half of all the company's revenue. Interestingly, though, sales of iPod weredownfrom 8.5 million quarter-on-quarter, or roughly 5%. Looking back briefly over the history of iPod, that's only happened once before (sales dropped from 219,000 to just 80,000 in 2003 as people waited for the second generation model). That was very early on in its life.Now, of course, I'm not claiming "death of the iPod" or anything silly. This was Apple's second-best quarter ever. But it's clear from studying the product's history that leaps in sales are brought by hardware evolution - just look at the effect that the mini, nano and shuffle had. And since last year's nano/5G launches we've really seen nothing new from Cupertino.Now, undoubtedly Apple are working on something new - but we're going to have to see that product hit the market in the next few months if they are to go up another notch.What will it be? Steve Jobs simply said he was excited about "products in the pipeline" and the company's bean counter-in-chief, Peter Oppenheimer, gave little apart from a little phone speculation. "We do not think that the phones that are available today make the best music player. We think the iPod is," he said. "But over time, that is likely to change, and we are not sitting around doing nothing."Does that mean that the much-vaunted Apple phone is on the way? Although the Mac fansites are likely to take it as confirmation of their speculation, I don't think so. Given Apple's previous history, I'd imagine Oppenheimer is really saying they want to make a music player that remains better than anything you can get on a phone. Does that mean Bluetooth? Wi-Fi? Something else?What do you think they're planning?
One in four British internet users keeps a blog and more than half of that number share their online musings with the public, according to a report released today.The research suggests that, with 27 million internet users across the UK, the country now holds nearly 7 million bloggers - equivalent to nearly one in nine of the population.Blogs - which allow internet users to write an online diary - were almost unheard of outside a small community of internet geeks until 2001. Bloggers have the option of keeping their postings private, using them as an alternative to a paper diary.But, along with social networking sites such asMySpaceandBebo, public blogs are now visited by 69 million people worldwide.A report last week found that MySpace, which allows users to make personal webpages incorporating blogs and links to online friends, had overtakenYahoo! Mailas the most visited site in the US.Tom Coates, who runs one of the UK's most visited blogs,plasticbag.org, and studies the social use of the web for internet giant Yahoo!, said that people's social lives were moving online."You can't deny that these sites have transformed relationships amongst teenagers. These days when teenage girls meet boys they give them their MySpace IDs, rather than mobile phone numbers," he said.Britain is now home to blogs ranging fromBelle de Jour, the supposed diary of a callgirl, to sites by the TV chefJamie Oliverand theNorth Wales Chief Constable Richard Brunstrom.Nearly half of those surveyed in the ICM report said they had made new friends through their sites, and 4% claimed they had more than 1,000 online friends.The research, commissioned by the social networking siteMSN Spaces, found that one in five people were blogging to express their views, while 6% said they did it to campaign for political issues. The most popular subjects for blog readers were technology, music, news, film news and sport.But there was hope for traditional media organisations - castigated by many bloggers as the "mainstream media" - in the fact that four out of five of those surveyed still trusted them more than they trusted bloggers. Two-thirds said they took what they read on blogs with a pinch of salt.The blog search engineTechnoratinow tracks 49 million sites, but when Tom Coates started his online diary seven years ago there were fewer than 600 other bloggers."It was such a small community. I remember very clearly how (whenever) each new person did a weblog you'd say hello, we'd all link to them, welcome them to our community, and whenever anyone redesigned their blog it was a really big deal," he said.Tim Worstall, whose blog attimworstall.typepad.comattracts around 3,000 clicks a day, questioned whether the number of active bloggers was really as high as the report suggested."A good 70% of blogs are things where there's one or two posts and then the writer loses interest," he said."My own hope is that the kids using MySpace and LiveJournal suddenly find out that reading and writing are fun and you'll be able to preserve literacy through blogging," he said.
A game which challenges players to, "kill any non-Romanian alien prick in cold blood," has sparked huge controversy in Hungary after it was announced that a "satirical" poke at the unsettled relations between Romanians and ethnic Hungarians would feature strongly in one of the levels of the game.According toGameSetWatch,Romainians in Spacestarts in 1988, when Dictator Nicolae Ceausescu conquers the United States and becomes the emperor of Earth ten years later. Romanians dominate the planet for 100 years, but the new emperor, Traian Basescu (the current president) promises to conquer the entire galaxy.Eurogamerprovides more of the meat which fed the controversy:Yes, it seems supporters of the former republic of Hungary have set up a new nation on a recently conquered planet. They have claimed independence from the Romanian empire, and want to be left alone to live in freedom.The Romanians are having none of it, obviously, and Basescu sends out a few squadrons to do over the Hungarians. But they fail their mission - and now a full-scale war has kicked off.Which is where you come in, playing as a pilot assigned to the 88th fighter squadron of the 3rd Romanian Fleet. Your task is to provide cover for bigger vessels as they take on the Hungarians, and to "viciously murder millions of non-Romanian alien scum."Eurogamer haswatchedthecontroversyboil up and provides some in-depth coverage of the flame wars which have erupted over the Net.While the barbs fly, the developers claim to have been inspired by other war games which feature real-life opponents. Further, they suggest that, "Everything was a joke and it was meant to be a joke that mocks all the problems between Romanians and ethnic Hungarians."While this kind of joke clearly cuts too close to the bone, are there other examples of satire in games which have been successful? And, as Britain is so renowned for its handling of the art of mocking (Gulliver's Travels,Spitting Image,Private Eye), perhaps satire is an area which could be explored tobring "Britishness" in games?
Human rights group Amnesty International is urging people to protest over the actions in China of internet companies Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!.Campaigners say the firms are behaving hypocritically by claiming to put customers first, while simultaneously capitulating to Chinese government demands for political censorship.Accusations against a number of technology companies have spread recently. Microsoft has closed down Chinese language blogs at the request of the government, while Google came under attack when it launched a censored version of its search engine in China earlier this year.Yahoo! was criticised after it emerged that at least two journalists had been imprisoned after a decision by the California-based firm to hand over private details to the Chinese authorities.Shi Tao and Li Zhi, both deemed "prisoners of conscience" by Amnesty, were traced through their Yahoo! email accounts. The group is asking for internet companies to call for the release of "cyber dissidents" imprisoned for voicing their political opinions online.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Public data drives public debateA gathering at the RSA produced as many opinions as voices when an expert panel met 130 people eager to debate access to public information, reports Michael Cross.The lighter route to cleaner airLondon is spearheading the drive to cut pollution by investing heavily in hydrogen-powered buses. But is there a better way?Time to loosen your grip on the net, US is toldOne thing governments hate is being skewered by their own public consultation. So there will be red faces in Washington this week as officials from the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) go through the 632 emails they have received in the past month.ISPs face the music over file sharingShould companies such as Tiscali act as judge and jury with alleged file sharers of copyright music, and cut off their connections? The record industry seems to think so, say Bobbie Johnson and Charles Arthur.Newly Asked QuestionsWhat is the 1% rule?It's an emerging rule of thumb that suggests that if you get a group of 100 people online then one will create content, 10 will "interact" with it (commenting or offering improvements) and the other 89 will just view it.Is Microsoft going to release an iPod killer?Not exactly - but the signs are unmistakable that it will launch a handheld "media" player a bit like Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) this autumn. It is codenamed "Zune".GadgetsVodafone broadband cardVodafone this week took mobile communications to another level with the introduction of the UK's first HSDPA (High Speed Data Packet Access) card for laptops.Sony DVD WalkmanWith all the talk of the next generation video iPods and Microsoft's forthcoming Zune player, it is surprising that Sony should still be championing portable DVD systems. However, there is much about the D-VE7000S that is attractive.Roadstar digital TV tunerThe switch-off of analogue TV transmitters over the next few years doesn't only mean viewers will have to upgrade to digital sets. It will also make redundant millions of portable TV sets.Gamesblog: Developer's episodic tantrum hits wrong targetKeith Stuart: Something surprising happened at last week's Develop conference, an annual get-together for developers and hangers-on. Someone got angry. Mark Rein, vice-president of Epic Games, creator of the hit shoot-'em-up series Unreal, launched two stinging attacks.The future of games is freedomJohn Romero, The founder of Ion Storm and co-founder of games developer id Software, is working on a massively multiplayer online (MMO) game, with the aim of reinventing the genre.Rural users lack aerial viewWith wireless broadband set to become more widespread, the focus in country areas is likely to be on quality, not availability.Grand digital designs for connected communitiesMichael Cross: Britain doesn't do digital grand projects. Like general elections on Sundays, we leave that to continentals. Last week, however, the government announced a shortlist of bidders for what looks like an unashamedly gung-ho attempt to create an exemplar digital community.Slices of life in a parallel universeVictor Keegan: On Sunday evening I was invited by a Guardian reader to a lecture, Life on Mars, hosted by the International Spaceflight Museum.TechnobileLinda Jones: Blaming lateness on your satnav is right up there with 'the dog ate my homework' in lame excuses.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesIntel's early arrival | Microsoft's CRM software online | Say cheese | Seeing in the dark | Windows in your Palm | Plan of attack | Remember, remember | Yahoo 2.0Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
On Sunday evening I was invited by a Guardian reader to a lecture, Life on Mars, hosted by the International Spaceflight Museum. I was delighted to accept but had difficulty finding the exact location. When I eventually arrived a bit late, I snuck in at the back and sat down on the far side of the auditorium. I listened to an animated discussion about space travel, its cost- effectiveness and whether we will all be forced to do it eventually as a result of destroying our own planet.In case anyone hasn't twigged, this was happening in cyberspace thanks to the mindboggling power of Second Life, the three-dimensional online phenomenon (it is hardly a game) that is taking the web's potential to a new level. When you join at secondlife.com you choose a name and an atavar (a 3D representation of yourself) and you are ready to go. It costs nothing to join and explore until you want to build houses, buy an island for $1,200 (&pound;656) or products from the shops that are springing up.The BBC has staged a pop concert on a Second Life island, but this is only a tiny part of what is happening. At least 50 universities have bought space to build campuses to experiment with virtual worlds as a teaching tool. Architects, teachers, scientists and anthropologists are colonising it, as are real estate developers out for a quick buck. It has been used for community schemes to help sufferers from strokes and other conditions. Second Life sports its own money - Lindens, convertible into dollars - and even a red-light zone.Recently, a (real world) conference at Harvard was simultaneously replicated in Second Life so that others could participate in a virtual conference hall. One way of looking at Second Life is that it is a virtual ecosystem capable of replicating almost anything in the real world that can be digitised, but without any shortage of resources. Last week, Davee Commerce (his Second Life name) from Britain's National Physical Laboratory, which has its own site on Second Life, guided me around an area devoted to space flight that displays space rockets from Russia and China, among others. He took me on an a trip to Mars complete with a simulation of the terrain of the planet.How important is all this? It is possible that as post-industrialisation gathers force in the west's virtual economies, with unlimited scope for expansion, these will take up some of the unemployment in the real world. If you think this is far-fetched, there are already successful companies that exist only in Second Life, one of which employs 20 people to build structures for people who haven't the time to do it themselves. People who dismiss this as zombies looking at screens have to answer one simple question: What is more "real" - someone staring at a cinema or TV for two hours in silence, or people using a screen to cooperate around the world in an interactive way?Cory Ondrejka, vice-president of product development at Linden Lab, which owns Second Life, claims it has 330,000 users and is growing at 12% a month without any marketing. The demographics are fascinating: the average age is 33, half of users are women and a very large number haven't played online games before. He also claims that 60% of users create their own content compared with less than 1% of readers of the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia. He admits that the accelerating success of Second Life surprised its creators but that hasn't stopped speculation about a billion-dollar company emerging within its space. I have been smitten by Second Life and was even preparing to give up my addiction to Flickr.com, the photo-sharing community, to make room for it. However, someone has just devised a way to import photos from Flickr to line the walls of the home you are building in Second Life. With all that is happening in the real world, there must be a temptation to climb into Second Life and just stay there.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
One thing governments hate is being skewered by their own public consultation. So there will be red faces in Washington this week as officials from the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) go through the 632 emails they have received in the past month.As the part of the US government that deals with the internet, the NTIA had asked for comments on the renewal of its contract with Icann (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers). It even broke it down into seven questions to help give responses some structure (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/eblp2).The US government has overall control of the technology that powers the internet - its domain name system, root servers and the oversight of the California-based, not-for-profit Icann, which looks after it all.But the government's neat consultation plan was blown apart when its own role became the focus of attention, with nearly a third of all responses saying it should review its position as global head of the net and move that function to an international body as soon as possible.Just over half the responses were not relevant to the inquiry, with many covering the net neutrality debate and many more bordering on spam as American citizens took the opportunity to tell their government that "the internet should be free!" and similar platitudes.But of the remaining, relevant, comments, more than two-thirds told the US it had to move away from governance of the internet. And of those that mentioned the US government's role (as opposed to talking about Icann, which is what the NTIA had hoped people would do), 87% agreed that the US government's dominance of the internet should end.The news has not met with universal approval from American bloggers, who seem to feel that "we built it, we own it" and "if you don't like it, make your own internet" are the correct response to calls for greater internationalisation. Unfortunately, the US's greatest fear is that other countries are doing exactly that.The US narrowly avoided having its role taken away in November at a world summit in Tunisia, but has since come under increasing scrutiny, particularly after it intervened to prevent a new .xxx domain for online pornography being created, after lobbying of the White House by right-wing Christian groups (Why can't I find .xxx on the net?, May 18).When China announced it had tired of delays in introducing non-Latin languages to the top of the internet and so had created its own ".com", there was panic in Washington that the interdependent structure of the internet was about to fracture. So far, that worst-case scenario has been avoided, but despite bloggers' attempts to paint the consultation as an international plot to wrest control of the net away from Uncle Sam, what will most worry the NTIA is that the most fervent opposition to US government control of the internet comes from an American organisation."The internet is global, not national," reads a blunt statement from the Internet Governance Project. "Therefore no single government should have a pre-eminent role in internet governance."It remains to be seen if public embarrassment will have any impact on the Bush administration's tunnel vision.
It's an emerging rule of thumb that suggests that if you get a group of 100 people online then one will create content, 10 will "interact" with it (commenting or offering improvements) and the other 89 will just view it.It's a meme that emerges strongly in statistics from YouTube, which in just 18 months has gone from zero to 60% of all online video viewing.The numbers are revealing: each day there are 100 million downloads and 65,000 uploads - which as Antony Mayfield (athttp://open.typepad.com/open) points out, is 1,538 downloads per upload - and 20m unique users per month.That puts the "creator to consumer" ratio at just 0.5%, but it's early days yet; not everyone has discovered YouTube (and it does make downloading much easier than uploading, because any web page can host a YouTube link).Consider, too, some statistics from that other community content generation project, Wikipedia: 50% of all Wikipedia article edits are done by 0.7% of users, and more than 70% of all articles have been written by just 1.8% of all users, according to the Church of the Customer blog (http://customerevangelists.typepad.com/blog/).Earlier metrics garnered from community sites suggested that about 80% of content was produced by 20% of the users, but the growing number of data points is creating a clearer picture of how Web 2.0 groups need to think. For instance, a site that demands too much interaction and content generation from users will see nine out of 10 people just pass by.Bradley Horowitz of Yahoo points out that much the same applies at Yahoo: in Yahoo Groups, the discussion lists, "1% of the user population might start a group; 10% of the user population might participate actively, and actually author content, whether starting a thread or responding to a thread-in-progress; 100% of the user population benefits from the activities of the above groups," he noted on his blog (www.elatable.com/blog/?p=5) in February.So what's the conclusion? Only that you shouldn't expect too much online. Certainly, to echo Field of Dreams, if you build it, they will come. The trouble, as in real life, is finding the builders.
Stephen Timms was in rumbunctious mood. The government had just auctioned off radio spectrum for 15 areas covering the UK to companies bidding to offer long-distance wireless broadband access, particularly to areas that seemed unlikely to get it by conventional means."This is another important step in making the UK the most extensive and competitive market for broadband in the G7."That was June 2003. The auction was hardly a money-spinner to compare with that of 3G services (sold for &pound;22.5 billion in 2000); it raised just &pound;7 million. One company - UK Broadband, a subsidiary of the Asian phone company PCCW - took 13 regional licences and two British companies took one each.Still, the market for "fixed wireless broadband" - delivered over long distances using new technologies - seemed promising. Although 90% of urban centres and 52% of suburban centres were wired for broadband, only 11% of market towns and 6% of rural villages had it. That left homes and businesses struggling with dial-up connections. (Cable companies shunned rural areas because of the expense of laying cables.)Complete ownershipPCCW quickly bought out the other two companies, completing its ownership of the 3.4GHz licence acrosss the UK.In theory, a competitive marketplace would emerge in which rural businesses and residents could choose from fixed-line broadband or a wireless provider; competition would surely drive down costs and improve the service on offer.Yet three years on, the company's consumer-focused wireless broadband service is only available across limited areas of west London and the Thames Valley.We asked the company to talk about the service, which was rebranded within 18 months of its launch from Netvigator to "Now". But a representative said that because the company was only present in those two regions, it would prefer not to be interviewed.Press reports at the time of the Net- vigator launch in May 2004 suggested further rollouts were on the way in Aldershot, Maidenhead, Reading, Slough, Windsor and Wokingham.But these areas hardly count as rural, nor are they deprived of broadband; they have been well served by DSL and cable broadband for some time.So what happened to support for rural areas? "As soon as you open things up completely to a market economy, the businesses go where they can make the most money," points out Rob Bamforth, principal analyst for service and mobility with analysis company Quocirca. "You target the areas where there are lots of people you could reach." In other words, high-density areas already served by DSL.The Radio Communications Agency (RCA) could have stipulated support for rural communities as part of the licence negotiation, but it didn't, admit representatives from Ofcom, the communications industry regulator that succeeded the RCA."The UK could claim to be one of the most clean, transparent, market force-led economies in the world," says Tim Johnson, publisher at broadband analysis company Point Topic. However, in the US, urban telecommunications revenues are used to subsidise rural services.DSL is becoming increasingly competitive. "There has been a lot of downward pressure on pricing and increasing pressure on the quality and speed," explains Anthony Walker, chief executive of the UK Broadband Stakeholders Group, the government's key advisory body on broadband. "That's a difficult market in which to deploy new infrastructure."Today, 98.69% of the UK's telephone exchanges are ADSL-enabled, after BT abruptly dropped in April 2004 its requirement for individual exchanges to have "trigger levels" of users signed up demanding broadband in favour of a "broadband everywhere" strategy.That left PCCW stranded, since BT's volte-face promised fixed-line broadband to virtually every rural community. PCCW would have to pay for the infrastructure to serve its new network, and then market it to rural residents who would almost certainly have at least one alternative supplier already in their living room.But despite that, Walker sees another pending problem that could lead to a further digital divide among internet users in the UK. Broadband on phone lines has one major drawback: the further you are from the local telephone exchange, the slower it runs because the high frequencies that carry the data become indistinct from the line's background noise. At great distances, you cannot get a continuous signal - a problem for rural users."The debate might not be about whether you can get broadband, but more about how much broadband you can have access to," warns Walker, adding that the Stakeholders' Group is running a review of next-generation broadband access. "If the average service in an urban area is 18 megabits per second, while in a rural area the best you can get is one or two Mbps, then that could be a problem."Neither Walker or Point Topic's Johnson believe this is a problem today, but both agree it will become more prevalent in a few years. As operators look towards bundled services and UK consumers eye high-definition video, the demand for bandwidth is bound to increase.With long-range radio standards like WiMax around the corner, could there be a resurgence of wireless technologies? It looks likely, says Martin Cave, director of the centre for management under regulation at Warwick Business School. But presently, wireless broadband technologies are not standardised, meaning that manufacturing and rollout costs are high. That will change, he says.While Johnson doesn't rule out the possibility of more wireless access in rural areas, he thinks mobility will be an important driver. Intel Capital, the venture capital arm of the chipmaker, gave $25m (&pound;13m) to Pipex in April for this purpose.Pipex is to use its licensed 3.6GHz wireless spectrum for services using the WiMax standard, which Intel is pushing heavily. The companies have said that hotspot technology will be an important part of its offering (and, clearly, mobility is what will differentiate it from Pipex's DSL offering). The service is due to roll out in London and Manchester next year, and target the top eight population centres by 2008. But that's not much use to those who don't live in cities, whose need is arguably greater.Could wireless technology help solve the broadband performance problem? "No one knows what wireless broadband costs will be in two years' time. It's possible that new technologies will enable wireless to be delivered to remote locations using new technologies that are still being explored in the labs," argues Cave.Flexible modelsCave, who has reviewed spectrum licensing policy for Ofcom, explains that the body will release increasing amounts of radio spectrum. In the next four years, it will release around six times the spectrum it released when it auctioned off the 3G spectrum. These licences won't dictate what the spectrum must be used for. That means that companies using it can have a more flexible business model.Market dynamics could continue to look after rural users and keep them surfing along at speeds that don't fall drastically behind urban users. But much depends on how cheap wireless broadband becomes for operators to deploy - and on how willing they are to move out of cities. So far, the track record has not been good.
Look, when I'm lost, I know I'm lost. Now could the machine please leave it out with the monotone gloating in a dull Received Pronunciation accent. I've already worked it out myself.And while everyone's telling me I really should de-clutter my life, this tangle of cables in my car - from satnav to laptop and from there to otherwise long-forgotten cigarette lighter socket - really can't be doing me any good.My passenger isn't impressed, either. She has a computer precariously balanced on her lap - and she's the one who has to make the call to say we're late.Why should I have to stress over whether there are so many high buildings that they mess up the satellite signal? Because if the signal's lost then I'm in trouble, no matter how close to my windscreen I've managed to set up the satnav receiver.It's even worse in the middle of nowhere. Some days I can't even coax a grudging acceptance of my target address. The postcode isn't enough: it has never heard of the road, apparently.Or it is known. Except it's in Wigan. Which is not great when you're in Wolverhampton. I'm left wistfully remembering all those shouting matches with my map-wielding partner.Perhaps I'm just too trusting. Do many other people actually listen to their GPS systems? When fellow drivers find themselves in a cul-de-sac and are advised to "turn right" - into a lock-up garage - surely they smell a rat.OK, so I'm no Stirling Moss. But as a stressed woman knocking 40, I'm reportedly a target customer. Well, I can't take much more of this anxiety. Having spent 20 minutes setting up the system I feel duty-bound to see it through to the hopefully not-too-bitter end.The worst came when my 11 o'clock appointment deteriorated into my 12.30 - all because of yet another mess-up with the satnav. The man I was meeting was fuming. And so was I.Blaming it on your satnav must be up there with "the dog ate my homework" lamest excuses of all time. But it was true. I'd spent two hours on what should have been a 30-minute jaunt to the outskirts of Stoke-on-Trent. I'd driven round the city centre three times before sitting in traffic on the notorious A500 and crossing the border into Shropshire.There was a simple explanation, it transpired. Just 24 hours earlier I'd lent my system to a friend's husband to go to the other side of Shrewsbury. On programming my route the following day, it refused to register that I'd pressed that most vital button, "set as destination".There was nothing for it. On the way back I bought an A-Z.
London has long been known for its poor air quality. The city suffers from one of the worst air quality ratings in Europe, and official statistics suggest that air pollution contributes to the deaths of up to 1,600 Londoners every year.Blame the millions of vehicles that pour into the city daily, clogging the city's arteries as surely as soot sticks to a chimney. Three-quarters of all air pollutants in London come from the roads; so the promise of a new generation of vehicle that leaves no pollution should prove as welcome as an open window on a sweltering day.London is investing heavily in hydrogen, and spearheading this transport revolution is one of the city's most recognisable symbols. The first stop on the road to a hydrogen-based economy is being made by the red London bus.Capital-dwellers might have seen one of the three hydrogen buses patrolling the RV1 route between Covent Garden and the Tower of London. Save for stickers displaying its green credentials, a hydro-bus looks exactly like a regular single-decker. But listen carefully: it is barely louder than a milk float. Look closely and you'll notice its only emission is a plume of steam.Soon, up to a dozen buses will be added as London spends tens of millions on its experimental fleet of "hydro-vehicles". If the test proves successful, London's bus fleet could switch to hydrogen sometime in the next decade. By 2010, the hydro-fleet will have swollen to 70: we could also expect hydrogen-powered emergency vehicles, police cars and road sweepers.The London mayor, Ken Livingstone, has become one of the strongest advocates of hydrogen power. Along with unlikely fellow travellers George W. Bush and Arnold Schwarzenegger, the mayor holds high hopes that hydrogen could help create cleaner air and dilute the city's dependence on fossil fuels. If hydrogen can be made and distributed cheaply enough - and in volume - it could, he argues, help make fossil fuels history.Supply linesLondon is not alone. Hydrogen-powered bus projects are being prepared all over the world. From Cambridge to California, Norway to Nagoya, Perth to Porto, pilot schemes are being readied and supply lines put down. Last week, Shell announced a partnership with the Dutch bus manufacturer Man that will see 20 hydro-buses on the streets of Rotterdam by 2009.The appeal of hydrogen is easy to understand. It is the most abundant element, and abundantly available on Earth (though locked up in water), and its oxidation produces huge amounts of energy per unit mass. The hydro-buses - which experts say are as safe as conventional ones - use a process invented in 1839 by William Grove, a British barrister and amateur physicist, in which hydrogen is combined with oxygen within a fuel cell to generate a powerful electric current. The hydro-buses are quiet because the fuel cell, which is held in the roof, removes the need for an engine. The only exhaust is steam, because the hydrogen removes the need for the diesel engine.But it's not quite so simple as filling a bus with hydrogen and driving away. The hydrogen molecules must first be extracted from another source, usually either water or a fossil fuel such as coal or gas. The cleanest way to make hydrogen is to electrolyse water using electricity generated from renewable sources; solar power has been used to power fuel-cell buses in Perth in Western Australia. But in London's case, "this means obtaining hydrogen from natural gas", says Mark Watts, the London mayor's adviser on energy, transport and air quality. The trouble is, he explains, that this process still produces carbon dioxide, "although it is about 30% less than the amount from the equivalent diesel engine". This also means the carbon dioxide can be released into the atmosphere miles from London.The use of hydrogen is being held down by price. It costs up to 10 times more to take a bus passenger one mile using hydrogen rather than diesel.Paul Medlicott, of the London Hydrogen Partnership, an organisation developed by the mayor's office "to drive London towards a hydrogen economy" says London can help drive down the cost of hydrogen and the cost of the fuel cells. Medlicott hopes that by ordering more buses and sharing the cost with "partner cities", London can kick-start its own hydrogen economy. He also stresses that hydrogen is at least as safe as petrol.Liquid energyBut will procuring a few buses kick-start a full-scale hydrogen economy? Some think London's preferred choice of liquid hydrogen is not the best way.Powerfuel's Richard Budge is talking with companies about using gaseous hydrogen to fuel a new generation of buses that would operate in the conurbations of Yorkshire. When Hatfield Colliery reopens next year it will fuel a nearby power station. The coal will be burned to turn the turbines that produce electricity; one byproduct will be almost pure hydrogen gas, unsuitable for fuel cells, but ideal for hydrogen-powered internal combustion engines.Budge believes that a cheap supply of the gas could be funnelled into tankers. "It would be suitable given the short distances they travel to use gaseous hydrogen," he argues. "From our plant [near Doncaster] you could use buses with standard transmission, standard engines with just slight modifications. It would be a lot cheaper than the millions paid for fuel cell buses [in London]. I'm not saying fuel cell buses shouldn't go ahead... but to kick-start a hydrogen economy you want to use the simplest thing, which is gaseous hydrogen."But even as a gas, hydrogen has disadvantages. Although it can be produced much more cheaply, it remains expensive to transport over long distances.However, the cost of hydrogen fuel cells is also falling. According to Mike Stannard of Bac2, a UK manufacturer of fuel cell components, sales of commercial fuel cell products are increasing in niche markets. "Various mainstream electronics companies are saying they will have fuel cell powered laptops in the shops next year."And perhaps there lies the truth: we are closer to a hydrogen economy of household goods than of mass transit. But eco-futurists should take hope. As noted by the former editor of the Harvard Business Review, Nicholas Carr, new technologies often take years to take hold. "The future arrives in fits and starts," he wrote on his website, Digital Renderings. "Early versions of new technologies are often prohibitively expensive ... and that can restrict their use to a small slice of the market for many years."The technologies he talks about - fax machines, PCs and even railways - took years to reach the masses. Today, each is as common as a red London bus.
Something surprising happened at last week's Develop conference, an annual get-together for developers and hangers-on. Someone got angry. Mark Rein, vice-president of Epic Games, creator of the hit shoot-'em-up series Unreal, launched two stinging attacks. In the first, he called episodic gaming (when a game is released in a series of instalments) a "broken business model". "Customers are supposed to buy half a game for $20, then wait six months for an episode," he snorted. Later, he accused Intel of killing the PC games industry by shoving its integrated graphics chip into PCs at the expense of powerful dedicated graphics chipsets. "Integrated graphics cannot compete with the console gaming experience," he proclaimed.Game developers rarely court controversy. Many conform to the stereotype of mild-mannered geeks. Others are acutely aware of their place in the industry food chain: few studios these days own their own intellectual property, or for that matter their equipment - it's all leased from the publisher. One misplaced opinion and the game they've been working on for a year could be outsourced to a sweatshop in Azerbaijan. Game quite literally Over.Juicy invectives generally come from two sources: high-placed executives and eccentric veterans. The former concentrate on financial matters. Earlier this month, Ubisoft president Yves Guillemot and Scott Steinberg from Sega of America both voiced concerns over the likely price of the PlayStation 3 console. Meanwhile, industry veterans have usually dropped out of mainstream development and instead throw mud from the safety of idiosyncratic intellectual enclosures. Both Atari legend Chris Crawford and Ron Gilbert, creator of the wonderful Monkey Island point-and-click adventures, grumble about the creative death of the traditional videogame. They are generally treated like elderly relatives misbehaving at a wedding reception.The other shocking thing about Rein's outburst is that he is wrong. PC gaming isn't dying, it's just evolving from big, flashy retail releases. Masses of revenue are now coming from casual game sites and subscription titles such as World of Warcraft. Episodic gaming, meanwhile, is working well for Valve, which is busy producing add-on instalments for Half Life 2. If other developers see episodic distribution the way Valve does - as a means of adding intriguing new experiences around the original title, rather than simply chopping a single game into a series of saleable chunks - it can work.This, finally, is the key reason why developers don't get angry. They know the industry is an endlessly transmogrifying beast. There are no timeless maxims or universal truths; just change.
No advantage in Microsoft 'genuine advantage' toolLike many (Windows XP puts users at a genuine disadvantage, July 13), I was conned by MS Update into installing the "genuine advantage tool" but quickly realised that it is actually spyware. So I set about un-installing it. Guess what? No uninstall option. Killing the process is not effective as it just restarts. I had to resort to identifying the executable, searching the hard disks for it, deleting it, rebooting, searching the registry for every reference to it. Reboot again.Thank you, Microsoft, for wasting several hours of my life. Suddenly that shrink-wrapped copy of Solaris 10 on my bookshelf is looking more interesting.John RobinsonLondon&#183;Actually, piracy is about security, it's just not usually considered the most critical aspect of security from the user's perspective.http://davi.poetry.org/blogOutfoxed by FirefoxUntil a few weeks ago I'd have agreed with Kate Bevan on Firefox (Technobile, July 13), but then they brought out version 1.5. It now gobbles up memory, which it then leaks. It's slower. It's less successful in opening web pages. I've had to reboot half a dozen times a day after it ground to a halt.Richard StruckRickmansworth&middot;My solution to Internet Explorer at work has been to use Portable Firefox while I'm on the road. It fits on a USB drive and requires no installation at all.Mike HewittVirginia, US&middot;Re the quote "Firefox is wonderful. It's up there with chocolate and sex on the grand scale of great things about being alive" - if I could get away with saying that to customers, I would.Bryan WillsKentucky, USFirefox is a nice browser, but there is no software that deserves to be in the same category as chocolate or sex. There's no hardware that belongs in that category, either. At least, nothing silicon-based.www.edbott.comTangled web guide[The Digital Universe will be] written by anyone who agrees to the rules and acts responsibly, and led by experts (This time, it'll be a Wikipedia written by experts, July 13). Written not just by experts. But I am nit-picking. I must gainsay the subtitle too: I am not launching a web guide. There are employees who have the fun of doing the work, more than I am.www.dufoundation.org/blog(Larry Sanger's blog)&middot;Inhttp://tinyurl.com/quzhait says that Larry Sanger got his PhD from "the University of Ohio". I live in Ohio and have never heard of such a university. At first I thought Moody must have meant "Ohio University" but when I read Sanger's Wikipedia page, it says Ohio State University. By the way, OSU insists that "The" is part of the name. But "Ohio State University" is good enough.Jim PriorOhio, US&middot;Sanger is the Stuart Sutcliffe of Wikipedia - the Fifth Beatle who missed out on its success. I'd be pretty bitter if it were me in that position. I also think his criticisms are off the mark. Putting "experts" back in the driver's seat will drive his Digital Universe project. But I'm not sure he's focusing on the right part of the problem.www.planet.debian.orgWhy should I care?Why should I care how many other people "vote" for a news story? (Can a crowd really edit our daily paper?, July 13) Most of us like news that buttresses our own opinions and biases. Popularity is in no way related to importance or news value.www.straypackets.comTOTP hit a bum noteTOTP wasn't axed because people don't want to watch music on TV. (What this generation's watching, July 13). It was axed because it was bad.http://doctorvee.co.uk
Not exactly - but the signs are unmistakable that it will launch a handheld "media" player a bit like Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) this autumn. It is codenamed "Zune".Simply offering an MP3 player would tread heavily on the toes of rivals to Apple's iPod, who are having a hard enough time already. But the evidence suggests that Microsoft will take a sideways approach to reaching the iPod generation - by emphasising video playback and "social" uses through a Wi-Fi link.Certainly the buzz is now too loud to ignore. Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research, blogged at the beginning of this month about having attended a meeting in which he'd heard for the first time "what I think is a compelling strategy that could serve as a competitive differentiator from the iPod/iTunes combo for holiday 06".The Zune is expected to emerge from the Xbox division of Microsoft, under the command of J. Allard, the vice-president for Xbox, and Robbie Bach, who leads the team producing the Xbox. Engadget (www.engadget.com) has drawn together information suggesting that Microsoft has approached the makers of iPod accessories to try to tempt them into making products that will connect to the Zune - and at a lower royalty than Apple demands on the iPod.The Wi-Fi connectivity - which it is suggested will let you share some purchased music (but not music ripped from CDs) with up to 10 friends at once wirelessly - will link in with Microsoft's new Xbox Live Anywhere service, a games-playing service that might make the Zune attractive to a younger demographic.Certainly it will have to be a well-heeled and muscled demographic, since Wi-Fi and video playback aren't cheap in battery time, weight or price. Digital Music News reported that there will be a 30GB Zune which "will sell for the same price as the 60GB [video] iPod".Other sources suggest that the Zune won't work with any online store except Microsoft's own Urge service, at present available only in the US.Certainly Apple, which reported its third-quarter financial results last night after this section had gone to press, and hasn't updated the iPod line this year, will have to look to its laurels. By contrast with Microsoft, the only rumours about the iPod have suggested higher-capacity iPod nanos using Flash memory. But there's been little to see, and analysts have in the past week been downgrading their expectations of iPod sales. Latest rumours around the Apple camp suggest that a new iPod and a movie downloading service will be announced early next month.Another rumour, at Engadget, suggested that Microsoft might try to leap on to Apple's music store business by offering a like-for-like swap: if you'd bought a song on the iTunes Music Store, Microsoft would give you the same song free. There's no confirmation that this will happen, but Mulligan points out that since the average person has only purchased about 20 songs, this would be a relatively small cost. After all, not every iPod owner would abandon it for a Microsoft player.To date, the iPod hasn't offered any sort of wireless functionality; last September Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said that the trouble with systems such as wireless Bluetooth headphones was that they needed batteries, which are heavy and need repeated recharging. Now the ball is in Apple's court. It knows what Zune will be like. Can it better it?
Four months after Guardian Technology launched the Free Our Data campaign, a meeting in London on a sweltering Monday evening firmly settled at least one question: are people really interested in public-sector information policy? The fact that at least 130 interested people packed the lecture theatre at the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts suggests that the answer is yes. Many came armed with questions for an expert panel including both supporters and critics of the campaign, in a meeting chaired by Derek Wyatt MP, an RSA fellow who also leads the All-Party Internet Group.There wasn't unanimous backing for our campaign. In fact, it was criticised for over-simplifying an issue of many complexities and competing passions. But there was also support, sometimes from unexpected quarters. And there was a concluding thought from Wyatt - seeking to pullthe levers of government - who observed: "What I've been wondering is, who would I go to in government with this issue? The Department of Trade and Industry? Cabinet Office? Department of Culture, Media and Sport?" As one attendee later observed, "There's no minister for public information". Which may be part of the challenge.Campaigning bodiesSince March, Guardian Technology has campaigned for the government to stop charging individuals, businesses and other public bodies to access and re-use non-personal information collected by government organisations. We argue that free access to data would benefit democracy and public accountability, and that the immediate - but comparatively small - loss in revenue to government organisations that sell that data (often to each other) would be more than made up by taxes generated by private-sector companies and people working in a newly stimulated knowledge economy.At the debate, Paul Crake, programme director of the RSA, and Charles Arthur, editor of Guardian Technology, made this case to open proceedings. Professor David Vaver, director of Oxford University's Intellectual Property Research Centre, put the argument into a historical context - of a long tradition of government attempts to control the printed word, both for censorship and to guarantee authenticity (even of books like the Bible, initially) stretching back to the first printing press in England. The Crown's assumed retention of copyright contrasts with the US government's tradition, which assumes free public access. One consequence, Vaver said, is a potential conflict of interest: when government owns copyright, it has an asset it will always be tempted to turn into money, and that temptation may clash with a policy of free access.It was a recurring theme of the evening. The final two panelists defended different aspects of the status quo. Carol Tullo, director of the Office of Public Sector Information, said there is "no one-size-fits-all" solution for the thousands of government organisations holding data. Some of these organisations, she said, would be unhappy if free data "allowed the unscrupulous to seek to pass themselves off as authority" and added that she saw examples of exactly that every week.Last on the panel was the head of a public body that has been a conspicuous success in the market. Vanessa Lawrence, the director-general and chief executive of Ordnance Survey, defended the "trading fund" model as the best way to pay for a workload that includes 5,000 changes to the Mastermap of Great Britain every day. "The attractiveness of the policy we operate under is that the user pays," she said.Then the floor - and the floodgates - opened. Surely, came a question, in the digital age we don't need crown copyright to prove authenticity? And then Mike Nicholson, chief executive of Intelligent Addressing - a company that has seen the OPSI back it against OS - spoke. "There are two systems operating: one tries to make data freely available, and the other constrains it through licensing. But surely government wants to encourage innovation, enterprise and efficiency. A trading fund structure means rationing information. There's a fundamental conflict of interest there. The internet is bringing this conflict out into the open," he said. "Government isn't well placed to innovate."Tullo's response - "I don't think there's anything I would disagree with there" - seemed to place her in the freedom camp. The devil, however, is in the detail. And in practice, the job of deciding whether data should be made available often goes to a junior public servant who feels safer behind legal jargon.Is the US really the model we should emulate? Steven Feldman, managing director of "geographical intelligence" company GDC, said: "All the commercial innovators in the US don't use free data, because the products you get for free are not fit for purpose." Lawrence agreed, citing her experience of working in the US and having to rely on geographical data that was on average 38 years out of date.The US government had reneged on its promise to maintain maps at public expense, she said. "We also have to decide as citizens what we spend our taxes on. It costs us &pound;105 million a year to run the Ordnance Survey - I would prefer that money to be used to allow 5,000 women to get the breast cancer drug Herceptin."Fraud clampdownBut is that really the choice? Arthur said not: the government could find the money to do both - for example by clamping down on VAT "carousel frauds", thought to cost the UK &pound;7.4bn in the first quarter of this year alone.Question after question cited unhelpful aspects of the data access regime. One is the regulation preventing public access to the register of deaths, which could be used to stop mailings to dead people. (Wyatt offered to propose a private member's bill on the subject.) Another challenge: why is the data from which electoral constituency boundaries are derived not freely available to researchers? Lawrence responded that they are, at electionmaps.co.uk. OS publishes free election maps online, she said.But Chris Lightfoot of the public data access group MySociety responded: "That only gives you maps - you can't get the actual data, which could be used to manipulate electoral boundaries."One questioner asked whether, following the OPSI finding against OS, the same licences would be applied internally and externally - a question that raised applause. Lawrence demurred, pending a full response to OPSI. Then Dr Wyn Williams, in his last week as the chief executive of OS's nautical counterpart, the UK Hydrographic Office, which trades all over the world on a robustly commercial model, stood up: "We have 90% of the world trade market [for nautical maps]," he said. "If the taxpayer were to fund our organisation ... they probably wouldn't want to." (Williams was succeeded yesterday by Mike Robinson.)Some participants had good news for our campaign. When the Office for National Statistics made data freely available through a "click use" licence, usage mushroomed, said Keith Dunmore. Natalie Ceeney, the chief executive of the National Archives, said that making census data available at the cost of reproduction had created a huge genealogy market.Crake attempted to put the question in a nutshell. Either there is a need for the public sector to produce the information, or there isn't. If there is, it should be made available in its raw form. "All of the other innovation and creativity should be the preserve of the private sector." But, noted several speakers, we are a long way from that position.ConsensusIf there was a consensus in the hall, it was that the Free Our Data campaign will not be easily won. Even modest suggestions generated vigorous repartee. One audience member suggested concentrating on freeing the least valuable data, compensating organisations such as OS, which - he suggested - already receives 60% of its income from the public purse. He was rapidly corrected by Lawrence: "From the whole of the public sector, it was 47% last year." And, for good measure: "We face competition in every sector of our business."One questioner said that rather than focusing on "big easy targets", the campaign should look at organisations such as local authorities, where junior staff find it difficult to decide whether data should be released. "It would be a lot simpler if the only rule they had to apply was 'is this personal data?'," noted Arthur. Again, Tullo observed that the devil is in the detail. "It's very difficult to cover every eventuality."Several speakers noted a gap in the panel - the lack of anybody from the Treasury, which makes the rules, let alone a government minister. Wyatt, a long-standing parliamentary campaigner on information society issues, said: "That's the scary bit." But he had a tip for dealing with ministers: "Go to them with the answer - they much prefer that to the question."The chairman closed with probably the least controversial statement of an evening of high temperatures and feelings: "I sense that we really ought to have a drink." And thanks to the RSA, it was free.&#183; OS unwilling to take rap over competition findingsOrdnance Survey has been rapped over the knuckles by the body regulating fair trade in taxpayer-funded data. In a report (http://tinyurl.com/rw2eq) published last week, the Office of Public Sector Information upheld complaints brought by a company about the licensing of data underpinning lists of postal addresses.In one of the strongest rulings made under the "information fair traders' scheme", OPSI warned OS that if it does not comply with the regulations after six months, "action for non-compliance will be considered". In theory, this could include bringing OS trading activities back under the direct control of the Crown - a potentially radical step.Intelligent Addressing Ltd, which runs an address gazetteer for local authorities, complained that OS is competing unfairly with its own products and has been unfair in licensing its own data. The dispute is one of several which hobble attempts to create a definitive database of postal addresses in England (see"Who will address the postcode mess?", July 13).The report upholds several of Intelligent Addressing's complaints. It finds that any OS licence which covers the use of address data in perpetuity "demonstrates unfairness", and that OS "is offering licence terms which unnecessarily restrict competition". One set of terms would "make it impossible" for anyone else to produce products in competition with those of OS.Locus, which represents commercial users of public-sector information, welcomed the report, which it described as "hard hitting".OS said it has "a number of concerns" about matters of both fact and the law in the report and is considering appealing. "The report purports to make wide-ranging recommendations regarding our licensing policy on the basis of a narrow investigation of a single, and atypical, set of circumstances."&#183;The Guardian would like to thank the RSA for hosting the event. A podcast and, later, a transcript of the evening will be available fromwww.rsa.org.uk/audioin the next week.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk
Intel's early arrivalNext week, earlier than planned, Intel is expected to launch its next-generation Core 2 Duo processor for notebook PCs and Macs, with supplies reaching manufacturers next month.www.intel.comMicrosoft's CRM software onlineMicrosoft will make its customer relationship management (CRM) software available at its Windows Live portal as CRM Live.www.crmlive.comSay cheeseFujifilm has announced a camera with built-in Face Detection hardware. It says the FinePix S6500fd "works by recognising eyes and mouth" and optimises the focus and exposure settings for those.Seeing in the darkFujifilm has also launched the FinePix F20, a 6.3 megapixel camera that continues the theme of the F30 Zoom: high sensitivity for working in low light conditions. (For camera buffs: ISO 2000.)Windows in your PalmThe Palm Treo 3G smartphone running Windows Mobile, announced in September, will be available to Vodafone customers in Europe "before the end of the calendar year".Plan of attackMcAfee, the security company, says malware writers are using open-source development methods to improve their attacks. "Without large-scale source code sharing, we would not see the handful of massive families [of bots] that we have today," says McAfee.Remember, rememberFreescale, which used to supply Mac processors, is shipping commercial MRAM magnetoresistive memory chips, which hold their contents without using electricity. However, a 4 megabit MRAM costs $25 (&pound;13.68), so 64 megabytes would cost $3,200.www.mram-info.comYahoo 2.0Yahoo has changed the design of its home page, Yahoo.com, and now offers a choice of colour schemes and a wider display. It has also upgraded its popular Yahoo! Finance site.www.yahoo.com
Technology Guardian: Can you drop any hints about your new MMO?John Romero:Nope. It's the most secretive thing I've ever worked on.TG: So, you're learning from experience after Daikatana, then?JR:Yeah. But the reason we're not talking about it is we're doing something no one else has done, and we want to be the first. When we did Doom, we issued a press release when we started on the game: "Here's all the stuff that's going to be in the game!" And everyone waits a year, and there it is!TG: What do you like about MMOs?JR:They incorporate different game-styles in one game. You want stealth? Be a rogue in World of Warcraft. The non-linearity of the gameplay, where you just say, "I think I'm going to jump in the ocean and swim around for a while", is great. It's pure freedom and what people want in a game. That's why Grand Theft Auto was so popular. It freed up players and let them have fun. In an MMO, it's the same thing: "Here are all these options; go have fun." It's up to you to design your play-style.TG: How different to developing a single-player game is working on an MMO ?JR:You have to design and program differently. Combat action in an MMO is so different to combat in a first-person shooter (FPS). The interaction with objects is completely different. Someone coming from FPS thinks, "Why would they do that?" And then when you get into it, you understand.TG: To what differences are you referring?JR:When you're going to fight someone in an FPS, sometimes you're jumping in the middle of a ton of guys and just mowing them down. You have complete freedom. In an MMO, you engage in combat with one enemy at a time. So you're locked in to fight that one guy. You ain't running away; he's going to follow you, and it's not over in two seconds. It takes more strategy and it's more personal, too, 'cause there are so many options. In an FPS, it's just "press the mouse button".TG: There are online FPS games, though. Sony's Planetside still has a strong following, and there's Webzen's upcoming Huxley ...JR:Huxley's going to be interesting, because one of the things people want in an FPS is a quick response time. QuakeWorld showed that you can play FPSs over the net very well. But that's with a much smaller number of people. If Huxley wants to do something on the scale of World of Warcraft, there's going to be a lot of concern over whether things are going to move properly. If it doesn't jive with what the player feels, that's going to be upsetting.TG: Of which MMOs are you a fan?JR:World of Warcraft. Guild Wars looks great, but it and Dungeons and Dragons Online have the same problem - instancing [turning the world into small "instances" created for groups of players]. You should not be instancing the hell out of a MMO to the point where it's not a MMO any more. It might as well be a single-player game.TG: So you like big virtual worlds?JR:Huge, streaming worlds are what MMOs are all about. Ultima Online showed it at the beginning. And World of Warcraft continued the tradition, and made it even better.TG: What is the future of MMOs?JR:That's tough to tell. There's a lot going on in MMOs - fantasy-based, D&amp;D sort of stuff. We'll see breakouts and people doing innovative stuff. Auto- Assault didn't do too well, but it tried to do something innovative. And Huxley's going to show how you can combine MMO and FPS. Lots of styles will be tried, so new developers don't have to go up against World of Warcraft. You don't want to do that.TG: So is this the end of single-player games for you?JR:I don't think so. I still like to play games that have a beginning, an end and a story. There are going to be lots of games that don't have to be MMOs. It's just a new category, and that's great. I don't think you should eliminate categories.TG: Many developers and analysts are suggesting multiplayer is the future.JR:I think it is, but we need to design it properly, make it more compelling, so you can get what you get out of a single-player game from a multiplayer game. World of Warcraft does that well. It's a great role-playing game, but has lots of people in it. They're not forcing group activity. The analogy I use is that World of Warcraft is like going to the mall: you see a ton of people there, but you don't really want to interact with them; you just want to know you're part of the human race. And if you get in trouble, you'll know someone else is there.TG: That runs contrary to the MMO vogue, where group activity is basically enforced.JR:It's a huge mistake. I would not force people to group. Sony changed their game designs to get rid of grouping, because it's not working. People don't want to be forced to play with other people.TG: Star Wars Galaxies came under fire for its "New Game Enhancements", which made it more action-oriented. Players complained that the game was too fast-paced and twitch-based. What are your views on the "speed" of MMOs?JR:There's a balance. You don't want it too fast. If you're watching someone play a MMO, you might not understand that. You don't know what's going through their head; you're just looking at the screen and what's going on. And when you're a player in an MMO and you're going from place to place, a lot of times you're wondering about so much stuff that the distance you're covering is not a problem - "OK, I've got to do this, I've got to avoid that guy right there, I'm going to take a right." You're always thinking about your options. "I'm going to go to this guy to buy more abilities, then I'm going to change my talent tree, and I'm going to go get that armour waiting for me." Getting from place to place too quickly takes away the planning.
While PSP sales have been struggling against the DS it's surely to early to talk of binning the format. Isn't it? Of course it is. Yes, the PSP may be suffering from a lack of must-have titles and yes, the UMD movie format is dead on its arse, but the PSP is still a more than viable games/multimedia combo that, homebrew aside, hasn't quite found a killer app. Thisarticleover at Gameworld disagrees. Is it really time for Sony to give up on the PSP? Can Nintendo ever be overtaken in the handheld games market?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
