YouTube channelThe Diamond Minecartis one of the most popular Minecraft-focused channels in the world, with 4.3 million subscribers and more than 1.6 billion lifetime views.Now there’s an app for that,released for iPhone and iPadby multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios, which has launched similar apps for gaming channels PewDiePie and The Yogscast in 2014.The app, which is free to download, serves up a feed of new and popular videos from the Diamond Minecart channel, which was launched in 2012 by gamer Daniel Middleton as a showcase for his Minecraft play-through videos.Fans can also personalise the app to focus on different shows within the channel, and share videos with friends on social networks. In its structure, it’s very similar to thePewDiePie app that Maker launched in late July.The Diamond Minecart is actually a recent addition to Maker’s roster of YouTube games channels, having joined its network in August.“He’s one of the most extraordinary storytellers creating short-form video today, and we look forward to helping him grow his creative vision in the years to come,”said the company’s chief audience officer Chris Williamsat the time.Maker Studios now has the four most popular YouTube games channels in the world – PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and Vegetta – according to themonthly rankings chartpublished by online video industry site Tubefilter, based on data from analytics firm OpenSlate.In October, those four channels respectively generated 352m, 183m, 155.3m and 154.6m views. Judging by the reference to a “Mr Stampy app” that appears to have snuck accidentally into the App Store listing for The Diamond Minecart’s app, Stampy will soon be joining it on the store.Minecraft in particular has become one of the most popular categories of video on YouTube, with online video firm Octoly claiming in November thatMinecraft videos have now been watched more than 47 billion times on YouTube.For MCNs like Maker, launching apps is more than simply a convenient way for people to watch their favourite channels. They’re also another way to establish a direct relationship between YouTubers and their fans.The videos may still be streaming from YouTube, but the apps give scope for exclusive content and competitions, and perhaps also a platform for the MCNs to sell advertising without having to give YouTube a cut.For now, The Diamond Minecart’s app is iOS-only, but Middletonconfirmed in a replyto a fan on Twitter that “it will be on Android very soon”.•YouTube: top 100 games channels watched 4.4bn times in September
The pan-European data regulator group Article 29 has issued new opinion on how websites and advertisers can track users and the permissions they require.The new opinion dictates that “device fingerprinting” – a process of silently collecting information about a user – requires the same level of consent as cookies that are used to track users across the internet.“Parties who wish to process device fingerprints which are generated through the gaining of access to, or the storing of, information on the user’s terminal device must first obtain the valid consent of the user (unless an exemption applies),” the Article 29 Working Partywrote.It means that some websites, including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, that have used alternative technical processes to try to bypass the need for a “cookie policy notice” will have to show a notification after all.“The Article 29 Working Party has made it clear that companies cannot bypass consent by using covert methods to track users through their devices,” said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. “Building profiles to deliver personalised content and adverts clearly falls under e-privacy and data protection law.”Silent trackingUntil now, device fingerprinting has been considered separate from the European legislation that covers cookies, which requires companies that store small bits of information on a users computer for storing settings and identity to explicitly ask for consent.That requirement for consent is why most websites accessible from the UK have a small message either at the bottom or top of the site asking for permission to use cookies, or telling the user that the site uses cookies and continuing to use the site implies consent.Since the consent for cookies legalisation wasbrought into play in 2012, internet firms have been working on a way to identify users without relying on cookies. Each device connected to the internet identifies itself in various ways to help websites and services deliver the requested information, be it the right sized website for a smartphone or the right video stream for a smart TV.The small snippets of information aren’t able to uniquely identify a particular device on their own, but combined they provide a fingerprint of the device that, while not entirely unique in most cases, is able to identify a user in conjunction with other data such as their internet connection.AdvertisingCompanies, including Google, Microsoft and Facebook, use this information broadcast by almost anything that connects to the internet to track users as they play, browse, buy and watch primarily for advertising purposes.The problem with device fingerprinting, and one of the advantages over cookies as far are the technology companies are concerned, is that it is very difficult for a user to stop it happening. With cookies a user can simply prevent them from being put on their system through browser settings.To avoid device fingerprinting users have to go to much more complex lengths, including using anonymity tools such as Tor.Now that Article 29 has published explicit opinion on device fingerprinting techniques it has laid the ground work for developing new legislation to govern their use and protect user privacy.“Many companies have little interest in being transparent about their use of customers’ data,” said Killock. “Profiling technologies are likely to proliferate so Article 29 are doing a vital job in explaining the line between getting consent and surreptitious tracking. The UK’s Ico needs to act on this opinion.”Ultimately the regulation of device fingerprinting will fall to the individual data regulators in each country.“The Information commissioners’ office (Ico) has always been clear that the law around cookies also applies to similar technologies. The Article 29 opinion adopted this week, which the Ico played a key role in drafting, confirms that digital fingerprinting is such a technology,” a spokesperson from Ico, the UK’s data watchdog, told the Guardian. “Digital fingerprinting accesses information stored on a user’s machine in a similar way to a cookie, and provides organisations with similar benefits. With that in mind, it is sensible to consider that the law applies to digital fingerprinting in the same way it does to cookies.”“It is also worth noting that digital fingerprinting would typically see an organisation collecting information to allow identification of an individual, which brings potential data protection implications,” he said.Microsoft, Google and Facebook were not immediately available for comment.•European parliament votes yes on ‘Google breakup’ motion•EU to Google: expand ‘right to be forgotten’ to Google.com
It’s easy to paint board games and video games as natural enemies. At one end of the stereotype are thetraditional gamersarguing over increasingly obscure interpretations of the rules and turning to manuals thicker than a phone book to arbitrate; at the other end are thevideo gamers, dazzled by bright lights, surrounded by mountains of technology, and winning by virtue of reaction times rather than any actual thinking.Of course, both stereotypes are wrong, and the overlap between board gamers and video gamers is huge. And for good reason: each medium provides its own unique joys.A good board game sees you and some friends crowded around a table, while themes and gameplay combine to make you architects of your own stories; a good video game presents you with a fully-realised world, a set of rules for how you interact with it, and a fluidity which enables pure escapism.Really, both are far two broad to sum up in any single stereotype. The differences between an essentially abstract, tightly constrained and dizzyingly competitive board game like chess and a deeply thematic, sprawling co-operative game like Eldrich Horror are only matched by the differences between something like impressionistic wandererProteusand space simulationElite: Dangerous.But increasingly too, crossover games have been nibbling away at the differences between board and video games. On the one hand, video games have been learning lessons from board games; and on the other, board games have been incorporating automation and technology to make them more fun and easier to play.Neither of those trends are new. After all, you could play Monopoly on your Atari if you wanted board games mixed in with your video games, and tech-led gimmicks have never been far from the board game shop (remember Dream Phone?) The difference now is that they’re good.Cardboard to screen …Perhaps the most obvious example of the crossover is the growing number of really good tablet versions of board games.Ticket to Ride, Lords of Waterdeep andPandemic, to name just a few, all take games of moderate complexity, with plenty of small pieces and a relatively important set of rules to keep track of and fit them perfectly on an iPad or Android tablet.The immediate advantage is to replicate the “travel editions” of simpler games, and offer up a version of the game that can be played on a train, while flying, or in a car. Passing an iPad around airline-style seats is much easier than setting up a board, after all.But the ports, as these versions are known, have also served to introduce a whole new group of people to the games, with their low costs, strong tutorials and single player modes (ideal for learning the game) all serving to boost the accessibility of the games.And the success of the ports has led to a whole new wave of board-game style games coming to tablets and other devices, led by Blizzard’sHearthstone, a collectible card game for iPads and PCs.A game of Hearthstone in action.Photograph: BlizzardHearthstone takes the core concept of a creature combat card game and presents it in a slick free-to-play format, letting players collect cards using either in-game currency or real money, before building decks and duelling an AI or other humans.In classic Blizzard style, the core game is actually remarkably conservative, borrowing most of its mechanics from the twenty-year-old Magic: The Gathering. But the level of polish on the game (and the fact that it costs nothing to start playing) makes it much more welcoming to new players than the often-impenetrable card game does, and a smattering of systems which would be impossible to carry out with paper cards makes the case for it being a truly hybrid game.For instance, there is a card which copies a random card from the opponent’s deck; a card which enters play as one of 8 other random cards; and best of all, a card which limits turns to just 15 seconds while it is in play, turning a previously leisurely game into a hectic scramble to do everything needed.… and back againBut the exchange isn’t a one-way street. Video games have lessons to impart to board games as well, and increasingly board game designers are paying attention.To be fair to the designers, the history of incorporating technology in tabletop games is rather less positive than the history of making digital versions of board games. In the latter camp, the worst you would see is the occasional shoddy adaptation, but the former led to some true abominations.Take Sony’s Eye of Judgement, an early game for the PlayStation 3 which used the console’s camera accessory to let players play a collectible card game over the web. When a card was played onto the nine-by-nine grid the game was built on, the camera would recognise it, and an animated version of the monster it represents would show up on screen.But the game was beset with issues from launch: a poor online multiplayer service and no local multiplayer made it a hassle to play games, while an anti-cheat system ensured that building and registering new decks was a chore.The XCom board game – and companion app.Photograph: Fantasy Flight GamesA generation later, and things look rosier. Part of the reason is that, as the barrier to entry for good hardware has dropped, the ability to incorporate tech features has been opened up to smaller games designers, rather than being something only affordable to companies expecting sales in the hundreds of thousands of units.Golem Arcana, for instance, is a miniatures game along the lines of Warhammer or X-Wing, letting players set up small skirmishes with richly detailed figures. The game combines with a tablet and a bluetooth stylus to push almost all the rules decisions and randomisation – of which there is much – to the device, letting players get on with actually having fun.It doesn’t work perfectly, because you end up in the odd position of having to replicate the game state twice over, once on screen and once on the table, but unlike the first attempts to do a hybrid game, the technology feels like it adds to the fun, rather than getting in the way of it.The forthcoming XCom board game gets the balance right, letting four players co-operate in saving the world from an alien invasion while a companion app tosses an element of randomisation into the mix – and lets one player pretend they’re hooked into the global defence network for real.Video games and board games are never going to blur into one, and nor should they. But if the stage is set for each to learn lessons from the other, a golden age for both could be ahead.
I’m a games designer, and I designgamesthat are really annoying to describe. Games where people move around, games made with choreographers or artists or museums or city streets, for children or adults or both.Last month, I worked mostly onGames for Places, a set of games for outdoor spaces, produced by Forma Arts, across East Durham. We designed five games for each of six different sites, and then stencilled them on the ground, along with all the other elements the games needed to work: Get from HERE to THERE, but only step on the paving stones with arrows painted on them, and always face the same way as the arrows. Walk your dog along this path we’ve painted with leaves, and get a point every time it steps on one - unless the leaf is yellow, in which case you lose.The month before that I made a game called Hotel Room for thePlaypublik festivalin Kraków, Poland. Players enter a hotel room, as immaculate and untouched as you would expect, except for a computer on the desk showing an interactive story about the room.Through the computer, players explore a digital version of the room which prompts them to do things in the real room as well: play small games, hide in cupboards, leave messages. It’s a game about how we behave in hotel rooms, and their role as somehow separate from ordinary life.The games I make can be for one player on their own or thousands of screaming people in a public square. They can last for two minutes or two months. But they’re all made for a particular place, and they all ask players to interact with the physical world.What sort of thing do I want players to do?Having the initial idea is the easiest part. It’s just a matter of standing around in a place somewhere, looking around and saying: well, you know, what would be fun here? What would be interesting? What sort of thing do I want players to do?The rest of it works backward from there - if I want the visual effect of people running through the streets with balloons, then they need balloons and a reason to get them somewhere fast. If I want people looking at columns or windows they’d perhaps never notice otherwise, then those columns and windows need a role in the game.At this initial design stage the three big questions for me are: what do the players do? Why? And how do they find out what to do?There are other questions, too: how (not if) people are going to try to cheat, for example. But those three are the core.The “actually making the game” part is a lot harder, and it can get a bit nerve-wracking. In Games for Places, artistHannah Sibaiand I spent a day proving that our paint was removable by slathering it on a Grade II listed building in front of helpful but deeply dubious council representatives - and then waiting for it to dry so we could take it off again.Later, during the installation itself, we found ourselves working into the night to make up for time lost to a rain storm. My role was to hold the biggest torch we could find and cheerfully explain to passers-by that we weren’t vandals, while Hannah did the actual work of kneeling on the pavement and touching up the stencils with cotton buds. We went through a lot of cotton buds.Finally, once the game is ready, the players arrive - always the scariest part, and always when something unexpected happens.Hotel room flowerPhotograph: Forma ArtsIn Hotel Room, people entered one or two at a time, and chose to do all sorts of things: scrawled threats on the mirror in lipstick, made a balloon flower, left notes, explored the minibar, stole an awful lot of soap. That was all pretty much what I’d expected.Then one pair of players - a man and a woman - took a particularly long time, and a queue started building up. In the end I knocked at the door. The man answered it.“Can I help you?” he asked, wide-eyed and very tall and very naked, while the woman stood behind him taking photos with an enormous camera. Well, fair enough, of course: it was a game about the strange things we do in hotel rooms, and they’d just played a bit harder than I was expecting. It’s a good problem to have.When I talk at schools or conferences, the question I get most often is “is that really a job?”. Well, my closets are filled with ribbons and camo net and loops of red elastic, with lie-filled maps and a huge laminated stack of Anglo-Saxon insults and so many different multicoloured balls. So yes, it is. It’s a job that really exists, against all expectations, and it’s pretty great.•Holly Gramaziois a freelance games designer based in London
Police have arrested 118 people at 84 airports around the world as part of a global investigation into plane tickets paid for with stolen or fake credit card details.Troels Oerting, director of Europol’s European Cyber Crime Centre (EC3), told the Guardian that many of those arrested were linked to other forms of crime, including robbery, shoplifting, illegal immigration and drug smuggling.The operation, co-ordinated by EC3, brought together 49 law enforcement agencies from around the world, numerous banks, 64 airlines and the International Air Transport Association to share intelligence on fraudulent transactions. Interpol in Singapore and Ameripol in Bogota took charge of operations in non-European destinations.Officers were waiting at 84 global airports to pick up those who had used stolen credit card numbers to buy their tickets, while Europol, reported 281 suspicious transactions.“We have again proven that we have ‘upgraded’ to version 2.0 our ability to work smooth less together across borders and between law enforcement and private parties in order to prevent and fight cybercrime disguised – this time – as identity theft and credit card fraud,” Oerting said in a statement sent to media.Oertling could not say the total value of the fraud, but told the Guardian that the highest profile cases had been targeted in this operation.Criminals can easily get their hands on stolen credit card data from a range of different markets online. The likes of rescator.cc and kaddafi.hk, octavian.su and cheapdumps.org are filled with stolen credit card details every day, most of which will have been stolen by hackers.Rescator was home to much of the data stolen from US retail giant Target this time last year, as noted by the security reporterBrian Krebs.On Friday Rescator was still showing details of a single credit card from the UK selling for just $19. Cards from various big name banks, including HSBC, RBS and Nationwide, are all for sale on the site.Mark James, security specialist at ESET, said criminals are extremely organised and will find and use stolen card details very quickly.“Thieves will often test the card by making small under the radar purchases or even small donations to charities to see if the transaction goes through,” he said. “If successful they will often make as many purchases as possible until the card is maxed or stopped.”•Want to avoid government malware? Ask a former NSA hacker
The Smartwatch 3 is Sony’s third attempt at a smartwatch, an attempt which first started back in 2010 with the Liveview. That makes Sony a veteran of the smartwatch world and it shows in the design: with features this advanced, it won’t be overtaken by its rivals in a hurry.The Smartwatch 2 was released in 2013, awaterproof Android watchwith support for more than just Sony’s smartphones. It was a decent attempt, but lacked polish.Android WearThe Smartwatch 3 module easily detaches from the strap when off, but is held fast when closed on a wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Sony smartwatch runs Google’s Android Wear, like theMotorola Moto 360,LG G Watch Rand many others. Wear is a lot more user-friendly, attractive and useful than the customised version of Android Sony has used in the past.Sony has made only small changes toAndroid Wear, with only three unique watch faces and nothing in the way of new built-in apps. Everything works as it should – voice searches and swipes are snappy, animations are smooth and the connection to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth is solid.Sony’sLifeLog application, which tracks activity but also logs which tracks a user was listening to and other life events, works well with the smartwatch.Always-on screenThe transflective display means the screen is readable using ambient light unlike most other LCDs screens which constantly require a backlight.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Smartwatch 3 has an understated design compared to some of its competitors, with a simple and recognisably Sony aesthetic. The screen is a separate removable module from the band, which is just simple black silicone rubber.It’s comfortable to wear, has a solid clasp and is waterproof to IP68 standards or submersion in more than 1m of water for 30 minutes. The rubberised band attracts dust like a magnet but is easy to clean.The screen is one of Smartwatch 3’s biggest advantages over its competitors. It is a 1.6in square LCD, which is just as sharp as any of the others, but instead of constantly relying on a backlight it istransflective. That means it can be seen using ambient light without a backlight, a bit like the e-paper display on the Pebble.When the watch is raised, the screen will light up and adjust the brightness automatically, but the transflective display is perfectly readable at a glance without the backlight. That makes the Smartwatch 3 one of the best smartwatches at actually being a watch and telling the time.Three-day batteryUnlike all the other smartwatches currently available, the Smartwatch 3 uses a standard microUSB cable to charge – no annoying dock or losable dongle required.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianNot needing a backlight all the time also means the Smartwatch 3 has the longest battery life of any Android Wear watch. Sony rates it for up to two days usage, but I regularly see three days on a single charge.It will change with usage, but with notifications constantly pinging the watch, voice searches and step monitoring, the Smartwatch 3 lasted from 7am till 11pm on three consecutive days before needing a charge. The best of the rest only last just two days under similar conditions.Charging takes an hour via a standard microUSB cable – no special dock or wireless charging pad required.The Smartwatch 3 lacks a heart rate monitor, as has become common for Android Wear, but has an integrated GPS chip for tracking position without needing a smartphone, built-in Wi-Fi and NFC.Android Wear support for the GPS chip is poor at the moment, with only a few third-party running apps able to use it, while Wi-Fi and NFC is not yet supported. Once the software is updated by Google, the Smartwatch 3 will be the only Android Wear watch with its own internet connection via Wi-Fi and with the possibility to do contactless payment among other features.The clasp is comfortable, easy to use and holds firm when fastened without fear of popping open. The black silicone band collects dust like a magnet, but is easy to clean.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Smartwatch 3 costs £190 with either a black or yellow band, which makes is the most expensive square Android Wear watch, more than the£159 LG G Watch and £169 Samsung Gear Live, but cheaper than the round£200 Motorola Moto 360and£225 LG G Watch R.The Smartwatch 3 is initially available with a black or a yellow band, but Sony will sell extra bands such as this pink one.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe Smartwatch 3 is a solid smartwatch with great battery life. It lacks a heart rate sensor, but has an attractive, understated design and a comfortable strap.It has good specifications, which means it won’t quickly be out-paced by newer, faster smartwatches that also run on Android Wear, and that also offers potential for a lot more as the software evolves.Whether people need a smartwatch is still debatable, but the Smartwatch 3 is the best square smartwatch on the market at the moment.Pros:three-day battery life, transflective screen, auto brightness, comfortable, future-proofedCons:no heart-rate monitor, design is understated, proprietary strapLIVE on#Periscope: Sony Smartwatch 3 - hands on LIVE!https://t.co/4lDzBb4Kfv&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)April 7, 2015Other reviews•Smartwatch review: LG’s G Watch R is chunky, masculine, and fast•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Sony Smartwatch 2 review: a second screen for your Android phone•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up
With its vast world, intricate plotting and bustling menagerie of weird, wonderful characters, the latest title in BioWare’s Dragon Age series has proved a critical hit since its release in November.But how did Inquisition come about? What were the key aims of the team, and how such a massive role-playing adventure like this planned and executed?In an exclusive interview, we speak to creative director Mike Laidlaw about the development process behind one of this year’s most ambitious titles.How long was Dragon Age: Inquisition in development?Production has been about three years, but taking in early concepting, it would be four years. As our studio general manager Aaryn Flynn kindly pointed out, that’s about 10% of my life.How do you feel now it’s out?There’s definitely a bit of exhaustion because when you’re finishing a game you go into overdrive: you’re finding those last bugs, playing the game over and over, and prioritising what gets fixed first.But there’s also a sense of pride. We’ve hauled the game into an entirely new engine and one that is compatible with this generation of hardware. The engine is much more capable than Eclipse, but it required us to retool all of the content we’d been building up and give it a next-gen approach.It was a monumental challenge supporting five platforms, but the team is proud of what we’ve accomplished and I’m incredibly proud of the team. This was not an easy road, but it has proved very satisfying.With its open-world structure and redeveloped combat system, how much is the game a response to the criticisms levelled at Dragon Age II?When Dragon Age II shipped, we did what was always do: internal post-mortems and looking at all the reviews. The production team have a massive Excel sheet listing the pros and cons, and we look for trends. You rarely go: “This one person didn’t like this thing, we should change everything!” That would be irresponsible. But you realise you used that cave a bunch of times and it was inappropriate. Fair call.You also sit down as a team and decide where your focus should be. We know the party is critical, we’re seeing that backed up by reviews, so let’s bring back full armour customisation but still keep some degree of individualism for the party members; finding that balance is important. Tackle feedback but don’t let it dictate what you should do, let it dictate what you should discuss.How tricky is it to develop a game simultaneously for PC and a bunch of consoles at the same time?From the very beginning we were aware we’d be targeting from the 360 and PS3 all the way up to the highest modern PC.When you know that up front it’s a challenge, but a challenge with clearly defined boundaries. If the older hardware says you can’t have 100 guys on screen, you don’t design your combat fundamentally around it being 100 guy fights. Whatever the limitations are on memory or processor, you lock them down and ask how we make an incredibly cool experience within those constraints.All design is at its best when there are constraints applied, be it manpower, time, or specific hardware. These things inspire a degree of creativity.The game’s opening drops you into a high pressure situation with a lot going on: returning factions, characters, and a whole world of established lore, together with a big hole in the sky. How do you strike a balance between making the game accessible for newcomers and still making it satisfying for fans?Openings are a very specific kind of gameplay. They have to hook you, teach you how to play and welcome you. So rather than take a stately pace that would introduce the world to newcomers – which would be alienating to folks who were returning – we went with a problem that has to be solved, which is priority one for the level and everybody you talk to. It’s all leading to that breach in the sky.Then we open up the game up as quickly as possible and say it’s all on you player. If you want to engage with the lore then talk to Leliana and ask her if she used to know the warden from the first game; she’ll check if she did from Dragon Age Keep and respond accordingly. This lets you dig into things at your own pace instead of people firing it at you. Players who want to keep fighting demons or see the world can do so, before coming back and exploring the lore later.Our opening can be disorientating and targeted in its purpose, but you understand the immediate danger and once you’ve completed it the game becomes a sandbox.Isn’t it frustrating though that you have so many lines of dialogue that will never be heard by 90% of the people playing?In today’s world you have to look at the game as an ecosystem. That many people not playing still means tens of thousands are hearing those lines. Not bad. Also, for the water cooler experience of “I didn’t understand what was going on with the mages”, you need to make sure the game at least has that information there, so their friend can say “well I get it because I go through every line of dialogue and I can give you the summary”. Players who want to go digging, read the codex, talk to mages and get their take on things; it’s all there if they want it.I look at games as an increasingly social experience where it’s okay if people don’t understand 100% of what’s going on. There’s a joy in sharing that experience with your friends and social circles.Part two to follow next week.Dragon Age: Inquisition review – a truly monumental game
Streaming music firm MixRadio is taking its playlists on the run, thanks to a deal with Adidas to embed its service on its miCoach Smart Run smartwatch.Owners of the device will get a six-month free trial to MixRadio, and the ability to download its playlists for offline listening on the fitness-focused gadget, as part of a software update by the end of November.It’s the first such deal for MixRadio, which started life as Nokia’s take on streaming music, with a focus on curated mixes rather than Spotify-style on-demand listening. It was preloaded on the company’s Lumia Windows Phone smartphones.WhenMicrosoft bought Nokia’s device and services businessin April, MixRadio came as part of the deal, but in July its boss Jyrki Rosenberg announced plans to take it independent.“Basically, we’re planning a spin-off,”he told the Guardian at the time. “I’ve been meeting with potential investors around the world in the last few weeks. We have very strong interest from investors in the US, Europe and Asia, and we remain open for further discussions.”While going independent means MixRadio has the freedom to launch for Android and iOS, it also gives the company more room to experiment with other kinds of devices, like smartwatches. Hence the Adidas deal.“The expansion in to wearables is very significant for MixRadio, showing our simplicity and level of personalisation can translate well across different platforms,” said MixRadio’s head of brand partnerships Dave Castell, as the deal was announced.“We believe the combination of Adidas digital training expertise and the extensive catalogue of music and personal approach that MixRadio provides, will add another level to an already intuitive product and reinforce the value of music in training.”MixRadio never announced how many active users it had while part of Nokia or Microsoft, although in July Rosenberg told the Guardian that it had “millions of happy customers” for its free version.There’s also a £3.99-a-month MixRadio Plus tier, which offers better audio quality and unlimited ability to skip tracks. That’s likely what Adidas smartwatch owners will move on to when their six-month free trial ends.Adidas is not the only example of digital music and smartwatches. US personal radio service Pandora – a direct rival to MixRadio –launched its app for the Pebble smartwatchin May, while controller appMusic Bossis available for both Pebble and watches running Google’s Android Wear software.The latter category of devicescan also store music for offline playfollowing an October software update, while music will also be one of the features inApple’s first smartwatch, which is due to go on sale in 2015.•Smartwatches: from Apple Watch to the Moto 360
In recent years a trickle of tiny tabletop games from Japan has been making a big splash among western gamers.Seiji Kanai’sLove Letter, for example, packs an addictive blend of deduction, bluffing and courtly romance into just 16 cards, while Hisashi Hiyashi’sSail to Indiatasks players with building settlements and developing trade routes using only a handful of components. Japanese designers have excelled at fitting a lot of gameplay into a very small package.Machi Koro, a city-building card and dice game by designer Masao Suganuma, is the latest in this succession of miniaturised games.Players find themselves in the shoes of a small-town mayor with big aspirations. Starting with only a wheat field and a bakery, you’ll attempt to build a thriving metropolis and become the first town to complete four major landmarks – a train station, shopping mall, amusement park and radio tower.To do this, you’ll grow your town by purchasing new buildings, each of which presents an opportunity to raise cash for your fledgling city.On your turn you’ll roll dice to determine which, if any, of your buildings generate revenue. Bakeries, for instance, pay you a single coin whenever you roll a two or three. A convenience store pays three coins when you roll a four. Multiple copies of the same building pay out repeatedly, so three convenience stores net you a potentially game-changing nine coins every time their number comes up.This poses an immediate strategic question: is it better to build a city that generates a small amount of cash on any die roll, or gamble with one which gives you huge payouts, provided you’re lucky enough to roll the right number?Other buildings offer new opportunities and complications to consider. Wheat fields and cattle ranches don’t generate huge sums, but they pay out on other players’ turns as well as your own. Mines and forests aren’t immediately all that useful, but they let you build lucrative factories later in the game. Cafes and restaurants pay nothing if you trigger them on your own turn, but if opponents activate them they’ll have to pay you for the privilege of dining in your establishments.All of this means there are several viable approaches to building a successful city. In our group, one player built an agrarian paradise with multiple cattle ranches supplying a cheese factory. My city focussed on cafes, restaurants and a shopping mall, giving me a mental image of a consumer hell with nothing but Starbucks and Nandos as far as the eye could see.Machi Koro is quick, light and approachable. Play-throughs rarely run over 25 minutes, and its friendly, engaging paper-cutout style artwork perfectly encapsulates the spirit of the game.Its one main flaw is that that certain cards often seem more powerful than others, although the randomising element of the dice has some mitigating effect. It’s also decidedly not intended as a realistic depiction of urban planning – if you’re looking to scratch your Sim City itch you’d be better considering the weightierSuburbia.But minor niggles don’t detract from Machi Koro’s considerable charm. It’s worth a space on any game shelf.
Taxi-app firm Uber has beenfielding plenty of criticism this month, after one of its executives’ claims that the company might plough money into investigating its critics within the media were reported, then another was caught accessing the personal data of a journalist to make a point.What lessons can be learned from the controversy? The American Civil Liberties Union has a few thoughts, which its senior policy analyst Jay Stanley hasset out in a blog post:“First, it’s a reminder that whenever we allow an institution to collect information about us, we expose ourselves to certain dangers, including the danger that our information will be misused.It’s also a reminder that abuse is a potential problem not just with government but also with companies, which like government agencies have their own incentives and interests and enemies, and if they can gain power viainformation, they will do so unless something is stopping them.”But Stanley also criticised Uber for the “amateurish” nature of its privacy violations, suggesting that the company “hasn’t yet begun to understand the power and importance of the data they collect, and the trust they need to earn in their handling of that data”. Ruthless, perhaps, but also naive, suggested Stanley.“The lesson, once again, is that ultimately the best privacy protection comes from not having your data collected in the first place.”What do you think? Will this affair ultimately prove positive if Uber – not to mention other startups of all stripes – learns from it? Or will the incentives to collect as much data as possible then, when it’s sitting there, fall prey to the temptation to misuse it remain? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is bubbling in the technology world? Some links to discuss:eBay’s plans for ‘magic mirrors’ in real-world storesWired has an interesting piece on how eBay is planning to reinvent shopping in the real world. Stores will “recognise” users of their mobile apps, track them as they wander around the shop, and sport “magic mirrors” to recommend accessories for whatever they try on. Smart or spooky? Or, indeed, both?Opera tests subscription-based app storeAll-you-can-eat entertainment is familiar now from the worlds of music (Spotify) and video (Netflix), and it’s starting to roll out in the world of books too. What about apps? Opera has unveiled its Subscription Mobile Store, which it wants to launch for mobile operators. “For just one weekly payment, customers can download as many popular, premium apps as they like...”Anita Sarkeesian is ‘just getting started’Despite GamerGate harassment, the Tropes vs Women in Video Games creator is undaunted. “People are talking about women and games seriously; people are taking the critiques seriously. It’s been a huge shift. This discussion is becoming more mainstream,” she tells Businessweek.Rufus Wainwright launching a subscription appAmid the ongoing debate about Spotify and musicians, what about paying a subscription for individual artists? Rufus Wainwright is giving the model a try: his official iPhone app will charge £2.49 a month “for direct interaction with Rufus and to receive exclusive content”.Another way to deal with rape threats onlineGames reviewer and broadcaster Alanah Pearce: “Sometimes young boys on Facebook send me rape threats, so I’ve started telling their mothers.” The reply she got from one of them is priceless.Sometimes young boys on Facebook send me rape threats, so I&#39;ve started telling their mothers.pic.twitter.com/0Cbs81eXiE&mdash; Alanah Pearce (@Charalanahzard)November 28, 2014What else? Fire away with your thoughts on the stories above, as well as other links you think the community would be interested in checking out.
It's Friday.
Social networks should simplify their terms and conditions, to ensure that their users fully understand how their personal data will be collected and used, MPs have concluded.A report by the Commons science and technology committee calls for the British government to work with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) on new guidelines for how social media companies should explain their data collection policies to uses.The MPs criticised the “opaque, literary style” of many social networks’ terms and conditions documents, suggesting that they “are drafted for use in American court rooms” rather than for non-lawyers to understand, and thus give their informed consent to however that company plans to use their personal data.“We doubt that most people who agree to terms and conditions understand the access rights of third parties to their personal data. The terms and conditions currently favoured by many organisations are lengthy and filled with jargon,” claimed the report.‘Facebook’s ‘negative emotions’ experiment highlighted concerns’The report follows a series of controversies around how social networks and apps are using – or misusing – personal data collected from their users. That includes Facebook’s infamous experiment tomanipulate the stories shown in 689,000 users’ news feeds, to see if it could affect their emotional state.The researchers working on the study argued that it was legal, because people agreeing to Facebook’s data use policies when signing up for the social network had given informed consent for this kind of research.“Facebook’s experiment with users emotions highlighted serious concerns about the extent to which, ticking the terms and conditions box, can be said to constitute informed consent when it comes to the varied ways data is now being used by many websites and apps,” said Andrew Miller MP, chair of the science and technology committee.InFacebook’s written evidenceto the committee, however, the company argued that “the highly prescriptive nature of explicit consent requirements could actually result in more intrusive mechanisms to ask for consent for specific activities”, suggesting that “inundating people with tick boxes and warnings” may trivialise the issue of consent rather than reinforcing it.‘This report is not drawn up from a position of mistrust’Miller told the Guardian that the report was not drawn up “from a position of distrust” of the social networks, but called for more dialogue between these companies, regulators and their users.“There’s a place somewhere for a serious discussion to occur between the key players to say ‘how can we actually make this work better, more effectively, and more fairly for the consumer?’ but at the same time not wreck the business model for these businesses,” said Miller.However, he admitted that “these companies are sometimes their own worst enemy” in their reluctance to engage in the debate around their data collection and privacy policies, which may fuel theories that the lack of clarity around these policies is intrinsic to their business models.“The conspiracy theorists, I think, are wrong, but these companies don’t always help themselves, and so some of these stories gather momentum,” said Miller.“My solution would be let’s create a real dialogue between social media companies, independent experts and government perhaps acting as no more than a referee. I don’t think in the first instance I would reach for the regulatory stick. I’d want to persuade somebody to set up a really good, top-practice model that other people are then encouraged to adopt.”Calls for new international kitemark for responsible use of dataThe committee’s report came four months after the ICO published its ownBig Data and Data Protection reportcalling for companies processing personal data – including social networks – to ensure they were operating within existing data protection laws.The new report calls for an “internationally recognised kitemark” that could be used to show which social media platforms were treating their users’ data responsibly, but also suggested that the government should be setting better standards through its own services, citing thecontroversial care.data plansto collect and share medical records of NHS patients.“Whilst we support the government in encouraging others to meet high standards, we expect it to lead by the example. The government cannot expect to dictate to others, when its own services, like care.data, have been found to be less than adequate,” concluded the MPs, calling for the government to explain how it plans to audit those services for their use of personal data.Data protection expert Dr David Erdos, of the University of Cambridge, told the Guardian that any crackdown on personal data and informed consent runs the risk of “lots of things being wrapped up in the same framework”.He pointed to a “vast difference” between companies like Facebook and Twitter collecting personal data to profile individuals for commercial uses, and less individualised forms of research, whether by companies using anonymised analytics to improve their services, or academic research “for the public benefit”.Current data protection laws are adequate - not but enforcedErdos also suggested that the key challenge in this area is that while existing data protection legislation is strong, enforcement of those laws is weak, and so lack of compliance from online companies is “vast”.He pointed to another report involving the ICO from September 2014: aglobal survey of more than 1,200 mobile appsthat found 85% of them failed to clearly explain how they were collecting, using and disclosing users’ personal information.“At the moment, we have quite stringent laws – possibly overly stringent in some cases – but really limited enforcement,” he said. “Perhaps what needs to happen is to make the standards more realistic, and to do more enforcement, to make it clear that those standards aren’t just paper-based: they live in the real world.”Miller agreed that enforcement is a major challenge. “There’s a real enforcement problem. The whole of this area is fraught with difficulties. There aren’t quick fixes to these things, but where you are getting front-end problems, as we’re talking about in our report, are there practical ways of picking off some of those issues? I think there are,” he said.“I’d certainly encourage the social media companies not to put up the shutters, but to start to help promote a dialogue about practical solutions that people buy into. We need to have a serious discussion around something that is manifestly a problem now, and likely to become an even bigger problem as more of us buy in to different forms of social media.”•Tumblr growing fast but teens are ‘bored’ with Facebook
Seen through the filter of Instagram, the world is a beautiful place: high-contrast blue skies; sepia-tinted sunsets; exquisite plates of food and raindrops sliding down windows in perfect formation. It may be a manipulated perspective on life, but 200 million people across the world now use the photo app, sharing 60m pictures a day. Yet for some users, Instagram is generating more than appreciative likes and comments as they document their lives, travels and eating habits on their smartphones.From Nike to the Namibian tourist board, brands and organisations are turning to the most followed users in the pursuit of a broader and younger audience – and are paying handsomely for their services.Cue the rise of the Instagram professionals, users who began using the app for fun but are now earning six-figure salaries and being flown around the world to take photos to share with their thousands, sometimes hundreds of thousands, of followers.One of the most sought after is New Yorker Liz Eswein, 25, who joined Instagram just after it launched in 2010 and began posting pictures of her home city under the account @NewYorkCity as a hobby. She now has more than 1.2 million followers and has been dubbed the “den mother of Instagram”.For each job with a brand, Eswein demands $1 (64p) per like under each sponsored picture on Instagram, on top of a separate fee based on the number of images she takes. Recent sponsored photos have attracted more than 23,000 likes each. Two scenic pictures taken of the Andes during an all-expenses paid trip generated 19,386 and 20,462 likes.Beetle in Valparaiso, by Liz Eswein. She now has more than 1.2 million followers and has been dubbed the “den mother of Instagram”.Photograph: Liz Eswein“Instagram has taken me around the world” said Eswein. “I recently came back from Chile for a project we are working on. I worked with the tourism board for Namibia. I recently went to Shanghai and before that Dubai and Turkey, all for clients. There aren’t words to describe how amazing an experience it’s been, to travel the world and be paid to go to all of these places to take pictures, which is something I love.”Eswein joined forces with Laundry Service, a New York social media agency, to set up an arm of the business to connect her and her network of 1,000 influential Instagram users with some of the world’s top brands. Jason Stein, the agency’s founder, said commercial demand for these photographers in the past year had been “crazy – it’s completely out of control”.He added: “Content on Instagram has higher engagement than any other platform in the history of the internet and its free. Companies have realised that one photo on the Instagram account of someone with over 100,000 followers is reaching more people directly than any traditional ad campaign.”The stats may explain why Amazon, fashion brand Michael Kors and others have been recruiting Instagram photographers through Stein’s agency: 90% of users of the app are under 35; more than half of them use it daily; 1,000 comments are posted every second; and 1.6bn likes given every day.Beacon Falls trail by Brian DiFio. ‘On average an Instagrammer that’s got 100,000 followers is consistently putting up great photos ... can be making between $5,000 and $10,000 a month.’Photograph: Brian DiFioStein said Instagram photography had become a day job from which “some people are making over six figures” a year. “It’s become a career. It’s taking what a traditional brand or ad photographer used to be and kind of pumping it with steroids because you own and control all distribution now too.”He added: “I’d say that these days social media celebrities carry more influence than normal celebrities because people can relate to them. You are following the story of their lives through their photos, it becomes almost a traditional storytelling narrative, and that’s what people gravitate towards – it’s very similar to the YouTube vloggers and their massive followings.”One of the first people to use the app for commercial means was Brian DiFeo. Like Eswein, he joined Instagram as a 33-year-old with no professional photography experience. But after gaining popularity on the platform, in March 2011 he speculatively emailed the organisers of a New York music festival asking for a free ticket in exchange for taking photos of the event and putting them on to his feed. It proved so successful that sports brand Puma then invited him and fellow Instagrammer Anthony Danielle to document the Volvo Ocean Race in Abu Dhabi, all expenses paid. It was, said DiFeo “completely surreal”.In March 2012, after being approached by several other firms for their services, he and Danielle set up The Mobile Media Lab, the first company designed solely to connect the growing Instagram community with companies and brands. It proved to be savvy timing: Facebook bought Instagram the following month in a $1bn deal that made the headlines. Last year The Mobile Media Lab generated more than $1m in revenue.Anthony Danielle’s photo of 61 street Woodside. Puma recently invited him to document the Volvo Ocean Race in Abu Dhabi, all expenses paid.Photograph: Anthony DanielleWhile DiFeo now mainly takes a managerial role, in 2012 he travelled round the US and abroad taking sponsored pictures on Instagram. “For me the peak was being taken to France [by the champagne house] Veuve Clicquot on a three-day whirlwind tour to pick grapes” he said. “It was amazing. We stayed in the Veuve Clicquot mansion and drank wine that was bottled before the world war two – it was a completely mind-boggling experience. And I was just there taking photos on my phone.”To be part of DiFeo’s network, Instagram photographers need a minimum of 10,000 followers each – with their value directly linked to how many likes and comments they average on their account. Demand over the past year has driven up that value radically.“I remember the first job I took was something like eight photos for $300, as we had no idea of our value back then,” DiFeo said. “Now we pay everybody per photo – so it could be $250 to $3,000, depending on how many likes and engagements they have. The most we’ve paid for a single photo is $4,000“On average an Instagrammer that’s got a good 100,000 followers is consistently putting up great photos and their audience really likes what they’re doing can be making between $5,000 and $10,000 a month. What we see emerging here is a whole other crop of Instagrammers who are now taking this on as a career, are chasing down the jobs and commanding really high price for their work. These are the people making upwards of $70,000 or even $100,000 a year just on Instagram.”Authenticity is important, with Instagrammers keen not to lose followers and therefore value. Full disclosure of all sponsored photos is vital, according to DiFeo.A photo from Aiala Hernando’s instagram. She sees her commercial Instagram photography as a ‘fun complement’ to her day job.Photograph: Aiala Hernando“The key is finding jobs for Instagrammers that are a really good fit for their feed and that way it doesn’t become to overly commercial and turn off audiences. “It can occasionally cause some backlash in the comments or the photographers being accused as sellouts but with all of these jobs the photographers have creative control and they know what photos are going to sit well with their audience. As a company we tell all our Instagrammers to have full disclosure of sponsored pictures, either by overtly saying they are very excited with working with a certain brand or by hashtagging the picture with ‘sponsored by’.”Professional photographers have realised its earning potential. Aiala Hernando, from San Sebastián, Spain, sees her commercial Instagram photography as a “fun complement” to her day job. It earns her an extra $3,000 a month.“Recently I went to Rome to do some work for a hotel, to document these rituals they have,” she said. “I went there for 24 hours three weeks in a row, which was great fun. For a travel job like that I will earn between $2,000 and $5,000 a day. One of my main worries when signing with an agency was making my Instagram feed too commercial, so what I try to do is only accept jobs that match with my content and not post anything too harsh for my audience. I always take photos in my specific style.”DiFeo dismisses the idea that Instagram – and the commercial photography on it – is a passing fad. “Over the past year, Instagram has really infiltrated everyday society – it’s mentioned on TV, it’s mentioned in the news daily – so it’s here to stay,” he said. “And in terms of commercial influence, I don’t even think it’s reached its apex.”
It’s the cultural phenomenon everybody is talking about. It’s loved, it’s hated, it’s intriguing, it’s annoying and it’s genius. It’s … theMailChimpadvert.The 19-second ad is the first thing everyone hears at the beginning of Sarah Koenig’sSerialpodcast, and while the series is about a disturbing cold case high-school murder, the ad has grabbed everyone’s attention for its unintentional hilarity and charm.MailChimp was approached by Serial’s producers in June, off the back of their existing relationship withThis American Life, Serial’s parent podcast.The ad consists of Dana Chivvis, the show’s producer, recording various people on the streets of New York saying the company’s name. It’s not exactly boundary-pushing.But listeners have become obsessed with one woman’s awkward butchering of the pronunciation of “chimp”, rendered as “kimp”. Or keemp?Qimp?I just told a &quot;Mail Kimp&quot; joke to someone who doesn&#39;t listen to@serial. It didn&#39;t go over well.#mailkimp#mailchimp&mdash; Casi (@HeyNoobz)November 25, 2014Even Google is in on the joke.#Serial#mailkimppic.twitter.com/bJdWNlCpso&mdash; Megan Z (@megwantstoknow)November 21, 2014The company itself has even embraced the joke, registering the domain name mailkimp.com. There is even a fan “MailKimp”Twitter account.MailChimp’s marketing director Mark DiCristina says this most popular element of the ad was not planned.“When the first episode aired, that was the first time we had heard the ads – so the girl who can’t pronounce [chimp] was totally spontaneous,” hetoldAdWeek.(The jury is still out on whether laughing at a presumably non-native speaker’s pronunciation of chimp is acceptable or not.)The advert then ends with a very enthusiastic – and supposedly unscripted – remark from one of the people featured, who says she uses MailChimp and “loves it”.“I actually use MailChimp!” has become amemeacross social media.Indeed, the advert has become such a hit that in the dedicatedSerial parody, one of the best bits is their sending-up of its sponsor. They even dedicated a whole episode to just the advert,The Investor.Some people are even joking that the girl who mispronounces chimp is the true murderer at the centre of the podcast’s investigation.But what exactly is MailChimp?MailChimp is an email marketing software company, founded in 2001. Originally the company was going to be called ChimpMail, but that name was (inexplicably) already taken.Its mascot is a chimp in a postman’s hat, and its tagline is the now ubiquitous command: “send better email”.MailChimp’s software allows users to “design, send and share newsletter templates”, and it integrates with Google Analytics so that users can monitor the performance of their newsletters. There are also subscriber profiles, and options to send automated mailouts to Twitter followers.Originally just paid-for, MailChimp later moved to a freemium model (users can sign up for free, but have to pay for certain features). The company boasts over 7 million business users – as referenced in the Serial advert – and is used to send more than 500 million emails a day.The company’s pricing structure is based on three tiers: Entrepreneur, Growing Business and High Volume Sender. So it’s a pretty standard emailing marketing system.Has its Serial advert boosted profits?DiCristina maintains that the company’s sponsoring of Serial was not intended to boost profits, but to raise awareness of the service.“We haven’t really tried to understand whether it’s driving growth. Frankly, the idea is not for us to drive people from the ad to signing up for MailChimp. It’s more about creating awareness of this company,” hesaid.And the company has succeeded. Engagement Labsreportsthat MailChimp has gained 6,891 Twitter followers since the beginning 3 October when the series began.The Guardian counts1,500 instancesof the #MailKimp hashtag on Twitter since the premiere of the podcast. Amobee Brand Intelligencecalculatedthat 2,488 tweets have mentioned Serial and MailChimp together.The viral reaction to MailChimp’s ad has inspiredSquareSpaceandAudible.comto advertise with the podcast.With the recent announcement that Serial will be given a second series, the company has confirmed it will continue to be a sponsor. But this sort of genuine, organic, viral reaction probably can’t be repeated, DiCristina admitted toQuartz.“I don’t know if we want to try to recreate the magic that happened with the ad. We’ll probably just want to do something completely different”, he said.•Listen to the Guardian’s TechWeekly podcast
The European commission’s vice president for the digital single market has expressed his concern over Italian proposals to give network providers the ability to offer different speeds to different sites.Andrus Ansip, the former Estonian prime minister, said he was “really worried” about the new plansin an interview with Reuters.In a leaked document dated 14 November, Italy, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,suggestedremoving the definitions of “net neutrality” and “specialised services”; the latter are seen by net neutrality proponents as little more than a euphemistic term for offering an internet fast lane to paying customers.In their place would be “clear principles for traffic management in general, as we’ll as the obligation to maintain sufficient network capacity for the internet access service regardless of other services also delivered over the same access.”In contrast to the proposals, Ansip told Reuters that “all the traffic has to be treated equally… The internet has to stay open for everybody.”He cited the support of President Obama for the original EU proposals, saying “the president of the United States is using our wording - the wording of the European Parliament in the United States of America”.Torrent sites blocked in UKWhile the EU focuses on net neutrality, six UK ISPs have been required to block access to yet more torrent sites, “including limetorrents.com, nowtorrents.com, picktorrent.com, seedpeer.me and torlock.com”,according to industry site TorrentFreak.Britain’s internet censorship system, originally built around preventing access to child abuse images, has been extended to cover sites which promote copyright infringement since the Pirate Bay was blocked in February 2012.BT and Sky have now implemented the latest load of changes, preventing direct access for their subscribers (although the blocks are easily circumvented by users with a VPN), but BT has gone one step further and blocked access to other torrent sites as well.“Over the past several days TorrentFreak has received reports from several users of private torrent sites who get an “error blocked” message instead of their favorite sites. These include the popular IPTorrents.com and TorrentDay.com trackers,” TorrentFreak reports. “However, there is no known court decision that requires BT to block these URLs. In fact, no UK ISP has ever blocked a private torrent site before.”Barack Obama’s support for net neutrality sets precedent for the rest of the world• The headline, subheading and caption on this article were amended on 28 November. The earlier headline said the European commission was divided on net neutrality, and the earlier caption described Andrus Ansip as commissioner-designate.
The European parliament has approved a motion calling for tougher regulation of internet search, including suggesting breaking up Google as a solution to its dominance in Europe.The motion passed as expected by 384 votes to 174 with 56 MEPs abstaining, and encourages the European commission (EC) to consider unbundling Google’s search business from its advertising and other businesses.The parliament has no direct power to break up Google in this manner and its calls to the EC have been seen aspoliticalisation of a regulatory issue.The resolution calls the EC “to prevent any abuse in the marketing of interlinked services by operators of search engines” and “to consider proposals with the aim of unbundling search engines from other commercial services” in the long run.Google declined to comment.Climb downSince the reports of the motionleaked last week, its authors have attempted todownplay the suggestionof a breakup or an unbundling of Google, claiming that it is just one of several options being put forward.The German conservative Andreas Schwab and Spanish liberal Ramon Tremosa, two of the authors of the motion, said they were “not ideological against Google. We are against monopolies. Unbundling is one of the ideas, but we proposed several.”Google holds 90% of the search market in Europe and as such has been the subject of a long-running antitrust investigation with the EC, which wasrecently re-openedafter the commission rejected the settlement proposal.But Günther Oettinger, the commissioner in charge of the digital economy, directly opposed the unbundling suggestion in the parliament’s motion. Hetold the German business journalist Roland Tichythat “breaking and expropriation” was not an option and that such measures would be “instruments of the planned economy, not the market economy”.Google is subject to the “right to be forgotten” ruling, which is currently seeing the pan-European data protection watchdogscall for search results to be deleted from google.com, as well as local EU domains.The resolution also called for member states to “put an end to roaming charges inside the EU, provide more legal certainty as regards net neutrality and improve consumer protection”.•Does Europe have the power to break up Google?
Throughout our board games week we’re hoping to show that there is huge variety in modern tabletop gaming, from deeply strategic and demanding new hits to family classics that hold their appeal for generations of players.Here, our gaming writers discuss their favourite titles, some new, some old, some tactically rich, some … well, not so much.Have a read, then add your own favourites at the end.Will FreemanDixitWhile numerous tabletop titles come drenched with jargon and rules, Dixit is free of such complexity. It’s a game of beautiful illustrations and semiotic trickery. Players must describe dream-like images presented on lavishly printed cards, the aim being to mislead some rivals into an incorrect identification, while encouraging others to get it right. It’s all about treading the fine line between being too obvious and too obscure, and it beautifully reflects the social dynamic – becoming puerile and silly with one group of friends, or serious and musing with others.Terror in Meeple CityPreviously known as Rampage, Terror in Meeple City is a game of smashing things. After building a cartoon cardboard city from the set’s chunky components, players take control of large wooden Godzilla-like monsters who just want to destroy. The game does away with traditional inputs like dice, instead getting you to chuck your monster at buildings, or use your lung power to literally blow them down. It’s chaotic, but there are just enough rules and constraints to make this high spirited game strategic and methodical.The Rivals for CatanSettlers of Catan is contemporary board gaming’s gateway drug, but it needs a minimum of three players, and for some, its elegant system exists at the expense of detail. Which is where two-player triumph The Rivals for Catan comes in. Competitors must gradually construct competing towns, placing buildings, fields and roads. The settlements emerge as self-sufficient tabletop tableaus that need to balance their own ecosystems of commerce, manufacturing and services. It’s gentle and immensely rewarding.Hannah Jane ParkinsonJengaI can’t even think about Jenga without breaking into a sweat. Players take turns to remove blocks from a criss-cross wooden tower, a task that increases in difficulty as the edifice becomes less stable. The pressure on your turn as you probe for pliable bricks is comparable to a game of Operation when your pincers delve into a body cavity, the buzzer waiting.I see that wooden tower block in my nightmares. It is a form of torture. Top tip: play with people who are more of an emotional wreck than you. Or more drunk.JengaPhotograph: Felix Clay/Felix ClayGuess WhoThis is such a simple game. Two players pick a character card each, and then guess who their opponent holds by asking questions to eliminate possible options. The wonderful thing is that the set-up is so fatally flawed – picking a character with a prominent but rare characteristic means you’re basically screwed from the off. But the fun is in personalising the characters and nerdily creating backstories. Alfred looks like a Twin Peaks extra while Susan’s rosy cheeks point to a drinking problem.ShitheadIt’s a truth universally acknowledged that every university dorm contains a poster of Bob Marley and a deck of cards in order to play Shithead: the official card game of students everywhere.There are many versions but the key element consists of laying down cards above or equal to the value of the card in the main play pile. It’s the super powered wildcards that really make the game – the best is a 10, which “burns” the whole pile. The winner is the first player to get rid of all cards; the loser is whoever is last (the eponymous Shithead). Nightly sessions of this game remain one of my favourite memories of higher education.Owen DuffySnake OilThere are few genuinely funny board games but Snake Oil is one of them. Players take the role of salespeople trying to offload a succession of ridiculous products. Each round sees one player acting as a customer who’ll listen to other player’s pitches before deciding on one item they’d like to buy.The hilarity comes from the fact that the salespeople’s wares and the customer’s identity are determined by randomly drawn cards. How do you flog “danger cheese” to a fashion model? Or “pleasure pyjamas” to a politician? It’s a fantastic opportunity to discover your inner Del Boy.Kingdom BuilderKingdom Builder tasks you with forging a nation that meet the needs of its people. Trouble is, the needs of the people change every time you play. Each game begins with players drawing cards to see what sort of citizens will populate their fledgling state. You might have fishermen who want access to water or miners who need to be near mountains, etc.The board is created from a collection of modular segments so the geography varies from game to game; players can also obtain special abilities that help them seize the most valuable territory. It’s incredibly simple, but every decision is crucial.Magic, The Gathering cardsPhotograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianMagic: the GatheringIn this well-established fantasy card game, players become powerful beings known as Planeswalkers able to travel between dimensions, cast deadly spells and summon mighty armies to battle their enemies.Participants build decks from packets of randomly allocated cards, and the process of constructing an effective deck is as much a part of the game as actually playing a match. You might try to batter your opponent with one or two rampaging monsters, swarm them with a massive force of ordinary soldiers or frustrate their plans with spells that restrict their abilities. The tactical possibilities are incredibly varied and constantly evolving. The game also boasts a compelling backstory and the cards feature stunning fantasy artwork.Alex HernSpace CadetsThis is a co-operative game where you play the crew of a starship, boldly going where no one has gone before. Each player has a specific skill game to perform which makes their section of the ship work, but all those little roles have to be done in the same 30-second period – with just three minutes to rest, plan the next round, and recover before it happens again.It is a very silly game that you will probably lose repeatedly because, say, the person who is supposed to be manning the sensors can’t tell the difference between a small cardboard T and a small cardboard L by touch alone.NetrunnerPhotograph: David Goehring/flickrAndroid: NetrunnerA two-player asymmetric card game set in a cyberpunk future, Netrunner pits a lone “runner” against the might of a mega-corporation, tasking them with hacking servers and stealing information on nefarious agendas like advertising on the moon or unethical human experimentation. On its own, the core pack provides one of the all-time great card games, but it’s when players take a look at the options for growing the set (so far 17 “data packs” and two “deluxe expansions”) that the sheer scale of the thing becomes clear.Ticket to RideThis quick and accessible game tasks players with building a railroad across America in the golden age of steam. If participants complete their secret route, they get points, and if they don’t, they lose them.The catch: only one player’s railroad can connect any two given cities. Do you move first to grab the connections you need, or hold back to avoid tipping your hand? Do you focus on the cards you need, which might give away where you’re heading next, or take a few random cards to disguise your goal but slow down your building? Then there’s the option of going for longer more bountiful routes, or shorter, more attainable ones. It’s more fiendishly challenging than the National Rail Enquiries website, and certainly more fun.12 board games to make you a better personBoard games don’t just bring us together - they remind us how to playPodcast: Is the popularity of board games down to the success of board games?
The websites of the Independent, the Daily Telegraph, OK magazine, the London Evening Standard and America’s National Hockey League have been “hacked” by the Syrian Electronic Army, the pro-Assad Syrian hacker group.A portion of visitors to all those sites are presented with a blank screen and a javascript popup telling them “you have been hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army”. The group apparently exploited a fault with a content delivery network (CDN).Blame fell on the ad network due to the sporadic nature of the outages, which are difficult to replicate and spread over a number of sites.Such symptoms are common for attacks delivered through an ad or content delivery network, which serves third-party code across a number of websites.Independent and Telegraph affectedThe Independent says that the hack came through the Gigya CDN it uses, writing that “hackers redirected some users to their site or to display their messages, by exploiting the DNS entry – which translates URLs such as independent.co.uk into directions to the site – at GoDaddy, the site’s domain registrar”.The Telegraph referred the Guardian to two tweets in which it said that “a part of our website run by a third-party was compromised earlier today. We’ve removed the component. No Telegraph user data was affected. Thanks to those who’ve flagged it.”Ernest Hilbert, a security consultant at Kroll Cyber, agrees that “it was Gigya. It is a DNS takeover, and this is what the Syrian Electronic Army does. Normally, you type in a URL, it goes to a domain name server, and it says ‘those words equal this website’.“But not every user can get in through one connection, particularly at bigger sites. A CDN means that, because you can’t all fit in through the same door, it sends you to another one, another version of the content. And one of those versions, which hosts copies of all these affected sites, appears to have been compromised by the Syrian electronic army.”Syrian Electronic Army started attacks in 2011The Syrian Electronic Army are a state-sponsored group operating under Bashar al-Assad’s regime in Syria. The group has attacked numerous targets since the Syrian civil war began in 2011, including the New York Times, the Huffington Post, and the Guardian.Most recently, the Sun and the Sunday Times were attacked by the group in June of this year.Unlike many state-sanctioned hack attacks, the SEA tends to focus on extremely public targets, and uses its successes to promote its cause and gain publicity. It is also notable for attacking its targets using a mixture of social engineering and “spear phishing”, rather than exploiting computer vulnerabilities.Whenthe group attacked the Guardianin 2013, it sent spoof emails to staff encouraging them to reset passwords through a malicious link. It then used the stolen passwords to leverage greater access inside the organisation, before compromising Twitter accounts linked to the paper.Skype’s Twitter and blog accounts hacked by ‘Syrian Electronic Army’
If you’re a newcomer to board games, the hobby can seem bewildering. With a staggering array of titles to choose from and thousands of new games released each year, it’s quite a challenging to pick out the best newcomers to add to your collection.To help you, we’ve compiled a list of some of the best games to suit a variety of tastes.Strategy gamesStar Wars X-Wing Miniatures GameThis fast-paced space combat game puts you in command of a fleet of Rebel or Imperial ships from the Star Wars universe. Your aim is to destroy your enemies with flashy manoeuvres, clever tactics and superior firepower. The base set comes with everything you need for a small two-player dogfight, while expansion packs let you deploy new ships including the Millennium Falcon and the gargantuan Tantive IV.A Game of Thrones: The Board GameIn the mood for something more complex? A Game of Thrones lets you command one of the great houses of George R R Martin’s realm of Westeros. With more than 500 components and a rulebook that runs to over 30 pages, it’s not for the faint-of-heart, but this game of alliances, diplomacy, backstabbing and betrayal is fantastically evocative of the bloody struggle for the Iron Throne.PandemicOf course, strategy doesn’t always have to mean violence. Matt Leacock’s Pandemic sees players join forces as a team of medics attempting to eradicate four deadly diseases. Each player has their own special ability, and you’ll need to use each of them to their best effect if you hope to save humanity. It’s a tense, masterfully designed co-operative game that requires players to respond to increasingly drastic threats.Pandemic pits players against a series of deadly diseases.Photograph: Z-Man GamesHonourable mention:Eight Minute Empire– a complete nation-building experience in a small, quick and simple package.Family gamesLove LetterThe most successful of a crop of tiny games by Japanese designers, Seiji Kanai’s Love Letter packs a respectable helping of intrigue and deduction into just 16 cards. As a suitor for the hand of a beautiful princess, you’ll have to overcome the royal family, the palace guards and rival players to deliver your love letter. The rules fit on the back of a single card and a round takes less than five minutes to play.In Love Letter players attempt to win the affections of a princess.Photograph: Alderac Entertainment GroupKing of TokyoBased on the public-domain dice game Yahtzee, King of Tokyo transforms players into giant monsters competing to wreak destruction on the Japanese capital. You’ll roll a set of six dice which let you score points, attack other monsters or build up energy which you can use to gain special powers like telepathy, fiery breath or an extra head.Riff RaffIf you’re a fan of Jenga but feel the need for a stiffer challenge, Riff Raff might be for you. You’ll have to stack various kinds of cargo on to a wooden ship, either on deck or dangling precariously from the yardarms. What complicates matters is the fact that the ship is connected to a pendulum which swings wildly when the vessel becomes unbalanced, throwing precious cargo into the murky depths.Honourable mention:Dobble– a collection of lightning-fast mini-games based on quick reflexes and keen observation.Bluffing gamesCash ‘n GunsProbably the only board game that lets you point imitation firearms at your fellow players, Cash ‘n Guns places you in the role of a gangster freshly returned from a successful heist. Your goal is to get away with as much loot as you can carry, but your opponents will attempt to stop you by aiming their squishy foam pistols in your direction. Only they know whether their guns are loaded – so, do you feel lucky, punk?SkullA beautifully simple game that takes the core concept of poker, strips out the maths and leaves the fun. Skull has players secretly lay down cards showing either a flower or a skull, then bet on how many of their own and their opponents’ cards they can turn face-up without revealing a dead, hollow grin. The pressure mounts with every flip of a card, and if you reveal too many skulls you’ll be knocked out of the game.Ultimate WerewolfMonsters are stalking the village. Every night one of the townsfolk is murdered. In the morning, the people wake to find one of their number slain and vote to execute another player as a suspected werewolf. The werewolves’ goal is to avoid discovery, while the villagers must root out the real culprits before they fall victim to the creatures, or to the pervasive and deadly paranoia that grips their community.Honourable mention:Coup– lie and cheat your way to power in a futuristic city-state where competing nobles vie for influence.Brainy gamesConceptA game modelled on 20 questions probably shouldn’t be this much fun. Teams of players attempt to describe a word or phrase so that others around the table can guess what it is. No talking is allowed – instead players have to use a set collection of graphical icons to provide meaningful clues. An ideal after-dinner game that’s alternately funny and wonderfully frustrating.QuirkleThe winner of the 2011 Spiel des Jahres (Game of the year) award, Qwirkle works much like Scrabble. Players score points by laying tiles to create lines of different shapes and colours. Unlike Scrabble, though, there’s no board. The game sprawls out across the table as you try to maximise your own scoring opportunities while cutting off your opponents’.BlokusA competitive, Tetris-like puzzle game, Blokus gives each player a collection of plastic tiles made up of different configurations of square blocks. Your objective is to place as many of your tiles onto the grid-patterned board as possible, but your own pieces can only touch each other on corners. As the board fills up, you’ll fight with increasing urgency for rapidly dwindling space.Honourable mention:Hanabi– co-operate with other players to play the right cards and orchestrate a perfect firework show. But your own cards are hidden from you; you’ll have to rely on clues from your partners to choose the right one.Which games got you into gaming? Are there any we should have included on our list? Let us know in the comments below.
European data regulators are set to instruct Google to apply “right to be forgotten” search result deletions outside of Europe on Google.com.The Article 29 cross-European panel of data protection watchdogs announced its guidance that search result removals should be carried out beyond local European domains such as google.co.uk, google.fr and google.de to prevent circumvention of the right to be forgotten law.“De-listing decisions must be implemented in such a way that they guarantee the effective and complete protection of data subjects’ rights and that EU law cannot be circumvented,” Article 29 said in a statement. “Limiting de-listing to EU domains on the grounds that users tend to access search engines via their national domains cannot be considered a sufficient means to satisfactorily guarantee the rights of data subjects according to the ruling.”‘De-listing should also be effective on all relevant .com domains’The right to be forgotten ruling allows Europeans to apply to remove outdated information about them from search engine listings. Google has approximately a 90% market share of search in Europe, making it the primary focus of the rulings and watchdog attention.Google’s initial implementation of the ruling requires users to fill out a form, which is reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The search results may then be removed from a local European domain, but not from the US search giant’s main google.com domain or other non-European domains.Since launching its webform for right to be forgotten requests in May, 174,266 requests have been filed for 602,479 linksaccording to the company. Google has removed 352,450 links or 58.5% of the requested search results from across Europe.France ranks top with 34,632 requests for 105,593 links, Germany second with 29,528 requests for 103,089 links and the UK third with 22,467 requests for 81,413 links.Only searches that include a person’s name will provoke the search result blocks under the right to be forgotten ruling. Searches for the same article or website that do not include the name, instead relying on other keywords, will still show the search result.Google also places a warning on named searches that “some results may have been removed under data protection law in Europe”.Article 29 considers this insufficient to satisfy the ruling stating that: “in practice, this means that in any case de-listing should also be effective on all relevant .com domains.”“We haven’t yet seen the Article 29 Working Party’s guidelines, but we will study them carefully when they’re published,” a Google spokesman told the Guardian.The Article 29 working group represents all the major data regulators across Europe and issues guidelines on pan-European regulatory issues. But it is down to the data regulators in the individual countries, including the UK’s Information commissioners office (Ico), to enforce the guidelines.“We will use these guidelines, which we played a significant part in developing, as the basis for our own implementation of the judgment. This will reflect the specific requirements of the UK Data Protection Act,” said David Smith, Ico deputy commissioner and director of data protection in a statement to the Guardian. “In the coming weeks we will publish our own version of the guidelines and information for the public to help them understand when they can expect a search result based on their name to be delisted.”“The internet brings an international element to our work, and in reality our powers are limited to enforcement against data controllers within our jurisdiction. Nevertheless, the effect of the judgement should not be easily circumvented, meaning that delisting should be effective on all relevant domains. This means that removing links to a .co.uk search engine, but not to a .com search engine that is readily accessible in the UK, is unlikely to be enough to do what the ruling requires,” Smith said.•Does Europe have the power to break up Google?•Right to be forgotten poses more questions than answers•Editing Google’s search results would damage free speech, US judge rules
Games industry professionals can make gaming communities more tolerant by actively promoting and exhibiting inclusive values, according to new research.A studycarried out at Lancaster Universityfound that the community based around the building sim Minecraft was less likely to exhibit homophobia and other forms of bigotry, because popular YouTube videos based around the game tend to present close male friendships – or “bromances” – in a positive light.“In video-game forums, there is sometimes an expectation that community members share certain qualities (like being straight and male) and agree upon quite narrow conceptions of identity,” said Dr Amanda Potts, a researcher at the university’s ESRC Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social Science. “I found that when popular channel producers uploaded gaming videos that depicted unexpected relationships between men, viewers and subscribers of the channel became more accepting and tolerant. What you ended up with was a community that self-policed against homophobia.”Potts analysed the language used in forums based around Minecraft, as well as in the comments sections of relevant YouTube video channels. Star players like StampyCat and Diamond Minecart boast millions of subscribers to their Minecraft YouTube shows, and most produce family-friendly content, in which the emphasis is on co-operation and sharing.Homophobic, racist and sexist abuse is a common problem in gaming communities. In 2012, researchers at Ohio Universityfound thatgamers who identified as women were three times more likely to receive abuse while playing online games than players who identified as male. In an older survey,carried out by the University of Illinois in 2006, found that over 87% of online gamers used the word “gay” as a derogatory adjective.“When powerful people, in this case the video producers who are revered by their young fans, use language that promotes tolerance and inclusiveness, there is a trickledown effect where young people begin to avoid homophobic language themselves,” said Potts.Some will suggest that Minecraft is perhaps not the most representative community when it comes to game culture. The main version of the game is co-operative and creative, inviting players to build and explore together, rather than fight. It also has a user-based skewed toward younger children and family audiences.It is in competitive online shooters like Halo and Call of Duty where bigoted abuse and harassment are more of a problem. In 2012, video game website IGNpolled its readersand found that a third had stopped playing competitive online modes due to abuse.Potts suggested however that in all cases, the game publishers themselves could set examples for communities through their own communications and activities.“If game producers don’t take the lead in working against harassment, then it is much harder for communities to organise themselves positively and powerfully,” she said.“Not creating and promoting an inclusive environment as a producer leads to a lack of inclusiveness in fandom.”How prevalent is online abuse?Is racism in online gaming the fault of the games or the players?
Technology firm BitTorrent has persuaded a range of musicians to distribute music using its “Bundles” feature, including Thom Yorke, Pixies, De La Soul and Moby. Now it’s turning its attention to TV.The company’s first original TV series,Children of the Machine, will make its debut in the autumn of 2015,according to AdWeek.The eight-episode show will be a free download on BitTorrent’s file-sharing network supported by advertising, although fans will be able to pay $4.95 for an ad-free version, or $9.95 for that plus bonus content.“This is a science fiction show catered to the typical tech-savvy, male-dominated audience,” producer Marco Weber told AdWeek. “We’re not trying to launch a romantic comedy, so the concept of this show moved us toward BitTorrent.”BitTorrent claims to have more than 170 million monthly active users on its network, with 40 million of them using it every day. Its pitch to creators of all stripes, from musicians to TV producers, is that it can put their work in front of that large audience, and help them make money from it.Besides the musicians named above, BitTorrent bundles have been launched by Azealia Banks, Public Enemy, Alice in Chains, Diplo and Atari Teenage Riot from the music world.Yorke chose BitTorrent as the distribution platform for his latest solo album,Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes, using a “paygate” feature that got fans to pay $6 to unlock the whole album.The free bundle has been downloaded 4.4 million times since its launch in late September, although neither Yorke nor BitTorrent has said how many of those downloaders subsequently paid.A promotional clip for Children of the Machine.While Children of the Machine is the first original TV series to try a bundle, the feature has been used for films including documentariesThe Act of Killing,Dear Mr Wattersonand Eddie Izzard’s tour filmForce Majeure, as well asMadonna’s Secretprojectrevolution filmabout freedom of speech.“We’re a technology company, we’re really good at moving files. We’re not so great at being a label, a film studio or a book publisher. So we’re trying to make something that works for individuals, labels and aggregate publishers,” BitTorrent’s chief content officer Matt Masontold the Guardian in September.BitTorrent is far from the only technology company touting its ability to distribute original TV shows to an online audience. Netflix and Amazon both have well-established initiatives in original shows, with the former’s House of Cards and Orange is the New Black having been widely acclaimed.Online video service Hulu is also investing in original shows, while studio Sony Pictures Television is distributing its first original series, Powers,through the PlaySTation Network community. Rival Microsoft recentlyshut down its Xbox Entertainment Studios division, however.•What are BitTorrent bundles and how can I download them?
I’ve just bought a Sony 42in Full HD TV. It’s connected to Freeview via an aerial. I want to record programmes. Most of the recording devices seem to include a Freeview tuner, but my TV has a Freeview tuner built in. I’m confused. Presumably I don’t need a machine with a tuner? Any ideas?JulianYou don’t need a machine with a Freeview tuner. In fact, you probably don’t need a machine at all. However, you may still want to buy one …In the old days, people who wanted to record TV programmes bought a VCR or video cassette recorder to connect to their TV sets. The VCR had its own analogue TV tuner, so it didn’t actually record from the TV: it recorded programmes from the signal it got from the TV aerial. Indeed, this was a vital part of the VCR’s appeal: you could record something while watching a different TV programme.Fast forward to today: the government has closed down analogue TV broadcasting and replaced it with a form of digital TV based on DVB-T (standard definition) and DVB-T2 (high definition). The digital signal that probably arrives through the same TV aerial has to be decoded by a Freeview or Freeview HD tuner, and Freeview tuners have been included in all TV sets sold in the UK since 2008.Some TV sets allow users to record TV programmes directly to a USB hard drive, without using a VCR or DVR (digital video recorder). This involves plugging a USB memory stick or external hard drive into the correct USB port. In Sony Bravia TVs, this is the second USB port, labelled HDD Rec. See the section on USB HDD Recording in the Bravia’s European onlinei-Manual(versions for other regions may vary).Be sure to use an external hard drive with its own power supply, rather than using the power available via the USB socket.On its website, Sony lists 14 Bravia TVs that can record to an external hard drive, and 41 models that can play back from an external hard drive. There’s a good chance that your TV can record programmes, but it’s not guaranteed.When you attach a USB storage device for recording purposes, the TV set will format it, and this will delete everything that’s already on the drive. For playback, Sony TVs can recognise FAT and exFAT file systems, but – unlike some other TVs – not Windows’ NTFS file system.Problem solved? Not really.Drawbacks with USB recordingThe biggest drawback with most Freeview TVs is that they only have one tuner. That’s fine if you use the timer to record something when you’re out, but not if you want to record one programme while watching another. To do this, you need two Freeview tuners.However, there are other drawbacks with the USB recording technology, as generally implemented. (I can’t speak from experience of specific Sony Bravia models, so you’ll have to check what applies to your TV.)The drawbacks mostly derive from the content providers’ war on copying, which they almost always regard as “piracy”. For a start, Sony’s i-Manual says that “Recording is not possible if the programme is not authorised by the operator”. Even if it is, the content providers don’t want you to be able to record a programme from a TV and then plug that into a PC. Sony and presumably other TVs therefore format USB devices using partitions that PCs can’t handle.As a result, programmes recorded via USB may be digitally “locked” to that TV set. If so, you will not be able to “top and tail” or otherwise edit them, copy them to a different hard drive, or play them in another room or at a friend’s house. These were all things you could do with old-fashioned video tape.And if your TV set dies, your recordings presumably won’t work on your new TV set, or not without some form of online registration. (I haven’t run into this, but please comment below if you have.)To sum up: USB recording should work well for time-shifting and recording programmes when you’re out, using the Freeview EPG (electronic programme guide). However, USB drives don’t replace a VCR. For that, you need a DVR or PVR (personal video recorder).Advantages of DVRs/PVRsThe main advantage of having a DVR/PVR is that it will have one or two built-in Freeview tuners, so you can record one programme while watching another. Most also support “series link”, so you can elect to record every edition of Dr Who or whatever, rather than “taping” each one separately. Also, most work as DNLA servers, and can stream programmes to other DNLA-compatible Blu-ray players and TV sets over your home network.Most PVRs allow you to back up recorded programmes to an external hard drive -- essential when you run out of space -- and some Panasonic models can record to, or copy programs to, DVD. However, there may be limitations on copying files off a PVR, and it could reformat your external hard drive, much like a TV set. In general, high-definition content and HDMI connections have more restrictions than standard-definition content.Finally, there’s playback. Your Sony Bravia TV will play digital videos from your PC or other sources if you copy them to a USB memory stick or external hard drive in the FAT or preferably exFAT format. However, PVRs will generally handle a wider range of video and audio formats. Check the specs if you want to play back files in avi, DivX, Xvid and so on.As far as I can see, the movie industry is driving us towards systems that can only be used for time-shifting and streaming. If you want to watch something more than once, you’ll have to buy it on DVD/Blu-ray or pay-per-view.
The Kindle Voyage is Amazon’s latest e-reader, but instead of being value-focused, the Voyage is a high-quality device with a crisper screen and fancy, squeezable touch buttons.Amazon’s Kindle started out in 2007 as an expensive and rather rough device that garnered little in the way of praise. Seven years later, the cheapest Kindle costs £59 and the more expensiveKindle Paperwhitecosts £99, but the new Kindle Voyage starts at £169 and is designed to be a luxury book reader. It is really worth the extra £70?Crisp and brightThe soft-touch angular back and thin edges makes the Voyage easy to hold with one hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Voyage looks like almost the same as any other Kindle but for the screen, which is now flush with the e-reader’s body, which makes it look more like a tablet and stops dirt and dust from getting caught in the edges.The build-quality of the Voyage is also very good, with little in the way of flex or bend, despite being the lightest Kindle made to date. Weighing 180g, it’s 26g lighter than the Paperwhite and 11g lighter than the basic Kindle.The back has a soft-touch plastic finish, which allows for a reassuring grip, while the thin edges and angular design on the back make holding the Voyage with one hand easy.The 6in screen is crisper too, with a higher pixel density of 300 pixels per inch (ppi), up from the 212ppi of the Paperwhite’s screen. The text is noticeably clearer, while the ambient light sensor adjusts the backlight automatically. The screen and even backlight combination makes the Voyage’s display arguably the best ever fitted to an e-reader.The power button on the back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:6in e-paper (300ppi)Dimensions:162 x 115 x 7.6 mmWeight:180g (3G version 188g)Connectivity:Wi-Fi (3G optional)Storage:4GBBattery life:rated for approximately 21 hours of readingBattery lifeAmazon rates the Kindle Voyage with a battery life of six weeks of 30 minutes’ reading a day with a medium backlight, which works out at about 21 hours. In my testing it lasted approximately 19 hours with 3G on and the backlight varying with ambient light.With the backlight turned right down and connectivity turned off it will last significantly longer. Charging took approximately three hours via USB.Reading experienceAmazon’s X-ray feature helps keeping track of characters throughout a book easy.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAmazon’s Kindle reading experience is one of the best available, with useful features such as X-Ray, which allows readers to track character appearances through a novel with explanations of who they are pulled in fromShelfari(a community-powered books encyclopedia) and Wikipedia.The Voyage is the fastest Kindle I have used to date, with page turns happening instantly, the buttons and keyboard reacting more like a touchscreen tablet, and scrolling between books only exhibiting small amounts of lag. It makes the experience of using an e-book reader much more like the snappy smartphones and tablets that people are used to.The sides of the Voyage have four new buttons, which are hidden in the frame – two each side of the screen for left or right-handed use. These page turn buttons are squeezable, requiring a user-adjustable amount of pressure to turn the page.The squeeze buttons are satisfying to use, gently vibrating when pushed, make flipping backwards and forwards between pages easy, and are much harder to activate accidentally than physical buttons. Pages can still be turned by swipes or touches on the screen, but the buttons can be activated when wearing gloves.The squeezable touch buttons on the sides make page turns easy and their sensitivity is adjustable for preference.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPricyThe Kindle Voyage costs £169 for the Wi-Fi-only version and £229 for the version with 3G. That’s £60 more than the £109 Kindle Paperwhite, £110 more than the £59 basic Kindle and £39 more than Kobo’s £130 Aura HD.It’s also £40 more expensive than a very good low-cost full Android tablet such as the£129 Tesco Hudl 2or £60 more than the £99 Kindle Fire HDX.VerdictPage turns and button responses are the fastest of any Kindle to date.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Kindle Voyage is the best e-reader available. The screen is the sharpest, most evenly lit and easy to read. It is light and easy to hold with one hand and the squeezable buttons are excellent.The problem is that the Voyage costs more than a decent Android tablet with much more functionality. It is a single-use device and while the Voyage the Rolls Royce of e-readers, its cheaper competitors including the Kindle Paperwhite offer almost as good an experience for considerably less.Pros:great screen, automatic backlight, light, solid, squeezable page-turn buttonsCons:19-hour battery life needs a charger on holiday, expensive, single-use device, some may not like being tied to AmazonOther reviews•Kindle Paperwhite review: front-lit screen makes reading a pleasure•Tesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the money•Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?•Apple iPad mini 3 review: a touch more of the same•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a rival for the iPad?
Daredevil videos shot using GoPro’s range of wearable cameras are increasingly popular on YouTube, but now the company is reportedly working on another way to capture startling footage: drones.GoPro will launch its first consumer drones late in 2015,according to the Wall Street Journal, which suggested that the company may undercut established firms in that market by pricing its devices at between $500 and $1,000.Several of those rivals already support GoPro in their existing drones, which can be customised to carry its cameras and shoot video from the air.Making consumer drones more affordable – a trend that will go beyond GoPro – will ensure more of them are buzzing through the skies. Which, in turn, may provide a growing headache for aviation authorities concerned at the risks to planes.News of GoPro’s plans came as the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) released records showing that since 1 June 2014,there have been 25 separate examplesof small drones involved in “near mid-air collisions” incidents with planes and helicopters in the US.The incidents,published by the Washington Post, include a drone coming within 10 feet of the left wing of a Boeing 737 arriving in New York; several flights reporting drones coming within 100 feet while flying at heights of 3,000 or 4,000 feet; and a drone flying circles around a police helicopter in New York, resulting in the apprehension of its operator on the ground.The release of the incident reports came as the FAA and other aviation authorities are mulling changes to legislation on how and where drones can be flown, whether owned by individuals, or operated by companies.In the US, personal drones can be flown at up to 400 feet, as long as they are not within five miles of an airport or other restricted areas, notes the Post, which adds that more than 500,000 small drones have been sold in the US alone in the last three years.A separate investigation by the Washington Post earlier in 2014 found thatmore than 400 large US military drones had crashed around the worldin the past 13 years, including collisions with homes, runways, and one air force transport plane in midair.Drones are also causing regulators to consider their impact on privacy. Earlier in November, the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO)issued new guidance on the operation of drones, stressing that their operators should alert people before recording them, plan their flights in advance, and always keen their drones in sight.•Christmas gift: attack of the drones
Britain’s internet service providers are struggling to deal with an intelligence community which doesn’t understand how to use the information it receives, according to the head of the industry’s trade association.That lack of understanding is compounded by a lack of consultation with the industry when proposing specialist legislation, according to the ISP’s Association (ISPA).James Blessing, ISPA’s chair, says that legislation such as the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) gives “powers and abilities and access to all the wrong sort of people who think it’s a great idea, but don’t understand what they’re doing with it”.And because the legislation already gives police and the security services “everything … they need to actually access the information they need”, failures often take the form of the authorities failing to ask for the information which would actually be useful.“When people turn round and say ‘well, we can’t get this information’, you go, ‘but you didn’t ask’,” he added. “We don’t have this piece of information but we’ve got all this round the outside of it that will probably actually get you to that piece of information if you’d asked for all these little bits.”In comments froman interview with industry journal Cableshared exclusively with the Guardian, Blessing said new laws weren’t needed to change the system, and that the “edge cases” which currently fall through the gaps are “never going to work”.“What you have to do is concentrate on the 99% that fits within the legislation we’ve got,” he said. “Tweak the legislation we’ve got, fine, go for it. Tell us what you want, talk to us as service providers, and we’ll have a conversation about how we get the information you actually want and need in a way that helps you.”Blessing’s comments come after the ISPA expressed its “disappointment” at the lack of a consultation from the Home Office on new proposals requiring ISPs to retain extra information about users’ IP addresses.“IP addresses can generally only be used to identify a subscriber and not an individual,” IPSA said in a statement. “The Home Office needs to do more to consult with industry on its proposals.”“Once again there has been a distinct lack of engagement with industry. The government committed to a review of communications data capabilities by David Anderson QC which we supported, yet the Home Secretary appears to have pre-judged the inquiry by re-emphasising the need for a new Communications Data bill, a bill that both relevant parliamentary committees rejected.”The Open Rights Group has also spoken out against the new requirements, with its executive director, Jim Killock, telling the Guardian that “in expecting companies to spend millions on recording IP addresses, they are embedding Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act (Dripa) and Ripa, both of which are supposed to be reviewed in just over 12 months.“They are also dealing with a problem that exists because the mobile companies continue to rely on out-of-date technology that means hundreds of people use the same IP addresses. The government ought to be asking providers to invest in IPv6, rather than upgrading their current, limited technology, just for the purposes of further logging our movements.”Blessing cites IP matching as a major example of the disconnect of technical ability between ISPs and those requesting data from them. “You speak to some networks and the number of requests for devices they know definitely couldn’t have done what they said it’s done. Or, ‘we want to know where in the country this router is’. And you go, ‘it’s under my desk’. And they go very quiet when you point out they’re talking about the wrong device.“That’s because the people doing the searching stuff need more training, need more skills. The technical guys, the guys on the ground who actually do all the forensic work, who actually know how a network is built, yes they know it. But the guys at the front desk haven’t got a clue.“It’s like putting someone on a swivel chair, giving them a shotgun, and saying, ‘OK, just hit that target over there. Twice. In a row.’ At that point they start spinning round and they go, ‘oh I’ll just keep on firing’. And you do get that, you can spot when someone is firing lots of scatter gun to try and catch a certain thing. And it happens a lot.”GCHQ’s ‘jihad on tech’ can only fail
Destiny has been called many things since its successful launch in September, but funny is not one of them. The epic science-fiction adventure, which pits players against alien invaders brought to Earth by a nameless and ancient evil, has ensnared thousands of gamers with its loot-packed co-op action. The first downloadable content pack, The Dark Below, is due out on 9 December for £19.99, but right now, its the trailer for that extra content that’s got fans talking.Featuring a fictitious Destiny player named DrCrispy93, the three-minute video shows off some of the new features players can expect, including fresh weapons, strikes, story missions and multiplayer maps. It’s intriguing stuff... that is arguably ever-so-slightly undermined by DrCrispy’s relentless“dudebro” chatter.“Hey, are you checking out my ride?” is his opening gambit, delivered while astride a hover bike. He then shows off a new new Necro Chasm gun that fires 900 rounds a minute. “It’s sexy because it’s dangerous,” he enthuses. Of the new Raid included in the DLC package he yells, “get in and milk that sucker hard.”Comments on various video game news sites have not been kind. “Yay! Poor tasteandcliche,” wrote one reader on Polygon. “Oh my,” expressed another on the Neoseeker forum. “From the opening backflip and ‘Woohoo!’ to the closing ‘See you at the bottom, bro!’, this sounds like it was crafted by Bungie’s marketing department specifically for the [Call of Duty] crowd.”Current thinking is that Bungie has been inspired by Marvel’s hit movie, Guardians of the Galaxy – or Microsoft’s Xbox One title, Sunset Overdrive. Whatever, it all feels a teeny bit desperate – especially when DrCrispy reveals that, after you hit Level 32, you can acquire … a pair of day-glo dancing boots.Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
Twitter’s moves to insert tweets into people’s timelines from accounts they don’t followhave been controversial enough, but now it has emerged that the company is collecting data on their other smartphone apps to help do it.In apost on the company’s support website, Twitter has published details of its “app graph” initiative, which lays out its plans to scan what else is installed on users’ smartphones besides its own app.“To help build a more personal Twitter experience for you, we are collecting and occasionally updating the list of apps installed on your mobile device so we can deliver tailored content that you might be interested in,” explained Twitter.“We are only collecting the list of applications you have installed. We arenotcollecting any data within the applications.”According to the social network, it will use the data to provide better “who to follow” suggestions; to add “tweets, accounts, or other content to your timeline that we think you’ll find especially interesting”; and to boost its advertising business by “showing you more relevant promoted content”.Anticipating the likely reaction, Twitter also published a step-by-step guide to turning the app graph feature off within its Android and iOS apps – in both cases, it can be switched off within the settings section.Twitter added that it will not scan any user’s other apps before notifying them that it plans to do via an in-app prompt.Twitter has several motivations for introducing the app graph feature. First, it is making strenuous efforts to make its service less intimidating for new users, who may sign up without knowing who to follow.Scanning their smartphone apps is a shortcut to populating their initial timeline with tweets and accounts it thinks they’ll be interested in. Which, in turn, aims to tackle the challenge ofslowing user growth for the company.Second, there’s the advertising angle, with Twitter keen to improve the targeting of its “promoted” features. The company reported $320m of advertising revenues in the third quarter of 2014 alone, with 85% of that coming from mobile ads. The more it can refine how they’re targeted, the more money it will make.There are other ways Twitter may be able to use the data it is collecting from users’ smartphones, however. It will be another way for the company to spot fast-rising apps from smaller startups, which may influence its acquisitions strategy.But it will also give the company better data on the install bases of third-party Twitter clients like Tweetbot, which rival its own official app.It remains to be seen what Google and Apple make of Twitter’s decision to collect data on other apps installed on Android and iOS devices, at a time when they too are under scrutiny over data privacy issues.On the positive side, Twitter’s approach to app graph – announcing it publicly, not turning it on until individual users have been notified, and explaining how it can be turned off – is a welcome break from past app privacy controversies, where people have discovered that certain data was being collected without their knowledge.•Twitter: why #SoggyFries make for a tasty future in big data
Some will have assumed this week’s headlines blaming Facebook for Lee Rigby’s murder were just the usual spin, diverting the attention from the agencies’ own incompetence. Yet it is part of a growing pattern.When Robert Hannigan took over as GCHQ chief hewrote in the FTclaiming of the internet that “some technology companies were in denial about its misuse”. And never mind that Google and Microsoft each spend five times as much as the UK government on fighting cybercrime; other governments are singing from the same hymn sheet.The typical problem facing an internet company in 2014 is this. Suppose a family court in India orders Google to hand over copies of the gmail of a Canadian citizen, and imposes a secrecy order. How can a company simultaneously trade in India, and give believable assurances of privacy to users in Canada?The current solution is to route everything past US lawyers. A policeman in Oxford or Bogota or Cairo who wants electronic evidence from a US firm has to file a request under a mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT), which is scrutinised by both countries’ authorities and by the service provider’s lawyers. This can take ages; the US Justice Department has a backlog that Congress won’t give it the money to clear.The world’s policemen (and spies) would love an engineering log on to Google, Facebook and Microsoft, so they could just rummage around to their hearts’ content.But the prospect that the US government will allow random foreign policemen, let alone random foreign spies, to have even the limited accessthe FBI had under PRISM, is zero. And the companies are pushing back hard on what the FBI does get, as well as encrypting the traffic between their data centres so that the NSA can no longer hoover up their data without a warrant.The British reaction was theData Retention and Investigatory Powers Act(DRIP). This gave Teresa May the power to issue secret regulations to firms like Facebook and Google to hand stuff over to the police and intelligence agencies, by serving warrants on their premises in London, rather than having to go through MLAT to their headquarters in California.But other countries have laws guaranteeing the privacy of their citizens’ email; these include not just Germany and Switzerland, but also the USA. So what happens when MI5 demands a US citizen’s messages from Facebook? A prudent CEO will ensure that the abuse team is never on UK soil, so they can’t be thrown in jail.We have seen this pattern before, when the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act gave chief constables the power to demand passwords or cryptographic keys from suspects, while at the same time Swiss law prevented banks from handing over such keys to any third parties.US investment banks simply moved their key management operations to Zurich or Frankfurt rather than be caught in a conflict of laws. This time round, the tech companies don’t have to do much; Facebook’s abuse teams are already in Ireland and California.But there will be real damage to operations. At present, the abuse teams collaborate voluntarily with police forces, and often make material available instantly ‘on an intelligence basis’ while waiting for the paperwork. This depends on a network of individuals who know and trust each other.Hannigan’s new jihad on tech looks set to tear that up. If he tries to bully US companies into breaking US law, exasperated tech CEOs will just route all requests through the lawyers.In short, the current mechanisms for delivering lawful access to content at global service firms don’t scale, and are breaking down in the face of selfish and aggressive behaviour by officials like Hannigan and his counterparts in China, Russia, India and elsewhere.The internet has brought their agencies a cornucopia of new intelligence and evidence. They say they want more. But for that, there will need to be some rules, and rules that other countries can agree to.What’s really needed is a proper international treaty on mutual legal assistance that sets out transparent global standards for the interception of communications and of traffic data.This could require each signatory state to maintain a 24x7 operations centre at its justice ministry to expedite urgent warrants. To be acceptable to the USA and Germany, it would have to meet high standards; warrants would have to be signed by a judge (rather than by a policeman or a minister, as in Britain).Intercepted content would be digitally signed, so company engineers don’t have to hang around in court all day waiting to testify that it’s a true copy. Users would be notified of interception, or of metadata collection, within a fixed period of time, or when they were charged, or when the investigation was abandoned.An international regime for warranted interception would also have to deal with the question of what happens when some behaviour is illegal in one jurisdiction but not in another.There are more than twenty years of legal disputes, over everything from videos poking fun at Mustafa Kemal Atatürk through writings critical of scientology to sado-masochistic pornography that’s legal in California but not in Tennessee.We could try a dual-criminality rule, as in extradition; but experience there suggests it would be complicated and expensive.So given that we will need uniform procedural rules to make a global system scalable and capable of automation, we should aim for a global system of norms too.We’ll just have to tell the Saudis that the rest of the world doesn’t consider adultery to be a crime, and if they don’t like it that’s just too bad. And it might do no harm if the Americans were to tell the British government that we’ll just have to accept the idea of free speech online, with no prior restraint.After all, it’s worked for them for 223 years.Ross Andersonis professor of security engineering at Cambridge University
Tumblr is the fastest growing social media site according tonew research from GlobalWebIndex, which notes that its active users grew by 120% in the last six months, while its registered user total grew by 45%.That put it ahead of Pinterest (with 111% and 57% growth respectively) and Instagram (64% and 36%), although more mature social networks are seeing slower growth. Twitter’s active user total grew by 26% in the last six months, while Facebook’s grew by just 2% according to the research.It’s not all bad news for Facebook, though. Facebook Messenger and Instagram were the second and third fastest growing “social and messaging apps” in a separate chart published as part of the research, behind only Snapchat. Line, Pinterest, KakaoTalk, Vine, Kik Messenger, Google+ and Viber made up the top 10.Admittedly, thereissome more bad news for Facebook: GWI claimed that50% of American and British Facebook members used it “less frequently than before”– so they’re still active users, just less active than they were.Why? 45% of them are simply less interested, 37% say they’re “bored with Facebook”, and 18% think it’s not as cool as it used to be. “Perhaps most significantly of all, teensunder-indexon saying that they’re spending less time on social networks generally but thenover-indexon almost all of the specific anti-Facebook options.”Does Facebook finally have the teen-flight problem that some experts have been predicting for years? Or is there a wider trend here that could become more of an all-ages problem for the social network?Or, for that matter, is the growth of Instagram and Facebook Messenger spelling out its future as a series of interconnecting-but-separate social apps, to combat these trends? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is bubbling today in the tech world? Here are some links to think about:US concerned about Google breakup callsCalls in the European parliament for Google to be broken up are causing concern in the US, as expressed by the US Mission to the European Union. “It is important that the process of identifying competitive harms and potential remedies be based on objective and impartial findings and not be politicised...”Sony working on e-paper smartwatchWell, that’s what Bloomberg says. “The watch’s face and wrist band will be made from a patented material that allows the entire surface area to function as a display and change its appearance,” according to its sources. The device could be released as soon as 2015.Microsoft may be buying email app AcompliThe same week as Twitter’s CFO almost lets slip an acquisition with a mis-tweeted direct message, Microsoft may have spilled the beans on its plans to buy email startup Acompli. How? With a blank blog post that popped up in people’s RSS readers with a URL ending microsoft-acquires-acompli. Oops!Yogscast’s Jingle Jam charity drive returnsThe large, passionate audiences for top YouTube channels are also willing to dig into their pockets for charity when asked by their favourite stars, as YouTubers from PewDiePie to Tyler Oakley have shown. And also gaming network Yogscast, which is bringing back its Jingle Jam charity drive in December to raise money for five charities.What do astronauts eat on Thanksgiving?Glad you asked!What other stories have piqued your interest this morning? The comments section is open for your recommendations, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.
A futuristic mailbox designed in Townsville has made the semi-finals of the inaugural million-dollar Drones for Good prize, an international contest intended to steer drone development towards improving people’s lives.Royal Australian Air Force corporal Clinton Burchat’s ominously named Skynet builds on plans by Amazon and Google to deliver small packages by drone.The tech giants arestruggling to secure regulatory approvalfor drone delivery, which the Amazon boss, Jeff Bezos, predicts is still at least four or five years away.Burchat foresees more practical challenges to the plan. “I think the final few metres of the delivery will be the hardest part,” he said.“Amazon wants to land a drone in your backyard. Google wants to hover above your backyard and drop the package by string. But that’s no good if you don’t have a backyard; or it could come into contact with children or pets.”Enter Skynet. Along with his tech-savvy partner on the project, the electronics engineer Grant Bajema, Burchat has designed a barcoded and GPS-tagged net that he believes could be mounted on the homes, balconies and backyards of the near future.GPS could guide the drones to within sight of the net, and LED lights mounted on its corner would shepherd the aircraft the final few metres.“From there, they’d read the barcode on the net, confirm it’s the net that it’s looking for, and then drop the delivery.”Their concept was one of 20 to make the semi-finals ofDrones for Good, a prize set up this year by the United Arab Emirates, in a regionwhere drones have particularly terrifying connotations.The opulent gulf state wants to lead what it predicts will be a $10bn industry by 2025, and has offered a US$1m prize to the most promising concept.Burchat will fly to Dubai in February for a two-stage competition, involving a five-minute presentation on the first day followed by a second, more detailed pitch to the judges the next.Yet to be invented is a sensor, mounted on the drone, that could recognise the LED lights on the net then scan its unique barcode – though a million dollars would certainly help move development along.Along-range search-and-rescuedrone that could fly in rough weather to deliver aid and collect information in sea disasters is another contender for the prize money.Drones equipped with mapping systemsto collect data on dense and sprawling slums– to help in planning and emergency operations – are also in the running.
Siri,Apple’s voice-controlled virtual assistant, is not just useful for hands-free texting, dictation and pizza place recommendations – it turns out she is also a skilled rapper.Last month, Judith Newmanwrotein the New York Times how Siri had befriended her autistic son, and now it seems that Siri’s talents go even further.London-based producersSkeewiff, aka Alex Rizzo and Elliot Ireland, have uploaded aremixof Young MC’sKnow Howthat features Siri.Siri’s rapping efforts are impressive.Siri’s flow is reminiscent ofNicki Minaj’s best work onMonster; she has cadence just as smooth asAngel Haze; and a potty mouth worthy ofAzealia Banks.As well as name-checking Spotify and Google, Siri’s enunciation of Young’s rapid-fire lyrics are near-perfect, rapping:I’m tough like a bone / sly like Stallone / rocking and clocking on the microphone / smooth like a mirror / in hearts I strike terror / rhymes like runs / and rhymes with no errors.The producers who worked with Siri said they were thrilled with her performance. Rizzo told the Guardian how the collaboration came about:“She’s set to British Female. I asked her to dial up the lyrics of one of my favourite boasting hip hop tracks of all time, Young MC’s Know How.“When I asked her to read them out, well that was when the real ROFL-ing started. Tears and everything. Something about that posh English, mechanical accent busting rhymes was just irresistible.At that moment I knew what needed to be done, the rest was just recording, replaying and a whole lot of editing.”This is not the first time Siri has taken to the mic though. She has previously covered Eminem’sLose Yourself(not a great effort), and, to better effect, Notorious BIG’sHypnotize. X Factor, watch out.Apple’s Siri has a new British rival – meet Evi
MEPs are set to clash with the European commission over whether Google’s dominant search engine should be separated from the rest of the company.The parliament ispoised to call for a break-up of Googlein an attempt to drastically escalate Europe’s long-running anti-trust case against the US search giant, according toa draft motion.The motion, which is expected to be discussed in Strasbourg on Wednesday before a vote on Thursday, forms part of what some commentators have called a politicalisation of a regulatory issue. The motion is expected to pass with the backing of the EPP and the Socialists, the parliament’s two main political groups.“It is a very bad signal,” Mario Mariniello, a former antitrust official who works for the Bruegel thinktanktold the Wall Street Journal. “Politicisation is now getting to an extreme.”Parliament v commissionThe parliament does not have the power to directly order a breakup of a company in this manner, but can apply pressure to the commission (EC), which has regulatory powers over companies operating in Europe.Since the reports of the motion, its authors attempted to downplay the suggestion of a breakup or an unbundling of Google, claiming that it is just one of several options.The German conservative Andreas Schwab and Spanish liberal Ramon Tremosa, two of the authors of the motion, said they were “not ideological against Google. We are against monopolies. Unbundling is one of the ideas, but we proposed several.”Günther Oettinger, the commissioner in charge of the digital economy, also opposed the motion. Hetold the German business journalist Roland Tichythat “breaking and expropriation” was not an option and that such measures would be “instruments of the planned economy, not the market economy”.EC vice-president Andrus Ansip also downplayed unbundling talk: “I’m not ready to say that they will have to be broken up, talking about vertically integrated structures.”“We have to investigate very carefully where those problems are … and then find possible solutions”, Ansip said, adding that decisions should only be taken after a full public debate. “We have some doubts about misuse of gatekeeper positions and also leading positions in the markets.”Antitrust case re-openedThe ECre-opened its long-running antitrust investigationinto Google’s search and advertising business after Joaquin Almunia, then the EC’s antitrust chief, received “very, very negative” responses from complainants to the proposed settlement unveiled in the spring.He laterstatedthat Google could face a “statement of objections” - the formal path towards a fine that could equate to 10% of the company’s global revenue, or about $6bn (£3.7bn).Almunia’s replacement, Margrethe Vestager, was less bullish on the antitrust case and the rejection of the previously agreed settlement.“The issues at stake in our investigations have a big potential impact on many players, they are multifaceted and complex. I will therefore need some time to decide on the next steps,” Vestager told a European parliament hearing.‘Motivated by politics’Several high-ranking American politicianshave warned the parliament to keep politics and regulatory concerns separate.The house judiciary committee chairman, Bob Goodlatte, wrote in a letter to leaders of the European parliament that he was “troubled” by the motion, which was “encouraging antitrust enforcement efforts that appear to be motivated by politics, rather than grounded in factual and legal principles”.The US mission to the EU also “noted with concern” the draft motion stating that “it is important that the process of identifying competitive harms and potential remedies be based on objective and impartial findings and not be politicised”.After the parliamentary motion is voted through as expected, it will be down to Vestager and the EC on whether to act . Any decision could take years to be enforced.However, Oettinger’s comments indicate she may face rebellion from within if parliamentary pressure forces her in the direction of unbundling.Google declined to comment.•Editing Google’s search results would damage free speech, judge rules
News that YouTube network Maker Studios hasadded five toy review channels to its stable of creatorsis the latest reminder that toys are one of the most popular yet most under-the-radar categories on Google’s video service.Well, under the radar for people who aren’t parents, at least.Maker has addedDisney Car Toys,Hobby Kids TV,The Engineering Family,Toys Review ToysandAll Toy Collectorto its network, claiming that collectively their videos are watched more than 300 million times a month.“Toy review channels have captured the imaginations of families around the world and become the authority on the hottest toys on the market, as well as one of the fastest-growing genres of family programming online,” said Maker’s chief audience officer Chris Williams.They certainly have, and the five channels added to his company’s network aren’t even the biggest. That status goes toDC Toys Collector– recently renamed from DisneyCollector – with its toy-unboxing videos notching upnearly 400 million views in October alone.In fact, that month it was the most popular YouTube channel of any category, dethroning gamerPewDiePie– 352m views that month – who usually tops the rankings by some distance.The new queen of YouTube is – ifthe New York Times’ August scoop on her identitywas correct – 21-year-old Brazilian Melissa Lima, who lives in Westchester County, New York.As Maker’s new signings show, where DC Toys Collector has blazed a trail, there’s now a burgeoning group of other toy channels following, offering what one expertmemorably describedas “toddler crack” and “first-person toy porn” earlier this year.Perhaps the most intriguing thing about toy channels on YouTube – and certainly the reason why MCNs are eager to snap them up – is their emergence as an alternative to traditional TV advertising for toys, particularly in the run-up to Christmas.The growth of these channels also fits into a wider pattern of children’s entertainment on YouTube, from Minecraft-focused channels likeStampy(183m views in October) andThe Diamond Minecart(155m) – both are also on Maker’s roster – to the huge audiences being pulled in by animated music channels likeLittle Baby Bum(189.3m).Animated characters most politely described as “not Pixar-quality” acting out nursery rhymes; a woman getting toys and chocolate out of their boxes; young men messing about in Minecraft. And, obviously,Frozen singalongs.These are the new faces – well, nails in the case of DC Toys Collector – of children’s television in 2014. Many parents know it already, but the stats (and deals) around this area are set to bring it to much wider awareness as we head into 2015.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
The US Federal Trade Commission hasorderedSony Computer Entertainment America (SCEA) to provide partial refunds to consumers who bought a PlayStation Vita handheld console before 1 June 2012.The ruling found that an early marketing campaign for the device made several misleading technical claims about its capabilities. In adverts produced by the firm Deutsch LA, it was suggested that the “remote play” feature would allow gamers to pause any PlayStation 3 game and then continue to play on the Vita. In reality, the set of features were only supported by a minority of PS3 games.The FTC also alleged that Sony’s ads were misleading about the online capabilities of the device. Adverts suggested that owners of a Vita with a 3G subscription would be able to take part in live online multiplayer gaming sessions with other players. In fact, live online play was not supported.Finally, the FTC found that accounts executives from Deutsch LA had posted positive messages about Vita to the social media site Twitter, using the hashtag “#gamechanger” without disclosing that they were employees of the agency.As a result of the ruling, SCEA will be required to provide consumers who bought a PS Vita before 1 June, 2012, a $25 cash or credit refund, or a $50 merchandise voucher for PlayStation games or services.“As we enter the year’s biggest shopping period, companies need to be reminded that if they make product promises to consumers – as Sony did with the ‘game changing’ features of its PS Vita – they must deliver on those pledges,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection.It has been a challenging month for the Vita, which has sold around ten million units since its launch in February 2012. It’s claimed that a recent YouTube video for the console was withdrawn by Sony when viewers complained that it was sexist andoverly suggestive.
Tabletop titles are an easy sell for a quiet night in with friends, or for a lazy post-roast Sunday afternoon at the pub.Board and card games can be social, relaxing, hilarious and nostalgia-inducing. They free groups from the hypnotic miasma that can emanate from a television, and rarely demand the divisive dexterity of their video game cousins.It’s fair to say they can also bring out the worst in people, testing families to the limit at the afternoon apex of Christmas Day tension, but their knack for bringing people together is a little more pronounced.But what you don’t tell your social circle as you coax them around a table and start explaining rules is that tabletop games can also teach history, foster creativity, stimulate dormant mathematical talent and encourage teamwork.There are even those that can be used as a teaching aid in the classroom, or re-appropriated as a writer’s tool for drafting out narratives.It’s perfectly easy to pick up games sold as explicit educational tools, but those are seldom the kind you’ll find your friends jostling to play. Rather, it’s the titles that are good games first, and beneficial second, that enjoy repeat play, and can make you a popular host.So for those looking to convince a cohabitant that the living room’s shelves can bear the weight of more games, or for readers trying to persuade themselves it is worth flinging £40 at the counter of a gaming shop, here are 12 brilliant board and card-based titles that just happen to make you a better person, from those that bring history to life, to others that will teach you a thing or two about working together for the greater good.Writing and creativityOnce Upon a TimeAs the name suggests, Once Upon a Time is a creation set in the fairytale realm. It’s a relatively simple card game of improvised storytelling, and trying to muscle in on rivals’ narratives, with rules that gently encourage originality. It specialises in delighting players by revealing creative talent previously unknown, and can be reworked as a autors’ tool with the ‘Writer’s Handbook’, available separately. It’s also a popular tool in many classrooms.Dixit JourneyA beautifully illustrated card game, Dixit Journey is a little too abstract to be described as a straight up storytelling endeavour. Rather, it’s a game of semiotic trickery, carefully worded descriptions of pictures, and even occaisional singing. It encourages creativity as a gameplay strategy, and can be tremendously funny.Rory’s Story CubesA little like Once Upon a Time, but rather more compact, less rule-steeped and not so devoted to fantasy themes, the Story Cubes in question are a handful of dice that randomly generate symbols to encourage speedily improvised yarns. Suitable for one-to-12 players, portable and now available as a range of themed packs, Rory O’Conner’s creation is an elegant wonder.TeamworkPandemicNot all tabletop games are about competition and conflict, and many encourage cooperation. Pandemic is one of the best, charging its players with working together as a team of distinctly talented scientists to stem the spread of rampaging viruses. Simple to learn, tough to beat and nicely produced, it makes for a hugely compelling distraction.PandemicPhotograph: The GuardianSpace CadetsThe problem with games like Pandemic is the “alpha player” phenomenon. You might be one, even. Alpha players dominate a co-op game, essentially making it a single-player endeavour. Space Cadets negates that trap by giving different players distinct junior crew roles on a starship, and it makes for a gloriously collaborative experience.Forbidden IslandPerhaps the most famed co-op game in recent years, this acclaimed tale of adventuring, treasure and an island slipping to the waves encourages players to talk through strategies, share goals and resist hogging the glory. It’s not immune to sparking arguments, but it delivers one of the most accessible, friendly co-op tabletop experiences.ArithmeticCamel UpThere exist numerous explicit maths games out there. Camel Up is not one of them. It is, however, the most recent winner of the main gong at Spiel Des Jahres– aka the “Oscars of board games”. Great for adults and kids alike, it’s a playful game of betting on racing camels, and while it’s certainly light, it gently floods the brain with odds and numbers.Camel UpPhotograph: The GuardianLemonade StandYou’re 12 years old, it’s time to save up for a new bike, and the pocket money has dried up. Which means establishing a driveway lemonade stand, and perhaps a move to American suburbia. This light-hearted game of economy, investment and business development stands in stark contrast to the numerically weighty economics titles out there, delivering a quick playing distraction to stimulate the grey matter before more a heavier-going number crunching endeavour.Through the AgesGalloping camels and citrus entrepreneurship too childish for you? Perhaps you’d like an economic game that offers six-hours sessions of managing politics, resources, housing, food, jobs, technology, culture, conflict and science over 2,500 years of human history? Then Through the Ages is the title for you. It is slow paced, complicated board game that can cause much analysis paralysis in players, but it certainly demands a great deal from the brai, and is hugely rewarding once mastered.HistoryMemoir ‘44This quick playing WWII-themed release is a military miniatures game, so expect working flanks and plastic tanks. It inhabits a gaming category dominated by far more convoluted beasts, and so is at the lighter end of the scale. Memoir ’44 presents a series of real battles from the D-Day missions, introducing each and striving to balance the odds dependant on real events from the time. It’s a great way to engage with history, rather than an accurate tome, and rules are available so as to take the game to the classroom.Memoir 44Photograph: The GuardianTwilight StruggleIf you fancy a more in-depth challenge than that offered by Memoir ’44, Twilight Struggle delivers a history of the Cold War as a remarkably well-regarded military game. It is fairly tough learning, and games often last hours, but through smart use of key historical happenings as gameplay changers, makes understanding the Cold War hugely engaging.The Downfall of PompeiiThere’s more to human history than conflict; disastrous volcanic eruptions, for example. The Downfall of Pompeii takes its titular catastrophe and turns it into a superb family-friendly game with ample strategy. The goal is simple; escape Pompeii. It’s not a history lesson per se, but does a great job of bringing the story of Pompeii too life, and engenders considering the events of the famed natural tragedy.
A government-commissioned review has called for the UK to do more to support “sharing economy” businesses like Airbnb and TaskRabbit, including relaxing regulations.TheUnlocking the Sharing Economyreview wascommissioned in late Septemberby the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Although independent, it was led by Debbie Wosskow, chief executive of sharing economy startup Love Home Swap.Her report makes more than 30 recommendations on the sharing economy sector, which includes businesses based on people sharing assets, resources, time and/or skills, from renting out spare rooms and sharing car rides to peer-to-peer finance.The review calls for a startup incubator and innovation lab for British companies in this field; asks that Jobcentre staff promote sharing economy platforms to jobseekers; and suggests more carpooling lanes in high congestion areas.The nature of Wosskow’s business – a site that helps people rent their homes out to holidaymakers – may spark debate about her review’s call for relaxed regulation on companies operating in the accommodation market, though.The report calls for “fair terms of entry to the accommodation market” and suggests that “someone renting out a spare room for a few nights is not subject to the same level of regulation as a business renting out 100 rooms all year-round”.Perhaps anticipating controversy, the report stresses that Wosskow’s review took evidence from more than 1,000 people, and that she met with more than 100 stakeholders, including the British Hospitality Association and the B&amp;B Association.The review also sets out plans for “clear minimum standards” for health and safety for people renting out rooms or homes, from working smoke alarms to escape-plan details, and calls for “egregious breaches of regulation” including not complying with tax requirements to be “dealt with firmly”.Wosskow also suggests the creation of a trade body for sharing economy companies, which would lobby government on their behalf, but also establish a kitemark for “responsible” sharing platforms, including setting minimum standards for resolving disputes and respecting users’ privacy.The review also calls for skill-sharing platforms to ensure workers are paid at least the living wage, but suggests that platforms “which play a passive role in matching users” should not be classed as employment businesses or agencies, and thus should be subject to lighter regulation.One of the report’s most ambitious recommendations is its suggestion for a pilot “sharing city” in the UK “where transport, shared office space, accommodation and skills networks are joined together and residents are encouraged to share as part of their daily lives”.The review citesresearch from PwCclaiming that five key sectors of the sharing economy will be worth £500m in the UK in 2014, but that this could rise to £9bn by 2025.However, one of those five sectors is streaming music and video, which sits somewhat awkwardly alongside the other four: peer-to-peer finance, online staffing, accommodation and car sharing. Music and video are not included in Wosskow’s report.“From car-pooling to shared office space, the sharing economy sector is undoubtedly coming of age and we hope that today’s recommendations will allow the UK Government to both fully embrace and correctly regulate this space, as there is a great opportunity here for the UK to be at the forefront of the global sharing economy,” said Wosskow.Business, enterprise and energy minister Matthew Hancock said the government will respond to the review “in due course”, but promised support for the companies it covers.“We will back the innovators, challengers and agitators nationwide who are tearing up traditional business models and creating new jobs across the country,” said Hancock.•Sharing economy drives into trouble with ride-sharing arrests
It’s time for this week’s roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games released on Apple’s App Store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). No, it’s notchanging to “get”just yet.More interested in Android apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest Android Apps roundup. But if it’s iOS you’re after, read on for this week’s selection which, since we’ve missed a few weeks, is a bumper top 30.APPSToca Nature (£1.99)This is the latest app from children’s publisher Toca Boca, and it’s a creative-but-focused sandbox for exploring nature. Kids raise and lower the land to create mountains, valleys and lakes, then plant trees to attract foxes, bears, woodpeckers and other wildlife. The only goals are to have fun, and in that, the app is a huge success.iPhone / iPadSleep Better (Free + IAP)Runtastic made its name as an activity-tracking app – hence the name – but now it’s turning its attention to your night-time health. This app aims to track your sleep cycles, complete with a smart alarm to wake you up at the right moment – translation: not grumpytime – as well as helping you pinpoint good and bad influences on your sleep.iPhoneMolecules by Theodore Gray (£9.99)Publisher Touch Press had a huge hit in the iPad’s early days with its Elements app. Now it’s following up with Molecules: a beautifully-crafted app that has a book as its guts, but layers on top some wonderfully-playful simulations of 348 molecules to interact with using tactile controls.iPhone / iPadsnowbuddy (Free)An essential download for winter sports folk, this provides maps and weather forecasts for pistes around the world; tracks your speed and distance while skiing and snowboarding; and has some inventive social features to challenge friends, or simply (virtually) yodel at them.iPhoneAmerican Express Unstaged - Taylor Swift Experience (Free)She might not be on Spotify, but Taylor Swift is certainly on the App Store with this app, based on her Blank Space single. It involves exploring a house filmed using 360-degree cameras, watching behind-the-scenes footage too. One for fans, but impressive nonetheless.iPhone / iPadOpinion (Free + IAP)Podcasting is hot, Hot, HOT! again at the end of 2014, thanks to the success of true-crime podcast Serial. Opinion isn’t an app for listening to podcasts, though: it’s an app for recording and editing them yourself, before uploading them to audio service SoundCloud – or email if you prefer to host elsewhere. Its ease of use lower the barriers to online broadcasting.iPhoneDisco Fingers (Free + IAP)Disco Fingers is caught between two audiences: children who want to make a musical din, and adults with a smattering of knowledge of real sequencers. It’s huge fun for both, as you flick between instruments and samples, placing the cartoon fingers onto a grid to make (then share) music. In-app purchases unlock more sounds and – if you desire – help you promote your loops.iPadDark Hearts (Free + IAP)Haunting Melissa was a fascinating app when it was released in 2013: an episodic horror movie made for distribution through an app. Now it’s got a sequel, Dark Hearts. It’s innovative – it shows you some new elements when you re-watch episodes – but most importantly, it’s already shaping up as a supremely spooky story.iPhone / iPadGlose (Free)Books might not be social when you’re reading them, but they can be hugely social when you’re discussing them later – ask any book group. No digital service has ever quite nailed the idea of social reading, but Glose looks like a promising attempt. It’s a standard e-reader (but a very nicely-designed one) with community features wrapped around it. Well worth checking out.iPhone / iPadA Hollow Body (Free)Looking to fill time during the (long) wait between series of Sherlock? This app from the Museum of London is just the thing: a narrated walk starting near St Paul’s Cathedral, inspired by the original Sherlock Holmes stories. Note, they’re stressing it’s NOT just a guide: “You should imagine walking through a film, where you are the main characters…”iPhoneMTV Trax (Free)This app is the work of startup MusicQubed working with MTV, following its partnership with O2 on the similar O2 Tracks app. It’s a music app that downloads playlists of popular and new songs to your phone overnight, including the odd exclusive – One Direction’s new album this week. It’s free until early February, at which point a weekly subscription will kick in.iPhoneRooster Teeth (Free)Rooster Teeth is one of the most creative studios making original videos for YouTube at the moment, and now it has an official app for fans to keep up with its output. From gaming Let’s Play videos to comedy, it’s a handy way to watch – albeit not one that’ll replace the main YouTube app for more casual viewers.iPhone / iPadRytyu (£1.49)Cynics may snort at the idea of an app that turns your typing into printable letters with a handwriting-style font, as a digital attempt to “encourage the art of letter writing”. But I love the idea, from the mini-questionnaire to identify the best font for you, to the way you can embed photos.iPhone / iPadFacebook Groups (Free)Forgotten that Facebook had groups? Apparently around 700 million people are still using the feature. This new standalone app – part of Facebook’s strategy to “unbundle the big blue app” – focuses on groups: creating new ones, joining existing ones and posting to any that you’re a member of.iPhoneSago Mini Road Trip (£1.99)Sago Sago is the preschool-focused sister studio to Toca Boca, with a series of apps starring its cast of colourful animals. This latest one features Jinja the cat, heading off on a succession of road trips, meeting friends – who’ll be familiar from previous apps to young Sago Sago fans – along the way. Relaxing, creative fun.iPhone / iPadVainglory for iOS.GAMESVainglory (Free + IAP)Shown off at Apple’s iPhone 6 launch, Vainglory takes one of the most hardcore PC gaming genres – MOBA – and makes it marvellously enjoyable (yet no less hardcore) to play on a touchscreen device. At its best on iPad, it throws you into beautiful-looking three-on-three battles, with a system of in-app purchases that takes great care to avoid “pay-to-win” dynamics. The link above is for iPad, buthere’s the separate iPhone version.iPhone / iPadWorld of Warriors (Free + IAP)British firm Mind Candy is looking for a new brand to follow its Moshi Monsters, and early indications are that World of Warriors could do well. Aimed at gamers of all ages, not just kids, it sees you collecting and training historical warriors, then battling all-comers. It’s early days, but this is very promising.iPhone / iPadCrossy Road (Free + IAP)It might not be the most high-profile game out this month, but Crossy Road is picking up some intense buzz among critics and players alike. It’s an “endless arcade hopper” that’s 20 times more fun than even the most rose-tinted memories of Frogger.iPhone / iPadCandy Crush Soda Saga (Free + IAP)Candy Crush Saga may have peaked a little while ago, but it still has a huge audience. Those people are unlikely to be disappointed with its official sequel: yes, it’s more of the same sweet-swapping action, but with little touches – soda, bears, power-ups – that give it new appeal.iPhone / iPadFootball Manager Handheld 2015 (£6.99 + IAP)The Handheld version remains the best mobile football management game by far, from its neat interface to its smooth match engine. Updated for 2015 with the latest leagues and teams, it also sports a number of tweaks making it well worth the annual upgrade.iPhone / iPadKingdom Rush Origins (£1.99 / £2.99)Kingdom Rush is a rightfully-respected brand in the tower defence genre, and from what I’ve played so far, this is the best version yet. Pitched as a prequel, it’s an absorbing strategy game as you marshal your fantasy forces (and towers) to fend off onrushing enemies. The link above is for iPad, buthere’s the separate iPhone version.iPhone / iPadThe Hunger Games: Panem Rising (Free + IAP)With The Hunger Games back in cinemas, this is a pretty good time for a new official mobile game – with publisher Kabam’s record with The Hobbit a good omen. Set in the world of The Hunger Games, this involves building a team of rebels, battling to improve their skills and exploring the world of Panem.iPhone / iPadThe Sailor’s Dream (£2.49)Developer Simogo is one of the most creative firms working in mobile gaming, as previous releases Year Walk and Device 6 show in spades. The Sailor’s Dream is its new release, although it’s as much about story as gameplay: a tale that you wander around exploring at your leisure.iPhone / iPadFramed (£2.99)The developer of Framed’s mantelpiece is already groaning with indie festival awards, but now iOS users get to see what all the fuss is about. It’s deserved fuss too: this is part comic-strip and part sliding puzzle, as you swap panels around to affect the storyline.iPhone / iPadCall of Duty: Heroes (Free + IAP)After an embarrassing weekend on my PS3 with Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, I’ve established that I’m the world’s worst virtual soldier. Thankfully, Clash of Clans has taught me to be a passable strategist, which means I was less at sea in this base-building game set in the CoD universe. Its prime influence is clear, but it plays well.iPhone / iPadBitcoin Billionaire (Free + IAP)This self-confessed “idle clicker” is a slyly humorous take on the bitcoin bandwagon, as you tap-tap-tap on the screen to mine virtual (sorry not real) cryptocurrency, then splash the proceeds on furniture for your (still virtual) flat. It’s very addictive.iPhone / iPadSpace Expedition: Classic Adventure (£1.99)It’s a good week for indie games with plenty of character: Space Expedition blends action, puzzle-solving and attractive pixel-art graphics into a satisfying whole: it feels retro and yet thoroughly modern at the same time.iPhone / iPadXCOM: Enemy Within (£8.99)Another old gaming brand coming back for another bite on mobile. 2K’s new XCOM title is billed as an “expansion” to 2012’s XCOM: Enemy Unknown, with its squad-based strategy – multiplayer included – providing plenty to get your teeth into.iPhone / iPad.NOON. (Free + IAP)This is going to be your new favourite minimalist game, if you give it a chance. It’s a crafty puzzler revolving around tapping clocks when they reach noon (hence the name). You’ll need sharp reflexes to play it well.iPhone / iPadFive Nights at Freddy’s 2 (£1.99)The original Five Nights at Freddy’s game was great, with its tale of a spooky pizza restaurant and creepy animatronic characters. The sequel looks equally impressive, as you track the characters through security camera footage, and fend them off.iPhone / iPadThat’s my choice, but what iOS apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)
IDC isn’t generally one of the more excitable research firms in the technology world, so when itpredicts a “massive deceleration” in tablet shipmentsthis year, it’s not seeking headlines for the sake of it.The company has forecast that overall tablet shipments – familiar caveat: not sales – will grow by 7.2% globally in 2014, down from 52.5% in 2013.What’s more, it’s predicting that shipments of Apple’s iPad will decline year-on-year for the first time: a 12.7% drop to 64.9m units in 2014, compared to growth of 16% for Android tablets (to 159.5m units) and 67.3% for Windows tablets (to 10.9m units).So what’s going on here? IDC is pointing to longer device life-cycles than originally expected: 3-4 years or even more before many people feel the need to upgrade, rather than the 2-3 years familiar from smartphones.What’s your view? Are people simply hanging on to their tablets for longer, or is there something else afoot in the tablet category?And while Apple is likely to cite the shipments v sales issue when questioned on this, do you think there’s more to the predicted year-on-year decline for iPad? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is happening in tech today? Some more links to think about:EC ‘digital tsar’ warning over net neutralityLong a hot-button issue in the US, the net neutrality debate is warming up in Europe. After recent warnings that governments may be tempted to water down proposals for net neutrality, incoming VP for the digital single market in the European Commission, Andrus Ansip, has spoken out. “All the traffic has to be treated equally. The Internet has to stay open for everybody.”The positive side of SpotifyIndie musician Ron Pope has penned an opinion column for Billboard on why he thinks Taylor Swift is “misinformed” about Spotify and streaming music. He says he’s made more than $250k from 44.6m Spotify streams in the last year. “I’ve built a worldwide network of ravenous, devoted fans through these more grassroots channels...”Google has removed nearly 3m Pirate Bay URLsTorrentFreak has been digging into Google’s transparency data for copyright takedowns on its search engine, finding that it has been asked to remove more than 3m URLs on The Pirate Bay. But that still makes it only the 23rd biggest site in terms of removal requests: filesharing site Rapidgator has nearly 13m.Toy channels: still huge on YouTubeParents with children of a certain age will know all aboutDisneyCollector: the hypnotic toy-unboxing channel is the second biggest on YouTube with 311.8m views in September alone. But it’s not the only channel in that area: Tubefilter has a report on multi-channel network Maker Studios signing up five other toy channels that between them do more than 300m monthly views.Could Twitter buy Bieber-staked app Shots?Selfie-sharing app Shots of Me launched a year ago, with Justin Bieber’s investment in its parent company the subject of plenty of attention. A year later, it sits in 125th place in the free social apps category on Apple’s US App Store. A flop? Not if rumours this week that Twitter is in talks to buy it turn out to be true. Because sharing selfies on Twitter isn’t easy enough already, presumably. Oh, wait...What else? The comments section is open for your links, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.
We’ve been here before, of course. So many times. A new title in the Sonic the Hedgehog series is announced, a few screenshots arrive, fans get excited – and then there is huge disappointment when the inevitably compromised title stumbles from the starting blocks. It’s such a common cycle of hope and despair that it has becomea familiar industry joke.Sonic Boom is a horrible mess. The Nintendo exclusive lacks anything approaching style, heart or innovation, a cynical cop-out designed to accompany a cartoon cash cow. Like other Sonic veterans, I once had high hopes, but they were cruelly dashed when I encountered an almost unplayable demo at E3. Ten minutes after I failed to navigate my way out of the starting area of this insipid action adventure, a weary staff member rolled his eyes and assisted me. “It’s notmyfault,” I wanted to yell at him – original Sonic designer Hirokazu Yasuhara would have wept if he saw this utterly uninviting, poorly signposted opener. But then Yasuhara got out of the Sonic business years ago.So what next for our faded blue hero? Of course, Sonic Boom was always a “franchise spin-off” so can we expect more titles in the main Sonic line? Will Sega just keep pumping out this low-grade attention-deficit junk for its ever-diminishing fanbase? (And believe me, as a Sega obsessive, it is heartbreaking to even write those words.)There is, perhaps, another way. It may sound trite and obvious to some, but at this stage, what does Sega have to lose? Brand respect? Loyalty? Don’t make me laugh.They should hand Sonic to the indie community.I know, I know, that’s the obvious hipster solution. But let’s face it – that’s where the interesting work is being done with character-based games and platformer mechanics these days. Give Sonic to one of the “maso-core” studios like Team Meat (Super Meat Boy), Slick Entertainment (N+) or Green Lava, creators of next year’s hotly anticipatedFenix Rage, which looks like a gritty sci-fi-tinged take on Sonic anyway.Or give it to retro purists like Crazy Viking Studios, responsible for brutal side-scroller Volgarr the Viking. Or to UK team Roll7, which reinvented the skateboarding sim with OlliOlli. Or to Derek Yu, creator of Spelunky. (UPDATE:the indie developerDan Marshall, has alsotweeted about this, and suggested Dutch team Vlambeer as the Sonic recipient – though Marshall himself would also do a fine job.)Sonic anarchyThese are after-all the natural heirs to the original vision. Sonic Team was not an established presence within Sega when the designs for the first game were proposed; and the concept of such a hyper-accelerated almost uncontrollable pace was highly unusual, perhaps even anarchic at the time. The coder Yuji Naka was a young buck whose insolent , irreverent approach to the Mega Drive hardware allowed him exploit the machine in ways no one else had dreamed of.Sonic became Sega’s icon, but there were plenty of executives within the company who were unsure about the character until the eye-popping sales figures started coming in from the US. (Michael Katz, then CEO of Sega of America, hated the Sonic concept and didn’t even know what a hedgehog was.)For Sonic 2, development moved to the Sega Technical Institute, an experimental studio set up by ex-Atari wunderkind Mark Cerny, specifically to greenlight offbeat projects. Other strange stuff in progress there included surreal platform brawler Kid Chameleon and brilliant interactive graphic novel Comix Zone. Oh for that sort of idiosyncratic thinking now.Sadly though, the Sonic empire has become insouciant and ungovernable, the fundamental principles washed away on a tide of merchandise. Many of the modern takes on the concept have insisted on the 3D action adventure archetype – an approach no doubt advised by spreadsheet-wielding marketing execs who don’t have a clue about how the mechanics of the original title worked; how everything was inspired by pinball rather than contemporary video game dynamics. It’s been the fans who have toyed with the core concepts via homebrew projects like Sonic: After the Sequel andSonic Fan Remix.They looked backward, but there’s no reason an indie developer need do that – 2D doesn’t necessarily have to mean a slavish adherence to the first three Sonic titles. The next Sonic could be a roguelike, a Metroidvania adventure, a co-op arena battler; it just needs something like the spark of creativity that inspired the first title. It just needs a small team that’s utterly invested in the vision.Marvel has allowed a generation of new writers, artists and directors to re-think its bloated universe, to tear down and rebuild its sacred icons. With Alien: Isolation, Sega has shown it has the guts to tackle beloved franchises in challenging ways. Now it needs to hone in on one of its own. Wise up, suckers, there is honestly nothing to lose.Sonic the Hedgehog: how fans have subverted a fallen mascotSonic the Hedgehog: past, present and future
Apple set a record by becoming the first company to be valued at $700bn (£446bn). The iPhone maker was already the world’s most valuable business, but in early trading its shares rose nearly 1% to $119.75, giving it a market capitalisation of $701.7bn. This is higher than the GDP of all but the top 19 countries in the world.Apple’s shares have risen around 60% this year, with the success of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus one of the main reasons behind the surge. Last month it announced that it had sold a record 39.3m iPhones in its third quarter, and predicted that its latest products would help it boost sales by at least 10% over the forthcoming holiday period. It expects to sell more in the Christmas quarter this year than it did in the whole of 2010.Tim Cook, who succeeded Steve Jobs as chief executive in August 2011, said at the results presentation that demand for the new phones had been “staggering”. He said: “At this point we are selling everything we’ve made” and added that 2014 was “one for the record books”.The success of the iPhone 6 gave a boost to the company’s shares after they had hovered at around the $100 mark for much of the summer.Apple has been vying with oil company Exxon Mobil for the accolade of the world’s largest company for a number of years, first overtaking its rival in August 2011 before falling back after concerns that its future products may not live up to past glories.It regained the top spot in August 2013 after Exxon suffered from falling oil prices and weak earnings. Exxon is now worth around $405bn, while Apple’s technology rivals Microsoft and Google are valued at $392bn and $368bn respectively.Analysts believe Apple could go even higher, with Michael Corcelli, head of US fund Alexander Alternative Capital, saying he expected its market capitalisation to reach $1trn next year.But Apple is not the world’s most valuable company in history if inflation is taken into account. CNBC calculated that Microsoft’s peak market capitalisation of $613bn in 1999 would become nearly $875bn at 2014 prices.
Drones, self-driving cars, robots, balloons providing internet access – Google is stretching a long way from search. Now the company has added a “smart” spoon to its portfolio of hi-tech products.Google has started promoting its Liftware spoon, a utensil that uses hundreds of algorithms to sense how a hand is shaking and makes instant adjustments to stay balanced.The product is aimed at people with essential tremors and Parkinson’s disease and, according to the company, can reduce shaking of the spoon bowl by an average of 76%.Essential tremors and Parkinson’s disease affect more than 10 million people worldwide, including Google co-founder Sergey Brin’s mother. Brin has also said he has a genetic mutation associated with higher rates of Parkinson’s. He has donated more than $50m to research for a cure.Google acquired Lift Lab, the spoon’s maker, earlier this year, and the Lift Lab founder, Anupam Pathak, now works for Google X’s life sciences division, which has made a number of purchases in recent years as the company has shown more interest in the medical field.The division also owns a stake in DNAnexus, a software company analysing genome sequencing to better understand the genetic factors of heart disease and ageing. It is also working on hownanoparticles in bloodmight help detect diseases and asmart contact lensthat would measure glucose levels in tears to help diabetics track their blood sugar levels.The spoons are now available for $295.
Spotify’s revenues grew sharply in 2013, but so did the streaming music company’s operating losses, as it invested heavily in global expansion, marketing and product development.The company’s latest consolidated financial results, published in Luxembourg, reveal that Spotify’s 2013 revenues of €746.9m (£592.9m) were up 73.6% from 2012’s €430.3m. However, its operating losses also rose 16.4% from just under €80m in 2012 to €93.1m in 2013.Spotify’s net losses after tax may have fallen from €86.7m in 2012 to €57.8m in 2013, but that was largely due to €38.7m of “fair value gains on derivative liability” – an accounting term relating to the value of share options. Operating losses are a clearer indication of financial trends for Spotify’s business.The consolidated results cover Spotify’s global business, including individual countries likethe UKandFrance, where its local subsidiaries recently reported their own financial results for 2013, when both were profitable.Globally, Spotify ended 2013 with 36m active users, with more than 8m of them paying subscribers. Since then, it has grown to 50m active users and 12.5m paying subscribers – amilestone announced as CEO Daniel Ek defended Spotifyamid its dispute with Taylor Swift.Spotify’s letter to shareholders within its 2013 results puts a bullish spin on the company’s growth. “We believe that music has mass market appeal – and as such, we believe we are just at the beginning of a much larger market opportunity. We believe our model supports profitability at scale,” it claims.“ We have already proven that we’ve created real value for our users, and we know that the more time people spend with our product, the more likely they are to become paying subscribers. We believe that we will generate substantial revenues as our reach expands, and that, at scale, our margins will improve.”That’s backed up by the company’s last few years’ of consolidated accounts, which reveal that its “cost of revenue” – mainly royalties paid out to music rightsholders – were 82.5% of its revenues in 2013, down from 90.5% in 2012 and 97.7% in 2011.However, the fact remains that Spotify has yet to break its run of annual operating losses: €21.9m in 2010, €43.1m in 2011, €80m in 2012 and €93.1m in 2013.In the latest results, Spotify’s management describes 2013 as a year when it made “a clear transition from desktop to mobile” fuelled by its launch of a free tier for its mobile apps.“Today, the majority of all new users signing up for Spotify are mobile. Making this transition from desktop to mobile means that our front door is always open,” explained the management team. “We know that a significant number of users who activate and engage on our platform convert over time to becoming paid subscribers.”As a business, Spotify is already mainly about those paid subscribers. In 2013, it made €678.7m from subscriptions and €68.2m from advertising in 2013, up 81.1% and 22.8% respectively year-on-year.Cross-referencing that with the active and paying-user figures suggests that in 2013, 90.9% of Spotify’s revenues came from the 22.2% of its users who were paying for the service.Spotify’s combination of free and paid listening is what sparked its dispute with Taylor Swift, whoremoved her back catalogue from the serviceearlier this year after Spotify refused to let her block it from being played by free users.The company has argued that placing as few restrictions as possible on its free tier has been crucial in persuading those free users to upgrade to paid subscriptions, and fuelling Spotify’s $2bn of payments to music rightsholders since its launch in 2008.“Our free service drives our paid service,” wrote Ek earlier in November. “Here’s the key fact: more than 80% of our subscribers started as free users. If you take away only one thing, it should be this: No free, no paid, no two billion dollars.”Spotify also says that its subscriber growth has been faster in the most recent quarter (in 2014) than at any point in its history, to support its claim that more free usage is also driving more paid subscriptions.Spotify’s 2013 financial results also revealed for the first time how much the companypaid for music technology company The Echo Nestin March 2014.“On March 10, 2014, the Group acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of The Echo Nest Corporation (“Echo Nest”), a leading music intelligence company, for approximately €55.0 million,” explained the results, backing up a report by TechCrunch at the time thatthe price agreed was $100m.“The purchase consideration consisted of €6.6 million of cash, 61,897 shares of common stock in the Company [Spotify] and estimated share based payment awards valued at €5.4 million,” revealed the financials filing.•Streaming music: how CAN artists make it pay?
It’s time for our latest roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, this time from the last two weeks’ worth of releases on the Google Play store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). Something to look for: a new section of each app’s Google Play store listing, which explains the full range of IAP.More interested in iOS apps? They’re covered in a separateBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundup, with the latest instalment due to be published later today.Since it’s been a few weeks since the last Android roundup, this week’s is a top 30:APPSAmex Unstaged – Taylor Swift (Free)She might not be on Spotify, but Taylor Swift is certainly on the Google Play store with this app, based on her Blank Space single. It involves exploring a house filmed using 360-degree cameras, watching behind-the-scenes footage too. One for fans, but impressive nonetheless.Sleep Better (Free + IAP)Runtastic made its name as an activity-tracking app – hence the name – but now it’s turning its attention to your night-time health. This app aims to track your sleep cycles, complete with a smart alarm to wake you up at the right moment – translation: not grumpytime – as well as helping you pinpoint good and bad influences on your sleep.Messenger (Free)Messenger is Google’s latest attempt to break out a feature of Android into a standalone app, which can then be updated more frequently via Google Play. In this case, it’s all about the messaging: SMS, MMS, group texts and more.snowbuddy (Free)An essential download for winter sports folk, this provides maps and weather forecasts for pistes around the world; tracks your speed and distance while skiing and snowboarding; and has some inventive social features to challenge friends, or simply (virtually) yodel at them.MTV Trax (Free)This app is the work of startup MusicQubed working with MTV, following its partnership with O2 on the similar O2 Tracks app. It’s a music app that downloads playlists of popular and new songs to your phone overnight, including the odd exclusive – One Direction’s new album this week. It’s free until early February, at which point a weekly subscription will kick in.Rooster Teeth (Free)Rooster Teeth is one of the most creative studios making original videos for YouTube at the moment, and now it has an official app for fans to keep up with its output. From gaming Let’s Play videos to comedy, it’s a handy way to watch – albeit not one that’ll replace the main YouTube app for more casual viewers.Home Design 3D (Free + IAP)Having moved house earlier in the year, I’ve been building up a mountain of bits of paper with scribbled layouts. Home Design 3D is one of the apps aiming to take that process digital, as you quickly draw rooms, place furniture and then see how it all looks. A handy visualisation tool.Facebook Groups (Free)Forgotten that Facebook had groups? Apparently around 700 million people are still using the feature. This new standalone app – part of Facebook’s strategy to “unbundle the big blue app” – focuses on groups: creating new ones, joining existing ones and posting to any that you’re a member of.SideChef (Free)There’s a growing community of cookery apps on Android, with this one aimed at a wide audience (translation: even kitchen liabilities like me) with more than 1,000 recipes to try. Step-by-step instructions, built-in timers and the ability to control the app with your voice when your hands are floury make it very useful.A Hollow Body (Free)Looking to fill time during the (long) wait between series of Sherlock? This app from the Museum of London is just the thing: a narrated walk starting near St Paul’s Cathedral, inspired by the original Sherlock Holmes stories. Note, they’re stressing it’s NOT just a guide: “You should imagine walking through a film, where you are the main characters…”The Hunt (Free)This is a new approach to online shopping, fresh to the UK. Instead of browsing products, you post a photo of what you’re looking for, and then wait for other users to “help you find it, style it, or buy it for less”. Crowdshopping? Maybe that’s the key to a stress-free pre-Christmas period.OurHome – Chores and Rewards (Free)This is a good idea for parents grumbling that their children don’t help out around the home. It’s part family-organiser, so you know who’s where when; it’s part motivational tool to reward kids for doing chores; and it’s also a digital shopping list, kept updated in between shop/supermarket trips.Tiggly Addventure (Free)This is a cute maths app for young children, aged three and older, introducing them to simple sums through the adventure of its titular hero. It works fine on its own, but can also be used with the developer’s Tiggly Counts maths toys, which have just gone on sale.Burger King App (Free)New for the UK – I suspect American Burger King fans have had something like it for a while – this blends mobile vouchers, menus and a find-your-nearest option for anyone craving this particular brand of fast food.SnapDonate (Free)Finally, a simple but potentially-effective idea for charities to raise money through mobile donations. SnapDonate lets you take a photo of a charity’s logo, then donate to them in a variety of small-to-medium amounts.Civilization Revolution 2 for Android.GAMESCivilization Revolution 2 (£11.26)Yes, it’s a high price for a mobile game, but strategy game Civilization remains engrossing, especially in this revamped version for mobile play. You build up your empire, then negotiate with rivals (or crush them) while racing to discover new technologies. As moreish as the original PC game.Candy Crush Soda Saga (Free + IAP)Candy Crush Saga may have peaked a little while ago, but it still has a huge audience. Those people are unlikely to be disappointed with its official sequel: yes, it’s more of the same sweet-swapping action, but with little touches – soda, bears, power-ups – that give it new appeal.Football Manager Handheld 2015 (£6.99 + IAP)Along with Civilization, this represents a double-whammy this week of ‘games that were more important than homework when I was a teenager’ – Football Manager in its original Championship Manager incarnation, that is. The Handheld version remains the best mobile football management game by far, from its neat interface to its smooth match engine.TwoDots (Free + IAP)Dots and its sequel TwoDots have been very popular on iOS, but now the latter is on Android too. It’s the perfect pick-up-and-play puzzler, as you connect coloured dots across 135 levels, challenging friends to beat your skills as you go.Kingdom Rush Origins (£1.88 + IAP)Kingdom Rush is a rightfully-respected brand in the tower defence genre, and from what I’ve played so far, this is the best version yet. Pitched as a prequel, it’s an absorbing strategy game as you marshal your fantasy forces (and towers) to fend off onrushing enemies.The Banner Saga (£6.99)Thankfully spared a lawsuit from the Candy Crush people, this Viking-themed RPG is a carefully-crafted treat. Its battles and storytelling blend perfectly, as they did on iOS, with a tale you can happily lose yourself in.Turbo Dismount (Free + IAP)If you’re more action-focused, you’ll love Turbo Dismount. It’s a “crash simulator” that sees you trying to causing as much chaos as possible with “Mr Dismount and the cars who love him”, with slow-motion replays making the most of the impressive physics engine.The Hunger Games: Panem Rising (Free + IAP)With The Hunger Games back in cinemas, this is a pretty good time for a new official mobile game – with publisher Kabam’s record with The Hobbit a good omen. Set in the world of The Hunger Games, this involves building a team of rebels, battling to improve their skills and exploring the world of Panem.XCOM: Enemy Within (£9.89)Another old gaming brand coming back for another bite on mobile. 2K’s new XCOM title is billed as an “expansion” to 2012’s XCOM: Enemy Unknown, with its squad-based strategy – multiplayer included – providing plenty to get your teeth into.Mark of the Dragon (Free + IAP)Breeding dragons? There’ve been a few popular mobile games along those lines in recent years, but Gamevil’s new release looks like it’s putting a fresh spin on the theme. So yes, breeding and battling, but a community of guilds and multiplayer raiding looks to add depth too.Five Nights at Freddy’s 2 (£1.90)It’s not so long since the (excellent) Five Nights at Freddy’s game was released for Android, with its tale of a spooky pizza restaurant and creepy animatronic characters. The sequel looks equally impressive, as you track the characters through security camera footage, and fend them off.Battle Worlds: Kronos (£7.02)A good week for hardcore strategy gaming, with Battle Worlds: Kronos a turn-based tablet wargame with depth to spare. You can play alone – the promise of 50 hours’ solo play looks about right – or pit your wits against other humans in the multiplayer mode.Creature Academy (Free + IAP)Kabam’s second entry in this roundup features more critters that you have to collect and train up for fights, with more than 200 to find, and a host of battles to harden their skills. It’s colourful, with a neat touch-friendly interface.Endless Doves (Free + IAP)The almost Game Boy-style retro graphics will have gamers of a certain age salivating at the sight of Endless Doves, but its gameplay has much more to offer than old-school visuals. “Collect Doves, Don’t Crash” is how the developers sum it up. Miles more fun than Flappy Bird is how I’d put it.Jet Run: City Defender (Free + IAP)Finally, Jet Run: City Defender is one of the best-looking Android games this week: an into-the-screen action game that sees you whizzing through urban landscapes in a jet, letting anything in your path have it with both missiles. Like Temple Run meeting After Burner, it’s great fun.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
The UK government should establish an expert technology ethics body to help address complex challenges, including health monitoring, autonomous vehicles and legal disputes such as the right to be forgotten, an independent review has recommended.The ethical body, which would be similar to those inmedicineand academia, is just one of a slate of wide-ranging recommendations in theMaking Digital Government Work for Everyonereview published on Tuesday, which explores how technology and digital services could be better used to help citizens.Commissioned by Labour and written by an independent panel of more than 20 advisers and volunteers, the review has been in progress since December 2013.“This is one of the best pieces of work ever done in opposition,” said Chi Onwurah, Labour MP for Newcastle central who commissioned the review. “It emphasises the size of the opportunity, and sets out what’s at stake as well as what we could lose.”21% don’t use UK government services onlineCritically, the review highlights researchby the BBC in 2013which estimated that 21% of the UK population either don’t have the skills to access government services online, or don’t want to. “I think many people will be surprised by that number, but the technology has to deliver something to the people that are going to use it. If people have no incentive that is what we have to change.”The review points to the work of the Government Digital Service, which has been systematically services such as applying for a new passport, benefits or tax returns, but Onwurah said the service needed to be less Whitehall focused and more informed by citizens.“GDS has been world beating and Labour wants to continue on that path, but with different policy parameters. GDS started with the 20 most common transactions, the transactions that would save money or be changed the most quickly - Labour would want to prioritise the services that people need the most.”‘Technology is no longer one sector, but part of every sector’Further recommendations include setting up a review into the use of data by the public sector, releasing performance data for key services and appoint dedicated technology leaders within key government departments including the Department for Work and Pensions, the Ministry of Health and the Department for Education.“The government has to recognise that technology is no longer a subsection of a department, but part of every sector. Every department in every local authority is going to be hoping to improve services while reducing cost and the only thing that is going to make that possible is technology – there is nothing else than enables engagement, productivity and reduces cost.”Revive libraries and job centres for training and supportAnother of the 35 recommendations is for social infrastructure, supporting citizens by helping provide support and training at under-used town halls, job centres, schools and create a new lease of life for libraries, many of which already provide unrecognised support for citizens struggling to learn how to access online services.Investing in training and support to help a further 4.9 million people learn digital skills would create £189m in annual savings, the review claims, but present, the review says “a humane, active and vibrant experience of technology, rather than of government as just another online form”.“This approach,” the review warns, “will be uncomfortable to many in central government. But it is only through approaches like this, not old-style top-down command and control, that government will develop a digital approach adequate to society’s most complex problems.”‘We need to rebuild trust in open and shared data’Citizens need to be able to connect with both local and national government, Onwurah said. “If they want to share all their data and be easily identified across all services, from registering births to applying for universal credit, they can. Equally if they want to keep the government more at a distance from their data, the choice is theirs.”She also acknowledged that the trust of both consumers and citizens has been damaged by the Snowden revelations. “It has amplified the sense that citizens are being watched or exploited, and it’s not the positive democratising engagement that is the internet’s potential.“There are recommendations to address this, including around how to rebuild trust and confidence in open and shared data. We want people to embrace the internet and think of it as theirs just as they do with government.”The top recommendationsDedicated digital leaders in government departmentsBring key government departments up to scratch by 2020Focus on services with the highest value for societyHelp 4.9 million people improve their digital skillsUse libraries, town halls and job centres as training venuesRelease public sector performance data openlyEstablish a review into data and societyCreate an ethical framework for government, citizens and corporationsSupport digital change in local authoritiesRecognise and help promote digital experts in government‘UK has chance to show ethical leadership in tech’Saul Klein, partner at Index Ventures, said that there were very practical and pragmatic questions for businesses faced with complex ethical challenges.“As technology becomes ubiquitous the ethical dimension becomes very important, both nationally and internationally, and the UK has a chance to show real leadership through an ethics body like this. It’s an interesting idea and not just for the people, but for companies and for countries to have a potential moral authority,” he said.Klein said it is part of the nature of the work of GDS that it should start with what appears to be a centralised system, but that there is real desire for its benefits to be felt in broader government. “There’s almost a case for a chief digital officer in every department but, rather than a civil servant, this should be a minister who is accountable for digital change.”Reaching the 21% of the population who can’t or won’t use online services is dependent on engaging people through libraries and job centres. “There does need to be equality of access, and services also need to be easy to access,” he said.‘We need to engage the hardest people to reach’Helen Milner, chief executive of the Tinder Foundation which contributed to the review, welcomed the review. “It’s a necessity they’re ambitious about accelerating the speed at which people without digital skills are able to take part in a digital society.“We welcome the report because it acknowledges that simply doesn’t happen by magic. It needs to be supported - and funded - in a partnership involving the public sector, the private sector, and the grassroots organisations who can engage the very hardest to reach.”The general secretary of the Co-operative Party, Karin Christiansen, said it was right to give citizens more control and access to government services.“A co-operative model, based on the values of accountability and democratic control established in the 19thcentury, is even more relevant to the digital revolution of the 21st century and could be the solution to creating genuinely people-powered services,” she said.“By joining a data co-operative people could not only make decisions about and have more control over the data that they give to both public and private organisations but also have more of a say in the services that are built upon and informed by that data.”More than 2,000 citizens contributed to the review through its website as well as 80 formal submissions from organisations and companies. Onwurah said Labour’s technology policy would be heavily informed by the review, which continues to invite comment and contributions onlineon a new sitefrom Wednesday.An online Magna Carta: Berners-Lee calls for bill of rights for web
Tell most people that you’re a “gamer” nowadays and they’ll subconsciously add the prefix “video”. But while digital games are grudgingly acknowledged as part of the entertainment mainstream, the past decade has also seen unexpected growth in an industry that many assumed would become redundant in the era of screens: tabletop board games.Sales are still dwarfed by the latest PC and console blockbusters, but the past four years have seen board game purchases rise by between 25% and 40% annually. Thousands of new titles are released each year, and the top games sell millions of copies.To successive generations raised on the Mega Drive, PlayStation and iPhone, the concept of sitting around a table rolling dice and moving pieces may seem positively archaic. But beyond mass-market titles like Monopoly and Guess Who, a community of independent designers and publishers has been steadily producing innovative, exciting and beautiful games offering experiences beyond even those of the most sophisticated gaming hardware.Ugg-Tect, for instance, challenges players to build a series of 3D structures while communicating only in primitive cave-man grunts. Make a mistake and you’ll receive a smack on the head from one of the inflatable plastic clubs that come with the game – an element of physicality that would be difficult (or at least painful) to replicate with a console controller.It’s the result of an approach to game design that considers the creation of shared social experiences to be every bit as important as writing rules or designing physical components, and while Ugg-Tect plays for laughs, there are thousands of other games which tackle a broad range of subjects from monster-slaying fantasy to serious social issues.Pandemic. Board games tackle a broad range of subjects.Photograph: The GuardianPandemiccasts players as a team of medics attempting to rid the planet of four deadly and highlyinfectious diseases.Dead of Winterchallenges a group of survivors to stay alive in a world overrun by flesh-eating zombies.Freedom – The Underground Railroadexamines the history of the US abolitionist movement, with players working to shelter runaway slaves while simultaneously fighting to end the practice of slavery by political means.A golden age of gamingMany industry figures point to the internet as a key factor in the growth of tabletop gaming. The rise of smartphones and tablets has given players an inexpensive way to try digital versions of board games, and many go on to buy physical copies as well.Online retailers have made games far more easily available than in the past, when many could only be procured from a small number of specialist shops. At the same time, the power of blogs, online video and social networks has created word-of-mouth buzz for an industry that, until recently, has been largely ignored by mainstream, non-gaming media.But players and designers are keen to suggest another reason for the hobby’s resurgence. Games are simply getting better. Publishers are turning out products with elegant mechanics and impressive artwork as fast as their customers can snap them up. Board games are going through a golden age.Scott Nicholson is a game designer and the director of theBecause Play Mattersgame lab at Syracuse University’s school of information studies. He argues that board gaming’s boom is the result of a collision between two distinct traditions of game design.“In the past there have been big differences between European and American approaches to making games,” he says. “American games would typically have players engage with one another through aggression. European games tended to use more indirect conflict – so rather than just fighting one another, we might be competing for the same pool of resources, or trying to accomplish the same goal most effectively.”Board-gamers at Draughts cafe in east London.Photograph: Felix Clay/Felix ClayNicholson points to one game in particular as an influential example of the European design philosophy.Designed by German dental technician Klaus Teuber,The Settlers of Catanhas sold 18m copies since its release in 1995. Players compete to colonise an island, building settlements, laying down roads and trading goods to build the most powerful faction.“Catan made people aware that games could be about things other than moving along a track or destroying each other in combat,” says Nicholson. “The element of trading means you’re involved in the game at all times – even when it isn’t your turn, you’re always engaged and you’re always paying attention. There’s no frustrating down time, which was a big deal when the game first came out.“It influenced a lot of games that came afterwards, and over the last 10 years or so the two design spaces have collided. It used to be that American games would prioritise story at the expense of mechanics and European games would have smooth mechanics, but very thin themes; today, with a lot of games, it’s hard to claim that they’re one thing or the other.”Games for everyoneThe success of Settlers of Catan brought a huge number of new players to board gaming, and the rapidly expanding marketplace gave rise to new publishers and designers who brought a wave of creativity and innovation to the hobby.Among them was Susan McKinley Ross, a toy designer who hosted a monthly get-together at her home where she and a group of friends would play mainly European-style games. But it was a more familiar mainstream title that inspired McKinley Ross to create a game of her own.“I was watching two friends who were fantastic Scrabble players, and I realised that the part of the game I liked most was when players could make more than one word with a single move,” she says. “That night I had a dream about a similar game, but one that used shapes and colours instead of letters. As soon as I woke up I started putting a prototype together.”That idea went on to become Qwirkle – a tile laying game that dispensed with words, letters and even a game board. Players lay square wooden tiles directly on to the table, trying to form lines showing matching shapes or colours.Qwirkle’s straightforward design proved hugely popular.Photograph: MeoplesMagazine/FlickrIt’s a straightforward design – far simpler than most of the games McKinley Ross played herself – but it proved popular. Qwirkle initially sold well in the US, but interest in the game spiked when it was awarded the 2011 Spiel des Jahres (Game of the Year) prize – board gaming’s equivalent of an Oscar for best picture.“I was so excited just to be nominated that it took me about a year to realise I’d won,” says McKinley Ross. “It was just astounding, and it was a huge boost for the game – particularly in Europe where sales just ballooned.”But while Qwirkle’s creator was delighted with its critical and commercial success, she said she took greater satisfaction in the thought that her game had brought players together. “It’s designed to be a very accessible game – children can play it on a comparable level to adults,” she said.“I grew up playing board games with my parents and grandparents, so hearing about families playing together at a time when people are increasingly turning to electronic games is a real thrill.”What the past five years has taught us, however, is that there is ample room for both digital and analogue gaming experiences. The two seemingly very different formats are learning from each other, borrowing ideas and conventions and evolving accordingly. This is a game that every one wins.Why board games are making a comebackAll aboard – how Ticket To Ride helped save table-top gamingBoard games don’t just bring us together – they remind us how to play
Chances are if you’re reading the Guardian website, you’ve heard of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. But what about the wider world: have others heard of him and his surveillance revelations – and if so, what effect have they had?The Canadian Centre for International Governancereleased the results of a survey of more than 23,000 peoplearound the world this week, and the results are instructive.Globally, 60% of respondents have heard of Snowden, but only 39% of those people have taken additional steps to protect their online privacy as a result.However, 62% of all respondents are concerned about government agencies from other countries secretly monitoring their online activities, while 61% are concerned about police or other government agencies from their own country doing this. And 64% of respondents have “some degree of concern” about their online privacy compared to a year ago.So, one question is why people who’ve heard of Snowden and/or are concerned about online privacy haven’t taken steps: all thoughts welcome on that.But also, what steps have you personally taken (in the last year or otherwise) to protect your privacy online? If someone was reading the comments thread to this post wondering what they can do, what advice would you give them? The comments are open for your thoughts.What else is on the tech radar this morning? Some links:What’s up with iCloud?Even now, in 2014, does Apple really get the cloud? A report from The Information suggests otherwise, with sources telling it that the company’s iCloud efforts are still being hampered by not having “a centralised team working on core cloud infrastructure”.Samsung Galaxy S5 sales disappointSome figures from the Wall Street Journal on how Samsung’s latest flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S5, is doing. It claims the device sold 12m units in its first three months, 4m less than the Galaxy S4, and 40% under internal projections. The report also suggests that changes may be afoot at the top of the company’s mobile division.Uber data-science blog post disappearsAnother controversy around taxi-app service Uber, albeit smaller than those of last week. A blog post showing “how where crimes occur — specifically prostitution, alcohol, theft, and burglary — can improve Uber’s demand prediction models” on the company’s data blog was quietly removed.Ass Hunter removed from Google PlayThe latest app controversy concerns Android game Ass Hunter, which racked up more than 10,000 downloads on the Google Play store before being pulled. Why controversy? “Legendary game, where you are hunter and your mission is to kill gays as much as you can or escape between them to the next level,” was its pitch. Unpleasant.OK Go to release an album as DNATreadmill videos are so 2006. US band OK Go’s latest album is being released as DNA. “Legally speaking, it’s unclear whether we will be able to sell the DNA to anyone, or how we would physically get it to them,” explains frontman Damian Kulash. “This stuff is regulated really fucking heavily.”What else? Suggest more links, or comment on the stories above.
It's Tuesday.
Many of the brightest minds from the National Security Agency and GCHQ staff tire themselves out from long years of service, moving out into the comfort of the private sector.Unsurprisingly, the security industry welcomes them with open arms. After all, who better to hand out advice than alumni of two of the most sophisticated intelligence agencies on the planet?A young British company calledDarktrace, whose technology was spawned in the classrooms and bedrooms of Cambridge University, can now boasta covey of former spies among their executive ranks. Jim Penrose, who spent 17 years at the NSA and was involved in the much-feared Tailored Access Operations group (TAO), is one of Darktrace’s latest hires.Though he declined to confirm or deny any of the claims made about TAO’s operations, including Edward Snowden leaks that showed it hadhacked into between 85,000 and 100,000 machines around the world, Penrose spoke with the Guardian about how people might want to defend themselves from government-sponsored cyber attacks.Here’s one of his top tips: treat governments and criminals just the same, and don’t expect them to waste their most treasured hacker tools on you unless you’re a genuinely tasty target.“Whether they’re cyber criminals or state sponsored actors, I think a lot of times they can get into a network using a less sophisticated approach or a variant of a known piece of malware… it’s a lower risk operationally for them,” he said.“They don’t want to fire silver bullets unless it’s absolutely necessary; like a zero day [a previously unknown and unpatched vulnerability] or something like that, or a previously unseen piece of malware. Those are really high quality and you want to save those for a time when it’s absolutely critical.”He advised businesses and individuals alike to imagine a thief were outside their house trying to find a way in. There’s no point wondering whether they’re “part of the police or a local gang, or even worse a foreign soldier”.If it turns out they are a state hacker, should individuals or business owners be concerned if they’re American? “I’m not an officer of the government any more, but I would say look, if you’re really honest with yourself and really read everything that came out in the media leaks, you’ll see there’s an incredible amount of discipline around what is done with those capabilities, and that makes things bureaucratic and slow and it does serve as a protection mechanism for different companies,” said Penrose.“It depends where you are in the world and what you’re doing and who you’re working with, there are a whole set of provisos you can put on that but all things equal, people need to be honest about it as best as they can.”Once the hackers are inside, in most cases they’ll benefit from a lack of a quality “insider threat” programme, Penrose noted. That’s because the hackers will be able to make it look like it’s an insider job rather than an external attacker nabbing information.The NSA itself came in for criticism for allowing Snowden, a Booz Allen-Hamilton contractor working for the agency, such extensive access to its systems, many of which were used for the surveillance programmes he exposed to the world.Indeed, insiders can cause plenty of trouble. Talking about what Snowden did, Penrose said that the information shouldn’t have been made public so the US could carry on using its vast intelligence capabilities responsibly.“Focus has been lost on the protection mechanisms to keep people from using the vast capabilities being exposed. There are a lot of protection mechanisms. I don’t know if that exists in all the other states that use their intelligence capability or military capability in that fashion… they certainly are incredible capabilities but they need to be used for the right purposes.”While individuals might be wary of any advice or technology coming from the minds of ex-intelligence officials, businesses are gagging for it. Darktrace can already class Virgin Trains as a customer and it’s planning to get coverage for itsBayesian inferenceand machine learning-based technologies across organisations of any size, including government.Lynch, who founded UK software firm Autonomy before it was sold to HP andbecame the centre of a major financing investigation, invested somewhere between $10m and $20m in the company. It’s also just been named enterprise startup of the year by trade publication Techworld.Though highly complimentary of Darktrace’s technology, Andrew Tang, service director for security at IT firm MTI Technology, believes that there will be parts of the private sector that won’t want to associate with spooks after everything Snowden revealed.“I know there would be a lot of resistance within the commercial world, if they were aware of the people in the background,” he told the Guardian.
Ed Miliband has said Britain’s lack of female engineers should be a “matter of national embarrassment”, as he called for an extra 400,000 people to be trained in the profession by the end of the decade.Writing on Facebook, the Labour leader said the UK needed about 780,000 engineers by 2020 to meet industry demand, but the country is training less than half of that.“If we are going to win the race to the top in the 21st century, we have to re-establish our historic reputation as a world leader in technology and manufacturing,” he wrote. “We need to equip our businesses with the skills they need to succeed. But the UK is facing a crisis in the number of engineers being trained up.“This is not just a shortage of the traditional civil, mechanical and electrical engineers, but also in information technology, green energy, and life sciences where many of the jobs of the future will be created.”Miliband also criticised the lack of female engineering professionals in the UK, saying it was the lowest proportion of any country in Europe.“In 2013, only 14% of engineering graduates were women. And only 4% of professionally registered engineers are female,” he said. “The next Labour government will seek to put the UK back at the forefront of invention, technology and engineering with a national mission to create an extra 400,000 engineers by 2020. We are determined to make it happen. And we have a plan to make it happen.”Labour would work with schools to ensure more young people, girls as well as boys, study science, technology, engineering and maths subjects, he said.Miliband also argued in favour of putting employers in charge of the money for training young people so that as many school-leavers go into a high quality apprenticeship as go to university.
