I have a Sony Vaio which is getting very, very slow and I would like to replace it. I need Microsoft Office and the internet, and my budget is around £1,000.JulieThis is an unusual query, because of your budget. Most people who Ask Jack want to spend £250 to £500. Perhaps your slow Sony Vaio is really old and you have not been watching laptop prices. If so, you are in for a nice surprise. Modern laptops are much faster than they were in the days of Windows XP and Vista, and roughly half the price.Suffice it to say that most Windows laptops in the £250 to £500 price range will do what you want, though if you are doing any serious work in Microsoft Office, it’s best to avoid ones with very slow processors like the AMD A4 and older Intel Atom chips. But avoiding the bargain basement does have some advantages. The extra cash buys a faster processor and/or a chip-based solid state drive (SSD), both of which make performance much more responsive. Also, more expensive laptops are usually better made and have nicer screens.There have been some dramatic changes in the PC market since you bought your Sony Vaio, thanks to Microsoft Windows 8. This introduced a touch-screen interface and corresponding tablet-style apps, which are downloaded from the Windows Store. Windows 8 enabled PC manufacturers to launch Windows tablets and hybrid PCs that work either as tablets or as traditional laptops.There were complaints from people who did not have touch screens and felt that the new Start screen got in the way. Microsoft has updated Windows 8 several times to fix most of these problems, and you can now boot straight into a Windows 7-style desktop. If you make sure Windows 8.1 – ideally, Windows 8.1 Update 1 – is preloaded on your new PC, you shouldn’t have many problems.My wife, who is very far from being a computer enthusiast, recently upgraded from Windows Vista and she adapted in an afternoon*. Later, she was surprised and somewhat mystified to discover that some people didn’t like Windows 8. As you’re already a tablet user – your email was sent from your iPad – you should find the change relatively easy. The main difference is that Windows 8 uses “edge swipes” where the finger starts fractionally outside the screen and sweeps in. Learn the four edge-swipes (top, bottom, two sides) and you’ll be able to manage the rest.Hands onCheck the screen size and resolution of your current laptop (right-click on the desktop), and decide whether you’d like to stick with that. Mainstream laptops have 15.6in screens, but 13.3in is popular for Ultrabooks, and the trend is towards more portable 10in to 12in screens. Also, mainstream Windows laptops have a screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels, which is HD (High Definition). The trend is towards screens with 1920 x 1080 pixels (Full HD, aka 1080p) or higher. If you have more pixels, everything on the screen will be smaller, but you can set Windows 8 scaling to compensate. Manufacturers typically set the scaling at 125% or 150%, but you can change it.Go to John Lewis, PC World, Curries or a local computer store to see what the different resolutions look like. This will also give you the chance to try the various keyboards and see how you like them.You must also decide if you still need a built-in DVD drive. These remain popular in mainstream laptops, but have mostly been dropped from ultraportable and hybrid designs.Standard laptopsIn the “close to £1,000” range, you could consider the 15.6inAsus N550JK (£849.99)and theToshiba Satellite P50T-A-125 (£999), but both are massively overpowered for your needs. The Asus N550JK is good value in having an Intel Core i7-4700HQ processor, 8GB of memory, a terabyte (1TB) hard drive and Nvidia GeForce 850M graphics, the main drawback being its 1366 x 768 screen resolution. The Toshiba P50T is another multimedia powerhouse with a Core i7 and 1TB hard drive plus 12GB of memory and a 1920 x 1080-pixel screen. Both of these laptops are essentially desktop PC-replacements.If you are really going to spend that much, then the 13.3inHP Spectre 13-3011ea (£979.99)is a smaller, sleeker Ultrabook (no DVD) with a Core i5-4200U processor, the price being pushed up by its 256GB SSD.If you fancy switching to Mac, that’s also within your budget. The old 13inMacBook Prowith a Core i5 processor, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive now goes for £899, though it would be better to opt for the newer model with 8GB of memory, 128GB SSD and a Retina screen for £999. The core Microsoft Office applications are available for the Mac – indeed, that’s where they started – but try to look at them before you decide. I prefer the Windows versions.Either way, you can certainly get a 15.6in laptop that will do what you need for much less than £1,000, though you may not get such solid construction. For example, have a look at theLenovo Flex 2 (£449.99), theToshiba Satellite L50T-B-11G (£529.99), and theHP Pavilion 15-p083sa (£579.99). The HP and Toshiba models both have Core i5 processors, but the Flex 2’s Core i3-4010U and 6GB of memory are more than enough to run Microsoft Office and similar software.Flipping optionsTouch screens are useful with Windows 8, even on traditional laptops, but really come into their own on hybrids that work as laptops and tablets. The current trend is towards “flipping” designs where the screen turns through 360 degrees. Lenovo pioneered this idea with its Yoga range, which I like a lot. Rival manufacturers such as HP, Dell and Asus have produced similar hybrids. If you like the idea of sometimes using your laptop in tablet format, these are worth a look.The Lenovo Yoga is available in a wide range of models from £399.95 (11.6in screen, quad-core Pentium processor, 500GB HD) to £1,199.95 (13.3in screen, Core i7, 256GB SSD). The 13.3inYoga 2 (£649.99)might be a good bet. It has a Core i3-4010U, 8GB of memory, and a hybrid hard drive (500GB HD+8GB SSD).The alternatives include the newDell Inspiron 13 7000 Series (£499 and £649), theAsus Transformer Book Flip TP300LA (£449.95 to £739.90)and theHP Pavilion x360range (£329.99, £499.99 and £649.99). Prices vary with specifications: the cheapest HP has an Intel Celeron N2830 and all the most expensive models have Core i7s. Screen sizes are usually 11.6in or 13.3in, but Asus has a big Book Flip with a 15.6in screen, a Core i7 processor, 8GB of memory and 750GB hard drive for£699.95.For your purposes, a fourth-generation Core i3 with 4GB of memory would be good enough, but a Core i5 with 6GB or 8GB would be much better. (Fourth-generation Core chips have numbers in the 4xxx format.)This is particularly true for internet use, because today’s browsers and bloated websites can bring almost any PC to its knees. Microsoft Word and Excel may now load quicker and consume fewer resources than the far less powerful Google apps in Chrome.* Cheating: I preinstalled her favourite apps, and pinned them to the Task Bar on the desktop. I also pinned her most used websites to Firefox, and set all her software to update automatically. Microsoft has improved the Windows 8 set-up experience but it’s much easier if you’ve already done it a few times.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNvidia lets slip that HTC will be behind Nexus 9 tablet, Tegra K1 and Android L expected &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintMike Lowe:HTC will be the brand behind the Nexus 9 tablet, as revealed by Nvidia in an document leak from the technology company itself as filed with the US International Trade Commission (a link which has since been pulled from Google)."The HTC Nexus 9, expected in the third quarter of 2014, is also expected to use the Tegra K1" reads a line from the paper. Oops.We've been scratching our brains as to where the next Nexus tablet had got to, given that it's overdue, but the leak appears to confirm what the rumour mill has been suggesting for some time. HTC will handle the hardware, while Nvidia will provide the core power from its Tegra K1 - a much needed boost for the company's otherwise widely ignored processor.When it's a good idea to invite an army of hackers to attack you &gt;&gt; ForbesKashmir Hill:"The philosophy of some bug bounty hold-outs is, 'We don't negotiate with terrorists,'" says Jake Kouns of the Open Security Foundation. "Why would we incent you to try to attack and break our stuff?"Whether Apple's having a bounty program would actually mean that a bunch of pervs wouldn't know what Jennifer Lawrence looks like naked is debatable. But Apple is one of the notable tech hold-outs in instituting a bug bounty program that incentivizes security researchers to find problems in its products and report them. "Bug bounty programs are all the rage at the moment," says Kouns. "If you're not doing a bug bounty program, you're perceived as not really caring about problems."Google and Facebook have been running bug bounty programs for years. As of August 2013, Google had paid out $2m in rewards. Facebook has given out as much as $33,500 as a bounty for a critical bug. Twitter joined the bug bounty train this summer, and has already used it to squash 55 bugs.Would cost Apple a lot less than a U2 album release.A watch guy's thoughts on the Apple Watch after seeing it in the metal (tons of live photos) &gt;&gt; HODINKEEBenjamin Clymer:I was lucky enough to be invited to Cupertino to witness the announcement of the Apple Watch firsthand, and though I do not believe it poses any threat to haute horology manufactures, I do think the Apple Watch will be a big problem for low-priced quartz watches, and even some entry-level mechanical watches. In years to come, it could pose a larger threat to higher end brands, too. The reason? Apple got more details right on their watch than the vast majority of Swiss and Asian brands do with similarly priced watches, and those details add up to a really impressive piece of design. It offers so much more functionality than other digitals it's almost embarrassing. But it's not perfect, by any means.He really knows stuff about watches. His "sleeve" remark is well-observed.Take Action &gt;&gt; GoogleOn net neutrality:If internet access providers can block some services and cut special deals that prioritize some companies' content over others, that would threaten the innovation that makes the internet awesome.…We believe that consumers should continue to enjoy open on-ramps to the internet.That means no Internet access provider should block or degrade internet traffic, nor should they sell 'fast lanes' that prioritize particular internet services over others. These rules should apply regardless of whether you're accessing the internet using a cable connection, a wireless service, or any other technology.Inside Apple's live event stream failure, and why it happened: it wasn't a capacity issue &gt;&gt; Streaming Media blogApple's live stream of the unveiling of the iPhone 6 and Watch was a disaster today right from the start, with many users like myself having problems trying to watch the event. While at first I assumed it must be a capacity issue pertaining to Akamai, a deeper look at the code on Apple's page and some other elements from the event shows that decisions made by Apple pertaining to their website, and problems with how they setup storage on Amazon's S3 service, contributed the biggest problems to the event.Unlike the last live stream Apple did, this time around Apple decided to add some JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) code to the apple.com page which added an interactive element on the bottom showing tweets about the event. As a result, this was causing the page to make refresh calls every few milliseconds. By Apple making the decision to add the JSON code, it made the apple.com website un-cachable.Social media-isation killed the video feed? Commenters disagree about the cause, however - they think (and give reasons to explain) it's somewhere in the video/broadcast production side. A gigantic screwup, whichever.How Apple Pay works and why it matters for developers &gt;&gt; Clover Developers BlogJohn Beatty gives a detailed explanation (want to understand tokenised NFC? Start here) and this note:Say you're an order-ahead app enabling consumers to buy food and pick it up later. You really don't want to be in the payments business, but how else do you collect money from the consumer and to the restaurant? There's so much friction in the system that the typical way is to become the merchant-of-record, which is a position you accept begrudingly. Chargebacks and disputes? It's your problem now.Network-level tokenization, and iPhone in particular, will radically change this dynamic. Commerce apps won't be forced to become aggregators any longer - they simply need to use the iOS payment SDKs, and the SDK from the merchant acquirer, to process the payment.A Word on NFC &gt;&gt; ongoingEx-Googler Tim Bray:An­droids have had the APIs, and most devices have had the hardware, for years now. One problem has been Apple; there are lots of apps that don't get built when a huge pro­por­tion of well-heeled cus­tomers can't play. Well, now they can, in principle.Payment and… Yeah, there's no doubt that payment is the ap­pli­ca­tion that's get­ting the headlin­er at­ten­tion. But it would be trag­ic  —trag­ic—  if Ap­ple didn't pro­vide an open API to that nifty NFC hard­ware.Here's just one sam­ple ap­pli­ca­tion, be­cause it's the kind of thing I'm think­ing about these days. Suppose you want se­cure com­mu­ni­ca­tion, which means you've got a pri­vate key on your phone. And suppose you don't 100% trust your phone-unlock set­up to pro­tect ac­cess to your key. Wel­l, you car­ry a lit­tle NFC doohick­ey on your key­chain, and when you need to use the key, you pull it out of your pocket and tap the back of the phone with it.Apple is expected to publish an NFC API for iOS 8, but not sure it will go into that detail.Apple Watch price: $349 seems too steep &gt;&gt; BGRThe iPad story demonstrates why it may be a hugely ambitious for Apple to try to position the Apple Watch as a $350 premium product. Considering the display size, that price is massive compared to tablet or phablet prices out there. It's weirdly out of step with the original iPad pricing philosophy, which was based on offering a lot of value relative to expectations in 2010. And of course, Apple fans are now tied to both iPhone and iPad upgrade costs.Selling a third device to an Apple household is not the same as selling the first or second. That's what makes projecting sales volumes for the Apple Watch so fiendishly difficult. Many analysts are now projecting 30m or even 40m annual unit sales for 2015.  That seems to be on the steep side with given the pricing approach Apple has taken.Just going out looking for a story where a new Apple product is introduced and everyone says "that's the perfect price!" Might a little while.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Move over, Janet Jackson: America is officially more concerned with the future of the internet than with your nipple.After aday of protest against Federal Communications Commission (FCC) proposalsfor regulating the internet that was coordinated by some of the world’s largest tech companies, the agency announced on Wednesday it had received a record 1,477,301 public comments about the proposals since July.The previous record of 1.4 million was set in 2004 when an alleged “wardrobe malfunction” during the halftime show at the Super Bowl led to Jackson’s breast (plus nipple shield) being flashed to an audience of 111 million.The record was broken as tech companies including Twitter, Reddit, Google and others called on their users to contact the FCC and Congress and express their disapproval over new rules now being considered that they claim would impact “net neutrality”.Net neutrality is the concept that all traffic on the internet is treated equally and that no internet service provider can offer a higher speed service that could unfairly advantage one content provider over another.The number of submissions is likely to rise even higher before a Monday deadline for public comments on the FCC proposals, which are a result of chairman Tom Wheeler’s being forced to rewrite the rules on net neutrality after a federal court tossed the agency’s previous set.One of the proposals has sparked controversy because it would allow internet service providers like Verizon, AT&amp;T and Comcast to create a so-called “fast lane” for certain traffic – a move critics say would de facto create slow lanes.Comments to the FCC spiked earlier this year when comedian John Oliver, on his HBO show, called on people to bombard the FCC in support of net neutrality. “The only two words in the English language more boring than net neutrality are ‘featuring Sting,’”­ said Oliver. “But here’s the thing. Net neutrality is actually hugely important.”The FCC’s antiquated and under funded systems crashed under the volume of calls and submissions shortly after Oliver’s remarks.The FCC fined CBS a record $500,000 over the Jackson incident, though that fine was eventually overturned on appeal. Several big media conglomerates imposed a blacklist on Jackson’s music and videos in the immediate wake of the scandal.
Initial reaction to the Apple Watch (not, disappointingly, the iWatch) falls into two camps: those who have only seen photos, who think it looks ugly and big, and those who have actually worn it, who realise it's surprisingly light, and not oversized.Indeed, it's so light you can forget you're wearing it as one Bloomberg reporter did. He only realised he was wearing Apple's model, not his own, when he was some distance from the giant white building Apple had erected beside the Flint Center in Cupertino to showcase and demonstrate the new watch. (He gave it back to the ashen faced Apple demonstrator.)I tried it, too, and while I didn't manage to make a break for it, what I noticed was that I didn't notice it until it tingled on my wrist to indicate some message coming in. I usually wear a thin, analogue watch, but this was neither heavy, nor bulky. "It's like a bracelet," remarked one woman trying it on, who said she didn't normally wear a watch.Analysts already estimate Apple could sell between 30m and 50m of the 'wearable technology' when it goes on sale in 2015, a number that seems wild in view of the fact that there are only 200m iPhones in use new enough to work with it, and that only 15m iPads were sold in their first nine months of existence.But it's possible. Apple is reaching beyond the technology world to that of fashion; as the presence on Tuesday of singer turned fashion designer Gwen Stefani and singer turned fashion plate P Diddy, not to mention Alexandra Shulman of Vogue, shows.The watches come in three different "collections" with multiple strap and buckle options; the smaller sized one doesn't look like a brick on a slim wrist. It's thinner and lighter than the smallest Android rival, the Moto 360 from Motorola. The US price will be $349; no UK price has yet been announced.But what of the software? The "home" screen is bright and pinsharp, and shows a collection of icons that look like multicoloured soap bubbles; look closer, and you realise they're app icons. You can swirl them around, or press another button and get instant access to a different set of icons, of your friends who you can call, or text, or (puzzlingly) send little swirly pictures to.Back with the apps, you use the "crown" button (like that used to wind old watches) and you can zoom in or out and select any of those apps. The crown is a clever way to control the screen; rather than reusing the "pinch and zoom" familiar from smartphones, Jony Ive's team has come up with yet another way of controlling information on a device. The Watch's screen can also sense force, so it's now a three dimensional set of commands.The time, a stopwatch, maps, phone calls, messages, calendar appointments, your current heart rate, how many steps or stairs you've climbed that day, the phases of the moon, your current position in the solar system, the Watch can show you them all. The screen is excellent, though those with ageing eyesight may find spectacles useful.Which is where we come to the difficult questions about a smartwatch: what is it for? Why not just use your phone?It's the same question I confronted when I tried Google Glass last July. That would show you maps and messages and search results in a little lens above your right eye. Fine, but was that £1,000 worth of usefulness? People seem to think not: though Glass is on sale, there are no signs of any broad adoption.Glancing at a watch rather than your phone saves you some effort. But is it $349 worth?American wearers will be able to use it to buy things using "contactless" payments (like Oyster cards, but for real stuff). But in general, Apple hasn't specified what it's for, which differs from what happened with the iPhone (when Steve Jobs famously spelt out that "it's an iPod, an internet communicator and a phone" the middle part having become the primary use for many). Like the iPad, the Watch is a tabula rasa for app developers to create something new.Personally, I used to wear a smartwatch (the Pebble) which weighs about the same as Apple's Watch, but is far more clunky. I gave that up because a software update stopped showing text messages, and I got bored charging it every five days or so. While one can count on Apple not messing up the former part, the latter is trickier. Apple said nothing about how long the battery will last. We may be used to charging our smartphones every day, but our watches?I think that might be the sticking point. Fashionable or not, a watch that needs constant recharging isn't a watch, it's a burden. On such seeming irrelevances may hang its success.• Charles Arthur's travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.
Much of the internet went on a “go-slow” protest on Wednesday, as some of the world’s largest tech companies began a protest over proposals that could create fast web lanes for some companies.Tech firms including Netflix, Etsy, FourSquare, KickStarter, Mozilla, Reddit,PornHuband Vimeo installed a widget on their sites to show how they believe the internet would look if the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) overturns “net neutrality” rules.The FCC has been forced to rewrite its rules on governing the internet after a series of court defeats at the hands of cable and telecom companies. Wednesday’s protests are against one proposal that would allow cable firms to create “fast lanes” for paying customers who use a lot of bandwidth. Critics charge that move would end net neutrality – the concept that the internet is a level playing field and internet service providers can not discriminate against any individual, organisation or company.Twitter, Tumblr and Google also issued statements in support of net neutrality. September 15 is the deadline for comments to be submitted to FCC chairman Tom Wheeler. Namecheap, the domain name registrar, and Vimeo put up videos in support of the campaign.“The internet was designed to empower people. To get online, you need to use an internet access provider. But once you’re online, you decide what to do and where to go. Anyone, anywhere can share their opinions freely – and any entrepreneur, big or small, can build, launch and innovate without having to get permission first,” Derek Slater, Google’s policy manager, said in an email.“We believe that consumers should continue to enjoy open on-ramps to the internet. That means no internet access provider should block or degrade internet traffic, nor should they sell “fast lanes” that prioritize particular internet services over others. These rules should apply regardless of whether you’re accessing the Internet using a cable connection, a wireless service, or any other technology.”He encouraged people to sign up for theirTake Actioncampaign in support of net neutrality. So far 3 million people have signed up.Senators Ron Wyden and Angus King Tweeted their support. “Right now, the FCC is in the process of crafting new rules. Rules that many Americans, members of Congress, innovators, and myself hope will protect net neutrality once and for all. Earlier this year, I submitted my comments to the FCC, making clear that the only way to effectively protect Net Neutrality – the foundation of the Internet – is to reclassify broadband under Title II of the Telecommunications Act,”Wyden wrotein a blogpost.Reclassifying broadband under Title II of the Telecommunications Act would give the FCC far greater powers over cable companies and would effectively allow high speed internet to be regulated more like water, electricity or other utilities.The National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA), which lobbies on behalf of cable giants Comcast, Time Warner and others, called the protest “a PR stunt”. It is lobbying hard against any reclassification that gives the FCC more power.“Even after setting aside the fact that cable companies aresupportive of reasonable net neutrality rules,Battle for the Net’s mission statement and the fundamental premise protest day are absurd. Why would the cable industry, which has spent billions upon billions to expand infrastructure, to improve network efficiency, to connect 93 percent of Americans and to increase speeds 1500 percent over the last decade, be actively working to slow down the Internet? It doesn’t make sense,”NCTA wrote in a blogpost.Some sites, like Netflix, used a popup widget to explain the slowdown. Seemore images here.Photograph: screengrabPhotograph: screengrabAhead of Monday’s deadline for submissions to the FCCorganisershave called on supporters to spend the day calling Congress to lobby the FCC to protect neutrality.Evan Greer, co-founder of Fight for the Future, a pressure group helping to organise the protest day, said in an email: “Net neutrality is tough to explain to people, so we wanted to organize an action that actually shows the world what’s at stake. I think the three most hated words on the internet right now are ‘Please wait, loading ... ’“Unless internet users unite in defence of net neutrality, we could be seeing those dreaded ‘loading’ wheels a lot more often on some of our favourite websites, while monopolistic companies get to decide which content gets seen by the most people.”Several other large internet companies are expected to back the day of action. Two of the world’s biggest porn sites, Pornhub and RedTube, promised “in-your-face” support.“We’ll be displaying an official widget frombattleforthenet.com. We won’t be shutting down, or streaming your porn slower. There will be a big in-your-face message that users will need to close. We hope to reach around 50m people on Sept 10,” a Pornhub spokeswoman wrote on Reddit.Pornhub and RedTube are owned by Mindgeek, a Luxembourg-based conglomerate that claims to be one of the top five bandwidth consumers in the world, generating 1.7bn visits per month.The organizers,Fight for the FutureandDemand Progress, are directing people to call or email policymakers with their concerns. A similar campaign led to the FCC being flooded with comments on the net neutrality legislation. After comedian John Oliver broadcast an attack on the proposals the FCC received so many comments thatat one pointits systems collapsed under the strain.Why is my internet slow today?
One of the first challenges for theApple Watchis to persuade people who’ve gone bare-wristed for years due to owning smartphones that a watch – however smart – is necessary and desirable.On that front, the omens are good. Apple’s first wearable devices are smart (in both senses of the word) and packed with potential, with a large community of iOS developers to draw on for app ideas to expand their basic features.Yet for me, the feature that’s most obviously appealing – health and activity-tracking – is also the one that raises the biggest question related to another challenge for the Apple Watch: its battery life.Apple very carefully didn’t mention battery life for its Watch family during the launch event. Current indications are that the devices will go for around a day, judging by thequote provided to Recodeby Apple spokesperson Natalie Kerris:“There’s a lot of new technology packed into Apple Watch and we think people will love using it throughout the day. We anticipate that people will charge nightly which is why we designed an innovative charging solution that combines our MagSafe technology and inductive charging.”The key phrase there, I think, is “throughout the day”. Apple may be working hard on increasing the battery life of its first watch, but in its current form it’s seemingly envisaged as a daytime device. Slip it off your wrist at bedtime and pop it on the charging mechanism, ready for another day tomorrow.That’s not an onerous usage pattern – stray thought: at some point, will the iPhone move to a similar inductive charging system? – but it does have implications for the Apple Watch’s health features.In the daytime, its Activity app will measure your calories burned, “brisk activity” and how often you stand up, feeding all this data back to your iPhone’s Fitness app – and via the company’s HealthKit system, to other approved third-party apps too.Meanwhile, the watch’s separate Workout app tracks your specific fitness activities: running, cycling and so on. There’s the promise of motivational features too, to encourage you to set fitness goals and stick to them.What’s missing, for now, is what you do at night. Sleeping. While fitness trackers from companies like Fitbit and Withings are designed to be worn at night too, tracking your sleep patterns through your movements.They can do this, because they’re quite focused devices: they track activity, and transmit the data to your smartphone using low-power Bluetooth technology. Their batteries go for a week or more, and the usual charging pattern is to plug them in when you’re not moving much – at work, for example, or lounging about at home.The greater power demands of a smart watch – any smart watch, not just Apple’s – mean daily charging may well become the norm, which in turn means through-the-night sleep tracking will be a difficult feature to implement.Thinking about my own health, sleep (or rather the lack of it) feels as important a part of the picture as daytime activity. If you’re going to go whole-hog on this quantification of the self business, you may well need a separate device for sleep tracking.(This may be an opportunity for some inventive hardware startups to make better dedicated sleep-trackers than the night-time features in devices made by Fitbit and its rivals, of course.)Even so, there’s a growing awareness that personal health is about shut-eye, not just steps and workouts.The constraints on smart watch battery life make these devices excellent for the latter, but not so useful for the former – with no obvious answer to that challenge immediately in sight.•Unfitbit: When fitness tracking goes wrong• Stuart Dredge’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.
Front and centre of Apple’s pitch for its new Watch is the device’s ability to monitor its wearer’s health and fitness.The device ships with a heart rate monitor and accelerometer, which it uses to calculate general fitness. It can augment that info by pairing with an iPhone, gathering data from GPS satellites and Wi-Fi networks to determine where in the world it is.Out of the box, that data will be ploughed into two apps developed by Apple: Activity and Workout. The latter is dedicated to heavy exercise sessions, letting its user track the intensity of a visit to the gym or a jog around the neighbourhood.Activity is a more passive service, tracking stats such as how much its user moves throughout a working day and whether they have at least a minute of activity an hour for 12 hours. Both apps will work in conjunction with the Health app and HealthKit framework, announced by Apple for inclusion in the forthcoming iOS 8 operating system, released on 17 September.But as tech firms including Apple hoover up increasingly intimate data, the value of plausible privacy policies grows. Throughout the company’s event at the Flint Center in Cupertino, small barbs were delivered in the direction of arch-rival Google.For example, when demonstrating Apple Pay, a new digital wallet service, the company’s head of software, Eddy Cue noted that the company is “not in the business of collecting your data” and promised that the service will not store information about where users spend their money, what they bought or any other details.Much of the value of health data lies in it being shared and Apple will have its sights set on the $3tn (£1.85tr) US healthcare industry. As well as dozens of US partners, Apple has already demonstrated its HealthKit service with Cambridge University Hospitals. One of the big questions facing the NHS as a whole is whether or not the information collected by health apps will be welcomed by the service or viewed as yet another burden, as the worried well head for the GP with data they think indicates that they have some alarming disease or condition.Heart rates and sleep patterns are easily monitored by a smartphone. Many tests that can be done at home using kits to analyse urine or blood – for instance to monitor the condition of people with diabetes – can be linked to an iPhone for analysis and storage of the data. The iPhone owner could keep a fairly comprehensive profile of their physical health, find out how their lifestyle is affecting it on a daily basis and do something about it – more exercise, fewer calories, for instance.It is fairly clear that this sort of exercise has value in the US, where healthcare can cost the individual a lot of money. Their iPhone may alert them when there is a real need to see a doctor. How this plays out in the NHS, where healthcare is still free at the point of delivery is another question. Those most likely to afford the latest iPhone are not the demographic that fails to go to the doctor when they should.The technology could, however, be very useful for the NHS if doctors can hand it out to those who have chronic diseases, such as heart conditions or type 2 diabetes, and who are less able to get to the doctor’s surgery, or to elderly patients who are better off in their own homes than in care homes or hospital. The problem may be – certainly in the case of the elderly – unfamiliarity with modern gadgetry. But one can envisage a wearable device programmed to send information to a hospital without the user having to so much as touch a screen.Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust is interested in what Apple technology could offer. Together with Mount Sinai hospital in New York, it has been named as a consultant in the development of Apple’s health apps. It is also a leader in the UK in its development of electronic patient records: it is keen to press ahead where others have dragged their feet over patient confidentiality.Addenbrookes, the trust’s flagship hospital, is testing electronic patient record apps on an iPod touch in its wards.“As part of the roll-out of the Epic Electronic Patient Record system, our nurses will be using Apple iPod touch devices,” said a spokesman. “This will allow them to record patient observations, and undertake drug administration and ordering at the bedside. In addition we are using the two Epic apps, Haiku and Canto, which can be downloaded from the Apple store by our clinicians to access patient information. In the future we will also be working with Apple and healthcare technology companies to develop applications for clinical, operational and educational purposes.”So Apple technology is useful within the NHS – but there is no suggestion that data from patients’ iPhones will be welcomed. At least, not yet.iPhone 6: bigger, thinner, fasterRIP iPod
Apple held the most anticipated tech launch of the year on Tuesday. Thanks to a series of leaks beforehand, we pretty much expected everything we got – new iPhones, Apple Watch, a payment system and a performance by U2. But what did we learn?First offit looks like this is the end of “i”. All the new products launched – as distinct from new versions of old products – started with Apple. Apple Watch, Apple Pay. Everyone says CEO Tim Cook is a team player, so ...Second, you had to be there. All big tech events have bad wifi, this is a rule. But on Tuesday, Apple took it a step further, giving usa broken live streamthat, when it was working, was occasionally overlaid by someone translating the event. It was kind of like being at the UN, only more irritating.Eventually some bigger news emerged.Apple WatchThe first big new product under Cook, Apple Watch is not really a watch, it’s “a compelling beginning [to] actually designing technology to be worn, to be truly personal,” designer Jony Ive said.It’s also a comprehensive health and fitness device, it’s GPS-enabled and it hooks up with your iPhone – a dream for NSA agents and jealous-minded partners everywhere. And it’s expensive. The standard Apple Watch is made from polished stainless steel and comes in at $349. There will be a gold one too. Lux!Analysts were into it. James McQuivey, vice-president at Forrester Research, wrote, “Apple’s Watch strategy, though not coming to a store near you soon, has firmly established the smartwatch as a new category. Would-be competitors may take solace in how many months they have before the watches go on sale, but they have a lot of work ahead of them if they want to compete with Apple on the more complete experience the Apple Watch offers. It’s not just a device; it’s a lifestyle.”Twitter was less kind.So excited for the Apple Watch. For centuries, we’ve checked the time by&#10;looking at our phones. Having it on your wrist? Genius.#AppleLive&mdash; Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow)September 9, 2014Here it is spinning, nicely.Apple Watch: did Angela Ahrendts get it right?http://t.co/1DcCgqQ7ALhttp://t.co/P1pELFokyg#AppleLive&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)September 9, 2014It’s square – in all kinds of ways. And it’s big. Our resident gadget expert Samuel Gibbs was not impressed on first glance: “Apple’s highly anticipated smartwatch, the Apple Watch, seems uncharacteristically complicated from the company that prides itself on simplicity and ease of use. Compared to the current Android Wear smartwatches from Google, the Apple Watch seems cluttered with too many features packed onto a small screen. The design also looks bulky and the cost significantly more than others.”You can read all about ithere.iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 PlusBigger, faster, thinner, stronger, kinder, more humane, loving. Wait, what? Just bigger and better (in tech spec terms) and otherwise much the same? Oh, OK then.It’s all about the “phablet” these days and now Apple no longer has size issues. The iPhone 6 has a 4.7in screen – compared with the current 4in screen of the iPhone 5S – while theiPhone6 Plus has a 5.5in screen.There’s a better camera, and both iPhones are powered by a new A8 processor that is 25% faster than the previous iPhone and 50% more power efficient for increased battery life. What next for iPhone 7?It&#39;s iPhone 6 launch day! I wonder what Tim Cook&#39;s got up his sleeve...http://t.co/RschJld5KX#iPhone6#Applepic.twitter.com/aAaLKRlp8F&mdash; ITProPortal (@ITProPortal)September 9, 2014Read all about ithere.Apple PayAway from the gadgets, Apple unveiled what may prove to be the truly revolutionary announcement of the day. Apple Pay will let people transfer credit and debit card account details to their iPhone (or Apple Watch) and pay using those devices.McDonald’s, Macy’s, Panera Bread, Disney and others have already signed up for the service, which uses NFC (near field communication) payments to transfer money. Starbucks, Pret a Manger and others already accept NFC but Apple’s vote makes it a near certainty that the technology is going to become widespread.Tim Cook said: “We’re gonna start by focusing on payments. Payments is a huge business. Every day between credit and debit we spend $12bn. That’s over $4tn a year, and that’s just in the United States … 200m transactions a day. That’s 200m times we scramble for our credit cards and go through what is a fairly antiquated process.”Morehere.One More ThingTim CookLOVESU2. And unless U2 are truly awful human beings, they should return the favour. (Not) everybody’s favourite Irish rockers got a huge shout out from Cook, who launched their new album as a free download to iTunes’ half a billion users.“We are the blood in your machines oh Zen master Tim Cook,” Bono told the Apple boss as he Beyoncéd their new album – Songs of Innocence – to iTunes.In return Cook got to do this Dad-tastic finger bump with Bono. Cook told fans afterwards: “We are not kidding, that just happened.”iPhone 6 to feature mobile wallet
Not everything Apple did during its event on Tuesday was announced on stage by the executive team.As the company focused the world’s attention on the stage of Cupertino’s Flint Center, it was carrying out a murder in the wings. The victim: the iPod Classic.By far Apple’s longest-running product, the iPod Classic – once known simply as the iPod – was introduced in its final form in September 2007: the sixth generation of iPod had a thinner body, longer battery life and an aluminium design. Three months earlier, the iPhone had been introduced and the writing was on the wall for the classic.At the event where the iPod Classic was introduced – and given its new, respectful moniker – the iPod Touch was also born. It had the advantages of an iPhone bar the cellular connectivity but a price closer to the rest of the iPod line. The Touch was supposed to be the death knell for the classic.But instead, the design showed a remarkable durability. A large part of that was down to the capacity of the device, which started at 80GB and had been bumped up to 160GB by 2009. Next to an iPod Touch which, even today, maxes out at 64GB of space, it appealed to those with enormous music collections and a desire to carry everything with them all the time.Even though Apple appeared happy to take the classic fans’ money for the time being, every new hardware announcement was shadowed by the possibility that this would be the end for the venerable MP3 player. It was the last product the company shipped with a 1.8 inch hard-drive, an expensive component liable to fail with over-use. And in a world of streaming music services even the idea of a “music collection” was starting to seem outdated, let alone the idea that it needs to be stored on the same device.Still, we didn’t expect the murder of the classic to be done with such brutality. Apple’s never been a company for looking back but typically when they discontinue a product they offer up something new as recompense. Not this time. The iPod line was not mentioned once onstage – though a redesign of the iPod touch might come in October – and no time was spared for the classic. The future is touchscreens on our wrists, not scrollwheels in our pockets.Except. Announcing the Apple Watch, the company’s CEO Tim Cook put special emphasis on the “digital crown”, a whole new input paradigm invented just for the device. “It translates rotary movement into digital data,” he told the audience, dazzling them with the “IR LEDs and diodes” used to make it work. But beneath the bluster, it’s a physical scroll wheel, the same technology introduced in the original iPod in 2001.Maybe that’s the send-off the iPod Classic deserved?Has Apple become a follower?
Google is currently conducting agrand tour of Europe, with the ten members of itsAdvisory Counciltouring seven cities to gather evidence on the developments in the so-called “right to be forgotten” ruling.The aim, the company says, is to gather examples of best-practice principles and processes for Google’s application of the landmark European courtrulingin May, which confirmed that decades-old European data protection rights extend to information indexed by search engines - including, most controversially, lawfully-published public domain information.The one thing that everyone agrees about this case is that the label it has been given - the “right to be forgotten” - is a very poor descriptor. More accurately, it is about the right to obscure or suppress personal information that is inaccurate, irrelevant, or out-of-date, and which holds no public interest.At the behest of Google, the Council of eight independent experts and two Google execs is traversing the patchwork European data protection realm, fromyesterdayin Madrid to November in Brussels - the places that started this mess and, Google might hope, have the power to fix it.Hunting for appropriate solutionsThecouncil- which today continues its tour in Rome, and islivestreamed from 1pm GMT- balances a distinguished array of academics (Peggy Valcke, Luciano Floridi, Lidia Kolucka-Zuk), former national and international public servants (José-Luis Piñar, Frank La Rue, Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger), entrepreneur Jimmy Wales, and journalist-editor Sylvie Kaufmann. They are joined by Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt, and senior vice president and chief legal counsel, David Drummond.The council will be conducting public hearings of vetted experts selected fromsubmissionsmade in response to aweb callduring an 11-day window at the beginning of August. At the end of the year, they will provide a report.Paul Theroux famously referred to a Grand Tour as an inspired way of heading home - which, in this case, would involve shoring up Google’s opposition to the ruling.Thedeclared independenceof the majority of the Council’s membershipsuggestsit will be rather more interesting than that, as does Google’sacknowledgementthat the Council’s remit is to “contribute to the evolving debate about theappropriatesolutions for addressing knowing andforgettingin the Information Age.”Nevertheless, and despite this promise,yesterday’s early indications suggest that the Council and testimony are on the whole sympathetic to Google’s position.Contested concepts and terrainOne of the primary matters that the Council will be investigating is the delineation of “public interest” and “public figure”, the scope of which is absolutely key to the European court ruling. Though well-developed in media,privacy, and defamation law, public interest considerations are under-developed in data protection, being a regime constructed for a pre-internet era and concerned with regulating government and industrial data hoards; the daily incidental trade in personal information that now characterises our digital lives is a new thing entirely.The Council will also touch on controversialjurisdictionalissues and, in particular, whether it is sufficient for Google to respond to requests to obscure personal information exclusively by delinking results on European mirrors of its global site. Google claims that 95% of European users use local domains, rather than referring to google.com; though it is plausible that this may change for the specific purpose of name searches.This is a topic that is currently exercising European regulators and will be included in guidance issued by their organising body, the Article 29 Working Party, at the end of this month.Both the Council and the Working Party will also address whether it is appropriate for Google tonotify webmastersof data protection requests. Though an importantaccountabilitymechanism, notifications are problematic if they do not also caution about avoiding republication where to do so would cause additional damage or distress.Off-the-table questions?There are two additional areas where, ideally, the Council could play a critical civic role.The first is to expose Google’s current processes for dealing with requests.The second is to openly discuss the fundamental conflict between European data protection law and conventional internet use. Focusing solely on Google and delinked news articles is like throwing ice cubes at a volcano. It rather misses the point - and it won’t do anything to save the rest of us.The ideal of data protection, with Dr David Erdos of Cambridge University, from 20’00 - 22’45. Video: Daniel Bates/Jonny ColemanExposing Google’s current processesIdeally, Google should be transparent with the Council and broader public about the obscurity requests it has dealt with already in the last three months - their nature, issues, and lessons.This is not to expose Google to critique or penalty, but to learn from its experimentation with implementing the ruling via a largely unstructured web form. That put aparticularspinon the ECJ ruling and likely attracted many speculative, boundary-testing claims along with legitimate ones, as well as creating a very uncharacteristically labour-intensive manual process.Weknowthat Google has responded to data obscurity requests by removing links in 53% of an unknown proportion of the 91,000 requests that were made between 30 May and 18 July. It rejected 32% of cases, and it asked for more information in a further 15%.What wedon’t knowis the total number of cases dealt with so far, or even the order of magnitude. Clearly, the implications will vary dramatically, depending on whether Google has dealt with 1,000 requests, 10,000, or the most recent figure of 120,000. Until we have fine-grained statistics and a sufficient range of deidentified cases to review, the expert hearings are largely conducted in a vacuum.More significantly, without examples, the hearings are being conducted in an abstract way, leaving the debate to inapt analogies, rather than tales of real, human concern that inspire proactive responses.The absence of any legal obligation on Google to reveal its processes - or on authorities to intervene - is one of the chief criticisms of the ruling and the legal framework from which it derives. In short, it renders Google judge, jury, and executioner.Hitchhikers on the edge of the data protection galaxyTo date, the debate following the May court ruling has been conducted on a rather limited terrain, concerning itself with the borderline and rather pedestrian facts of the case, which concerned obscuring two 16-year-old notices about home foreclosure published in a Spanish newspaper.While this has brought more hitchhikers than ever before to the edge of the data protection galaxy, most haven’t yet appreciated the scale of what they’re facing.The reality is that the broader edifice of data protection presents very troubling tensions when individual data protection rights confront other fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and rights to information.At the root of this is the fact that data protection’s core concern is with information about individuals - not necessarily harmful, nor prejudicial information - just information about you and me. So in scope, it covers matters that may warrant protection (substantive as well as procedural), but it also overreaches dramatically. Its sheer breadth creates enforcement problems, meaning that the regime is only patchily enforced and respected.It is important to acknowledge this openly, because while the process of entrenching a slightly-updated data protection lawcontinuesinexorably at the European Commission, the replacement regulation maintains the same core structure. It is a structure that claims to extend to almost everything we do online.If we look at the data protection galaxy beyond the limited compass of the May ruling, there are some formidable black holes looming. These are above and beyond anything discussed so far in the debate.Black holes, frombloggersto sensitive dataGoogle has pointed to a couple of the black holes of data protection. The restrictive scope of what constitutes “journalism” is one; while concerns about research, court rulings, and the historical record, are another.The black hole of sensitive data, from 16’13 to 19’28, with Dr David Erdos of Cambridge University. Video: Daniel Bates/Jonny ColemanOne particularlyglaring black holeis the prohibition on processing “sensitive data” - defined as “personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade-union membership, and the processing of data concerning health or sex life”, as well as “offences, criminal convictions or security measures”.The staggering scope of this prohibition - which, read literally, effectively entirely bans Google’s processing of such information without waiver - is unconstrained by the public interest. If we are making an exception - which indeed we are, if we agree thatRolf Harrisshouldn’t be permitted to ask Google to delete articles concerning him and the recent sex abuse convictions, for example - then that exception needs to be made explicit. At the moment, this is a huge lacuna in the European ruling.The challenges of data protection in the modern era are extensive. The issues that will be raised in the several hours of publicity around Google’s Grand Tour will scrape the surface. But as we move to entrenching the governing regime for another 20 years, it is high time to open up the dustydirectiveand the replacementregulation, and to confront their true import.•Right to be Forgotten is a false right, Spanish editor tells Google panel
“Just caught up with the Apple announcements,”commentedBarry Collins, a freelance technology and football writer, on Twitter. “Cook’s Apple has turned into a follower rather than a leader.”It is easy to see why he would think that. New phones with 4.7in and 5.5in screens aren’t new – Android phone makers have been offering devices in those sizes for years. As for mobile payments, Google introduced its Wallet offering in September 2011.And the not-yet-for-sale Apple Watch joins a busy category of devices. It feels as if Samsung launches one every month and Google has planted a big stake in the ground with Android Wear, capably assisted by Samsung, LG and Motorola.The accusation of being a follower, not a leader, is one regularly thrown at Apple. The Lisa, which predated the more famous Macintosh, was not the first personal computer with a mouse-controlled interface; Xerox developed that and Apple paid for it, with stock. The iMac was not the first all-in-one PC, though it was the first to use industrial design to make it instantly attractive – the first time Jonathan Ive’s design came to notice.The iPod was not the first MP3 player but it combined an innovative method of scrolling through lists of songs with huge storage and, again, imaginative industrial design. (Though the deathless Slashdot comment that it had “Less storage than a Nomad. No wireless. Lame” will never be forgotten.)On the launch of the iPhone, the criticism was that it did not do MMS and did not have 3G. Nokia already dominated smartphones that could do internet connectivity and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile was there already too. Follower.And the iPad? Just a big iPhone: Microsoft had been making tablets for ages.The lesson is that calling Apple a “follower” overlooks what it does best, which is wrap excellent usability into top-quality design, often alongside an innovative interface and then keep iterating to produce a hugely popular product that also wrings huge amounts of money from people.To the latter point, consumers seem satisfied with what Apple offers. Its shares of total sales in PCs and phones has ticked up steadily over the years. Its share of tablet sales is falling along with overall device sales, though that may be due to people simply not renewing them: tablets do not really wear out in the way that phones do.For those reasons, it is dangerous to dismiss what Apple does as “following”. Its track record, combined with the products it showed during its event on Tuesday, has the potential to have enormous and long-term effects.Big phones? Everyone’s done thatYes, Apple introduced phones with larger screens, as other companies have been doing for ages. So it is just copying, right? Except that sources there tell me that the project to build larger phones has been underway for many years. “We’re not stupid,” as one put it to me. But Apple is finicky: just putting a bigger screen on a phone was not enough. It wanted the phone to be thin and the screen to extend all the way across (so there is effectively no bezel) and to sculpt the body from a single piece of metal (for rigidity, plastic would not do).And though the sizes – 4.7in and 5.5in – might appear to be the result of looking at the market and picking the most popular, I understand that deciding on the final pairing involved many prototypes and lots of trial and error. The subtle software touches for the larger screens (bringing the top of a screen down and offering a landscape mode on the 5.5in model that resembles a mini-tablet interface) also needed careful thought. Apple is like a tailor, measuring twice or three times, cutting once.iPhone 6 benefits from the fact that anyone who bought an Android phone because they were frustrated with the size of iPhone screens can pick something much larger. Or put it another way: the only reason Apple will lose customers to Android will be price (because iOS 8 will offer pretty much every functionality – widgets, extensions – that iOS 7 lacked compared to Android).That on its own ought to worry companies like HTC, which is already struggling. Even Samsung, which has so far staked out a position in the 5.5in plus phablet market, might have cause to worry in Asia, where it has previously had no competitor at the premium end of that screen size.Don’t show me the moneyGoogle Wallet has been in the mobile payments space for years. But only in the US, and theGoogle Wallet apphas had fewer than 50m downloads (though more than 10m), only works with Mastercard and has to be locked with a Pin. The review average is 4.0 with a surprising number of one-star reviews that must count towards downloads but not users.Now here comes Apple, which has cut deals with American Express, Visa and Mastercard, and has a fingerprint-based authentication system. You do not need a Pin: your finger does that task. You can add cards by photographing them, upon which they will be stored in a secure enclave in the system. A hacker would not be able to get the card details out once they are in. As Appledescribes it:When you add a credit or debit card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device nor on Apple servers. Instead, a unique device account number is assigned, encrypted and securely stored in the secure element on your iPhone or Apple Watch. Each transaction is authorised with a one-time unique number using your device account number and instead of using the security code from the back of your card, Apple Pay creates a dynamic security code to securely validate each transaction.It is about convenience. TouchID is a remarkably effective system, far better than the fingerprint swiping systems used on other phones; you gently press your finger against the phone’s home button and your fingerprint is read and validated. ApplePay adds near field communication (NFC) to phones and makes it simpler.The cloud on the horizon for Apple is whether theiCloud celebrity pictures hackwill make customers wary about its trustworthiness. The fact that this is TouchID might be the saving grace – though it remains to be seen.In the UK you can already pay for many things using NFC-enabled debit or credit cards. But I find that getting my wallet out and then getting a single card from the sleeves inside is more difficult than taking my phone out. Pull out your phone, push your finger against the home button? Probably simpler than getting your wallet out.And while ApplePay is only in the US for now, Visa Europe says that it will be coming to the UK and beyond in time. (There are protocol differences between the US, and UK and European NFC-enabled transactions – including EMV, aka chip/PIN – to be ironed out.)Apple gets a giant leg up by including this payment system in its own stores – so that the people who eagerly buy its new phones will be able to buy other stuff too. Apple’s stores generate the highest revenue per square foot of any chain in the world; so NFC statistics, which have for years showed woefully low numbers (“we recognise this is a marathon, not a sprint” in thefavoured phraseof a Visa representative) will rocket. It is a certainty. And as more people get NFC-capable iPhones, it will keep growing.To those who think that the simple availability of a technology – such as NFC in Android phones – should be sufficient to drive its use, it does not make sense that Apple offering it will make a difference. If people have not used it with Android, they reason, thennobodywill use it, and Applecertainlycannot make it happen.But that overlooks what Apple does best: software and usability. TouchID is an excellent implementation of fingerprint recognition because you are not really aware it’s doing fingerprint recognition. Users hate configuring stuff; one technology journalist described his experience with Android to me as “terrible – it’s like my desk at work. Covered in crap. And I can’t turn things off”. Android has enormous capability but (rather like Windows) it does not hide them from you, and for the average user that is not a good thing. Apple makes the complex simpler and the experience uniform. It is a safe prediction that it will quickly become the poster child for NFC payments.Note also Apple’s poke in the eye for Google, with Eddy Cue’s remark that “Apple doesn’t collect your purchase history, so we don’t know what you bought, where you bought it or how much you paid for it”. The enmity between the two companies is not easing; Apple now uses privacy as a lever against Google at every opportunity – thoughthe iCloud hackmakes that a risky tactic.It is also worth noting that Apple is not taking a cut from these payments. Enabling mobile payments is, to Apple, simply a method of getting more people to use its stuff. Once the NFC-enabled Watch comes out, it will be able to work with any TouchID-enabled phone, which is already a market of 200 million, according to Tim Cook. Paying by tapping your smartwatch against a terminal really looks like the most streamlined way to pay: you don’t even have to take your phone (or wallet) out of your pocket.Just as the iTunes Music Store made buying an album of music as trivial as clicking a button on the screen in front of you – rather than travelling to a shop or waiting for a CD to arrive from an online store – so NFC payments via TouchID (and the Apple Watch) could reshape how we think about transactions.For those worried – or hopeful – that muggers will be able to steal Apple Watches from people and use them to buy things, the Watch’s authorisation is started by TouchID when you put it on; once off your wrist, the authorisation ends. So muggers should not benefit in that way.Is that the time?Yes, Apple showed off a smartwatch that will not go on sale until next year, meaning it is at least four months away.Apple has form on this: the first iPad was shown off in January 2010 but did not go on sale until April; the first iPhone in January 2007 but not on sale until June. The Watch may need some sort of regulatory approval, though this seems unlikely; far more likely that Apple just wanted to roll everything together.Being cynical, you could say that Apple is preannouncing its product to kill the market for others. I doubt that anyone who wants an Android smartwatch – or even knows what they are – is going to be put off by Apple’s announcement. And those who have only become interested in them since Apple’s announcement were unlikely to be Android Wear customers anyway. So this was probably a market-neutral announcement.Is Apple just rushing to follow Samsung and the others? I understand the project has been underway inside the company for at least three years. The puzzle of what a smartwatch should do and how to use it, is something that to many people – especially those who don’t wear a watch – remains unanswered.For Android Wear, the answer seems to be“tell the user what to do next” (via Google Now).Apple’s answer is different. It’s a mixture of “allow the user to pay for things” (the Watch has NFC) and “let’s see what apps people want”. Rather as there’s no single killer app that makes smartphones so universally useful, the feeling inside Apple – where they have watched others put forward their own offerings – is that the answer, as with smartphones, will be different for everyone.The ability to manipulate the screen with what Apple is calling the “digital crown” (disappointingly off-centre, it’s one of two buttons on the side) seems obvious in retrospect: it enables zooming in and out, or acts as a home button.Yet if it’s so obvious why has nobody else done it? Why does Android Wear make you zoom in and out of a map with two fingers, which is difficult and gets in the way of the screen?Even after a few minutes using unfinished software, it is clear that the Apple Watch will do a lot of things, including notifications and monitoring of health and activity data. It is sure to lead to another app rush.Apple could be accused of being a follower: out of ideas, late to the market. But time and again it has shown that its attention to usability can win over customers. People are being quick to dismiss the Apple Watch based on photos – but in my quick tests you quickly forget it’s there (and I speak as the wearer of a standard, round, thin watch). It’s thinner and much lighter than the Moto 360, which is the most elegant of the Android Wear devices.Don’t write Apple off yet: it follows from the front.• Charles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.iPhone 6 and Apple Watch: what did we learn?RIP iPod
Most mobile app developers are failing to clearly explain how they are collecting, using and disclosing personal information, according to a study by the pan-governmentalGlobal Privacy Enforcement Network(GPEN).Of the 1,200 apps surveyed, 85% failed to disclose how they used information, while 59% of the apps “left users struggling to find basic privacy information”, the organisation said.Simon Rice, the group manager for technology at Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office, which is a member of the GPEN, said: “Today’s results show that many app developers are still failing to provide this information in a way that is clear and understandable to the average consumer.“The ICO and the other GPEN members will be writing to those developers where there is clear room for improvement. We will also be publishing guidance to explain the steps people can take to help protect their information when using mobile apps.”The report found that almost one in three mobile apps “appeared to request an excessive number of permissions to access additional personal information” despite ICOguidance for mobile app developersthat requires personal data be processed “fairly” and “lawfully”.“For processing to be fair, the user must have suitable information about the processing and they must to be told about the purposes,” the organisation warns. “Fairness is also about using information in ways that people would reasonably expect.”Long lists of permission requests are becoming increasingly common when users download apps. In August, Facebook experienced a backlash after it made its Messenger app mandatory for users in the US, requiring a long list of permissions for the Android version including access to audio recordings, photos and videos, phone numbers, text messages and contacts, as well as almost thirty other functions.The reaction was so fierce that the company postedan explanationof why it requested so many permissions, arguing that because “Android controls the way the permissions are named… the way they’re named doesn’t necessarily reflect how the Messenger app and other apps use them”.The ICO says it will not share the names of the apps that failed its tests at this time.UK privacy watchdog seeks ‘stronger powers’ and better funding
You might notice that lots of the things you try to do online today seem slow. But it is not your internet connection, your router or your computer – the internet is staging a protest.It is protesting about theUS legislationdue to be brought in by the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) about “net neutrality” – essentially whether the internet should run at one speed for all companies and services, or should be divided into a fast and a slow lane.If the legislation is successfully passed, companies including Google, YouTube, Netflix and Amazon will probably have to pay for a higher speed internet connection to continue to stream video and other internet services at the same rate they do now to avoid users being infuriated by slow loading times and stuttering video.LoadingWhy is it slow today?10 September is “internet slowdown day”, organised byBattle for the Netwith 68 different internet companies and organisations to illustrate what the internet could be like if the laws are passed and the internet is divided into a fast and a slow lane.What’s happening?The internet isn’t really slowing down. The companies involved – which include Twitter, Reddit, Netflix, Vimeo and Mozilla – are just simulating, and will place symbols like the spinning pinwheel or other loading-style animations on their site to make it seem like the internet is slowing down.Who’s involved?Almost all the big-name US streaming or image sites are taking part, including Netflix and Vimeo, as are image site Imgur, Tumblr, news sites like Digg and Reddit, plus Firefox browser developer Mozilla and WordPress, which powers some of the biggest blogs on the internet. Twitter and the crowdfunding site Kickstarter are also taking part.The majority of the companies are based in the US but also serve users in the UK and around the world.What can I do?The protest will try to illustrate what the internet could be like with the new US legislation and will lead users to sign a petition to the US Congress to stop the proposed rules from the FCC.For those who just want rid of the banners, loading screens and simulated slow internet, wait a day and it should all be over. Of course, your internet might actually be slow today, but rebooting your router normally fixes that.•Net neutrality: an internet slowdown•Net neutrality: what is it and why does it matter?
SnapChat has settled a long-running lawsuit with its co-founder, Frank “Reggie” Brown, who had accused chief executive Evan Spiegel and chief technology officer Bobby Murphy of unfairly removing him from the company.Brown claimed in the suit that co-founders Spiegel and Murphy failed to appropriately credit or compensate him for his contributions to the company, including the original idea of disappearing photo messages and patents for SnapChat.“We are pleased that we have been able to resolve this matter in a manner that is satisfactory to Mr Brown and the company,” said Spiegel in a press release – which was issued during a busy Apple product launch on Tuesday.‘We acknowledge Reggie’s contribution’“We acknowledge Reggie’s contribution to the creation of Snapchat and appreciate his work in getting the application off the ground,” concluded Spiegel.The settlement is described as being on “mutually agreeable terms” but those terms were not disclosed. The statement from SnapChat acknowledges that “Reggie Brown originally came up with the idea of creating an application for sending disappearing picture messages while he was a student at Stanford University” and that “he then collaborated with Spiegel and Murphy on the development of Snapchat during its early and most formative days”.The lawsuit has been going on for more than a year and a half with many attempts at settlement. Brown was seeking significant damages in the $100s of millions. Snapchat was recently valued at $10bn.•Snapchat funding may give it $10bn valuation as revenue stays at zero•Regulators reprimand Snapchat over false claims about messaging service
Apple’s highly anticipated entry into the world of wearable technology is the Apple Watch, CEO Tim Cook announced on Tuesday.The Apple Watch will monitor health and fitness, tracking the wearer’s movement, heartrate and activity with built-in sensors, feeding the information into Apple’s Health app for the iPhone and iPad and allowing review and analysis of the data.“This is the most personal device we’ve ever created,” said Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook. “We’ve set up to make the best watch in the world. One that is precise. It’s synced with a universal time standard.”It uses a button on the side of the watch - dubbed the “digital crown” by Apple - which turns like a jog dial for adjusting functions including zooming and setting the time – no pinching to zoom required. It also functions as the home button.The screen is covered by a curved sapphire glass touchscreen that can differentiate between a tap and a touch, and vibrates with alerts using a haptic feedback component and a speaker.The Apple Watch is charged by a wireless, inductive charging pad that magnetically connects to the back of the watch.Three editionsThe smartwatch will be available in three versions: the stainless steel Watch, aluminium Watch Sport and 18c gold Apple Watch Edition. Six different straps will also be available, each with a quick-remove clasp.All three will rely on a iPhone paired using Bluetooth to sync data, and will be compatible with iPhone 5, 5C, 5S, 6 and 6 Plus, but the device will not be available until early 2015. The starting price will be $349 in the US.Apps, taps and touchingSeveral of Apple’s apps will be available on the Watch, including voice-control tool Siri, Messages, Maps as well as information pulled from calendars, email and other iPhone apps.Maps will provide walking directions right on your wrist, buzzing for each turn required in the same way Google Maps operates on Google’s Android Wear smartwatches. Siri will be accessible through the side button, as will voice dictation.The watch has a quick-reply panel on the face board for messages and suggests text or emoticons for a reply - perhaps for when dictating a reply isn’t appropriate.Apple’s new payment tool Apple Pay will also be available on the Apple Watch, allowing users to pay for goods and services in the US using the watch like a contactless credit card.Hundreds of third-party apps, including Twitter and Facebook, will also be available, arranged in clusters for easier launching on the smaller screen, zooming in using the digital crown.Apple also includes a new communication app called digital touch, which allows users to share taps, small drawings and even their heartbeat with other Apple Watch users.The Apple Watch can also control music playing on iPhone or iPad devices around it, as well as storing music locally on the Watch, playing through Bluetooth headphones.Health and fitnessApple’s focus on fitness extends to the Apple Watch, which can be plugged into the existing iPhone Health app so that fitness data can be shared with third-party apps.Two new apps, Fitness and Workout, track different levels of activity. The Fitness records general activity, steps and calories burned throughout the day, similar to fitness trackers currently on the market like the Misfit Shine or Jawbone Up, but also notes how sedentary the wearer has been and encourages them to move throughout the day.The Workout app tracks activity for custom workouts, acting like a personal trainer and responding to the wearer’s heartrate and movement.Tough competitionWith as much as 70% of the market for smartphones saturated in developed markets, gadget makers have released a slew of smartwatches in the past few years to try and create appetite for a new type of device. In 2013 9.7m wearables, including fitness trackers and smartwatches, were sold worldwide according to data from research firm CCS Insight. That number is expected to reach 22.3m in 2014.Earlier this month more than 10 rival smartwatches were released at IFA, Europe’s largest electronics trade show in Berlin, with devices by Samsung, Sony, Asus and Motorola all launching smartwatches - and many running Google’s Android Wear software.But wearable technology has struggled to become mainstream, with few convincing use cases and ugly designs for devices failing to convince consumers to replace their wrist watches. Smartwatches have also been shown to have a high rate of abandonment too, with one third of Americans ditching the devices within six months of trying them according toresearch by Endeavour partners. Many devcies have launched in time for the Christmas market, but the Apple Watch will not launch until 2015.
Apple has announced two new, larger iPhones as it aims to meet consumer demand for larger “phablet” smartphones.The iPhone 6 and iPhone Plus have bigger screens, fingerprint sensors and mobile wallet services for allowing smartphones to be used like contactless debit and credit cards.The new devices are the largest iPhones with new “Retina HD” screens covered in ion-strengthen – no mention of Sapphire crystal as rumoured before the launch.The iPhone 6 has a 4.7in screen – compared with the current 4in screen of the iPhone 5S – while the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5in screen.The phones are also thinner – 6.9mm for the iPhone 6 and 7.1mm for the iPhone 6 Plus – with all-metal backs and glass that curves around the edges of the phone, marking the biggest design changes since the introduction of the iPhone 4 in 2010, reminiscent of the original iPhone, which was introduced in 2007.The power buttons have moved from the top of the smartphone to the side, similar to most Android and Windows Phone smartphones with larger screens, making it easier to turn on and off with one hand.Phablets and big-screened phonesApple hopes the new iPhones will allow it to continue dominating the smartphone market, which has recently seen a trend for larger smartphones with screen sizes in excess of 5in becoming standard from manufacturers including Samsung, Sony, Microsoft and HTC.The iPhone 6 Plus is aimed at the phablet category – a halfway house between a smartphone and a tablet – made popular by Samsung’s Galaxy Note series of smartphones.It allows users to run software in a landscape orientation, similar to Apple’s iPad tablet computers, for greater productivity, while a double tap on the home button moves apps and content to the lower half of the screen for easy one-handed use.Boosted batteryBoth iPhones will be powered a new A8 processor that is 25% faster than the previous iPhone and 50% more power efficient for increased battery life.Apple expects the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus to outlast the iPhone 5S by at least an hour while browsing on Wi-Fi for example. Both new iPhones will also be able to make calls over Wi-Fi, if used on EE’s mobile phone network in the UK.Apple has also improved the camera, fitting the new iPhones with an eight-megapixel camera using focusing technology often found in dSLR cameras, for fast and accurate photos. The iPhone 6 Plus also has optical stabilisation for removing camera shake, especially in low light situations.The new camera can also shoot video at 240 frames per second to create super slow motion videos, double the rate of the current iPhone 5S.Both the iPhones will be available in three colours gold, silver and space grey, with three storage variants – 16, 64 and 128GB – starting at $199 and $299 respectively on two-year mobile phone contracts in the US.Pre-orders will be available online on 12 September to ship on the 19 September.How Twitter reacted when Apple’s launch did not go according to planiPhone 6 to feature mobile walletiPhone 6 and Apple Watch: what did we learn?
Microsoft is reportedly in discussions to buy Mojang, the Swedish games studio behind the multimillion-selling building game, Minecraft.The Wall Street Journal has spoken to a source who claims the deal could be tied up as early as next week, for a figure in the region of $2bn.With over 100 million users worldwide, Minecraft has risen from indie obscurity to huge success since its launch in November 2011. The game, which allows players to construct their own buildings out a variety of virtual materials, is available on PC, consoles and smartphones. Last year Mojang, currently a privately owned company, made revenues of $326m, the vast majority from Minecraft.The studio’s founder, Markus “Notch” Perrson, has previously rejected attempts to buy the company. In 2011 games-publisher Electronic Arts issaid to have made a bid. However, it could be that the developer, which employs just 40 people, would like to release itself from management tasks to concentrate on creating games. In June,there was controversyin the Minecraft community when Mojang tried to enforce rules about how server providers could monetise the game.Although originally a PC game, Minecraft has been a huge hit on the Xbox 360 selling over 12 million copies. Buying Mojang and securing exclusive console access to further updates would provide Microsoft with a strong weapon in the sales battle with Sony’s PlayStation 4 machine. It would also doubtless lead to the game’s availability on Microsoft smartphones and smoother compliance with Windows 8 PCs. In 2012,Perrson said he’d rather not have the game on the operating systemwhere it would support what he saw as a more restrictive and controlling Windows environment.There is no official word from either Mojang or Microsoft at this point.How Minecraft bewitched 40 million of us
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFrom Shane Dawson to Jenna Marbles: online stars rewriting fame &gt;&gt; VarietyThe biggest YouTube star is Felix Kjellberg, a 24-year-old Swede known as PewDiePie to his 29 million subscribers, whom he delights with daily videos in which he simply plays videogames while cracking jokes. Kjellberg recently revealed that his channel grossed $4m in ad revenue in 2013."The biggest stars in the space aren't making the same type of money that traditional celebrities are," said Brent Weinstein, head of digital media at UTA. "But they're catching up."Moreover, there is a "long tail of digital creators" who make higher incomes than the rank-and-file of traditional actors, Weinstein said. According to YouTube, several thousand channel partners earn six-figure incomes through the vidsite.WME digital agent Avi Gandhi said he's seeing an increasing number of online stars making seven figures a year, with some approaching eight. As the ad business — which has had 70 years of buying on TV — starts figuring out that the Internet is a missed opportunity, even more dollars will pour into the ecosystem. "These digital stars, a lot of them, have online audiences bigger than TV shows," Gandhi noted.Amazon updates its app to 5.0 with Instant Video Streaming app &gt;&gt; Android PoliceAmazon has finally (finally!) brought its Prime Instant Video service to Android devices with an Instant Video app available through its own app store.The news comes as part of an update to version 5.0 of Amazon's own app in the Play Store, which sees a broader content shift - the new Amazon app allows users to access Amazon's entire digital catalog, meaning that - besides instant video content - users can shop for (and install) apps from Amazon's app store. This ostensibly makes the Amazon App Store app obsolete, though the old app will still need to hang around on your device to verify apps that use Amazon's optional DRM system. Whether this will change in the future is unclear.• Chart: Consumer interest In iWatch depends on its price &gt;&gt; StatistaAccording to the results of a survey published by investment firm Piper Jaffray in June, 31% of the respondents would be willing to pay between $100 and $200 for the rumoured iWatch, and only 15% would be willing to pay more than $300. Considering that the respondents in Piper Jaffray's survey skew affluent with an average household income of $130,000, the willingness to pay in the general population is probably even lower.Price of Apple Watch: $349. Let's see how this pans out.Meet the unashamed 33-year-old who brought the stolen celebrity nudes to the masses &gt;&gt; The Washington PostCaitlin Dewey:We've known for a long time that Reddit is something of a feeding ground for the Internet media — it is,as I put it in May, the "plankton of the digital information ecosystem," the stuff on which the rest of the internet feeds. But even within Reddit, there are hierarchies that include individuals who, like [Fappening subreddit creator] John, have enormous control over the flow of information. Because we never know most mods' names, and because Reddit's moderation policy is militantly hands-off, they rarely face the type of scrutiny common in other, traditional media structures.Many would argue that's a good thing. Reddit is, after all, a longtime corporate advocate of free speech and the open Internet, a platform founded on the principle that Internet users should be able to say and read and gawk at whatever the hell they want. Perhaps [Jennifer] Lawrence and the other victims of "The Fappening" feel differently.In either case, John's social footprint seems to indicate a guy who falls on the radical transparency side of the spectrum — who believes in making personal information public, no matter how intimate or embarrassing it turns out to be.These 3D printed skeleton keys can pick high-security locks in seconds &gt;&gt; WIREDAndy Greenberg:One of the hairier unintended consequences of cheap 3-D printing is that any troublemaker can duplicate a key without setting foot in a hardware store. But clever lockpickers like Jos Weyers and Christian Holler already are taking that DIY key-making trick a step further: They can 3-D print a slice of plastic or metal that opens even high-security locks in seconds, without even seeing the original key.Weyers and Holler's trick is to 3-D print a "bump" key, which resembles a normal key but can open millions of locks with a carefully practiced rap on its head with a hammer.Which Googler holds the record for living at Google HQ? &gt;&gt; QuoraI'm pretty sure it's me.1. Ben Discoe, Google [x] UI programmer.2. October 2011-November 2012 (13 months).3. Main reasons: I had a house payment (on my farm in Hawaii) and alimony to pay. No money left for South Bay rental prices.  I got a 1990 GMC Vandura custom conversion van for $1800 (blue velour, wood paneling, previously tricked out by a burner) and that (roughly speaking) was my entire rent for the 13 months.Interestingly, many parallels to Brandon Oxendine: twin mattress from IKEA, curtains on the windows, and eventually ended up in the SF Mission.There is a page on the (old, internal) Google wiki called "Living at Google" which unfortunately can't be shared, but it's really funny, and I added useful tips to it.Policies to prevent (or encourage!) this: Not really. It is very likely technically in violation of some obscure code or city ordinance. Google Security came by very early on, but once they determined that the guy in the mysteriously parked white van was just an eccentric Googler and not the Unabomber, they never came by again.Anyone read The Circle by Dave Eggers?Customer update on payment breach &gt;&gt; Home DeportLast Tuesday, September 2, we disclosed that we were investigating a possible breach of our payment data systems. We want you to know that we have now confirmed that those systems have in fact been breached, which could potentially impact any customer that has used their payment card at our US and Canadian stores, from April forward. We do not have any evidence that the breach has impacted stores in Mexico or customers who shopped online at HomeDepot.com.We apologize for the frustration and anxiety this causes our customers.We also want to emphasize that you will not be responsible for any fraudulent charges to your accounts, and we're offering free identity protection services, including credit monitoring, to any customer who has shopped at a Home Depot store in 2014, from April on.The actual title of the page on which this appears is "Statement 1". These breakins are wonderful for the identity protection services in the US.Here's more: anyone who paid using NFC (card or phone) won't have to worry. AsDave Birch explained in 2010:If you scan my Barclays debit card, the data that you get from the contactless interface is not sufficient to create a cloned EMV card (contact or contactless) because it's a DDA (dynamic data authentication) card and you need the private key to forge it. The data isn't sufficient to create a cloned magnetic stripe card because it gives up the ICVV and not the CVV. The data isn't sufficient to use the card online because it doesn't give up the CV2. So all you can get, even if I don't notice you waving a POS terminal an inch from my arse, is the name, card number and expiry date (none of which are secret).Amazon.com: Customer Reviews: Amazon Fire Phone, 32GB (AT&amp;T) &gt;&gt; AmazonLooking at these (191 at the time of tagging), and the spread of marks (almost equal between 5-star and 1-star; lower but almost equal between the others, to give an average of 3.1) shows that Amazon is quite some way outside its comfort zone.HP's 'Chromebook killer' isn't as cheap as Microsoft promised &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:Microsoft launched its own price assault on Chromebooks earlier this year, promising a $199 HP Stream PC and cheaper windows tablets in general. While Asus has managed to create its own $199 Windows laptop, HP's latest Stream laptop will debut for $299 instead of $199, despite Microsoft COO Kevin Turnerpromising otherwise.Oh.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. The day of Destiny!
The Nintendo Entertainment System. It’s thebest sellingvideo console of all time and the platform for some classic titles:The Legend of Zelda,Kung-Fu Master,Metroid,Super Mario BrosandPinball. But according to today’s teenagers, it “looks like a brick from the 1920s”.In avideothat has been viewed over 4.5 million times since it was uploaded on 9 September, youngsters – aged between 15 and 19 – struggled to plug the NES in and boot it up, before they were advised of the age-old trick of blowing on the game cartridge to remove all the dust, spider webs and general debris that might be nestling in there.Traversing the sparse, green first level of Super Mario Bros, one gamer remarks that she “feels like she’s inRekjavik”, while another comments on the console’s snazzy, beige colour scheme.Teens pick up the NES, the all-time best-selling games console. Credit: YouTube“Reaction videos” have been hugely popular onYouTubefor a while. The Fine Brothers’React YouTube channelalso includes teenagers bemused by theinternet in the ‘90s, and playingMike Tyson’s Punch-Up!(on NES). From the other end of the telescope the channel also shows older peopletaking on Oculus Rift. The verdict? “It looks like something you wear for the Ebola crisis.”Older people check out Oculus Rift. Credit: YouTubeWhat are your memories of the NES? Let us know in the thread below.•Mario and Luigi join Instagram (kind of)
There was only one Super Evil Megacorp on stage atApple’s iPhone 6 and Apple Watch eventtoday, and no, it wasn’t the company run by Tim Cook.Super Evil Megacorpis the US-based startup whose upcoming iOS gameVainglorygot a prominent demo slot during the launch, turning co-founder Tommy Krul intoan unintentional meme due to his scarf.Actually, the game is much more interesting than the scarf. It’s the most hardcore game ever shown during an Apple keynote: a multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) title that’s shaping up as iOS’ equivalent of PC games like League of Legends and Dota 2.“We really only wanted to go down this road if we felt like the experience was going to be faithful to the core community, and for what the expectations of a real, honest-to-goodness core game would be like,” said co-founder Stephan Sherman, when he and Krul sat down with The Guardian after the event.“For it to feel like a legitimate MOBA, certain things had to be in place. It had to be a skill game, it had to be fair, it had to have zone defence, and players had to know what their roles were, where to go, and how to interact with their teammates in a way that was useful,” he said.“It had to be tactically competent: it couldn’t be reduced so far down that you couldn’t have the skill depth and the element of overpowering your opponent mentally, and trapping them.”But back up for a second. If you’re new to the MOBA genre, one way to think of it is as a bit like Capture The Flag, with two players trying to capture (or more likely destroy) one another’s bases with their teams of heroes. Strategy is everything, including the aspect of trapping.“It’s like a box on a stick with a little bit of cheese in it, and you’re trying to get the mouse to come in so you can yank the stick and close it,” said Sherman.“That mechanic is at the heart of any good competitive game, whether it’s chess, or Counter-Strike, or Street Fighter or Vainglory. Any hardcore game that has stood the test of time has that fundamental mechanic of luring the other player in and trying to trap them. It never gets old.”So, that’s a big part of Vainglory, as are what Krul promises are rock-solid controls – “30-millisecond response time, or shorter” – to ensure that if players make a mistake, they can’t blame shonky touchscreen controls.Vainglory is set on a parallel version of the earth, with the backstory including two sleeping gods – one in the heart of earth and another in the heart of the moon – with the former secreting then releasing “halcyon” through geyser-like eruptions on the surface.The world is split into two kinds of areas: The Calm, with less halcyon eruptions and more stability for humans to live, and The Churn, where the eruptions of “raw god essence – it’s the thing that makes magic work” spell danger.However, people still venture into The Churn with “vain crystals” to capture the halcyon and take it back to their settlements: and it’s the battles for this – one team always starts with possession of an erupting halcyon well while the other is trying to capture it – that spurs Vainglory’s action.There’s also tension: what Sherman described as the “ebb and flow” of great MOBA games. “A MOBA at its core is not a brawler: a constant stream of action. It’s 95% about setup,” he said.“It’s preparation, gauging how good your opponent is at what they’re doing, and laying traps for them and luring them in – or being counter-trapped by them. It’s that mental mind game where you watch things explode into super-intensity. That’s really important.”Individual games of Vainglory average around 20 minutes, although Sherman said close ties might stretch to half an hour, while one-sided “stomps” might be more like 10-15 minutes.“The amount of time a game takes is long enough that players get an emotional investment in the game, but short enough that the action feels a lot more tightly packed than you see in a lot of the more common MOBAS,” he said.“It’s about having the things you talk about after the game is done. If the game is too short, you won’t have them. If the game is too long, everyone gets bored,” added Krul.“We’ve worked towards an optimal point where the game can still be fun to jump into and play for a bit, and doesn’t require the hour-plus investment that something like League of Legends of Dota 2 takes, but it’s still long enough that you have those four, five, six or seven encounters during the game, and you talk about them later.”Krul said that Super Evil Megacorp, whichraised a $15m funding round in June, has encountered plenty of scepticism about its plans to make a hardcore MOBA work on mobile devices, even if it’s not the first such game to try its luck on iOS.“It’s really a supply and demand thing. There aren’t a lot of truly good core games on the platform,” he said.“People have over the years come to associate iPhone and iPad with planting some crops and, y’know, games that maybe are fun for kids to move around and do some swiping, but not the stuff you play on your console or PC.”Vainglory being shown at Apple’s iPhone 6 launchThe company’s bet is that a lot of hardcore gamers do own tablets (or, soon, the larger-screened phones like the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus) and that if they’re provided with the right games, they’ll play on those devices.“We’ve been testing this in a few territories, and we found that people play on average for an hour and 20 minutes a day. That’s a level of engagement we could only dream of when we started making the game,” said Krul.“Most people when we started were like ‘why would anyone want to play anything that is not Fruit Ninja? People only play in the bus, they only play really quick…’ But we’ve found that’s not only the case.”Super Evil Megacorp developed its own engine for Vainglory, and has recently been working with Apple’s Metal framework – announced at its WWDC show in June – to get the game up and running on iOS.Vainglory will be a free-to-play game that makes its money from in-app purchases: a model that has been relatively uncontroversial for PC games like Dota 2 and League of Legends, but has provoked more debate among its target demographic of core players on mobile.“Our game is not pay-to-win. There’s a temptation there on mobile, because it seems like an easy win – a way to get cash, but in a competitive game that cuts your knees out from under you. And even if it didn’t, it just doesn’t fit with the DNA of our company,” said Sherman.“We like spending a lot of time to think of ways that feel engaging and fun and fair to players, when we think about how monetisation works.”That means no use of “energy” mechanics, where players have a certain amount of energy that runs out through playing, and then makes them either wait to play again, or spend virtual currency to remove that wait.“We’re not going to have energy mechanics. That stuff is just horrible. I believe that in some ways, it’s bad for the platform,” said Krul.“We spend a lot of time thinking about positive reinforcement mechanics rather than negative ones. Rather than removing a frustration by paying, you’re complementing the play experience by paying, but not in a way that’s pay-to-win,” added Sherman.“We have a couple of really interesting ideas on that front, but we can’t share them yet. It’s not pay-to-win, and it’s going to be fun, engaging and fair.MOBA games aren’t just popular for people playing them: they’re hugely popular for people watching, as e-sports – competitive gaming for an audience – has taken off through sites like Twitch.60m people watched games on Twitch this summer, with League of Legends the most popular game, and Dota 2 in fourth place. Is Super Evil Megacorp thinking about what this trend means for mobile games like Vainglory?“Spectation on these games is huge, and we’re definitely looking into that,” said Krul. “It’s huge for us: the idea that someone could be playing Vainglory, but they can also take out their phone and watch any of the games currently going on. Stay tuned.”“Twitch released their [mobile] SDK, and there are a handful of games using that. We’re watching those things pretty closely,” added Sherman. “We think there is definitely a large part of the experience that’s in spectation.”Vainglory is being tested in a few countries in Asia, but its full global launch will start in October. Krul warned that it will be a slow rollout from country to country, though.“If you’ve ever followed any server-based games that go live, everyone always fucks it up. The slower you can do it, the better, and you have to verify every single step along the way to make sure your servers aren’t melting down,” he said.For now, Vainglory is an iOS exclusive, but its developer’s game engine – named E.V.I.L. – has been designed to be multi-platform, so it’s possible (and, if the game does well, nigh-on inevitable) that it will launch on Android later.Once Vainglory is launched, the company is hoping to attract players new to the MOBA genre, as well as veterans. It’s currently working on ways to make the game accessible to the former, without feeling dumbed down for the latter.“We wanted it to be approachable, but deceptively deep,” said Sherman. “We have some cool ideas about how we are going to onboard players who are new to the genre.”Krul chipped in. “It’s like the layers of an onion: you have to create a core which is actually very deep, and then you build the shells around it that allow people to easily get into the game,” he said.“It’s about converting players from ‘Let’s check out what this game is because it looks kinda cool’ to ‘Holy shit! There’s actually a lot of stuff here and I’m enjoying myself for hours on end. That’s where the magic happens, and that’s what we’ll hopefully be able to do.”•The 40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)• Stuart Dredge’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.
Apple is belatedly joining an evolutionary shift that has been driving the rest of the phone market for years. Its new larger screened phones will principally chase users in its two biggest markets: China and the US – but also gives it the weapons to compete directly with Android handset makers who staked a claim to large-screened handsets years earlier.While the iPhone’s screen crept up from 3.5in (measured diagonally) to 4in in 2012 with the launch of the iPhone 5, other manufacturers – notably their chief rival Samsung – have been pushing first above 4.5in and then over 5in and 5.5in.Consumers clearly want bigger screens. In the US, RBC Capital Markets in June found that 35% of people who would not otherwise consider a new iPhone would do so for a larger screen. Kantar Research alsofoundthat screen size was the most important element of the phone design in driving users’ choices, cited by 42%.Apple is playing catch-up to Android handset makers, which began offering larger screens years ago in response to strong demand in Asia, as well as to differentiate themselves from Apple. That gave them some crucial leverage:an internal presentation from Apple, presented as evidence by Samsung in a trial over patents, showed executives concerned in April 2013 that “consumers want what we don’t have” – larger-screened phones.Jana, which surveys consumers in Africa and Asia,points outthat since 2007 the average size of a smartphone screen has grown from 2.6in to 4.86in.But for Apple’s slow approach to introducing a larger screen, that average would be larger; Apple shipped 13.5% of all smartphones in the first half of 2014, and most were 4in, with a significant proportion being the older iPhone 4 and 4S, with 3.5in screens. (BlackBerry, which still offers 3in screens on older BB7 phones, was 0.4% of smartphone shipments in the first half of the year.)Bigger is preferred. Over half the respondents in a recent survey in emerging economies including Kenya and Vietnam expected their next smartphone to have a screen over 5in.Samsung in particular has a powerful position in the so-called “phablet” (phone-tablet) market, defined variously as phones with screens over 5in or 5.5in (the precise definition varies between research companies). From the first Galaxy Note, introduced in 2011 with a then-gigantic 5.3in screen, to the latest Galaxy Note 4, with a 5.7in screen, Samsung has dominated the space, with an estimated 14% of the installed base of the rapidly growing segment.Samsung intends to retain that status despite challenges from China’s Huawei and Xiaomi:speakingat IFA last week, the executive vice-president of its mobile business, Lee Young-hee, said: “We have both the originality and leadership in the global market’s high-end segment for large-screened smartphones, though many other smartphone manufacturers, including Apple, are increasingly looking into this segment … With our long-accumulated experience and know-how in related technologies such as multi-tasking control and digital pen-writing, I believe we can maintain our leadership.”For Samsung, that could be crucial: profits at its electronics division dipped in the second quarter, along with smartphone shipments, and Apple’s entrance into this space will test brand loyalty.Phablets will become an increasingly important part of the phone market, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC). In aforecast this monthit says that this year more phablets will be sold than laptop computers worldwide, 175m against 170m – and that in 2015, the number will hit 318m, outdistancing 233m tablets. (IDC defines a phablet as a phone with a screen between 5.5in and 7in.)In the context of the smartphone market, which is expected to hit 1.2bn this year, 5.5in+ “phablets” will be just under 15% of shipments. But more and more phones have screens larger than 5in, an alternative definition of “phablet”.For Apple, which sees China as a gigantic market to be tapped, larger-screened phones are certain to drive many extra sales, even over the number it already has: China is reckoned to have around 120m iPhone users – making it the the largest – more than the US, which has about 74maccording to data from July from ComScore.The biggest point in Apple’s favour, though, is that it can use its larger-screened phones to appeal to two groups: existing iPhone customers wanting something bigger and users of Android phones whose key consideration is screen size.• Charles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.
Apple has unveiled its much awaited smartwatch, the first significant product launch from the company since the launch of the iPad and the first that has been fully developed under the leadership of thechief executive Tim Cook.The Apple Watch, which will be available from early next year, will combine health and fitnesstracking, including heart rate monitoring, with communications. It will also be able to store music, provide directions when the wearer is walking, send messages and allow access to hundreds of third-party apps, such as Twitter and Facebook.iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.At the unveiling in Cupertino, California, Cook called it "the most personal device we've ever created". The launch of the watch, along with two new iPhone models and a smartphones cashless payment system, comes amid increasing pressure from investors, worried about a perceived lack of innovation following the death of Apple's co-founder Steve Jobs.The new versions of the iPhone have larger screens, in a move to catch up with the growing demand for larger phones, from Asia particularly. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus come with a 4.7in and 5.5in screen. The watch screen display is controlled via a crown on the side of the phone, which turns like a traditional jog dial and adjusts functions on the watch, such as zooming and time setting. It also has a touch screen."We're at a compelling beginning, designing technology to be worn, to be truly personal," saidJonathan Ive, the British head designer at Apple, as he introduced the range.Cook added: "We've been working on it for a long time."An array of designs and straps were shown on stage, before the audience rose to give Cook a standing ovation. The device will be available in three editions: the stainless steel Watch, aluminium Watch Sport, and 18c gold Apple Watch Edition. All three need a constant wireless connection to an iPhone&nbsp;to operate and will start at $349 in the US.The screen is covered by a curved sapphire glass screen touch screen that can also detect pressure as well as simple touch to differentiate between a tap and a touch. Several of Apple's apps will be available on the Watch, including Siri, Messages, Maps and lots of at-a-glance information pulled from calendars, email and other apps on an iPhone.Apple Watch.The watch feeds the health information into Apple's Health app for the iPhone and iPad, allowing review and analysis of the data.Apple Watch also includes a new communication app called digital touch, which allows users to tap the screen and send a virtual poke to another wearer, as well as send small drawings and even a heart beat.The wearable technology market is a growth area for mobile technology as smartphones reach a 70% saturation point in developed markets including the US and UK. Rival watch and wearable device makers are keeping a wary eye on Apple, which up-ended the music industry and drove once dominant phone makers like Blackberry to the brink of extinction, and whose iPad helped shrink personal computer sales for a time before they recently recovered."Wearables" have been the subject of intense focus over the past year as Samsung, LG, and most recently Motorola have launched their own "smartwatches" using Google's Android system.But analysts forecast that Apple would rise to dominate the market next year. "The wearables market has so far lacked a leader to fire up the masses, and all eyes are on Apple at this point," said eMarketer's senior analyst Cathy Boyle.Cook also hailed a new system to drive mobile payments via smartphones using fingerprint recognition which he said would "create an entirely new category of service".TheApplePay systemaims to kickstart the so far slow-moving market for mobile payments, which banks and credit card companies have struggled to get people to adopt, but could also give Apple growing power in the payments industry. "ApplePay will forever change the way all of us buy things," said Cook.The new iPhone 6 will feature a mobile wallet NFC payment system.The ApplePay system, which works with the newly announced iPhone 6 and 6 Plus phones, stores the details for any customer card on the phone securely in a form that cannot be extracted even if the phone is stolen. Transactions are authenticated by a fingerprint sensor on the phone, sending a onetime "token" via the shortrange NFC system to the retailer's terminal to authorise payments.Eddy Cue, Apple's head of services, emphasised that customer privacy was key.The iPhone is Apple's biggest source of revenue, generating more than 50% of its total sales in any quarter, and the move to introduce larger screens years after rivals such as Samsung will shore up its position as competition intensifies in the smartphone market, where Chinese rivals such as Huawei and Xiaomi have begun to eat into the sales of established players.The Flint Center holds a particular resonance for Apple because it was the location for the launch of the first iMac "marking the rebirth of Apple", said Cook."I usually go through some numbers but today we have so much to go through I'm going to dispense with that other than to say everything's great," Cook said.
For the first time, Apple is venturing into wearable tech with theApple Watch.Announced to much fanfare at an event in Cupertino, the watch has been heralded as “the most personal device” Apple has ever created. Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook said: “We’ve set up to make the best watch in the world. One that is precise. It’s synced with a universal time standard.”The watch will be able to track the wearer’s heart motions, send customisable emojis and allow users to track their fitness. It also comes with six different attachable straps.Apple Watch has customisable emoji: hands, faces etc#AppleLivehttps://t.co/MX5HQhThkK&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)September 9, 2014But what do the consumers think? With a lot of interest in Apple’s new wearable tech ahead of Tuesday’s event, undoubtedly the Apple Watch had some instant fans.@elenacresci@guardiantechI like it! The personalisation means you can change the appearance to suit you. More products will follow also.&mdash; Adrian Lloyd (@adrian_lloyd)September 9, 2014@elenacresciI love how it looks - like a slice of the future for our wrists. Nice clean design.&mdash; Ron (@theronster)September 9, 2014@secretvalley@elenacresciKept it to the apple standard - keeping it simple.&mdash; Jean Bean (@jeannie_cameron)September 9, 2014Particularly those who enjoyed how it would connect with their iPhone:@elenacresci@guardiantechits beautiful &amp; I love the way it will tie to my iPhone.&mdash; Insert coin here (@coldfusionMBE)September 9, 2014@elenacresci@guardiantechI think it’s awesome. The usability of it is pretty amazing. Will cause a seismic shift in the watch industry imo&mdash; Daniel Clutterbuck (@DClutt)September 9, 2014But, many people weren’t convinced. Not only by the price tag:@elenacresci@guardiantechit looks good, but it&#39;s $350!! Will probably be more expensive in UK too.&mdash; Liam DC Nisbet (@LiamDCNisbet)September 9, 2014But also by the look of the watch:@elenacresci@guardiantechit looks like a great#fashionabledevice to wear and beats, hands down, all other wearable out there imo&mdash; Ian Neasham (@TheNeash)September 9, 2014BoredBoredBored09 September 2014 7:23pmOk, so how does that watch work for left-handlers like me who wear their watch on their RIGHT wrist? The crown is in the wrong place - unless there's something they're not telling us yet.@elenacresci@guardiantech. Plain, boring,  and as usual from Apple well over priced&mdash; Adrian (@aidsy8234)September 9, 2014@elenacresciI&#39;m no Apple person, but no fan of these. Interface looks weird. Not hugely nice looking.&mdash; Jonathan Cresswell (@JonathanEx)September 9, 2014.@elenacresciI think the watch looks OK, not sold on the usefulness though.&mdash; Alain Lemay (@Alain_Lemay69)September 9, 2014@elenacresci@guardiantechApart from the shape it&#39;s the thickness of the thing.  The interchangeable bands might help.&mdash; Ben Goodson (@BenGoodson)September 9, 2014@elenacresci@guardiantechin short, wearables are like early hybrid electric cars...not appealing.&mdash; © Peter Syravong (@petersyravong)September 9, 2014DidntReadTheArticle09 September 2014 7:19pmthe watch looks like the ipod nano that I used to have on a wrist strap.What do you think? Are you likely to buy the Apple Watch? Or will you opt for one of its competitors? Let us know in the comments below.
If you’re still waiting in the possible hope thatJennifer Aniston,David Schwimmeret al might get together one more time to sip coffee in Central Perk on the big screen, then something even better might have come along; one fan has used the new Sims video game to recreate the whole thing.The Sims 4was released on Friday of last week, and has already entered the UK all-format games charts at number one, according toGfK chart track. TheEAtitle, which is the only new entry in the top 20, is the latest in a series much loved since its debut in 2000.Players have always modified the Sims to create avatars of their favourite celebrities, evenNicki Minajhas received the treatment. And plenty of famous buildings have been recreated in earlier games, includingthe White Houseand, er,Mariah Carey’s apartment(somewhat creepily), but now one fan of 90s TV has gone even further with the creation of the whole cast and sets ofFriends.ImguruserIanRoachhas painstakingly rendered identical Sim versions of: Phoebe, Joey, Ross, Rachel, Monica and Chandler, and has also copied their apartments, as well as the famous New York cafe.What’s more, he’s done it very well indeed. Take a look at his work below. Unagi.Imgur user IanRoach has recreated Monica and Rachel’s apartment, right down to the lilac wallpaper.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSimsSims versions of the Gellar siblings.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSimsChandler, Joey and Rachel hang out in the boys’ apartment.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSimsRoss, who lives in a different building, chills out in his apartment.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSimsGamer IanRoach has added every detail imaginable to the recreations.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSimsA floorplan of the girls’ flat of Friends.Photograph: Imgur/IanRoach/TheSims•The Sims 4: how composer Ilan Eshkeri brings emotion to the screen
Apple chief executive Tim Cook introduces the new Apple Watch alongside two new iPhones during Apple’s launch event at the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts in Cupertino, California.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPAThe Apple Watch has a touchscreen, but also has a ‘digital crown’ on the side, which turns to act like a traditional jog dial allowing users to zoom and adjust other features without blocking the screen with their fingers.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APThe Watch will run familiar apps from the iPhone, including Siri, Messages, email and Maps, but also run third-party apps like Twitter and Facebook.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe Apple Watch will have many different customisable faces, from traditional analogue faces to digital displays.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe Apple Watch has two new health-tracking applications, which use the motion sensors and heart rate monitor to log a user’s general fitness and specific workouts.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe Apple Watch will come in three different versions, the Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport and the Apple Watch Edition. The watches will also be available in two sizes with either a 38mm or 42mm sized case.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPATwo new iPhones were announced, a 4.7in iPhone 6 and 5.5in 6 Plus, which are both larger than the 4in iPhone 5S.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersThe iPhone 6 and 6 Plus both come with improved 8-megapixel cameras, as shown off by Apple’s head of product marketing Phil Schiller.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APThe camera features new fast autofocus and face tracking features, as well as super slow-motion video recording.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APThe iPhone 6 and 6S are both powered by a 25% faster A8 processor, which is up to 50% more power efficient promising longer battery life.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPAThe 4.7in iPhone 6 and 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus sit alongside the the 4in iPhone 5S and 5C, which will be available for a reduced cost.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPAApple Pay will allow users to pay for goods and services using their iPhone 6 and 6L or Apple Watch like a contactless credit card, but only in the US.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP
8.45pmBSTAnd that was... Apple's big reveal, 2014So - we got:two new, larger iPhones as expected, one 4.7in and one 5.5incontactless payments systemnew Apple Watch device which syncs with iPhone and gathers health dataLast word goes to our resident gadget expert Samuel Gibbs, who has been living and breathing smartwatches since his first review of the Sony Ericsson LiveView back in 2010:“Apple’s highly anticipated smartwatch, the Apple Watch, seems uncharacteristically complicated from the company that prides itself on simplicity and ease of use. Compared to the current Android Wear smartwatches from Google, the Apple Watch seems cluttered with too many features packed onto a small screen. The design also looks bulky and the cost significantly more than others.“Apple’s contactless payment features, advanced health tracking and third-party apps could make the difference, but it seems a difficult sell for users on what we’ve seen today. Apple has about six months to finalise and improve the watch, but it will crucially miss Christmas 2014, which is expected to see wearable technology the gift of the season by analysts.”8.39pmBSTAnd here’s a 3D view - clunky?One of the new Apple Watches put through its#hyperlapsepaces#AppleLivehttps://t.co/J56plDJxlK&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)September 9, 2014Updatedat 8.40pm BST8.13pmBSTHere’s a close up of the watch for your delectation - fresh from Cupertino.Apple Watch - live from Cupertino.Photograph: Guardian8.08pmBSTAnd That’s All Folks! Tim thanks the team, the press for coming and with that our guys@charlesarthurand@stuartdredgeare making a rush for the hands on demonstrations which we will have up as soon as possible.Everything - except the live stream - went according to plan. Two new iPhones, Apple Watch, Apple Pay and U2. What did you think? Let us know in comments. Tech summary coming soon.7.58pmBST“We are the blood in your machines oh Zen master Tim Cook,” Bono tells Apple boss. He just Beyoncéd their new album - Songs of Innocence - for free to iTunes. “We are not kidding that just happened,” says Cook. Yes it did.Cook says half a billion iTunes customers can now download it - making it the biggest album release of all time. Now he’s showing an ad about how excited he is about it. Is this worrying anyone? U2 are getting almost as much play as the Apple Watch. Free iPod Nano to anyone who can name their last album (no, not really).Updatedat 8.12pm BST7.48pmBSTTim Cook moves on to music. “Music runs deep in Apple’s DNA. It runs through the core of all of our products. Apple changed the way people listened to music a decade ago, and iTunes has been at the centre of that experience,” he says.And yes - here we go - it’s U2. Tim could “not be more excited.” Which is nice for him. And of course now, when I wouldn’t mind it cutting out, my feed is perfect.US play their new single at the Apple Watch and iPhone 6 launchPhotograph: ScreenshotUpdatedat 7.53pm BST7.43pmBSTTim Cook is making the case for a massive market for the Apple Watch. “Apple Watch requires the iPhone because it’s been seamlessly designed to work together.” It’ll work with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, but also with the iPhone 5, 5c and 5s. That means there are potentially 200m people out there who could use one.It works with Apple Pay too.The price? $349. When? Early next year.Updatedat 7.46pm BST7.36pmBSTApple Watch - the topline• Two sizes (small and large)• Three models (steel, aluminium and real gold)• Controlled with a “force touchscreen” and “digital crown” scrollwheel• Requires an iPhone to work• Heart monitor built in• Built-in apps including messages, maps, and Siri• 3rd-party apps including Citymapper, Pinterest and Twitter• Wireless charging• Haptic feedbackApple Watch monitors your activityPhotograph: ScreenshotUpdatedat 7.44pm BST7.29pmBSTTim Cook praises former Adobe exec Kevin Lynch, and calls him up on stage to give the first demo of Apple Watch. Lynch says the iPhone “is required with Apple Watch”.Apple Watch has a feature called “glances” where you can swipe to see specific information from various apps that you’ve set up: stock prices, meeting details, music playing on iPhone, iTunes or “the music that’s stored on your Apple Watch”.Kevin Lynch shows Siri working on Apple Watch, and then a demo of Apple Maps. And then: “We thought hard on how to enable a new form of communication… we’ve created something called digital touch.” You can draw and tap on the screen, and the other person feels it on their list. “I’ll just do the triple-tap here for going to lunch,” he says, scribbling a blue fish on the screen to indicate ‘Sushi’7.25pmBSTJohn Dingell, Michigan’s 12th district congressman and king of Twitter, is similarly underwhelmed.I&#39;ve gotten pretty good life out of my Casio watch, to be honest. It tells me the time and even beeps on the hour. What more could you need?&mdash; John Dingell (@john_dingell)September 9, 20147.23pmBSTOh dear. The early reviews are in: “The watch looks like the ipod nano that I used to have on a wrist strap,” saysDidntReadTheArticlein comments.7.20pmBST“What we didn’t do was take the iPhone and shrink the user interface and strap it on your wrist,” says Cook. “Because you wear it, we invented new, intimate ways to connect and communicate.”7.17pmBSTOne More Thing. Having the time of my life. It&#39;s a privilege to work with everyone at Apple.&mdash; Tim Cook (@tim_cook)September 9, 20147.15pmBSTThere will be three collections, each in two sizes. There’s the basic Apple Watch collection, the Sport collection, with a stronger case. And Apple Watch Edition: “Made from 18 carat gold” that’s been developed to be up to twice as hard as standard gold.Apple Watch - 18 karat goldPhotograph: ScreenshotUpdatedat 7.31pm BST7.14pmBSTThe watch has a “unique charging solution” – inductive charging, requiring “no alignment or exposed contacts”.Apple has designed a range of watch faces, with both their appearance and their “capability” able to be personalised. There are six different straps, which are easy to slide in and out. There’s also a “sport band” made from a sweat and chemical-resistant material, but there’s also a leather loop with magnet fasteners; a bright red strap with a shiny buckle; a “leather classic buckle” designed to look like a traditional watch strap; and a stainless steel link bracelet. And a snakey stainless-steel mesh loop.7.14pmBSTApple Watch has a flexible Retina display, laminated to a single crystal of sapphire, the hardest transparent material after diamond. The “Digital Crown” lets you navigate, magnify content, scroll and make selections. It is also very, very covetable.“The display also senses force, quite literally adding a new dimension to the user interface,” says Ive.They should add it to their desktops too so Apple could register people punching the screens when their live broadcasts don’t work.7.10pmBSTThe Apple Watch has a flexible Retina display, says Jony Ive, narrating a video demo. He adds that Apple has designed new input technologies; it can sense force as well as touch. It can “recognise the difference between a tap and a press: this provides instant access to a whole range of contextually specific controls.” The Watch also provides haptic feedback when you’re touching it.“It’s essentially miniaturising an entire computer system onto a single chip,” says Ive, of the Apple Watch’s chipset.7.09pmBSTYes it is. It’s called Apple Watch - why not? - and it’s looking veryMarc Newson, chic and modernist and actually like a watch. “It’s driven Apple from the beginning. This compulsion to take incredibly powerful technology, and make it accessible, relevant, and ultimately, personal,” says Jony Ive, Newson’s buddy and now design partner.Apple WatchPhotograph: Apple7.03pmBSTAnd here we go. Tim Cook is back. Wearables time?One more thing.Photograph: Apple7.03pmBST“We set out to make the best watch in the world,” says Cook. “It’s incredibly customizable, so you can find one that reflects your personal style and tastes. Because you wear it, we invented new intimate ways to connect and communicate directly from your wrist.”“It’s also a comprehensive health and fitness device,” he continues.“What we didn’t do was take the iPhone and shrink the user interface and strap it on your wrist,” says Tim Cook.7.01pmBST“We’ve placed a lot of energy into creating an entirely new payments solution,” says Cook. Who introduced Eddy Cue, senior vice president of Internet Software and Services, to talk about Apple Pay.It uses NFC - as expected. Users can scan and add a card to their iPhone and then pay at participating merchants using their phones. McDonald’s, Macy’s, Whole Foods and Disney are among the first to sign up.Each transaction is authorized with a one-time unique number. Apple does not know what you bought.“We have security integrated throughout both hardware and software in a way only Apple can,” says Cue.Hmmm. We’ll get back to you on that one once we’ve spoken to Kirsten Dunst (another victim of the celebrity hacking scandal).Thank you iCloud🍕💩&mdash; Kirsten Dunst (@kirstendunst)September 1, 2014Updatedat 7.05pm BST7.00pmBST6.58pmBSTIt’s... iWatch! Well, the Apple Watch, It’s chunky. And will come in gold...Apple WatchPhotograph: ScreenshotUpdatedat 7.06pm BST6.58pmBSTMcDonald’s is adding Apple Pay to its restaurants in the US, also Whole Foods Market, and the Apple retail stores (obviously). “And Disney: the happiest place on earth!” says Cue. It’ll also work with online stores browsed from the phone: Target will be doing it, and Uber will have a “Ride Now” feature to book cabs without having to register for an account. MLB will sell tickets to baseball games within its app too.iOS 8 will have a new Apple Pay API available to all developers, and it launches in the US next month. “We’re working hard to bring it to even more countries.”Now One More Thing. Cook: “We believe this product will redefine what people expect from its category.”6.58pmBST6.53pmBSTSummaryTwo new iPhones, the 4.7in iPhone 6 and the 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus• Larger screens• All-metal bodies with glass the curves around the sides• 25% faster processors that are 50% more energy efficient• Touch ID fingerprint sensors• Mobile phone calls over Wi-Fi (on EE mobile phone network in the UK)• Improved eight-megapixel cameras with faster focus• NFC for Apple Pay mobile wallet service• Available in gold, silver and space grey• 16, 64 and 128GB storage spaces• Available for pre-order 12 September, ship on 19 September6.52pmBST“We don’t store the credit card number and we don’t give it to the merchant.,” says Eddy Cue. Find My iPhone can suspend all payments from a device if you lose it. Cue says Apple doesn’t know how much you spend on an item, and the cashier doesn’t get to see your security code.“We’re starting in the US with American Express, MasterCard and Visa,” says Cue, along with banks representing 83% of all credit card payments volume.6.51pmBSTAnd now we are on to payments. Apple has been widely rumoured to be working with near-field communication, or NFC, technology for mobile payments. “Wallet your days are numbered,” the company says. They are bringing out the big gun for this one and Tim Cook is back on the stage.6.47pmBSTSchiller also outlines the iPhone’s new video capabilities. The new devices record high-definition 1080p video at either 30 or 60 frames per second. (The iPhone 5S was 30.)Slow-motion videos are also improved (we all love slow-mo don’t we) with a feature called cinematic video stabilization. The new operating system, iOS 8, has a time-lapse video built in - take that Instagram and your recently introduced Hyperlapse. So last month.Apple iPhone 6 new video capabilityPhotograph: ScreenshotSchiller says the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus can shoot slow-motion video at up to 240 frames per second. And it can also shoot time-lapsed videos – Insert own Apple just killed Instagram’s Hyperlapse app comments here. There’s also now a Burst mode on the front-facing FaceTime camera. “The kids are gonna love this,” says Schiller, demoing what can only be described as a #SelfieExplosion.Updatedat 6.55pm BST6.42pmBSTiPhone 6 will come in gold, silver and “space grey” colours, starting at $199 on a two-year contract in the US for the 16GB model, then $299 for the 64GB model – a big “Woo!” from the audience at that – and $399 for a 128GB model.iPhone 6 Plus will start at $299 for the 16GB model, $399 for 64GB and $499 for 128GB, again on a two-year contract in the US.Tim Cook: “A great product isn’t just a collection of features: it’s how it works together. How it makes you feel.” And he shows off some ads voiced by Justin Timberlake and Jimmy Fallon.Updatedat 6.46pm BST6.39pmBSTApple is addressing battery life - bane of all our tech lives.iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus battery life table...pic.twitter.com/y2PNtbPhEr&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)September 9, 20146.35pmBSTThe iPhone 6’s new camera has an 8MP iSight camera, 1.5µ pixels, ƒ/2.2 aperture. And an all-new sensor. It uses Focus Pixels, a technology previously found only in professional DSLR cameras. New software improvements mean faster autofocus and advanced noise reduction.Apple’s Steve Schiller on the iPhone 6’s new camera.Photograph: ScreenshotUpdatedat 6.51pm BST6.32pmBSTThere’s a new sensor in the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus: a barometer, measuring your elevation. For example counting how many flights of stairs you’ve walked up. “Nike is working on a new version of the Nike+ running app so it can measure not only how far you run, but the elevation as well,” says Schiller.Schiller on camera improvements in the new iPhones.: eight-megapixel Sight cameras with an “all-new sensor” and a feature called “focus pixels” based on the fast autofocus used in high-end DSLR cameras. He shows off some cameraporn: a portrait, an iguana and a close-up butterfly shot. There’s also optical image stabiisation – watch for tweets from crowing Nokia execs at this point.Updatedat 6.39pm BST6.30pmBSTSuper Evil Megacorp is on stage demoing VainGlory, and a very big monster#AppleLivehttps://t.co/oVXjGWjQ3y&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)September 9, 20146.29pmBSTStephan Sherman, co-founder and chief creative officer of Super Evil Megacorp takes the stage to show a game called Vain Glory, which is like a fantasy Capture the Flag with a really big monster. “A world of 1.5m polygons running at 60 frames per second.”Vain Glory Vine via @guardiantechUpdatedat 6.31pm BST6.27pmBSTWall Street is so far “meh” about iPhone 6 (probably frustrated by the appalling live feed). Apple’s shares were up marginally ahead of the presentation and are now down.Apple shares dip on iPhone 6 announcement.Photograph: Google Finance6.26pmBSTStephan Sherman, co-founder and chief creative officer of Super Evil Megacorp takes the stage to show a game called Vainglory, which is like a fantasy Capture the Flag with a really big monster. “A world of 1.5m polygons running at 60 frames per second.”6.24pmBSTPhil Schiller, senior vice president of worldwide marketing, is telling the crowd that iPhone 6 has over one million pixels. And iPhone 6 Plus has over two million pixels. There’s a special landscape mode for the home page. Processor performance is 50 times faster than the original iPhone.6.20pmBSTThe live stream doesn’t seem to be working out for Apple though. There’s a translator speaking over the top of the broadcast and it keeps crashing. Same old story. So many shiny new things to launch and such crap internet.Updatedat 6.22pm BST6.20pmBSTSchiller: “There’s a new generation chip: the Apple A8, a 64-bit chip, our second generation.” It’s 13% smaller than the A7, but delivers up to 25% faster CPU performance, and up to 50% faster graphics performance. “The iPhone 6 with the A7 chip is up to 50 times faster than the original iPhone at CPU tasks, and for graphics tasks up to 84 times faster.”6.19pmBSTPhil Schiller: “The text is sharp, the colours are beautiful. It all just works.” If you’re playing Apple keynote drinking games, raise your glasses now…6.17pmBSTWe are getting two new iPhones. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. iPhone 6 has a resolution of 1334 by 750 with 326 pixels per inch. For a more than 720p Retina HD display. iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display. iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch display.6.13pmBSTThe big reveal: Video of the iPhone 6 shows rounder edges, power button on the side. Looks like the link to the leaked iPhone we published earlier today was genuine.Leaked iPhone 6 video.6.08pmBSTTim Cook is up and speaking. Says he usually has a few updates but he is dispensing with them this time “because everything is great.”Updatedat 6.08pm BST5.57pmBSTPeople are taking their seats. Anyone listening to this online? They are playing two songs at the same time. And not in a way that Dre would approve.5.52pmBSTCeleb sightings confirmed...On my way to apple launch w dr dre ⚡️🎉🎈👏👏👏 gxhttp://t.co/V6YxjICBrSpic.twitter.com/PyKQgD7kD3&mdash; Gwen Stefani (@gwenstefani)September 9, 2014We’ll, can’t deny it any more. I’m in Cupertino, CA. At the Flint where the iMac was launched and today … ? We’ll soon see!&mdash; Stephen Fry (@stephenfry)September 9, 20145.42pmBSTToday is a big test for Tim Cook. Just over three years in to his tenure as Apple’s boss the company is a financial marvel. The largest company on the US stock exchanges, Apple is more cash rich than many nation states. But when you get that high, people expect a fall.Cook’s critics charge he is a back-office genius but lacks the flair and imagination to keep Apple at the cutting edge. Microsoft and Intel similarly lost their mojo once their visionary founders had stepped down.His answer has been to bring in more creative talent. Alongside Dre &amp; Co. Apple recently hired Marc Newson, friend to Jony Ive and probably his closest rival for the most influential industrial designer of his generation, and Angela Ahrendts, former boss of Burberry, who will head Apple’s retail empire.Today (probably) marks the first time Apple has launched an entirely new product category under Cook. It will be the first big test of his more team-focused approach.Here’s our weekendprofile of Cook.Updatedat 5.47pm BST5.41pmBSTJust in case you forgot Apple is as much about fashion as tech, Marie Claire is covering #AppleLive - live.What’s hidden underneath this white box is the talk of the town. Keep following to find out#AppleLivepic.twitter.com/tmGb0yzH8W&mdash; Marie Claire (@marieclaire)September 9, 2014Vogue is sticking to the basics.Why moisturizer, highlighter, and clear lip gloss are the only things you need in your makeup bag:http://t.co/U3T3VtFaWD&mdash; Vogue Magazine (@voguemagazine)September 9, 20145.21pmBSTRupert Murdochis at the event! Smartwatch newspaper? After all iPad The Daily iPad really turned out well for him.And we have it on good authority that Stephen Fry is here for the launch too - that’s a conversation we’d pay to see.Will Dr Dre make an appearance? The hip-hop mogul was awkwardly introduced at the Worldwide Developers Conference in June after Apple’s $3bn purchase of Beats. Rumor has it thatU2 are also in the house. Ah! U2, father of the Holy Trinity of corporate event soundsters alongside Adele (sorry) and Coldplay (not sorry).Our odds-on musical guests:Evens: U2 performing their new single3-1: Coldplay4-1: Lorde5-1: Beats founder Dr Dre11-2: Adele, including Beyoncéing a surprise new album onto iTunes15-1: Beyoncé ft. Jay-Z18-1: Beats Music exec Trent Reznor doing ‘Closer’26-1: Coldplay ft. Pitbull40-1: Pitbull ft. Coldplay50-1: SkrillexUpdatedat 5.37pm BST5.08pmBSTLive! From Cupertino! (And New York and London). It’s the Apple event of the year. Follow all the events and links to our analysis here.In 52 minutes Tim Cook will take the stage at the Flint Centre for Performing Arts in Cupertino, California to launch the iPhone 6, the latest and largest in its portfolio. We are also expecting an update to its operating system, iOS 8. But the big news will come if Cook uses his “only Apple” moment to introduce an entirely new Apple product we’ve been calling the “iWatch”.We pretty much know what the iPhone 6 looks like thanks toheavy leaking. But so far Apple has managed to keep “iWatch” under its sleeve. It will also be interesting to see whether Cook addressesJ-Lawgate, the massive leak of intimate pics of stars including Jennifer Lawrence and Kirstin Dunst that some,not Apple, have blamed on flaws in its security. It’ll be hard to avoid given that health and mobile payments - two areas where security is key - are likely to be centre stage.Inside and outside the Flint Centre waiting for #AppleLivePhotograph: AppleApple has a reputation for being so secretive it makes the White House look open. Under Tim Cook there seems to be a shift to more openness - the company is live blogging its own events with suitably lovely photos. But don’t expect anyone at Apple to go “off message”. You’ll have to stay here for that. Or check Twitter.“Apple is the best at propaganda. I swear they should be hired for wars.”—My cabbie, a political refugee from the mideast&mdash; Xeni Jardin (@xeni)September 9, 2014There have been a lot of leaks ahead of this launch. The new phones are expected to have 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch displays, and a design similar to the current iPads.Guessing the specs of the smartwatch is more of a gamble.We asked for your best guesses- iTime narrowly beat iBand as the top name (maybe iWatch sounds too NSA). You are expecting wireless charging, a 1.5in screen, lots of colours and a price of £200-£249 ($322-$401).Other leaks suggest a flexible display, protected by synthetic sapphire coating. Both types of devices will include near-field communication, or NFC, technology for mobile payments.Here’s Charles Arthur,who is in Cupertino, on what to expect.• Stuart Dredge’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.Updatedat 5.38pm BST
Apple has introduced a mobile wallet in the iPhone 6, joining a growing army of banks and technology companies aiming to wean the world away from cash.Owners of the latest version of the world’s best selling mobile phone will be able to pay for purchases at tills and eventually journeys on buses and tube trains by touching their phones on wireless readers.Experts are already predicting that Apple’s new iPhones could revolutionise the way we shop in the same way that the Californian computing group has already transformed the music, mobile and personal computing industries.Tim Cook said: “We’re gonna start by focusing on payments. Payments is a huge business. Every day between credit and debit we spend 12 billion dollars. That’s over 4 trillion dollars a year, and that’s just in the United States … 200 million transactions a day. That’s 200 million times we scramble for our credit cards and go through what is a fairly antiquated process.”Users will scan and add a card to their iPhone. In an effort to allay security fears, Apple said the Find My iPhone app will be able to suspend all payments from a device if it is lost. Apple will not know how much is spent on an item and the cashier will not see the security code.The service, known as Apple Pay, launches in the US with American Express, MasterCard and Visa, along with banks representing 83% of all credit card payments by volume. McDonald’s will have compatible tills, along with Disney’s theme parks and the Whole Foods Market. Developers will be able to build apps for Apple pay using an API available from next month.The technology, which Apple has been developing since 2009 when it filed the first of an estimated 23 patents on wireless payments, has already reached a tipping point in the UK, where most current account holders already own touch to pay cards.Chains including sandwich maker Pret a Manger, coffee shop group Starbucks and many newsagents already accept these so called NFC (near field communication) payments. They allow devices, each equipped with an NFC chip and placed within a few centimetres of each other to exchange data.The path to creating a mass market substitute for cash is littered with failed attempts by some of the best known names in banking and technology. Released in the US in 2011, the Google Wallet limps on but a planned expansion to the UK was cancelled. After vowing to change the way the world buys stuff, Twitter’s founder, Jack Dorsey, withdrew his Square Wallet from the Apple and Google app stores, while Visa’s V.me, which launched in Europe last winter, and was rebranded Visa Checkout this summer and has barely registered at the tills.With more than 800m iCloud accounts in use, of which almost all have a credit card attached for payments for apps, movies and TV shows, the move means Apple could rapidly become one of the most powerful forces in mobile payments, where it will contend with Google’s Wallet scheme, similar efforts from PayPal and another run by US carriers that has recently been rebranded as Softcard. Neither Google Wallet nor Softcard has achieved significant uptake among users or retailers – and all eyes will be on Apple to see whether its initiative stalls, or takes off.ApplePay will also work online, and, of course, in apps on the company’s devices.Apple will have to reassure customers worried over last week’siCloud hack, in which celebrities saw private pictures taken on iPhones spread on web chatrooms, that their mobile details will be safe.Anthony Duffy, a director of retail banking at Fujitsu, said: “With the launch of the iPhone 6 and its payment capability, Apple has once again sent out a challenge to the industry – and this time it has the payments market in its sights. This sector, already undergoing massive evolution as Internet and mobile payments take hold and new providers target perceived opportunities, will be revolutionised if Apple’s mobile wallet grabs the public attention.However, the credit card details associated with an iCloud account cannot be copied from it, even when accessed using the owner’s email and password.“We don’t store the credit card number, and we don’t give it to the merchant … each time you pay, we use a one-time payment number along with a dynamic security code,” explained Eddy Cue, the company’s vice president in charge of software.In a nod to rival Google, Cue also boasted of the service’s focus on privacy. “Security is at the core of Pay, but so is privacy. We’re not in the business of collecting your data.” Apple won’t store where users spend their money, what they bought, or “any other details”, Cue said.Attacking the dominance of credit cards, Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, said that “we’re totally reliant on the exposed numbers and the outdated and vulnerable magnetic stripe interface. It’s no wonder that people have dreamed of replacing these for years, but they’ve all failed.” He blamed the prior failures on attempts to build “self-centred” business models.According to eMarketer, US “mobile proximity” (NFC phone) payments amounted to $745.96m (£462m) in 2012, rising to $1.6bn in 2013. That however compares to total retail transactions worth trillions of dollars. In 2013, 11.16 million Americans made NFC-based mobile phone payments, amounting to just 8% of US smartphone users, though that marked a 57.1% increase from 7.1 million in 2012.That means that for the whole of 2013, each user spent about $143 in total – up from $105 in 2012. Figures from Visa Europe indicate that across Europe there are 90m contactless cards in circulation, 1.5m contactless terminals, and that the average contactless purchase is worth €9.31 (£7.45). The number of transactions is still growing: they were worth 20m in the whole of May 2014 in the UK, according to Visa.Apple’s system will enable people to make payments using the contactless payment technology already built into most British credit and debit cards and the Oyster travel payment system. It has had slow take up in the US, where comparatively few tills and cards are NFC-equipped – although tens of millions of Android smartphones are.NFC systems used in the UK let users pay for goods up to £20 without having to swipe, insert the card into a reader or enter a pin. Instead they tap the card against a suitably equipped reader and the purchase is confirmed.Having previously eschewed NFC, Apple has included it in its newest products – creating a new way to encourage people with iCloud accounts to transact on the credit cards registered there. Before Tuesday’s event, news site NFC Worldpointed to 23 NFC-related patents that Apple has amassedsince 2009, the year before Google introduced the first NFC-enabled Android phone, the Nexus S.Worldwide mobile payments surpassed $235bn in 2013, according to Gartner, a research company.“We expect global mobile transaction volume and value to average 35% annual growth between 2012 and 2017, and we are forecasting a market worth $721bn with more than 450 million users by 2017,” said Sandy Shen, research director at Gartner.iPhone 6: bigger, thinner, fasterHow Twitter reacted when Apple’s launch didn’t go according to plan• This article was amended on 10 September 2014 to update figures for the number of contactless cards and payment terminals in circulation.
As Apple’s CEO introduced the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus to the world, Tim Cook hoped customers would agree they’re the “best phones you’ve ever seen”.Sadly, the same couldn’t be said for Apple’s live stream. While their own live blog appeared to be ticking over, Apple fans keen to see the company’s new offerings were left disappointed as the feed halted, jumped and sometimes didn’t play at all.@tim_cookSTOP TWEETING AND FIX THE VIDEO STREAM&mdash; Tom Harrington (@atomicbird)September 9, 2014just tuned in to#applelive, really excited by these changes to the human body they&#39;ve madepic.twitter.com/3AqjMYahMe&mdash; Twootwans Soul Rebel (@QueenThingy)September 9, 2014This is probably the worst#AppleLivestream ever. Worse than the old pirate ones from first launch - i&#39;m going to the pub.&mdash; RHYS HØWELL (@rhys_isterix)September 9, 2014Every cloud has a silver lining however, with Twitter quickly coming up with the trending hashtag #ThingsBetterThanAppleLive, apparently started by @media_lad:Watching paint dry.#ThingsBetterThanAppleLive&mdash; Media Lad (@media_lad)September 9, 2014Weddings in Game of Thrones#thingsbetterthanapplelive&mdash; Jay Wang (@jaywwang)September 9, 2014#ThingsBetterThanAppleLivethe live stream. Oh, wait.&mdash; Nader | نادر (@BonsaiSky)September 9, 2014The whole thing left some of our London-based journalists covering the event in a pickle:ACCESS DENIED#Applelive&mdash; Jemima Kiss (@jemimakiss)September 9, 2014It’s pretty hard to imagine them fucking up more than this#AppleLivepic.twitter.com/vMKIjs3eAk&mdash; Alex Hern (@alexhern)September 9, 2014bdagrsjhiowgwRHGSGRKpic.twitter.com/btDlHEdcB3&mdash; Elena Cresci (@elenacresci)September 9, 2014But while the Guardian has people at the event, others not there weren’t so lucky as the feed continued to be temperamental.Come on#Apple, it’s 2014 and you can’t get a livestream to work.#AppleLive#AppleNotLive&mdash; Arjan de Raaf (@AJdeRaaf)September 9, 2014Fortunately, Twitter was on hand to cheer everyone up with some jokes.Know what would kick our modern technology infrastructure’s ass on this?&#10;&#10;Good old TV.&mdash; Marco Arment (@marcoarment)September 9, 2014“wait…wat are you all staring at”&#10;&#10;#AppleLivepic.twitter.com/XdWfZmviWc&mdash; darth™  (@darth)September 9, 2014THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT FEATURE OF ALL *cuts to black*#applelive&mdash; Steve (@Slaygle)September 9, 2014#BreakingNewstomorrow.&#10;&#10;Apple purchases [Live Stream Company X] for $[X Billion].&#10;&#10;#AppleLive&mdash; Sam Taggart (@gosam)September 9, 2014#AppleLivestream is down but I got a Tinder match. Silver lining.&mdash; Brian A. Hernandez (@BAHjournalist)September 9, 2014So far, I’ve learned that App                           new iPhon                       oto-aligne         0x1080#applelive&mdash; Rob Cottingham (@RobCottingham)September 9, 2014#appleliveintroduces amazing new time-machine webcast feature: watch real-time after it happens#fail&mdash; quintonwall (@quintonwall)September 9, 2014Referring to some other recent cock-ups:pic.twitter.com/E8cQImkOtn&mdash; Sam Ro (@bySamRo)September 9, 2014And reminding us that there are actually plenty of places covering this event, so it’s not as though you’ll be missing anything.Why would you need to watch/complain about the live stream? Just read the 8M media tweets with the exact same updates/pics.#applelive&mdash; Dana Boone (@deboone)September 9, 2014Speaking of, check ourlive blogfor updates from the event if your live stream still isn’t working for you.iPhone 6: bigger, thinner, fasteriPhone 6 to have wallet
Few among the many groups waiting anxiously to discover the details of the iPhone 6 have as much riding on the nitty-gritty of the announcement as mobile games developers.There were smiles at Apple’s new, more powerful A8 system-on-a-chip, the silicon at the heart of the iPhone 6, but also consternation at the knowledge that two new form factors would have to be supported, and worry that the company’s touted “50% increase in graphics power” might not match the 185% increase in the number of pixels the phone will have to render on the top-end iPhone 6 Plus.The company boasted developer support from companies including Epic, Ubisoft, Gameloft, EA, Disney and Super Evil MegaCorp, whose co-founder Stephan Sherman demonstrated Vain Glory, a new multiplayer battle arena.While Apple gave developers a coded heads-up that change was afoot, in the form ofa sessionat its developer conference about how to build “adaptive apps”, games developers have more specific requirements than most.When control systems require pixel-precision, it is often not good enough to simply treat every device the same, and so developers frequently have to code specifically for each device they plan to support.It is something smartphone game makers are becoming accustomed to, however. “For me the larger screen size is the single biggest weakness of the iPhone neatly dealt with,” says Tony Warriner of Revolution Software, whose Broken Sword games have sold over a million copies on iOS. “Ironically, games devs who’ve already had to deal with Android screen size fragmentation are now perfectly placed to handle the new machines without too much trouble.”While having to tweak their games to support both 4.7 inch and 5.5 inch screens, as well as the existing iPhone 5S’s 4 inch screen, might give developers more work, Apple has provided a carrot to ease the way: iOS 8’s “Metal” graphics API.The new operating system, launching alongside the phones is named after the practice of coding “closer to the metal”: avoiding the abstractions that make development easier in favour of more direct access to the computing power of the device. With Metal, Apple promises to end that trade-off.“Metal enables incredibly high performance for sophisticated graphics rendering and computational tasks,”the company says. “Metal eliminates many performance bottlenecks that are found in traditional graphics APIs.” Vain Glory, Super Evil MegaCorp’s game, is one game built on Metal, and Sherman described the devices as offering “console quality graphics”.For some in the games industry, the new Apple Pay system was the most intriguing announcement of the night. “At last, a secure approach to phone-based NFC, leveraging Apple’s existing TouchID,” says mobile Oscar Clark, a gaming consultant at EverPlay. “I really hope that the system is compatible with those already in place for Android devices. If it is, then this is what we will look back on in five years as groundbreaking.”There’s also interest in Apple’s final announcement of the night: Apple Watch. “The close integration with the iOS eco-system is good to see,” says Colin Anderson, founder of Dundee-based studio, Denki. “We’re already beginning to think about the opportunities for new forms of games and entertainment using the taptic feedback system.”Appleestimatesthat the worldwide “app economy” will add $86bn (£53bn) to worldwide GDP this year and a large fraction of that comes in the form of mobile gaming, a sector with an annual revenueestimatedat more that $10bn worldwide.
Google is being forced to create "information gaps" and act as a "false court ruling on a false right", according to the editor of the Spanish edition of the Huffington Post.Montserrat Domínguez, who produces El Huffington Post in a joint venture with the Spanish newspaper El País, gave evidence in Madrid at the first of sevenhearingsorganised by Google as the search engine wrestles with how to implement the European court ruling on the right to be forgotten.Google revealed on Tuesday that it had received 120,000 requests from individuals to remove certain links from the results of searches for their name. These have led to more than 457,000 links to articles, websites, tweets, blogs, photos and Wikipedia entries being removed from Google's index between 30 May, when it began to implement the ruling, and 1 September."Removing or de-indexing information … runs contrary to the rights of citizens to access information and is contrary to transparency," said Domínguez. "Transparency is something we demand from our governments, our NGOs and our institutions. This is creating information gaps. This is a false court ruling on a false right."Domínguez, who is also vice-president of the Association of European Journalists, called for editors to be involved in deciding whether information should be removed from search results, because they would be able to give local context to the information in deciding whether it qualified as obsolete or no longer relevant under the ruling.To draw up guidelines on how it should handle the right to be forgotten, the search engine has convened an advisory council of eight independent experts, including Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales, Le Monde editorial director Sylvie Kauffmann and UN special rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression Frank La Rue, as well as two Google executives – chairman Eric Schmidt and chief legal officer David Drummond.Google's company jet is on standby for the panel's European tour, which will reach London on 16 October before concluding in Brussels on 4 November. It launched on Tuesday in Madrid, because Spain is home to Mario Costeja González, whose demand to have the repossession of his home forgotten by Google was used as the test case for the ruling."We need to balance the right to information against the rights of privacy," Schmidt said before he and other panel members heard testimony from data retention, privacy and human rights experts.Alejandro Perales, who represents consumers of media as president of the Spanish Communication Users Association, said: "There is a thing called universal access and the right to be forgotten cannot become a right to impunity."Like Domínguez, he said Google should not act alone in deciding whether to take down links. "Social organisations and regulatory authorities should play a much more active role, not just limited to making sure that the removal has taken place. They should be involved in the decision."Describing the right to be forgotten as a "romantic term", Perales said the new law would be better described as "right to suppression, to eliminate access to information".Google council member La Rue said there was a grey area when the ruling was applied to those convicted of child abuse or sex crimes. "It is perfectly legitimate that someone tried and sentenced for a crime is entitled to be fully reinstated in society. Those who work for childhood rights claim this is not valid in the case of paedophiles or sexual abuse. The interest of the girls or the minors abused prevails over the rights of the person sentenced for these crimes."The academic Luciano Floridi, also a member of the Google council, criticised the new legislation. "I don't think that the ruling has established an adequate legal framework," he said. "It has not taken into account all the agents in the chain of information provision and it gives great power to a third party which might not have been very keen on getting this power, and I'm referring to the search engines."Most of the eight witnesses criticised the legislation, but Luis Javier Mieres Mieres, a professor of constitutional law at Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, argued that the crimes of private individuals should legitimately be forgotten."Irrespective of the seriousness of the crime, I think that private individuals, if there is not a current public interest on that information, are entitled to have removed that reference to a crime that he or she has committed in the past," he said.Mieres said exceptions should be made for the crime of genocide, so that society could remember the mistakes of the past, and for public figures such as artists or politicians, even those in retirement. "This allows the public to debate the standards of conduct we demand from public personalities," he said.The Spanish supreme court magistrate Pablo Lucas Murillo also spoke in favour of the ruling, saying it "transfers to the digital world the effects of time and distance". He said: "The cancellation of files, the reincorporation of former inmates to society and the concept of rehabilitation, these conditions have been absent in the digital realm and time and space do not have the same bearing on reality as in the past."Wales, who has criticised the ruling in the past, said it was the digital equivalent of removing books from a library. Among thelinks to Wikipedia removed by Googleare an image of a young man playing a guitar and a page about the Italian gangster Renato Vallanzasca. "The predominant means people use today to get information is through a search engine, in the same way that they used to walk into a library and ask the librarian for the book or look in the card catalogue," Wales said.The advisory council's next hearing takes place in Rome on 10 September.
What do we expect from theAppleannouncements today?Certain• two newiPhones: one with a screen (measured diagonally) of 4.7in, the other with a 5.5in screen• buttons on the side of the new, larger phones• the 5.5in phone will cost more than the 4.7in device; it’s designed to appeal to consumers in Asia, especially China•via John Gruber, expect that the 4.7in phone will have a resolution of 326 pixels per inch (ppi), and the 5.5in phone of 461ppi (the “Retina” display, defined by Apple as where you can’t see the individual pixels when using the phone at a standard distance, has a resolution of over 300ppi).• the phones will haveNFCcapability, via NXP chips - the first time Apple has added NFC to its devices (and four years after Google began withAndroid)• the physical contours of the phones will be more rounded, like a flattened version of the iPhone 3GS, and without the angular edges of the iPhone 4-5S• a wearable device of some sort, with NFC for payments capability• deals withAmerican Express, Visa and Mastercardfor NFC-based payments• deals with some large American retailers - CVS and Walgreens have been mentionedLess certain, but pretty sure• the wearable device won’t go on sale before next year• if there is a smartwatch function, that will be the least functionality of it; payments and fitness data will be core to its capability• the iPhone5Sand5Cwill remain on sale, taking the place of the “older” 4S and 4 from before as the “low-end” (or “cheap”) phonesIt could be true - you decide• the wearable will have TouchID (Apple’s fingerprint unlock function) for validation of NFC payments - it will connect to your phone, but to avoid accidental payments you’ll touch a finger to it to confirm a payment• there will be more than one wearable: a “watch” and a “band”. Both will be able to act as the NFC intermediary for payments, but the “watch” will also show notifications from your phone. The band will show less data but have a longer life.Wild cards• a new version of theApple TVset-top box able to take games and also function as a coordinator for HomeKit (Apple’s system for integrating connected home devices). This could be achieved through software in the forthcomingiOS 8 updateat the end of September•iTunesRadio (the ad-supported streaming services for the iPhone andiPad) coming to the UK and other territories• Beats headphones become standard issue with iPhonesOnly Apple...The final wild card is around the musical artist who will play at the end of the presentation. Last year it was Elvis Costello; this year your choices areU2 (tipped)or Adele - you never know, she might turn up and sing a song and simultaneously release her new album. Best guess is that it’s Bono and gang, however, with their own new album due imminently...•Let’s crowdsource the specifications for Apple’s new wearable•iPhone 6 launch: what do you want from Apple’s new phone - and wearable?•Apple’s iPhone 6? Video shows large-screen with iOS 8 and TouchIDCharles Arthur’s travel and accommodation was paid for by Apple.Editorial is completely independent.
Bitcoin creator Satoshi Nakamoto appears to have received a hacking attack against at least some of his online accounts, with the hacker offering to sell the anonymous developer’s personal information for 25BTC, or around £7,000 ($11,000).Apost on anonymous text sharing site Pastebinoffered to provide the documents, which potentially include information about the famously secretive developer’s real identity, if 25BTC was sent toa particular bitcoin address. No time limit was given, but as of Tuesday the address has received just 1.5BTC.An administrator of the semi-official Bitcoin Talk forum, Michael Marquardt, posted on Monday night that he had received an email from Nakamoto’s old address, “not spoofed in any way”, that made him certain the account was compromised.“It seems very likely that either Satoshi’s email account in particular or gmx.com in general was compromised, and the email account is now under the control of someone else,”Marquardt wrote under his username, theymos. “Perhaps satoshin@gmx.com expired and then someone else registered it.”Shortly after Marquardt’s post, “Nakamoto” posted on the Ning messageboard, one of the first places the real Nakamoto announced the creation of Bitcoin. Using the same forum account to append a comment to that announcement, the apparent hacker warned Satoshi that his details were for sale.“Dear Satoshi,”the message read. “Your dox, passwords and IP addresses are being sold on the darknet. Apparently you didn’t configure Tor properly and your IP leaked when you used your email account sometime in 2010. You are not safe. You need to get out of where you are as soon as possible before these people harm you. Thank you for inventing Bitcoin.”An email from the Guardian to the hacked email address bounced back on Tuesday morning, suggesting that either the real Nakamoto, or a friendly party with access to the address, had closed down the account.Nakamoto’s true identity is one of great secrets of the dark web. The developer appeared from nowhere in late 2008 with the proposal for Bitcoin, posted a flurry of comments over the next two years, and then gradually faded out of public view during 2010. Even his closest collaborators in the development of Bitcoin never met him (or her or them, although the name is male) or received a hint as to the true identity.Over the years, a number of attempts to unmask Nakamoto have been made.Linguistic analysis of his published commentswas used to name cryptocurrency pioneer and early bitcoin collaborator Nick Szabo as the developer, while Hal Finney, another early collaborator who died of MND in August 2014,had also been suggested.The highest profile attempt to unmask Nakamoto came in March 2014, when American magazine Newsweek accused a 64-year-old Japanese-American man named Dorian Nakamoto – born as Satoshi Nakamoto –of being the pioneer. Dorian Nakamoto strenuously denied the claim, which largely rested on circumstantial evidence and an apparent doorstep confession, before givinga shambolic interviewin which he referred to the currency as “bitcom” and plead with the press for privacy.Dorian Nakamoto ‘unconditionally’ denies being the creator of Bitcoin
Over the last two decades, as video games have risen from hobbyist teenage pastime to omnipresent pop cultural force, one brand has remained consistent and unavoidable: PlayStation. Nintendo brought in a whole new audience with its highly accessible Wii in 2006, and Microsoft loudly muscled into the market with the Xbox in 2001. But it’s arguably Sony’s multifarious PlayStation machines that have been the primary force in growing the industry. With 150m sales, PlayStation 2 was the biggest console of all time. PlayStation 4, launched last November, is currently on 10m and selling faster than all its predecessors.The world is, however, very different from when the first PlayStation launched 20 years ago. In the fragmented 21st century, mobiles, tablets and social networks have emerged as major gaming platforms. There’s a question mark over whether the latest Sony machine can really define a space for itself.The person with the most responsibility for ensuring that it does is Andrew House. The president and group CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment, he’s the big boss of Sony’s entire PlayStation operation. Yet he doesn’t come across as the archetypal CEO, and is certainly more hands-on. It was House who brought in the veteran games developer Mark Cerny to design the PlayStation 4, and House who had to decide on the inclusion of two key elements: a hard disk drive, and 8gb of system memory rather than the previously mooted 4gb. According to Cerny’s calculations, each of these could add $1bn to the PlayStation 4’s manufacturing costs. Both went in.House still recalls the deliberations: “The balance of the discussion was Mark advocating for the voice of the developer, and the consumer experience that he could deliver. I had to offset that with some fiscal responsibility. I basically felt that the memory increase was a slam-dunk. It was articulated very well by Mark as to what it was going to do for the majority of PlayStation 4 game experiences.“In essence, we were placing a little bit of a bet that we were going to be good at reducing costs on the hardware and finding other trade-offs and offsets.”20 years of PlayStationHouse was born in Wales, and spent his formative years at state school in Weston-super-Mare. In the early 1990s, he moved out to Tokyo to teach English but later found himself working for Sony’s international PR department. He joined the nascent PlayStation division and found himself at the sharp end of Sony’s marketing drive to bring games to an older audience.“My memories are about getting involved with the project even prior to launch – when it was still a nascent little thing, and nobody was sure whether it would go anywhere,” he says. “But the big turning point for me was the launch of PlayStation 2, where we had this sense that it was moving games out of this position as a kid’s toy and more into the entertainment mainstream.”Emulating the PS2PlayStation 2 is the biggest selling home console ever made; it’s understandable that House wants to emulate that success with the PlayStation 4, the first iteration that is very much his baby. He’s aware of the ever-mutating nature of the console business – that there are now a lot more devices that consumers can play games on, from phones to set-top boxes. But he believes the new machine could even outdo the PS2.“So far, so good,” he says simply. “We’re significantly outpacing the ramp-up on PS2 to date. The PS4 is a much more fully-fledged general entertainment box, which I think increases its mass appeal. Analysts ask me about life-cycle comparisons. I always answer very honestly: that it’s tough to calculate, because there have been several major shifts since the PlayStation 2, all of which can pull in different directions.“With the PS2, we were pretty much unable to have any kind of business in Latin America or most of the Asian markets, because of piracy, but the PlayStation 3 got us to the point where we can actually have a healthy software business there. We’ve had recent positive signs around China and our ability to launch PlayStation 4 there as well – that didn’t exist on previous life-cycles.”Consoles and the 21st centuryWith the PlayStation 4 now successfully launched, Sony can start thinking about the peripheral technologies and services that are de rigueur for any console in the 21st century.PlayStation 4 owners are particularly keen to start using PlayStation Now, an online service which will allow them to stream PS3 games to their console over the Internet. A recent US trial trial of the system drew some negative press due to its rental pricing model that charged users $2.99 for just four hours of play. Sony said the model was experimental, but this is a whole new area for House to navigate.“Consumer satisfaction levels with the streaming quality and low latency have been very, very good,” says House. “But it does depend on the strength of your connection. We’ve been very clear in our messaging, saying if it’s not working for you, these are the reasons why. Fortunately, such issues have arisen in a very, very small minority of cases, and we’re already, looking at ways we can iterate and make that a better experience.“The other area for experimentation has been more around the business model itself. People were doing comparisons between the rental price and the purchase price. What we didn’t do a good enough job of communicating was that the rental price had all of the downloadable content associated with the game as well, so it wasn’t a fair equation. But this is why we’re in beta: learning as we go along.”What about the content itself? “It’s going to be PS3-based mainly, but I think there is the opportunity, via emulation, to then offer up a broader catalogue of PlayStation 2 and even PlayStation content where appropriate,” he says.Apparently, there is no firm launch date yet – Sony is seeking to build a viable service in the US before expanding elsewhere. And PS4 is only one platform that the PS Now service will run on. “The exciting thing for me is not delivering PlayStation 3 experiences to a PlayStation 4, but delivering them to a smart TV,” says House. “The next frontier of engagement for us is going to be with the TV manufacturers.”Morpheus risingThen there’s Project Morpheus, the prototype virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4, which will allow gamers to inhabit games rather than view them on television screens. Virtual reality floundered as a consumer proposition in the early 90s, mostly because the technology wasn’t advanced enough to produce a convincing experience. However, the hype surrounding the Oculus Rift VR headset for the PC, which has received millions in investor funding and has sold over 100,000 development kits, has thrust it back into the technological limelight.In his keynote at this summer’s Develop gaming conference, House said that virtual reality has reached a “Tipping point.” Strikingly, few of the early Project Morpheus demos – which include street-luging and being suspended in a virtual shark cage – don’t feel like conventional game experiences. Is that what we can expect from the technology? “They could be short, but very compelling and intense – get in, get out experiences,” says House. “We’ve had a lot of interest from the movie studios – not necessarily in replicating a film experience, but even developing a sort of promotional tool for an upcoming film, which gives you a sense of what that movie is going to be.”So how is Sony managing the development of this new platform? “We’re getting to grips with the nuts and bolts of the hardware itself, and doing things like reducing any sense of nausea and so on,” says House. “What you’re experiencing right now is not the final product. The benefit of engaging with a wide range of developers this early is that we’re all learning together. I think it’s important to open up to the broadest range of what those experiences could be, because that could create excitement for the platform overall. But as we move towards productisation and launch, we’ll narrow that down in the more traditional way.”“I see my role as trying to strike a balance between the health of our company [Sony Computer Entertainment] and contributing to the health of the business [Sony as a whole]. We’ve got to have a really good business in the here-and-now, but also be placing some bets on where we think technology could take us.”Making TV for PS4Although they’re 20 years apart, House sees similarities in the way that the original PlayStation and the new PS4 represent key transitions for the games industry. The first machine switched from expensive game cartridges to much cheaper and more versatile CDs; the PlayStation 4 era is moving away from “boxed products” altogether toward the digital distribution of games. “We have a networked audience that has now reached scale,” says House. “For me, that has been the defining shift between PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. We’ve got something like 52 million monthly active users on PlayStation Network. When I put that audience in front of Sony Pictures it blew them away.”Armed with that audience, House is taking a similar plunge to the likes of Netflix and Amazon, and has commissioned an original TV series for the PlayStation Network called Powers – based on a series of Marvel comics, it will be available free to PS Plus subscribers. Twenty years after the launch of PlayStation, Sony retains the experimental approach to the industry; back then it was marketing to twenty-somethings and putting games on CDs, now it’s virtual reality and TV. But it seems the underlying philosophy remains: give it a try, but concentrate on quality.“I didn’t really want to go charging out there with a raft of reality-based content and different kinds of shows,” says House. “TV content is new and experimental for us, but we’ll make something that people will watch and talk about, and then we’ll see where we’ll take it.”Why has the PlayStation 4 been so successful?PlayStation 4 hits 10m sales as Sony announces SharePlay initiativeSony’s Project Morpheus brings virtual reality to mainstream console gaming
PlayStation 4 has sold over one million units in the UK, according to Sony.The launch of Activision’s much-anticipated sci-fi shooter Destiny, helped the console achieve these sales in less than ten months, beating its predecessors. Pre-orders for the special PlayStation 4 Destiny bundle – a unique white version of the console, with the game included for free – propelled cumulative national sales through the million barrier.“It’s a fortuitous coincidence that the launch of Destiny will bring us over the million mark,” said Fergal Gara, managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment UK. “If you reflect back to last year, we announced PS4 and Destiny at the same time.”Although Destiny is also available on Xbox 360 and Xbox One, Gara said that the development of the game and the machine were entwined, and there is exclusive content for PS4 owners. “The two projects really have run in close tandem,” he said. “Feedback from the team at [Destiny developer] Bungie helped shape what the PS4 would be as a console itself. So the hardware and the software are quite aligned, and that will help from a performance perspective.”Sony has also struck an exclusive marketing deal with Activision, so that Destiny’s advertising only mentions PlayStation 3 and 4. Microsoft recently retaliated witha social networking campaignpurporting to be an advert for “Destiny: the new fragrance by Xbox”, which clicked through to a website explaining that Destiny is also available on its consoles.At this stage, Sony appears to have a clear lead in the latest round of console wars. The last milestone Microsoft announced back in April saw the Xbox One hit the five million global sales mark. Sony revealed a worldwide PlayStation 4 sales figure of ten million units at the Gamescom gaming event in August.PlayStation 4 has reached the million mark in the UK at record speed for the brand – only the Nintendo Wii has sold faster. Sony’s PlayStation 2, which sold over 155 million units worldwide, remains the best-selling console ever; yet Gara says, “We’re a good couple of months faster than PS2 at the same point, so we’re really pleased with that. And the PS2 had a second Christmas in its period of getting to the million.”The launch of Destiny denotes the start of the annual run-up to the crucial Christmas market, during which the vast majority of games and consoles sales take place. For Gara, this Christmas is all about the games: “Obviously there was enormous excitement last year, fuelled by the fact that you had two new consoles coming to market. The focus last year was on the devices and the so-called battle. I think it’s healthier that the focus this year will shift far more onto the games.”But on that front, the battle could be intense. Asked if Sony had enough exclusive titles coming this Christmas, Gara admitted: “Well, I think you can always have more.” Many of the big PS4 exclusives, like Uncharted 4, Bloodborne, The Order 1886 and No Man’s Sky, won’t arrive until 2015 or later. This year’s PS4 hits are likely to include Driveclub and LittleBigPlanet 3, plus the likes of Minecraft and Lego Batman 3, which Gara hopes will extend the console’s appeal to a young audience.Microsoft’s Xbox One, meanwhile, will get open-world racer Forza Horizon 2, hyper-colourful shooter Sunset Overdrive and the Halo: Master Chief collection, which collects and updates the four main titles in the hugely successful Halo series.Whatever the outcome in the battle between the two machines, game players will win. “The games that are coming this Christmas – including, very high up the list, Destiny – are really going to entice people in,” said Gara of both consoles. “We’re talking about far more complete games, that people have had a chance to work on for longer, and therefore we’re expecting to see higher standards.”PlayStation 4 hits 10m sales as Sony announces SharePlay initiativeWhy has the PlayStation 4 been so successful?
Twitch’s co-founder Emmett Shear has defended the company in the wake of its acquisition by Amazon, saying that he will refuse to let the live streaming video site for gamers be turned into a shop front.Shear said that Twitch would remain in its current state, with links to purchase games on Amazon, but that there would be no direct integration with Amazon and its shopping cart and that there had been no discussion of data sharing between the two companies.“Our entire website, in some ways, is a native advertising unit for videogames,” Shear saidat the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in San Francisco. “If you change that into a storefront, you destroy a lot of what’s great about Twitch.”“I do think we’ll be doing a lot more to aid our partners if they want to do that [sell games], but there’s a difference between that and serving as a storefront for Amazon,” he said.Twitch is currently working to help drive video viewers to buy links for the games they’re watching others play, but how much interference Amazon is planning with the site is unknown, as is where it fits within Amazon’s retail and content strategy.Amazon will be looking for a returnon its $1bn purchase, which some have speculatedwill involve advertising revenue. Jeff Bezos has driven Amazon into new markets beyond standard online retail, including apps and games through its App Store and video on-demand through its Amazon Prime Video service, where Twitch could fit in.•Twitch: what is it, and why has Google bought it for $1bn?
A Chinese video blogger hasshown off what appears to be a working iPhone 6, running Apple’s unreleased iOS 8 software, TouchID fingerprint system and with a significantly larger screen than 2013’s iPhone 5S.The seven-minute video, filmed in a nondescript office corridor, shows a large-screened phone - its size is difficult to gauge - being switched on and off, and unlocked using the fingerprint-driven TouchID system, introduced in 2013 on the top-end iPhone 5S, to prove that it is not a “skinned” Android phone.The leak comes hours before the Apple chief executive,Tim Cook, is due to unveil the phone – and an expected larger 5.5in version – at an event in Cupertino, California.The video was uploaded on Saturday 6 September, though the recording date is not given. While there have been a number of leaks of parts of the forthcoming iPhones over the summer, the video showing a functioning phone is one of the first showing it running iOS 8 – recognisable by the presence of the Health app icon in the main screen, a “predictive text” keyboard and a timer on the camera for taking selfies.A number of manufacturers in China’s Shenzhen area make good copies of iPhones but load them with “skinned” versions ofGoogle’sAndroidthat have giveaway flaws in their icons and fonts. This model however functions smoothly, especially with the “static” fingerprint unlocking of TouchID where the finger is placed on the home button. No other manufacturer uses the same method for unlocking.The phone in the video has more rounded edges than theiPhone 5Sand a power button on the right-hand side rather than on the top of the phone, because many people won’t be able to span that distance.The camera on the back of the phone protrudes slightly, unlike previous models where the camera has been flush with the rear. That would pose problems for companies such as Olloclip that have developed camera add-ons such as fisheye lenses or telephoto lenses relying on the previous generation’s dimensions.Chinese tester showing off what looks like a working iPhone 6 with TouchID and iOS 8Separately, the leak of the logic board for the phoneshows that it contains a chip from NXP, a company known for making NFC (Near Field Communications) chips used to enable mobile payments. That strengthens the expectation that forthcoming iPhones and other mobile devices from Apple will include NFC functionality for connections and mobile shopping.
More internet users are blocking adverts than ever before,according to a new report, with the rate more than doubling over the course of last year.As of June 2014, almost 150 million browsers are using some form of ad blocker, the vast majority of whom are using plug-ins for either Google’s Chrome or Mozilla’s Firefox browser.Those figures are significantly larger than the authors had expected. “We did a report last year, around the same time, and we had anticipated growth of about 43%,” said Sean Blanchfield of PageFair, which produced the report with Adobe. “What really surprised us was that the actual growth was significantly higher.”The figures, which are derived from observed downloads of adblocking software, are not the only thing in the report likely to scare advertisers. Ad blocking is most popular with younger users – 41% of American internet users aged between 18 and 29 used adblocking software, rising to 54% when only young men are counted.Use of adblockers “is really concentrated on exactly the kind of people that advertisers are targeting,” explained Blanchfield. “It’s millennials. You can basically see a large cohort of adblockers growing up – as adblockers. And this isn’t good news for the advertising industry, or publishers.”Describing the growing use of the software as “like the Napster of the advertising industry”, Blanchfield questions what the media’s response to the rise of ad blocking will be.“Are they going to go after the end users? Or are they going to try and recognise that something’s changed here, and that certain kinds of users, who are more technically sophisticated, and media literate, aren’t going to accept very aggressive forms of advertising any more.”PageFair, which produces analytics tools that help site owners work out how many of their visitors are blocking ads, argues forcefully that adverts need to change. In that at least, the firm is backed up by the adblockers themselves, who justify their software through appeals to user choice.“Adblocking technology puts power back into users’ hands,”Adblock Plus’ founder Till Faida wrote in the Guardian this summer, “and the advertising world needs to respond by working out how to get its messages across without being annoying and intrusive.“Research shows that very few people find advertisements in more established media annoying,” he continued. “So why can’t that be replicated online? Why shouldn’t online adverts, just, uh, grow up a bit? Indeed, they must – because as opposed to the rather solid spot adverts occupy elsewhere, users call the shots online.”The report emphasises that not all adverts are created equal: while 80% of users are “completely unwilling” to give up their ability to block popups and ads in the middle of online video, some can be talked around to less intrusive ads: 30% are at least “somewhat” willing to allow text display ads.There’s also going to have to be some “education” of users, Blanchfield says. “The thing about advertising is that the end user isn’t part of that contract; the contract is between the publisher and the advertiser. And the end user who installs Adblock really isn’t mindful of the fact that they’re impacting the revenue of the publisher.”But however publishers do it, there’s a ticking time bomb beneath it all. At some point, all the 15-year-olds blocking adverts now are going to grow up, Blanchfield points out. “Where’s that going to leave us in five years time?”Adblock Plus: the tiny plugin threatening the internet’s business model
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamQ&amp;A: John Carmack reveals the challenges of mobile VR game development &gt;&gt; GamasutraThe story so far: John Carmack of Oculus has shown off the Gear VR headset, which uses Samsung's new Galaxy Note 4 to generate the visual field.Alex Wawro: So what did you learn from your first Android development outing, and what should developers know about moving into mobile VR development?Carmack: Okay, there's the normal hell of moving to a new platform - and I gotta say, Android was more hell to move to than most consoles I've adopted. Just because of the way Google has to position things across a diverse hardware spectrum, and because Google still doesn't really endorse native code development - they'd still rather everyone worked in Java. And that's a defensible position, but it's certainly not what you want to be doing on a resource-constrained VR system.So brace yourself: Android setup and development really does suck. It's no fun at all.The other thing that was a real surprise to me was how important the power management was, not just for battery life, but for performance. Because if you go ahead and fire up all four cores at the top clock rate and draw a bunch of stuff, you overheat within minutes. If you really load everything onto the system that can draw power, you will probably thermally throttle down in under a minute. So you literally just can't use all the capabilities of the system at the same time.So that became one of the critical things that, honestly, we're still figuring out how to manage in the VR process.Heat turns out to be the big problem. But as Carmack says, "This will be the first place where VR enters a market, with a store and an ecosystem where you can go out and target customers. Much will be learned from that." How big is the potential customer base for VR?Google Glass lands in Play Store, though price stays the same &gt;&gt; Digital TrendsTrevor Mogg:With the help of its ever-expanding army of Explorer testers, Google's been tweaking the tech for some considerable time, developing not only the software, but the hardware, too. But a couple of years after it first took the wraps off Glass, there's stillno concrete informationfrom the Mountain View company on when it might take the device out of beta and start offering a completed version – with a reasonable price tag – to consumers.Over the weekend, however, it appears to have taken yet another step in the direction of a full release, adding it (without any fanfare whatsoever) to the Play Store.That's correct, folks, the Explorer edition of Glass now has its own listing in Google's online store, though disappointingly the price tag remains at $1,500, or £1,000 for UK shoppers. Should you choose to open your wallet, Google promises to throw in a set of frames or shades for your trouble.Fire sale for Amazon's Fire Phone: now just 99 cents! &gt;&gt; Re/codeAlthough Amazon still won't say how many phones it has sold, the online retailer tacitly admitted weak demand for its Fire Phone Monday, cutting its price to 99 cents with a two-year contract."With access to all of the Prime content, Mayday, 32GB of memory and free unlimited cloud storage for photos, plus the exclusive Dynamic Perspective and Firefly features, Fire is another example of the value Amazon delivers to customers," Amazon Vice President Ian Freed said in a statement.The Fire Phone currently ranks fifth among contract phones within Amazon's own store.The new pricing scheme is a big switch from when Amazon first introduced the phone in June when it spotlighted the fact that it was pricing the phone at a level comparable to the top-of-the-line iPhone and Android-based devices.Moto 360: Neat gadget, but only rich nerds will bother with it &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski (who's so old he used to wear a Nokia 6230i:I'm sure the Moto 360 will sell a few units. It's more convenient than the current generation of fitness bands, and blessed with Google's support, will be better integrated with its ecosystems than current smart watches. Sony recognised as much as it dumped its own smartwatch platform for Wear. But still, all I ever see people do with smartwatches today is change the face."I'm bored with analogue, I'll choose a digital face."Ten minutes later."I'm bored with this digital face, I think I'll choose hexadecimal. Hey! Last orders is at 0xB:00"Google must have noticed too. The 360 lets you change watch face with a double tap.I keep being told that speech makes all the difference, now, because in the era of Siri and Cortana speech has evolved into a "rich dynamic intelligent personalised interface" – or some such marketing speak. But that gives the game away. What we have is people trying to embed an embedded technology into a new container. But speech is already embedded in the car and in the phone – and these are ubiquitous. Anyone who wants to talk to a gadget is already doing so. Those who aren't, are not doing so for a good reason: it annoys their colleagues, looks daft, and so on.(Saying "but it sold out on the website!" doesn't mean anything - we've no idea how many were sold. Theoriginal Microsoft Surface laplet "sold out" on its website too. And took a bath costing hundreds of millions in unsold stock.)Building a deeper understanding of images &gt;&gt; Google Research BlogChristian Szegedy:This work was a concerted effort by Wei Liu, Yangqing Jia, Pierre Sermanet, Scott Reed, Drago Anguelov, Dumitru Erhan, Andrew Rabinovich and myself. Two of the team members - Wei Liu and Scott Reed - are PhD students who are a part of the intern program here at Google, and actively participated in the work leading to the submissions. Without their dedication the team could not have won the detection challenge.This effort was accomplished by using theDistBelief infrastructure, which makes it possible to train neural networks in a distributed manner and rapidly iterate. At the core of the approach is a radically redesigned convolutional network architecture. Its seemingly complex structure (typical incarnations of which consist of over 100 layers with a maximum depth of over 20 parameter layers), is based on two insights: theHebbian principleandscale invariance.With the purchase of JetPac, this sort of analysis will start to really roll - and Moore's Law is still at work.The Internet of (hardly connected) Things &gt;&gt; WSJ DIgits blogStephan Dörner and Chase Gummer:what's equally hard to escape is the fact that, for now at least, the new devices being rolled out are mainly designed to connect with other new devices made by the same company.Most of the major consumer electronics companies rolled out or highlighted devices that only 'talk' to devices by the same manufacturer.Giants such as Samsung Electronics, LG Electronics, Bosch, and Siemens are betting on a world of connected appliances where toasters 'talk' to kettles and ovens know what food their nearby refrigerators are going to give them. But so far it only applies to their own ovens and kettles.Both LG and Bosch presented refrigerators that can take photos of the contents inside and send a grocery list to a user's smartphone.  The South Korean electronics company also showcased a series of new products that connect over the Japanese chat application Line, allowing users to converse directly with an LG oven, microwave or washing machine and tell them what to do.The only thing missing from Tile, the Bluetooth tracking gadget, is more users (review) &gt;&gt; VentureBeatSimon Cohen:Were there five Tiles at the Starbucks this morning? Your Tile app took note of them. Your cubicle mate left their Tiled keys at their desk during lunch while you worked straight through? Your Tile app knows that too, even if you and your cube mate don't. The same will be true for your Tiles.If there's a killer ingredient to the Tile, this is it: By leveraging the combined tracking power of thousands of Tile users (er, Tilers?), that paltry 150-foot Bluetooth radius is amplified many times over.It's the same concept that smart-bike maker Vanhawks is using tolet owners of its Valour bikes keep tabson their wheels should their bike make an unauthorized trip somewhere without its owner.The Community Find method relies on people having the Tile app installed — and running — on their iOS device. If the app is closed, it cannot track the presence of Tiles. Evans realizes this could be an issue."We're working on ways to entice people to keep [the Tile app] open," he says. "It would be easy to do push notifications, but these can get annoying. We don't want to annoy people."If you're hoping to find your goodies, you'll have the best chance of success if you live in New York City, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago, or Houston. These, according to Nick Evans, are the top five cities in the world in terms of Tile ownership, though he declined to tell me exactly how many Tilers were in each location.50,000 Tiles shipped total but rising. If they cut the delay down from a year, they could have a good business.Wearables, payments, chickens and eggs &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson:merchants won't support a new payment method unless lots of valuable customers insist on it, but said customers won't insist on a particular payment method unless lots of merchants support it.That's where Apple's ability to move units simply because they are Apple becomes something that is an incredible weapon: suppose 10% of iPhone customers are willing to buy a wearable with some cool fitness functionality mainly because it's built by Apple. Boom – suddenly there are 80 million wearables with payment functionality out in the wild [based on 800m iCloud accounts]. Moreover, the customers sporting said wearable are likely to be both vocal about their desire to use said payments, and high spenders to boot. That's a very good way to spur merchants to install what will likely be a free payment device, available at your local Apple Store. Of course it wouldn't hurt to move the process along by having partnerships already set up with Nordstrom and Target [according to at least two sources].Moreover, I'd bet the difference between using a wearable for payment and using your phone will be greater than most people expect. I have no particular evidence for this outside of my own experience with keyless ignition systems in cars; the first time we got it, I thought it was a tremendous waste of money (it was part of a package); since then, I can not imagine buying a car without it. Saving a bit of hassle and a few seconds on a daily basis really adds up; it's the type of subtle experience improvement that is Apple's biggest differentiation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Your Facebook news feed may be stuffed with friends taking the ice bucket challenge, but the charitable craze has been hugely popular on YouTube too.In fact, ice bucket challenge videos have been watched more than 1bn times on Google’s online video service, with YouTube labelling the meme ‘bigger than Harlem Shake’ – referring to the dance craze of early 2013.In ablog post, YouTube’s Claire Stapleton and Kevin Allocca claimed that “Ice Bucket” videos have been posted on YouTube from more than 150 countries, with the phrase becoming the site’s top rising search query in August.“While 90 percent of videos came from the US in the early days of the trend, within two weeks, the majority of IBC videos were uploaded from outside the US,” they wrote.Former Microsoft bossBill Gates’ inventive videois the most-watched so far, with more than 19.7m views on YouTube. ActorCharlie Sheen(18.2m) and ice hockey playerPaul Bissonnette(8.7m) are the next most popular.The ice bucket challenge started as a viral way to raise money for and promote awareness of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS – or motor neurone disease as it’s known in the UK).US charity The ALS Association hasso far received $110.5m in donationsfrom the challenge, which involves people pouring buckets of iced water over their heads, then nominating others to follow suit and/or donate.YouTube’s chart of ice bucket challenge videos.“As a charitable phenomenon, the Ice Bucket Challenge is unprecedented in the history of YouTube. As a collaborative, participatory meme, it has a lot in common with last year’s explosive Harlem Shake,” wrote YouTube’s Stapleton and Allocca.“But it’s actually even bigger than Harlem Shake at its onset. In the first month after these memes took off, IBC has about double the uploads and three times as many views compared to the Harlem Shake.”•The ice bucket challenge for ALS is a gimmick – and it’s good•The 10 best celebrity takes on the ice bucket challenge•Ice bucket challenge not a catalyst for long-term behaviour change
Twitter has taken tentative steps towards e-commerce, introducing a “buy” button to some tweets for the first time.The new feature,introduced initially “for a small percentage of US users”, lets users buy goods directly from some promoted tweets, without having to go through any third party.It also marks the first time Twitter has directly taken payment data from its users. Anew page on users’ settingsinvites them to store their payment methods and lists their order history.“This is an early step in our building functionality into Twitter to make shopping from mobile devices convenient and easy, hopefully even fun,” said Twitter’s group product manager Tarun Jain. “Users will get access to offers and merchandise they can’t get anywhere else and can act on them right in the Twitter apps for Android and iOS; sellers will gain a new way to turn the direct relationship they build with their followers into sales.“We’re not building this alone,” Jain continued. “We’ve partnered with Fancy, Gumroad, Musictoday and Stripe as platforms for this initial test, with more partners to follow soon.”Once the user hits “buy”, they are given additional details about the product, and prompted to enter shipping and payment info, which is saved for future transactions.The move into shopping follows a much smaller-scale experiment with Amazon in May. Branded #AmazonBasket in the UK and #AmazonCart in the US, the feature let users buy add a product to their Amazon shopping basket simply by replying to a tweet.But that foray into e-commerce was less than successful. The experiment was plagued with problems from conception: users could only buy products when they saw a link to an Amazon product page tweeted; and even if they did use Twitter’s platform, they still had to go to Amazon’s website to complete the transaction.“#AmazonCart is one of those things that seems like it’s designed to make your life more convenient, but in reality it’s just a way to encourage the sharing of Amazon links rather than links to other retail sites,”wrote Ars Technica’s Andrew Cunningham.Although Twitter’s Buy button will only be available initially to a very small group of US users, the company plans to roll it out to a wider selection in the future. Initial partners include the rock band Death From Above 1979, fashion firm Burberry and anti-AIDS group (RED).•#AmazonBasket lets users buy things straight from Twitter
In a surprise move, the European Commission is reopening its four-year antitrust investigation into Google’s search and advertising business - and could open a separate one into its Android mobile operating system.Joaquin Almunia, the EC’s antitrust chief, told Bloomberg TV on Sunday that following “very, very negative” responses from complainants to the proposed settlement unveiled in the spring that he is “trying to extract from Google solutions to these solid arguments.”The unprecedented move comes after a political storm over the proposed settlement which Almunia, who will step down in the autumn, had hoped to sign in order to end the long-running investigation.Speaking to Bloomberg TV on Sunday, Almunia said: “In this investigation, we received a lot of complaints. We have been trying to obtain from Google proposals to overcome the difficulties and the concerns. Now with the last version of proposals we came back to the complainants. The complainants sent us replies during the summer. Some of these replies are very very negative.“And in some of those replies, some complainants have introduced new arguments, new data, new considerations so we now need to analyse this and to see if we can find solutions – if Google can find solutions to some of these concerns which we consider justified, and we are in this process. So it’s a long investigation, it’s a complex issue.”Ministers from Germany and France, as well as other commissioners in the EC, had criticised the proposed settlement - which also became the source of fierce opposition from complainants to the original investigation, who said Almunia had not put it through “market testing” to examine its effects on their businesses.The long-running investigation formally began in November 2010, when Almunia opened an investigation into whether Google’s dominance in Europe’s search advertising market, where it accounts for roughly 95% of the search market, required regulatory action.In May 2012 Almunia said there werefour key areas of concernabout Google’s business: its links to its own “vertical search” services such as Google Shopping, YouTube and Maps over rivals, the copying of content from competing vertical search companies, restrictions on rivals advertising on sites using Google ads, and the portability of advertising campaigns from Google’s system.While the third and fourth areas seemed settled, the first has remained a source of contention to complainants, while German publishers in particular have objected strongly to the use of their content in services such as Google News.Over the summer a coalition of publishers and others lobbied the EC, and particularly Almunia, to reopen the negotiations.A Google spokesperson said: “We continue to work with the EC to resolve the concerns they have raised.”Almunia said that the competition division is also looking “in parallel, in a less advanced manner, on other cases regarding Google such as the Android ecosystem.” There, rivals such as Microsoft have said that the insistence that handset manufacturers using Android with Google’s services have to use Google’s search and maps and give them prominent positions on the home screen stifles competition.The key objection to the proposed settlement, which would have allowed rival services to buy spaces at the top of search results pages, was that it would not prevent Google from favouring its own services, and would divert money from the rivals to Google even if they received clickthroughs from the adverts - rather than the zero-cost solution if they were ranked highly in “organic” search results, and Google was prevented from putting its own commercial services above those.Almunia declined to give a timescale. “We are in an ongoing process so I cannot anticipate the end, I cannot anticipate the conclusions. We work in a rigorous way, as always, trying to understand the arguments of the complainants and trying to extract from Google solutions to these solid arguments. We are in this process.”But Google chairman Eric Schmidt insisted in aletter to the Financial Times on Saturdaythat contrary to any claims by European news publishers, “Google is not ‘the gateway to the internet’” and added “Nor is it true that we promote our own products at the expense of competitors… if you want to buy something, whether it is shoes or insurance, we try to show offers and websites where you can actually buy things.“That’s more relevant than a link to a specialised search engine, where you have to repeat your query. And if you need directions to a pharmacy, you get a Google Map with the closest stores. We think that is a great result for users.”•European Commission to investigate tax affairs of Apple, Starbucks and Fiat
One is famous for biomorphic designs that streamline modern materials into futuristic yet sensuously organic shapes. The other is renowned for… actually for pretty much the same thing, as well as some deft electronics.News that Australian-born designerMarc Newsonhas joined computer firm Apple does not seem that surprising. You’d be forgiven for thinking he already designed stuff for them, as well for the likes ofPentaxandDom Perignon. After all, the curvaceous lines of the revolutionary (yet largely forgotten)original 1998 iMachad a lot in common with Newson’s bioplastic designs for the Italian kitchenware companyAlessi. For both Newson and Apple at their best, modern design means a dreamlike meeting of bodies and gadgets, rather than a cold, robotic grandeur.In many of his most celebrated designs forchairs, domestic utensils and evenjet planes, Newson has brought the shapes, at once abstract and ripely physical, that were painted and sculpted by modern artists in the 1920s and 1930s into the technological age. The opulent, bulbous forms imagined by artists such asJean ArpandJoan Miróreappear in his designs – yesterday’s dream art engendering today’s functional products.Newson’s shapes are both abstract and ripely physicalNewson rejects the severities of the modernist tradition of rectilinear design in favour of a curvy, surrealist unconscious. In our age when machines and their users are ever more integrated, surrealism is arguably the most logical source for everyday, practical stuff. Ultimately, this art of pods and soft interfaces goes back to art nouveau, the fin de siècle style in which objects from metro entrances to wardrobes were given orotund, sensual curves. Thus, Apple’s products adopt a strangely intimate relationship with their users. The iPad melts into its owner’s daily life as it interacts lightly with fingers and eyes (I’m writing this on an iPad that seems to mimic a living creature in its responsiveness).Marc Newson’s Orgone chair from 1993Yet Apple, as it announces the forthcoming iWatch, appears to be experiencing some difficulty in selling as many iPads as it would wish. Has it therefore chosen in an anxious moment to restate one of its traditional selling points, the magic of design? Newson has designed watches in the past and it seems likely that he helped create the new timepiece, which is actually a wearable computer. Apple consistently produces more aesthetically pleasing products than its rivals (I am addicted to their look and feel as much as their usefulness). Hiring one of the world’s most acclaimed designers is surely an attempt to strengthen that reputation for artistic quality while it continues without Steve Jobs. All of which is good news for those of us who hope the future will be one big dream pod.
Amazon is bringing its first smartphone to the UK on 30 September, announcing its release immediately before Apple’s much-anticipated iPhone 6 launch event.The e-commerce giant hopes that its smartphone can challenge Apple, Samsung, Sony and HTC in the smartphone market, butits US launchhas failed to generate solid sales, with data from research companies comScore and Chitika suggesting no more than 35,000 Fire phones have been sold.Reviews of the device from the US were less than positive, with many citing gimmicky features, sluggish performance and poor design.“We think the Fire Phone will be a great phone for Amazon customers, amazing for Prime customers, but it’s a very competitive phone and good for people who want a new phone in general,” Cameron Janes, Amazon’s director of the Fire phone, told the Guardian. “It’s amazing value with a bundled year of Amazon Prime giving access to 15,000 videos and 500,000 books, plus free unlimited photo cloud storage and customer support from the built-in MayDay feature.”Dynamic perspective uses four front-facing cameras to track the position of the user’s head and simulate 3D.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Fire phone uses Amazon’s version of the Android software, lacking Google’s apps and services and relying on Amazon’s app store, which has over 240,000 or fewer than a fifth of the 1.3m apps available through the Google Play store.“We don’t focus on the total number of apps, it’s about having the right apps, the apps that customers really want,” said Janes. “Since we launched the Fire phone in the US, we’ve seen the volume of app submissions to the Amazon app store double.”“We’re very focused on bringing more apps to the platform, and for the UK we’ve got apps like BBC Sport, the Met Office, Just Eat, Time Out and Yplan, so we’re making sure we deliver relevant local apps too,” he said.Improved battery life and performance compared to the USJanes explained that Amazon has attempted to address complaints around the Fire phone’s software, extending battery life by around 10-15% and improving performance through software updates. The UK version of the Fire phone will launch with Amazon’s second major update to its software, along with customisations to voice recognition to handle different British accents.Amazon’s biggest difference from the Samsung Galaxy S5, Apple iPhone, Sony Xperia Z3 and HTC’s One M8 is its “dynamic perspective”, which uses four front-facing cameras to track the position of the user’s head to create a simulated 3D experience that moves as the user moves their head.For Amazon, the Fire phone is another gateway into its e-commerce and media services, with integration with its Amazon Prime on-demand video service and music store.Its Firefly app recognises items using the smartphone’s camera allowing users to buy those items with one click, be they songs, books, electronics or anything else Amazon sells. The service will also recognise restaurant signs, wine labels, paintings, linking users to sites giving more information about them.Amazon’s FireFly app recognises objects through the smartphone’s camera and TV shows and movies through the microphone, even tracking position and scenes in shows and movies.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAmazon has 250m active customer accounts worldwide, but half of its revenues come from north America. Both the US and UK are rapidly approaching smartphone saturation point, with 70% of all mobile phone owners having a smartphone.‘We hope to sell a lot in the UK’It is hoped the Fire phone will tempt those already plugged into Amazon’s UK services, including its Kindle e-reader, Kindle Fire tablets and media services.“We hope to sell a lot in the UK,” said Janes. “We think the value we’re bringing at this price-point … on a 2GB tariff costing £32 a month (with the handset thrown in) plus the bundled services is really competitive and it will register with customers.”Amazon’s Fire phone will be available exclusively on O2 on 30 September with a range of tariffs available for data, calls and texts including a new 20GB 4G data plan, with pre-orders available from today.The Fire phone also launches in Germany today and may expand further into Europe in the near future.•Amazon Fire phone review roundup: misfiring on almost all cylinders•Amazon has sold no more than 35,000 Fire phones, data suggests•Amazon’s £79 FireTV video streamer goes on sale in Europe
This past weekend, the biggest names in online video got together for the Streamy awards – a shindig dedicated to the best content on YouTube, Vine and other video platforms.For the uninitiated, the Streamys, as they’re fondly referred to, recognise excellence in online videos in almost 50 categories. Between them, the winners have millions of subscribers, views and followers. Ranging from slice-of-life vlogs, cooking shows and drama web series, these are some of the most influential figures in online media today.We’ve picked 10 of the must-watch winners below.The Lizzie Bennet DiariesTheLizzie Bennet Diariesis a modern reimagining of Pride and Prejudice –a web series we named as one of the best Jane Austen adaptations back in 2013.It concluded last year and won best drama at the Streamys on Sunday, with Ashley Clements winning best actress in a drama for her portrayal of the eponymous Lizzie Bennet.My Drunk KitchenHannah Hart, also one of the hosts of this year’s award ceremony, nabbed the award for best comedy for her cooking show My Drunk Kitchen. The premise is simple: Hart tackles a recipe with an alcoholic beverage of choice in hand. Nigella Lawson she ain’t, but the results are predictably hilarious and have gained her more than 1.5m subscribers on her main YouTube channelMyHarto.Tyler OakleyAmerican vloggerTyler Oakleyis an emerging voice in LGBT activism who began making YouTube videos in 2007. His vlogs tackle all sorts of subject matter, from pop culture to LGBT equality. An active user on most social media platforms, Oakley won entertainer of the year in the audience choice sub-category.We spoke to him last month when he attended Summer in the City, the largest UK event dedicated to YouTube content creators and users.Epic Rap Battles of HistoryScooping three awards across the evening was comedy channel Epic Rap Battles of History, which pits famous historical and pop culture figures against one another in rap battles. This means you get unlikely pairings such asMozart v Skrillex,Adolf Hitler v Darth Vaderandthe Mario brothers v the Wright brothers. Creators Peter Shukoff and Lloyd Ahlquist have racked up more than 10m subscribers as well as celebrity cameos from the likes of Snoop Dogg, “Weird Al” Yankovic and fellow YouTube star Jenna Marbles.DeStorm PowerVine had its own section at the Streamys and established YouTuberDeStorm Powerwon best Vine comedian. Power began creating Vines in 2013 and has more than 3.4m followers on his Vine account.Jenna MarblesWith more than 13m subscribers,Jenna Mourey(or Jenna Marbles as she’s more commonly known) has the seventh most subscribed-to channel on YouTube. Her profanity-laced videos often feature her dogs Mr Marbles, Kermit and Peach and usually take a comedic look at stereotypes from modern-day life.In an interview with the New York Times last year, Mourey said she was sceptical about moving into mainstream media. “I’m not completely sold that you ever have to transition to mainstream media, you know?” she said. “What I get to do is have fun in my house, by myself, and put it on the internet.”Zach KingOn a platform full of extremely creative and funny people creating amusing videos in just six seconds, it can be tough to stand out – butZach King’s creative Vines have done just that, earning him the award for best Vine creativity. Like DeStorm Power, he also started outon YouTube, making tutorial videos for Final Cut Pro, before getting started with his “magic” Vines in 2013. So far, his efforts have earned him 1.8m followers.You Deserve a DrinkNo one pairs punning and cocktails quite likeMamrie Hart, except perhaps Hannah Hart (no relation). You Deserve a Drink is a weekly how-to series on how to make the best and most topical cocktails. Each week, Hart decides who most deserves a drink and makes a cocktail in their honour. And there’s a reason for all the puns – viewers are meant to take a drink each time she makes a play on words. She’s clearly doing something right, with more than 600,000 subscribers and a Streamy award for best actress in a comedy.Brittany FurlanOften described as one of the best female Viners, winner of the Viner of the year awardBrittany Furlanhas more than 7.2m followers on Vine as well as 186,000 followers on Twitter. According to an interview Furlan gave earlier this year, she makes“a very comfortable”living by producing at least one Vine video a day.Convos with my 2 Year OldEveryone knows kids say entertaining stuff – but what happens when a grown man delivers the dialogue of a two-year-old? Matthew Clarke’sweb seriesfeatures real conversations with his daughter, acted out by his friend David Milchard. Milchard won the award for best actor in a comedy for his deadpan performances.You can see the rest of the winners atthe Streamy awards’ official website.Are there any we should have included? Let us know in the comments below.
The development team behind the hugely successful Fifa series of football games has publisheda list of the 50 best players in the world. No prizes for guessing who is at number one – but the rest of the line-up already has fans arguing over questionable omissions and placements.According to EA Sports, the list is based on player performances over the last 365 days (both in club and cup competitions), as well in-game statistics. The developers claim that the latest instalment in the series, due out on 25 September, uses the most detailed up-to-date stats yet to accurately recreate every player from all the key leagues throughout the world. It currently works with the Premier League to produce theEA Sports Player Performance Index, which analyses player contributions to each match based on five criteria.The top ten is, predictably, dominated by players in the German and Spanish leagues – well, Bayern Munich and Barcelona to be precise. We do not get to a Premier League player until number ten: Chelsea’s Eden Hazard – who just happens to the the cover co-star for the UK edition of the game.Anyway, here is the full list:50. Giorgio Chiellini – Juventus (Italy)49. Andrea Pirlo - Juventus (Italy)48. Xabi Alonso - Bayern Munich (Germany)47. Iker Casillas - Real Madrid (Spain)46. Cesc Fàbregas- Chelsea FC (England)45. Hugo Lloris - Tottenham Hotspur (England)44. Javi Martinez - Bayern Munich (Germany)43. Sergio Busquets - FC Barcelona (Spain)42. Jerome Boateng - Bayern Munich (Germany)41. Juan Mata - Manchester United (England)40. Karim Benzema - Real Madrid (Spain)39. Carlos Tevez - Juventus (Italy)38. Mario Götze - Bayern Munich (Germany)37. Diego Costa - Chelsea FC (England)36. Toni Kroos - Real Madrid (Spain)35. Arturo Vidal - Juventus FC (Italy)34. Petr Čech - Chelsea FC (England)33. Edinson Cavani - Paris Saint-Germain (France)32. James Rodríguez - Real Madrid (Spain)31. Thibaut Courtois - Chelsea FC (England)30. Neymar Jr. - FC Barcelona (Spain)29. Mats Hummels - Borussia Dortmund (Germany)28. Mesut Özil - Arsenal (England)27. Thomas Müller - Bayern Munich (Germany)26. Marco Reus - Borussia Dortmund (Germany)25. Ángel Di María - Manchester United (England)24. Sergio Agüero - Manchester City (England)23. Wayne Rooney - Manchester United (England)22. Yaya Touré - Manchester City (England)21. Xavi - FC Barcelona (Spain)20. Vincent Kompany - Manchester City (England)19. Robert Lewandowski - Bayern Munich (Germany)18. Luka Modrić - Real Madrid (Spain)17. David Silva - Manchester City (England)16. Thiago Silva - Paris Saint-Germain (France)15. Sergio Ramos - Real Madrid (Spain)14. Gareth Bale - Real Madrid (Spain)13. Philipp Lahm - Bayern Munich (Germany)12. Radamel Falcao - Manchester United (England)11. Robin van Persie - Manchester United (England)10. Eden Hazard - Chelsea FC (England)9. Franck Ribéry - Bayern Munich (Germany)8. Bastian Schweinsteiger - Bayern Munich (Germany)7. Luis Suárez - FC Barcelona (Spain)6. Andrés Iniesta - FC Barcelona (Spain)5. Manuel Neuer - Bayern Munich (Germany)4. Zlatan Ibrahimović - Paris Saint-Germain (France)3. Arjen Robben - Bayern Munich (Germany)2. Cristiano Ronaldo - Real Madrid (Spain)1. Lionel Messi - FC Barcelona (Spain)Who is missing and who is ridiculously under/over-rated? Let us know in the comments section.
