Gamespyandseveralothershave picked up on an interesting protest by Joseph DeLappe, an associate professor at the University of Nevada Reno. He logs into servers running the FPS America's Army, and instead of taking part, simply hits the chat button and types in the names of American soldiers killed during the Iraq conflict.DeLappe tells GameSpy that hisDead-In-Iraqproject has targeted this particular game because it represents, "a tax-payer funded propaganda and recruiting and advertising tool for the Army.""you have a fantasy about killing and being in the military, but nobody dies, there are no consequences. It's a complete fabrication... it's free, it's fun to play, it's seductive, it presents a fantasy portrait of what war is like."The protest has provoked strong opinions in game forums, and the immediate reactions of fellow players on the same server as DeLappe are often colourful to say the least. So is this a legitimate new form of protest in what is essentially a public space, or just another type of juvenile subversion akin to team-killing?
Living room divas rejoice - Sony has announced the latest instalment in the SingStar saga, and once again, the company has shown a keen understaning of its target market. SingStar Anthems, released handily the day before my birthday on August 4, is filled with classic provincial disco floor-fillas capabale of turning any house party into a heady mix of Moulin Rouge andBooze Britain.Here's the list. But which hen party staples are missing?Queen - Radio Ga Ga Bonnie Tyler - Total Eclipse of the Heart Take That feat. Lulu - Relight My Fire Cher - If I Could Turn Back Time Steps - Deeper Shade of Blue Dead or Alive - You Spin Me Round (Like A Record) Candi Station - Young Hearts Run Free Gloria Gaynor - I Will Survive Bananarama - I Heard A Rumour Pussycat Dolls - Don't Cha Leann Rimes - Can't Fight the Moonlight Donner Summer - I Feel Love Bucks Fizz - Making Your Mind Up The Weather Girls - It's Raining Men Ultra - Nate Free Scissor Sisters - Laura Kim Wilde - Kids in America Whitney Houston - I Wanna Dance With Somebody Girl Aloud - Biology Charlotte Church - Crazy Chick
Every two or three years, an over-hyped term appears on the horizon," says Nikos Drakos, a research director for IT consultancy Gartner. He is talking about "web 2.0", which at its broadest refers to interactive services available through the internet such as blogs, instant messaging, wikis and podcasts.These may sound best left to over-communicative teenagers, but Drakos says there are reasons for small businesses to be interested: "It makes available to them computing capabilities that have been out of reach so far," he says. As such services are designed for home users, this makes them easy to adopt, and they work through web browsers or other freely downloadable software.Web 2.0 services allow collaboration, both between staff and with the outside world: "The idea is to reduce the amount of control over the information you are creating and encourage participation and contributions that will help you plan, design, build, test or distribute," says Drakos. It sounds unnerving, and small businesses should consider the control and security of such systems, but the results can be worth it.Blogs: what you need to knowSome big business executives run blogs - public online journals allowing comments - for staff, but when the boss is in the same building, internal communication may be less of an issue. For small businesses, blogging is likely to be about building awareness and loyalty, and collecting reaction from customers.Paul Woodhouse is the freelance webmaster for Butler Sheetmetal, a small firm in Colne in Lancashire. He started the firm'sTinbasherblog in 2004 on the suggestion of his brother-in-law, John Butler, one of the owners: "He wanted a website and didn't want to pay a lot of money," he says.In an average week, Woodhouse spends the equivalent of about two days working on the blog: one day at the company talking to the staff, and up to two hours during each of the other four days on posts, which appear several times a week. These often quote the staff's views on their company, industry and own inventions, in a casual, chatty way.The result, Woodhouse says, is better-informed customers. "When we just had the website, you would get a very general enquiry," he says. "When people have read the blog, they invariably refer to an individual post - it's a lot chattier email you receive. You feel customers know you slightly better through the blog."This has helped attract business from designers in London for decorative sheet-metal work, Woodhouse says, that otherwise would have needed a salesperson or an office.Woodhouse is paid a retainer and 10% of net online income, with secure webhosting costing &pound;44 a month. Meanwhile, the company's turnover, previously &pound;60,000 to &pound;80,000 a year, was &pound;130,000 last year and looks set to equal that in the first six months of 2006. "Probably 30% to 40% of that comes through the website," says Woodhouse, including around 90% of new business.Company blogs are still fairly rare in Britain - apart from firms that communicate for a living, such as the media and public relations - so Tinbasher has generated plenty of free publicity, which makes it even odder that others have not followed suit.Woodhouse's advice for businesses considering a blog is to give it a trial before publicising it. "Go and read a few other blogs, see what you like. Get used to the way they write. Try practising," he says. "They are hard work." Linking to and posting interesting messages on other relevant blogs may help build an audience, particularly if those other bloggers link back to you. It is worth watching for comment spam and links to dodgy websites: some blog systems have tools to tackle this.Woodhouse thinks small businesses have a lot to gain from blogging, as the process is good for demonstrating transparency: "Small businesses can do that in abundance, and punch far above their weight," he says.Peter Scargill, national IT committee chairman for the Federation of Small Businesses, warns that what goes on a company blog, however informal, represents the voice of that company: if a member of staff suggests using a product in a new way and that then causes damage, "you might find yourself liable", he says. "As a company, would you let your people write press releases?" As with email, employees need a framework of rules on company communications, he adds.Getting startedSeveral firms provide free or cheap services. Google-ownedBloggerprovides free blogs on its own web space (with a Blogger toolbar) or on yours: with the latter you need to know how to upload pages to your web space.TypePadis a strong paid-for alternative, from &pound;2.59 a month with a month's free trial.Thomas Mahon'sEnglishcut.comblog is an interesting case study about life as an independent Saville Row tailor. Visithttp://media.guardian.co.uk/newmedia/story/0,,1735157,00.htmlfor his story.Instant messaging: what you need to knowMany small businesses are likely to have instant messaging (IM) installed already, as it is usually included in software for free or cheap voice over internet protocol (VoIP) telephone calls. Gartner thinks it likely that, by 2010, 90% of business email users will have IM accounts as well.Peter Scargill, who uses Skype's IM, says that unlike the telephone, users can respond to messages when ready, but it is much faster than email. Furthermore, "you couldn't have five or six conversations on the phone," he says, but you can with IM.Eldar Tuvey, chief executive of UK managed security provider ScanSafe, uses MSN Messenger. "We have an office in the US, and we use [IM] rather than call California," he says. "We do file transfers over IM, and some of our staff work at home for part of the week or are permanently based there, so it's a great way to communicate with them. It's like they are in another part of the office, but you can't see them." IM software often includes a presence indicator, which shows who on the contact list is online.IM could also be used with suppliers and customers, to save money on communicating. However, as with email, IM has its security risks, including spim - spam through IM - viruses and information leakage: this may be problematic for organisations that need to show records of electronic communications. ScanSafe is one of several companies providing security services for the technology.Getting startedIM software is often not inter-operable, so it may be sensible to adopt the supplier used by your contacts.Microsoft's MSN Messengeris the most popular, andSkypealso provides cheap telephone calls to normal telephone numbers. Both are free to download.Wikis: what you need to knowAt first glance, wikis - websites that users can edit as well as view - look particularly scary for businesses. "I would say be very careful," says Gartner's Nikos Drakos. "There is vandalism, hijacking, abuse." Spam, yet again, is also a problem.However, wikis can be restricted to staff: this is the way BT Labs has used them since 2002. "Our experience is that the lower the threshold you set, the better the resource," says Cefn Hoile, senior research engineer. Allowing freedom within the company rarely causes problems: as is usual with wikis, all changes are logged, can be reversed, and unlike internet wikis, anonymity is not possible. "It's not in anyone's interest to make a fool of themselves, or create issues," Hoile says.BT Labs uses wikis for documenting project activity and recording the deployment of new technologies, among other tasks, and has just opened a publicly availablewikiproviding a guide to its work. However, only employees can edit material."A wiki is typically good for collaborative documentation, and content that needs to be long-lived and navigable," says Hoile, such as an instruction manual. But a blog or message board system may be better at fostering discussion, he adds.Getting startedBothSocialtextandJotSpotprovide private hosted wikis for up to five users for free (although JotSpot's includes adverts) and both provide free trials of their paid-for services.Wikispacesprovides free "protected" wikis, which can be viewed openly but edited only with a password - but users must allow material on these sites to be copied for free.Other possibilitiesOther web 2.0 technologies that are free or cheap for small businesses to use include social networking websites, withLinkedInamong the best-known for business use.Putting video on your website can be trickier than audio podcasts (see below) as it makes heavy technical demands, but sites such asYouTubehost material for free and provide another way for users to find the material. Paul Woodhouse has used YouTube with Tinbasher, and is considering video tutorials: unlike blogs, which require constant work, these could be left in place for months or years.RDF Site Summary (RSS) is an increasingly important way of retaining attention online: it allows users to see when something online has changed, without visiting to check. Previously, RSS required special software, but RSS feed-readers are being built into standard web browsers, including Firefox and the next version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer. The good news is that many blog and wiki systems can generate RSS feeds automatically.Another option is to combine free online services to create "mash-ups" of multiple data sources, although this may require some technical nous. Nikos Drakos saysMashMapis a good example: it combines Google Maps with US cinema listings from Fandango.com, to display film times on a street map.Podcasting: how it can help generate incomeWiggly Wrigglers, a mail-order gardening firm based on a Herefordshire farm, has 1,500 to 1,700 listeners for its weeklypodcast. "It sounds like a small number, even from our point of view - we have 60,000 customers - but they are very active," says Heather Gorringe, the firm's managing director, who also writes a blog.The podcast seems to help generate income: "We never had sales from the US until we did a podcast," says Gorringe. "But it's impossible for me to measure the volume. As a small business, I don't think that's the point. I think most people are sick of advertising, spin and hype. If I can have a conversation, get you understanding my business, at some point you are more likely to buy from me."Compared with other web 2.0 techniques, podcasting is relatively expensive: Gorringe has bought four radio-quality microphones and a &pound;300 portable digital recorder, and employs the website's designer as an editor. "When you are close to a podcast, you forget what's OK and what's not OK. He is that voice of reason," she says. "I listen to a lot of podcasts that are very self-indulgent and amateurish."It normally takes 90 minutes to record the 30-minute programme, and so far, eight of the company's 14 staff have taken part: Gorringe says it also helps keep employees informed. The result is a mixture of chat, pre-recorded interviews - in one recent podcast, the local vet performed a post-mortem on a calf - and regular features such as worm-rearing tips.Gorringe says she was initially concerned that the podcast made the company sound "too quirky, too barmy, too direct," but she has become comfortable with the informal style: "I've heard very formal podcasts, and it's always boring institutions doing that," she says.
To avoid legal action many films and novels carry a disclaimer saying that any resemblance between the fictional characters and real people is purely coincidental. This column needs a similar cop-out. Everything in it is apocryphal and is not intended to upset my friends and relatives. Honest.You see this is the time when phone calls and emails to your little piece of paradise signal the start of summer. Suddenly, forgotten aunties and vague acquaintances offer to visit. You may have noticed that I said "offer"; that's because their messages are phrased in such a way that it does sound as if it's them that's doing the favour.They're concerned that you might feel lonely and isolated when you're all those miles away. Sometimes they're not wrong. But equally, phone calls are at least a partial substitute for their physical presence. But it's amazing how hard it is for people to break the psychological cost barrier on overseas calls. They're not expensive any more. Really. You can phone just about anywhere in the world for a few pence a minute, usually for less than the cost of a UK mobile call. In fact, thanks to internet telephony, it can cost nothing.Equally, for better or worse, there are few products from home that you can't buy here in Ibiza. If I wanted Marmite, Heinz Salad Cream, tasteless sliced bread, Tetley's tea or just about any of the bizarre flavours that Brits seem to miss, I could buy most of them from the local supermarket. They don't need to be produced from visitors' suitcases as if they were some sort of illicit contraband.There are, of course, certain things you can't get hold of so easily. Some of the veggies on the island, for instance, will almost forget their vows of non-violence in their desire to get hold of Quorn products. And one friend of mine tried and failed to bring a takeaway curry as hand luggage on her easyJet flight. As for me, one or preferably more packets of Stockan's thick oatcakes from Orkney is the way to my heart, but it's not a realistic alternative to paying for a hotel room.You see in theory I've got enough space in my house to put several people up. In practice, it's not so easy. I work in the same way as probably most freelances with a spare bedroom turned into an office. Of course it is possible to return the room to its original purpose and it's probably a good discipline for me to empty, clean and tidy it once in a while. But I still have to find somewhere to rest my keyboard.I did try working on my laptop for almost two weeks, moving round my then apartment in an attempt to find periods of tranquillity. It didn't stop me meeting my every deadline, but there were occasions when I'd have happily throttled my guests. That's partly, I'll admit, because I do work strange and erratic hours.This may not be the most organised and rational way of getting things done, but habits die hard. Equally, I find it hard to be rude and I'm easily distracted. Actually, the latter's probably more true, but either way I find it hard to ignore guests - even ones, heaven forbid, that I don't like.I love sharing my knowledge of Ibiza and showing people everything from my favourite unspoilt beaches to the best club nights and, sometimes, getting them in for free. Unfortunately, I can't take the whole summer off to do it.Socially, it's great living in a place where the weekend starts at the end of June and carries on until September. But, because my work is mostly UK-based, my weekend's still Saturday and Sunday or, on rare occasions, Friday night to Monday morning. My visitors' weekend starts the moment they step off the plane.In the end the only real solution is to offer the reply to friends and relatives perfected by my mate Paul. "Yes, we'd love to see you. There's a really nice hotel just down the road."&#183;Nick Clayton is a writer and web content consultant.deskinthesun@nickclayton.com
The reasons you might want to change your monitor are many. The old one may have gone kaput, in which case clearly you're up for a replacement, and if you were happy with the old one - except for the bit when it went down the swanee - then exchanging like for like might well be the best option.But there are different monitors for different purposes and when you're selecting them it's as well to know what's on offer. Did you want something cheap and cheerful? Do you edit videos and therefore require a higher resolution screen? Do you use external speakers or did you want speakers built in?You have to try very hard to avoid getting a flat screen monitor these days - even basic domestic computers have them, so we'll avoid discussing anything else for this round-up. The second thing to note is that there are remarkably few bad monitors out there and they won't get a mention - if it's listed below then it's good for something, although it may not be right for every purpose.Criteria for general-purpose monitors are pretty straightforward. The larger the space the better if you're going to have more than one program on screen at a time (maybe an Internet Messenger program on the side); higher refresh rates mean less flicker so they'll be easier on the eyes, and try to arrange your desk so that the top of the monitor is level with your eyes.The basic model: Benq FP51GBenq offers quality monitors all the way up the range and the fact that we're looking at one of the more modest offerings has everything to do with presenting a broad range and nothing to do with the quality of the higher-spec Benqs.Not that this is too tatty for a smaller model. The metal casing in either silver or black looks stylish and, more importantly, the images are crisp and clear. If your needs are for basic office tasks, including a bit of web surfing and maybe a little video conferencing, this is fine - it will cope with DVD playback quite happily and the pictures are pleasant to look at. If you want extras like USB sockets or a pivoting monitor then clearly you need to look at something a little more pricey, but for elementary computing this is a fine choice.PriceFrom &pound;106.79 (source:pricerunner.co.ukMaker's URLbenq.co.ukProsCompact and an easy swap-outConsNo extras - no USB points, no speakers, but this is all reflected in the reasonable priceStar rating***The widescreen with extras: Fujitsu Siemens Scaleoview S20-1WAnother good performer once it's set up, the Fujitsu suffers from your reviewer's preferences. I like to plug things in from out of the box and pretty much not think about them (you're in the wrong job - ed). So when the first thing you find on unpacking the thing is a speaker module you have to attach yourself, and of course extra audio cables to connect so that the speaker modules worked, my attention starts to wander.This is presumably an inevitable consequence of offering one configurable 20in widescreen model rather than trying to offer separate items for people who want speakers and for people who don't. This would push the cost up, of course, and once you've set the system up it's a good one. The adjustable height is a particularly useful touch, although swivel as well as tilt would have been nice.Price&pound;375.98 (source:dabs.comMaker's URLfujitsu-siemens.co.ukProsMost of the space on your desk is taken up by picture rather than casingConsSet-up can be time consuming and a little fiddlyStar rating***The looker: Sony SDM-HS95PSony can always be relied on to produce something that looks excellent and this jet black 19in monitor is no exception. It doesn't so much tilt as lean back on its stand when you nudge it and it's very, very pretty. It will happily handle DVDs, games or anything else your employees shouldn't be up to and, of course, the screen is quite big enough to handle most graphics jobs people are likely to encounter.The model I looked at didn't actually have a manual with it and it didn't need one, which is a good thing - we don't need more complication in our working lives. But I was left wondering whether there couldn't have been a bit more substance behind the gloss; perhaps some built-in speakers or a spare USB point for people who wanted one would be useful. This ticked all the right boxes in my "set it up and forget it" preferences, but I'd hoped for a little more "wow" from Sony.PriceFrom &pound;303.80 (source:kelkoo.co.uk)Maker's URLsony.co.ukProsEase of set-up and looksConsVery basicStar rating***The big one: HP LP2465This is the largest monitor on review - mostly because this is a business supplement so I excluded TVs that double as computer monitors, which you're unlikely to need for your organisation.This is a solid, good value monitor without any extras to speak of - although you can buy an extra speaker bar for just over &pound;10 (which is the perfect compromise between the fiddliness of the Fujitsu Siemens and the bare nature of the Sony). The question you'll need to ask yourself is whether you actually need a space-consuming 24in monitor. It could be a costly indulgence if it's not essential, but for frequent DTPers and others with a need for a lot of graphics, and who've made sure their graphics card is up to spec first, this represents good value.Price&pound;725 excluding VATMaker's URLhp.co.ukProsClarity and weight for the size of the screenConsFew complaints - if you don't need the size, you don't need the sizeStar rating*****The all-in-one: Apple iMacOK, cards on the table time - this one isn't just a monitor as you might gather from the price. If, however, you're thinking about replacing your PC at the same time as your monitor, you might well want to consider this as a combined unit. The computer is housed in the screen's casing so there's no extra box to plug in.It's a design classic and it works well with a lot of software thrown in to start you off. Its drawbacks are inherent in the design; first, if you're happy with your computer you clearly won't be thinking about this one. Second, and more seriously, if you want to upgrade to a larger disk or do something else to upgrade apart from put a couple of gigs of RAM in if you didn't order enough to fill all the slots, you need either to get a specialist in or replace the entire thing.PriceFrom &pound;1,229 including VATMaker's URLapple.com/ukProsEverything in the one box, and it'll boot Windows as well as Mac OSXConsUpgrading later on can be trickyStar rating****
Under an azure sky in Sao Paolo, Brazil, blading world champion Fabiola de Silva flips herself into the air from the top of an improbably high ramp. Meanwhile, in Venice Beach, California, "Mad" Chad Taylor juggles buzzing chainsaws like they're skittles. A slight, nonchalant young man by the name of Mr Woo displays complete mastery over a football in a car park in Seoul, South Korea. And in a Vegas casino, sharp-suited wise guy George Jones demonstrates the Niagara Falls card shuffle and how to cheat at poker.What do these people have in common? They're cool - or at least, they can show you how to do cool things. They are among the teachers in the Book of Cool, a sleekly packaged nine-hour, three-DVD and book tutorial that is being released in UK shops from the start of June. As the title suggests, it promises to share with us mere mortals the knack to pulling off an impressive array of stunts, from bar flairing (think Tom Cruise in Cocktail) and whip-cracking to skateboarding and magic. In effect, it's the show-off's bible.The men behind it, Fred Rees and his father Clive, may not be show-offs, though they do possess a particularly English strain of gung-ho affability. But having spent around &pound;1m of their own cash bringing their idea to life, with no outside financial backing and no distributor, it's fair to say they have a passing acquaintance with keeping their cool. Now all they have to do is turn a profit.The seed of the idea came to Londoner Fred, 35, three years ago, when he was going through a lean spell in his career as a director of TV commercials.He says: "I was lying on my sofa at home thinking, 'what the hell am I going to do with my life?' That morning I had spoken to a friend who had just made a football instruction video - the usual boring, cheap load of rubbish. I wondered why there wasn't something out there that would teach people what they really wanted to know - how to learn the tricks that people like Ronaldinho do in Nike adverts."The idea quickly snowballed. As well as football, why not frisbee skills, boarding stunts and card tricks? Wouldn't people like to know how to spin a pistol?Bright ideaSensing the germ of a good idea, but with little or no money, Fred enlisted the help of Clive, 72, a seasoned film and documentary director. Together they made a short demo of football and frisbee tricks in the hope of securing a distribution deal. It didn't quite work like that.Clive, who now lives in Swansea, says: "When I looked at the demo, I realised that it was not just interesting but also quite beautiful to watch these people performing. I thought if we could make this inaccessible stuff accessible, it would be great fun and very popular."Sure enough, when they hawked their demo round the major Hollywood studios, the offers came thick and fast. Most film-makers would have signed on the dotted line there and then. But Fred and Clive didn't like what was on the table.Fred explains: "If a distribution company invests in a product as opposed to licensing it from you, they end up with creative control, and will probably not only screw it up but also end up taking all the money that the product generates."It took 11 months to really get the project green-lit. Clive sold his film production office in Soho, central London, and sank the proceeds into making the Book of Cool a reality. With the money in place, Fred, brother Fergus and Clive set off on a 5,000-mile journey to capture the skills of an extraordinary range of highly talented individuals - some of them quite mad, it's fair to say.Making movies is not cheap. Without heavy duty financial backing, the motels were inexpensive and no one took a salary. "That's the beauty of family businesses," says Fred with a laugh. "They're cheap."With the film edited and the book completed, next came the tricky job of marketing and selling the package without the backing of a major distributor. The first wave of sales was made through a test store in Los Angeles, where the book proved hugely popular and gained extensive media exposure. Then it was made available through a website (bookofcool.com), which this month won a coveted Webby retail award. So far, 20,000 units have been shifted - partly thanks to a very savvy piece of advertising."I read about the Million Dollar Homepage (milliondollarhomepage.comwhere you can buy one pixel of advertising space for $1, and thought it was a genius idea," explains Fred. "So we spent $4,000 on a banner that says Even Monkeys Fall Out of Trees [a reference to the fact that even the best trickster screws up now and again]. The amount of interest we got through that was phenomenal."Business modelInternet-based research, self-financing, self-distribution and marketing online: is this a new business model for booksellers and film-makers?"Selling online, the return from our sales has been much greater than it would have been through retailers. Selling 15,000 online is the equivalent of selling four or five times more in the shops," says Fred."There is a holy grail in film production that someone at some point will make a film and sell it directly through the net to the public and avoid the exploitation of the distribution companies and the shops who have a cartel on this kind of thing. Maybe this will be the product to break the mould."Despite the huge financial gamble he and his father have taken, Fred says the positive aspects of going it alone outweigh the negative.Clive says: "If we had done a deal with a distributor, the DVD would have been one hour and we would have lost hours of great footage. The book would have been done cheaply. I think what we've done will pay off because the book has integrity.""That said, we have had a few drunken nights where we've thought, 'Oh my God, what the fuck have we done?'," adds Fred.Retaining control allowed the Reeses to stick to their principles in two very important ways. First, they could ensure that the Book of Cool itself and the accompanying film met the very highest standards of production. Second, it meant that they could treat the performers well. Though each artist in the film received a flat performance fee, they will also receive a share of future profits - an unusually generous deal."People say I'm insane to do that," says Fred. "But because we treated the artists fairly they have been helpful in promoting the book and giving up time to do re-shoots. If you treat people well you get back what you give. We're the opposite of Alan Sugar."The gamble seems to be paying off. Distributors have been found for the UK and Australia, and there are talks for a US release in September. Feedback from online buyers has been almost universally positive and it seems likely that the book, which is also available for the PlayStation, will be flying off the shelves come Christmas. Filming for Volume Two will start at the Street Football Festival in Berlin, which takes place during the World Cup and features a combined Israeli/Palestinian squad as well as teams from Afghanistan and Africa.With their maverick sensibility and willingness to gamble, Fred and Clive have brought their idea to fruition almost entirely independently, in a notoriously risky industry, without sacrificing their principles. In fact, they have done one of the coolest things possible, which is to not sell-out.Or, as Fred puts it: "If you have the balls to wait, you'll find the right people to do business with eventually."
For many new business owners, conceding a shortfall in management expertise is akin to admitting to a drug habit. They are either ashamed or, worse, refuse to accept that a problem exists. As a result, they could be costing the business dearly - at its most vulnerable stage of development.Acceptance is the first step, as Caroline Frampton found out to her cost. She naively thought she could base a business around her hobby - baking fresh, organic bread. Unfortunately, like many entrepreneurs with a great idea, she thought her enthusiasm alone would turn dough into, well, dough.Today, the business - Caroline's Real Bread Company - is doing very nicely, so much so that it recently won a gold award in the Welsh True Taste Awards. But the fact that the company ever got off the ground at all is quite astonishing."The most embarrassing gap in our knowledge was the notion of profit," says partner Nigel Devlin somewhat sheepishly. "We were so passionate about the need for people to eat proper bread that we tried to meet every customer's needs, no matter how small or ridiculous."We started by supplying a local specialist food shop, selling the bread at just over cost price to show how reasonable we were, and in absurdly low quantities so that, by the time we delivered it, we were losing money. Worst of all, we allowed the customer to get away with not paying us for three months." As if that wasn't enough, it later turned out that the shop was freezing the bread, undermining the whole premise of the bread company, so the relationship was abruptly terminated."My background was as a senior manager in local government, where you never admit you don't know anything," Devlin says, by way of excuse for his lack of business nous in those formative days. "This gave me an incredibly wrong sense of confidence. And, although Caroline had a background in catering, this was as an employee. Some might say we were naive; looking back, I'd say we were worse than that - we were rank beginners and, in many respects, out of our depth."The penny finally dropped when Frampton attended a Business Connect meeting, part of a Welsh government scheme supporting local businesses. "People were asking her about her turnover, how big the bakery was, how many employees we had and whether she had a business card - assuming that we were a successful business," says Devlin. "The reality was we were anything but. We didn't employ anyone and she didn't have a business card. Needless to say, we got our act together very quickly after that."Brad Rees, founder and MD of London-based market intelligence company Mediacells, has similarly cringe-worthy recollections of his early days as manager of a new business - not least that he'd given up a six-figure salary to start the enterprise."In my previous job [in marketing for a major global telecommunications company], it was easy to sit there and act out the Dilbert cartoon, getting paid each month for doing nothing. That's what's drove me out in the end - I needed to get the spark back."There have been many occasions since then that he has looked back longingly on those Dilbert days. "I'm reminded of the time I sent out 120 direct mails to warmish leads from our new offices in the West End and forgot to use the franking machine," he shudders. "I used to have a secretary to do all that. A week later I started getting lots of returns from the Royal Mail as my now stone-cold leads had returned the mailing, refusing to pay the postage. This was just one of many disasters."Two years on, Rees is starting to reap the benefits of his dramatic gamble, doubling profits each year, as customers begin to appreciate the value of his proposition - an independent source of information on the mobile phone and mobile content marketplace, enabling mobile operators and content providers to identify new market opportunities and potential business partners.One of the keys to this success has been distancing himself from the sales process, a hard lesson many entrepreneurs have to learn. "I was so excited about the product, and so eager to start doing deals, that I sounded too wired when talking too customers," Rees admits. "And I'd set my aim so high that I made that classic mistake that entrepreneurs make - of sounding desperate."Daniel Herman, founder and MD of bio-synergy, can identify with this. He set up his company eight years ago, based on a personal fascination with health products. The company, a small business based in London, makes and distributes health and sports supplements.In eight years, Herman has gone from launching the products with a small advert in the back of Men's Health magazine and managing the business from his parents' loft, to distributing them nationally through big-name retailers including Tesco, Boots and Superdrug. But the learning curve to get from A to B has not been a smooth one, and Herman's passion for his products was something he had to learn to curb."When I was selling, I'd take 'no' very personally," he says. "I rubbed people up the wrong way; I was belligerent. I've had to learn that if people don't buy into what I'm saying, it's not a personal attack on me. I'd assumed that everyone would appreciate what we were offering, but that wasn't the case."Herman's background hadn't exactly set him up to be a shrewd businessman from day one, so it's hardly surprising he didn't hit the ground running. His degree was in modern history and economics, and the only jobs he'd had previously were a year in advertising sales on the Daily Telegraph and a short stint as a money broker in the City."At school I was a small fat kid who didn't do any sports and just put on more and more weight," he says, explaining how his business idea came about. "Then at university I got into the gym, and started taking a lot of supplements until my father (a pharmacist) told me the ones I was taking were bad for me. I became very interested in the whole area and identified a gap in the market for safe health and fitness supplements that were suitable for everyday people."Perfect timingHis timing couldn't have been better, as health club chains such as David Lloyd and Fitness First were springing up everywhere. But, while his products were spot on, Herman's business management skills were not. "It was simple things, like not realising that prices included VAT and delivery, which took 20% out of my profits, or that distributors had minimum order thresholds in the hundreds of thousands," he says. "Another was not knowing I had to pay national insurance on top of people's wages."So how did he overcome these gaps in his knowledge? "I've learnt everything on the job," he says. "I'm needed in the day-to-day, so haven't had the time to do any management training."This is a common response, according to Professor Roger Mumby-Croft, assistant dean at Oxford Brookes University Business School and director of the Enterprise Centre, which provides business management consultancy and training."Most new managers have no real knowledge of the integrated business skills they need to give them a real chance. They may have good knowledge of one area, but in most cases that's all they have and it's often not comprehensive enough. The trouble is, few managers will admit that they are ignorant of the wider concepts and applied practice they need to be good managers. As long as the myth persists that all management skills can be learnt at the university of life, the longer it will take the UK to reach the required levels of good management knowledge that are needed for us to remain competitive as a nation."So what help is available? The government's national Business Link network is always a good place to start, while accountants and lawyers can play an essential role in advising on everything from how to register the company to tax obligations, book balancing and staff rights.Justin Butler, founder of environmental risk consultancy, Ambiental Technical Solutions, says he received valuable help from the Sussex Innovation Centre, a business incubator in Brighton. He started his business with only a PhD behind him, so needed all the commercial help he could get. Ambiental uses 3D simulation to predict the impact of floods or terrorist attacks on urban areas. Brief experience selling IT products to the financial services sector, and then raising funds for a dotcom charity site, gave him some of the experience he needed, but not the more honed business skills he needed to develop his product into a money-making venture.The Sussex Innovation Centre, one of many new and small business incubators around the country, helped Butler identify grants and loans he could apply for, and provided him with a virtual board that meets once a month to assess the company's marketing and finance. The centre even manages Ambiental's accounts, using the Sage online accounting software service. "This relieves me of the quarterly hell of VAT returns," Butler notes happily.As companies get bigger, managers will need to worry not only about their own management skills, but those of the people they recruit, which can be a substantial challenge in its own right. "A good company will establish a confidential mentoring system so that people can discuss their issues and knowledge gaps openly," says John Kerr, development director at Edge, a business skills training firm. "An electronic buddy system will allow someone to seek advice without the fear of their knowledge gap being 'found out'."While new-business managers won't have the luxury of someone above them to provide the same comfort blanket, that help exists a-plenty on the outside. Admitting you need that help may be a major first step, but the rest is easy.Checklist - things every business owner should knowDo you have a secret management problem? Use this checklist of things-you-really-should-know to work out if you need help:&#183;How to set up a payroll or PAYE scheme with the HMRC&#183;About the need to register the company with HMRC for corporation tax&#183;About the need for VAT registration for companies whose turnover exceeds &pound;61k&#183;About submitting annual statutory accounts to Companies House as well as an annual corporation tax return to HMRC&#183;About submitting a P11D for each employee so they can report any benefits they have received from you in their self-assessment tax returns. (Many new business managers don't know they can apply for a P11D dispensation that exempts certain business-related benefits and cuts red tape significantly)&#183;How to manage cash flow (it's very common to see owner-managers doing the bookkeeping themselves)&#183;How to read a balance sheet or P&L;, to get a clear picture of the company's financial status at any one timeHelping yourself:&#183;Take a reality check of your own capabilities and assess your strengths and weaknesses - if you're bad with numbers, use someone who isn't&#183;Use simple, tried and tested business tools and methodologies to regain control of the business (eg if people management skills are weak, ensure staff have a clear job description so they understand their roles and responsibilities)&#183;Make brave decisions - be honest, even consider taking a different role.Courtesy ofRichard Fifield, managing director, accounting and business advice services firm, Tenon
"Hi, I'm on the plane. No, not the train - the plane! Yeah, it's cool, isn't it? No, not much news - I just saw a cloud that was a really weird shape..."It is not a welcome prospect. But, like it or not, it is coming. Mobiles have been banned on flights because of fears that the surge of power emitted by a phone as it seeks a network just after being switched on could interfere with aircraft systems. This is why mobiles that are inadvertently left on during flights have done no discernible harm.The other difficulty has been terrestrial. Networks on the ground work on the basis that a mobile can only engage with a few base stations at once. So the challenge has been twofold: to limit the power emitted by mobiles and to ensure they do not try to hook up with networks on the ground.Operators now believe they can overcome these obstacles. BMI and TAP Air Portugal are trialling an OnAir system this autumn and Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, thinks his passengers will be able to make mobile calls in-flight by next year. They will, of course, pay relatively high roaming charges for the privilege of calling from the sky.Lifting the ban on mobiles would have an additional benefit. Passengers on the hijacked Flight 93 on September 11, realising that they were unlikely to see their families again, called them to say goodbye. Had there been a sky marshal on the plane, he might have been able to seek advice from his colleagues on the ground. (They might then have decided to shoot the plane down - but that is a dilemma for quite another article.)Other carriers have been cautious - and with good reason. As a recent Ofcom discussion paper delicately puts it, "the potential for increased levels of agitation from passengers is a factor to be noted". The combination of enforced inertia, alcohol and a jabbering neighbour could prove extremely volatile. It would be a particular problem on long-haul flights. Ofcom suggests that mobiles could be banned from the economy cabin, from designated "quiet zones" or during the hours when most passengers try to sleep.Quiet carriages have proved quite successful on long-distance trains. But an aeroplane cabin is a different matter. Moving to a different part of the plane to make a call would be almost impossible. Large twin-deck planes and the new Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 might be big enough to accommodate a quiet zone. Smaller planes - such as the new 100-seater Airbus A318, on which Air France intends to trial mobiles next March - would not.Boycott threatA survey by the research firm IDC last year bears out Ofcom's warning. It found that only 11% of travellers wanted to make (or, more likely, overhear) mobile calls in-flight, though around two-thirds wanted to be able to text. Polls by network providers tend to suggest that business travellers do want to be able to call the office and will pay for it: but some frequent fliers who use their flight to sleep have threatened to boycott any airline that permits it.The irony is that only in the past couple of decades have aeroplanes become quiet enough for passengers to conduct a phone conversation without shouting. By the end of its life, first-time flyers on Concorde were often taken aback by how noisy their short journey was. The A380 and the 787 are 75% less noisy than an early Boeing 727.Jets are at their loudest at take-off and as they climb to cruising altitude. Contrary to popular belief, however, the steady drone you hear during most of the flight does not all come from the engines. "There is, of course, a component of engine noise," says Ron van Manen, a director of civil aeronautics at the defence manufacturer Qinetiq. "But most of the noise that a passenger would hear comes from the friction of the air passing down the aircraft."These vibrations are always louder at the back of the aircraft, which is one of the reasons why first-class cabins are located in the nose. Qinetiq has done extensive research into diffusing another source of aircraft noise - the on-board announcements - through the use of flat panels. In private jets, these can create surround sound for in-flight movies and music; on commercial jets, they stop the people sitting under speakers from cringing each time an announcement is made. Potentially, these panels could be fitted inside business class cabins to deliver the noise cancellation currently available through expensive headphones - but that technology is relatively untested.Then, of course, there are sources of noise from within the aircraft: the vibration of overhead lockers against the shell of the plane, the preparation of food in the galley, the trolleys banging down the aisle, the bassline of personal headsets, the suction of flushing lavatories, and the air conditioning (or environmental control system, as airlines like to call it).Finally, and most irritatingly, there are the irregular conversations, snores, coughs, wails, screams and grizzling of the other passengers. Just as with mobile phones, the fact that you can hear these sounds at all is a testimony to the hard work scientists have done to minimise aircraft noise. I asked Van Manen which of the rival widebodies - the A380 or the 787 - was the quieter plane."There is some evidence that the Airbuses are quieter than the Boeings," he says. "But the perception is the other way around. It just goes to show that people perceive noise differently."The human ear is good at screening out background clamour and listening to the information it wants and needs: just remember the last time you ordered a drink at a crowded bar with the music turned up high. Unfortunately, ignoring a screaming baby or a mobile abuser on a flight demands you do precisely the opposite. Hardly surprising then that airline crew are treating the introduction of mobiles with considerable trepidation.
Welcome to the May edition of Business Sense, the monthly supplement highlighting smart technology and business techniques for growing companies.As Business Sense was going to press this week, the Small Business Service (SBS) - the government agency set up to make the UK "the best place in the world to start and grow a business" - was being savaged for its failings. It seems the agency is unable to say how exactly its &pound;2.6bn budget actually improves the lot for small businesses in the UK.According to the National Audit Office, of 150,000 small businesses having trouble raising finance, only 7,500 are helped annually by the SBS. The agency failed to set targets or measure progress towards its goals.There will be plenty of small business owners who, eying the budgets and the time afforded the agency, would think with some justification they could have done a much better job of identifying the problems facing small business.But the fact is it can be a hard, and lonely, business managing an SME. So our cover story this month asks the difficult question: are we really particularly good managers? Entrepreneurial small business owners and managers may be knowledgeable and passionate about their speciality, but that doesn't necessarily confer the other - perhaps less exciting - skills that a good manager needs. Sue Norris looks at how you can spot the areas you need to improve in, and what action you can take.Just don't, it seems, look to the SBS for help on that front.Elsewhere in this month's edition, Guy Clapperton tests a range of computer monitors. Given many of us spend much of our time staring at the screen, having a decent monitor seems a wise investment - and prices have tumbled recently.And don't miss Jamie Milne's inspirational tale of the father and son team who had a great idea for a DVD and book - the Book of Cool - and sold up to raise money to pursue their dream without help from the big distributors. Their gamble paid off handsomely - they tell us how they managed it.
TelecommunicationsSkype hones software for VoIP marketTelecommunications has been very much a theme over the last four weeks.Skypehas been tweaking its software for people who want to use it as a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) provider. The new version has easier use of video conferencing and generally more intuitive features. Mac users, however, will still have to wait for video conferencing as it's still not in the latest download - more on this as it emerges from the company.Another Skype wrinkle that has emerged is from software companyEQO. This loads on to your computer and on to your mobile and lets you reach Skype contacts through the mobile handset. It's a little clunky to use at the moment and exists for Mac users only, which is a pain for the majority. It detects that you're being called on your Skype number then the mobile calls the caller, so it's far from straightforward. It works on its own terms and presumably puts a marker down - no doubt future versions will become much simpler and just receive calls simultaneously as some of the competition does.BooksTips on becoming a mobile network operatorRelated to telecoms is the issue of mobile computing, which is where Tom Weiss's new book, Mobile Strategies (&pound;19.99, Futuretext), may be of help to companies wanting to sell. It aims to help businesses understand how they can take advantage of the boom in mobile communications beyond just carrying a phone around with them - which, to be fair, is also useful. An ex-VP of T-Mobile, Weiss knows his subject and herein lies one of the book's central weaknesses: it's pitched too high for an awful lot of readers. He says in his introduction that it's for the non-telecoms specialist, although he concedes it's pitched high. The thing is, non-telecoms specialist to someone who's been in the business is a different thing from someone who's a real novice. If you're among the latter then the first three chapters, on the history of communications, might be of academic interest. If you're looking for something more practical then you might wonder why so much space is taken up with talk of Marconi and his successors.If you do have a decent level of knowledge of the subject then this could be an extremely useful book for you once you're past the scene-setting. It talks you through the business model of how to be a mobile network operator, how to operate on the next level down as a mobile virtual network operator (in other words sub-let a bit of bandwidth and sell it on), the importance of mobile content and how to make money from texting.No doubt it can be done, and if an entrepreneur can persuade one of the big mobile networks to sublet some bandwidth to someone who wants to compete, great. You do wonder, though, just who's going to want to compete with the likes of Vodafone, Orange, O2...Disaster recoverySmall business still ill-prepared for the worstOne of the difficulties in writing a column like AOB is that so many of the themes seem to crop up over and over again, and you don't want to write something repetitive. Unless, of course, it's really important and could have a material effect on your readers. Which is why it's worth highlighting research from Dell in conjunction with the Federation of Small Businesses, that says the vast majority of small businesses fail to realise the importance of having a robust disaster recovery plan in place.The report, entitled Computer and Data Security Survey 2006, suggests that almost three quarters of small businesses store their data on PCs rather than servers or somewhere central - but 69% still believe that they are in a good position to recover from a disaster like theft or accidental damage to their PCs. Also, two-thirds of respondents had no policy or management procedure in place to stop people attaching their phone, hand-held computer or MP3 player to a computer.It's crazy. If a computer burns and it's the only place you have your customer list stored then yes, a specialist company may be able to clean up and restore the hard disk, but backing up properly is a much more sensible idea. And the MP3 player problem is being thrown up report after report. Some players have as much as 60GB storage on them, which is plenty of room for a lot of confidential documents. Attach the player to a PC via the USB port and you can drag and drop every piece of confidential data you want.The FSB makes the point that technology is available to small business to enable it to compete with larger concerns very easily indeed, but smaller businesses won't have the same IT support infrastructure as their corporate counterparts. This doesn't affect your vulnerabilities at all, unfortunately.CashflowIT can help ease financial burden, says MicrosoftMeanwhile Microsoft has been conducting research into what holds small businesses back and concluded that cashflow is the single biggest inhibiting factor to growth, affecting a fifth of business owners. The research, published in conjunction with YouGov, also pointed to areas in which companies could be saving money through technology - as one might expect from a survey from a software company, but several points were well made. Possible savings that were being neglected included:&#183;Financing: Microsoft and other organisations offer financing for SMEs wanting to buy technology. This means not having to have the cash up front, the trade-off being that borrowing the money will in itself incur costs.&#183;Bulk licensing: it often isn't realised that people with as few as five computers can buy a group license for their software from Microsoft and its competitors. This will invariably be cheaper than five individual software packages and will have no drawbacks in terms of functions.Inevitably there are other ways in which smaller organisations will be able to save money using technology - see features on VoIP in previous issues of Business Sense.
If you decide you don't want someone who works in your office and you sack her because she is a woman, you will be in very serious trouble. Her entitlement to take action, assuming she can prove that was the reason, is beyond debate. Likewise if you sack her because of her ethnicity, this is completely (and quite reasonably) contrary to the law. No, if you don't like her there's only one thing you can do legally at the moment - tell her she's too old, or too young. Until later this year there's nothing she can do about it.Which is of course deplorable and which is why the law is changing (see below). Ageism may be legal, but few people would condone it and it's being slung out, officially, in October. The baffling thing is why this needs to become law; give or take the odd high-profile job in sport (and no matter how strongly you feel you are not going to win the Wimbledon men's singles final if you're over 50) it's difficult to find any business disadvantage to employing an over-40, unless you're insecure and think their experience will lead them to take your job.Marie Eichler is one of the partners who set up Appointments Bi Language, a recruitment agency offering bilingual staff to organisations including investment banks, book publishers and numerous other markets. She believes that much of the issue about older employees is down to perception rather than reality. "I suppose I would say that, wouldn't I, because I'm slightly over 40, but I can't find any disadvantages." Placing older people has made no difference whatsoever to customer feedback, she says.Part of this is because the current generation of over-50s is different from their predecessors. "People who grew up in the 60s, as I did, are better educated than previous generations had the chance to be, we have buying power and our clients are selling to an older population."This doesn't stop clients bracketing the people they want into age groups. "They may say something like, 'the team is an average age of 35 so someone young will fit in', which of course they won't be able to do once the legislation has changed. We've noticed, though, that if we get a temp in, for which they don't ask about age, then once the temp has started doing the work the age ceases to be an issue and they fit in perfectly."It's worth developing Eichler's point about the changing nature of growing older a little. Fifty years ago, someone in their 50s would most likely have had retirement in his or her sights, the odd holiday by the seaside and they'd most likely think of themselves as winding down.In 2006 they're more likely to be taking up a sport, filling some lifetime ambition they can now afford because the mortgage is over and the kids have left home - they're a very different generation. And as employees, they have a resource of experience their twentysomething counterparts haven't had the chance to build: IT skills, organisational skills - you can only learn these with time.Gemma Forster, HR consultant at the Alnwick Garden in Northumberland, is keen to stress the benefits of employing older people. "Over the last 12 months we have made an active effort to recruit more mature workers. This is because we have over half a million visitors a year, of all ages, and the Garden's objective is to have a workforce that reflects our visitors' age balance."Of the 114 people who work there, 25 are now 50 years old or more and the oldest is 72, acting as a tour host of the poison garden. "He is one of the best reasons for employing a mature worker," says Forster. "He is lively with great communication skills - we find the over-50s have more life skills and they act as great coaches and mentors to the younger people."Context is everythingDavid Waterman heads up Waterman Box Makers, the family business he joined after leaving school. He concedes age can be important but adds that most of the advantages and disadvantages are down to the function the person is filling. "If you talk to someone in the City and they're in their 30s, they may be feeling past it," he says. "In a totally different function someone in their 60s or 70s is still up for it."He is annoyed by the idea that someone has to leave a job at which they are skilled because of a mark on the calendar. "Having to say goodbye to experienced, good staff because it's their birthday just doesn't make sense to me."Ashley de Safrin is account manager, tourism and hospitality, for Business Link for London. He welcomes the change in legislation from the business benefit perspective: "It is not an area that comes up as often as it should - not enough employers think about it," he says. "They complain they can't get people and then they don't look at the whole market - they need to know what older workers can do rather than have preconceptions about what they can't."There can be reasons for this. Older people are indeed experienced but this can lead to higher expectations and needs in terms of salary, for example - a cultural shift in which employers need to be strict about paying for the job rather than the person. There may also be some call for different management techniques as the 40-plus worker might have family and other commitments. "You might need to look into flexible hours, job sharing and the like," says de Safrin. These adaptations should lead to benefits rather than drawbacks, however.It will cut both ways of course. You won't be able to exclude people because they're too old, but by the same token you won't be able to keep them out if you think they're too young.In many ways it doesn't actually matter, though. When we're all back from holiday after the summer, ageism will be outlawed. And if your recruitment techniques are right there should be either no difference or massive benefits to everyone in business. All that has to happen is for people to take it seriously. Yes, age discrimination will be against current legislation, but at the moment so are racism and sexism - and regrettably nobody with any experience can claim these never occur in a workplace.Legislation: what's actually changingThe law that's coming into force is the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006, which comes into force on October 1 this year. Essentially it will cover discrimination in employment, training and education. It will apply not only to employees but to self-employed people, office holders like company directors, contract workers, job applicants, former employees, students and former students.The new legislation will prevent direct discrimination against someone because of their age and also indirect discrimination, in other words making it difficult for older people without actually being overt. Age Concern has an information leaflet (download it free fromace.org.uk/ageconcern/is17.asp) that gives as an example a company that advertises for "recent graduates" - which doesn't actually specify young people but which is weighted in their favour. Harassment and victimisation on grounds of age will also be illegal. Exceptions will occur when there is a "proportionate way of achieving a legitimate aim" - the Age Concern sheet gives the example of an air traffic controller, who would have to undergo lengthy training for years before starting and have no prospect of serving a reasonable length of time if recruited later in life.Robyn McIlroy, employment lawyer at legal firm Pinsent Masons, warns of some of the clauses relating to retirement. "Small businesses may fall foul of the retirement provisions simply because they are not aware of their new obligation to advise staff of their right not to retire," he comments. He points to information sources such as ACAS which will be able to help.The main changes to retirement rules will mean that forcing someone to retire before they are 65 will be possible only in exceptional circumstances. And if you want to force someone to retire when they are older than that you'll need to follow a procedure including giving them six months' notice.As always in cases of changing legislation it is essential to get legal advice before making changes to your organisation.
Now don't get me wrong. I love my HDTV and wouldn't dream of playing the 360 on anything else, not least because I need to justify the ridiculous outlay. Once you get used to pin-sharp it's hard to go back to the relative blur of normal TV - honest. But much of my recent gaming time has been spent on Sensible Soccer 2006, a game with decidedly low rent visuals. Would it play better if it had photorealistic graphics? Of course not. As Keithpoints outin today's paper, physics, not photorealism, is where development is currently at.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nintendo hasannounceda rough guide price for Wii - no more than $250 - and a plan to ship 6 million units of the innovative console by March 2007. As usual there is little European information other than a commitment to launch at a, "similar affordable price". Nintendo also expects to sell 17 million games between the Q4 launch and the end of March 2007. You can expect the new Zelda game to take up a sizable chunk of this figure.Exact launch dates and titles are expected soon but you'd imagine Nintendo would want to avoid PlayStation 3 in November. Yes, the two giants are chasing different consumers these days, but most early adopters and committed gamers are likely to want both as soon as they arrive. Pre-order chaos will ensue, with news bulletins full of fraught parents unable to get hold of a new console which, in the PS3's, case is not aimed at their children. Is there any hope for anyone who forgets to pre-order? I think there may be. Not with the PS3 - it will barely reach the shelves this year - but Wii's unique approach will require more of a hard sell. It needs to be played to appreciate and it will take a while for word of mouth to spread. Sure, the US and Japan won't have a problem, but are there enough Zelda fans and Nintendo die-hards in the UK to ensure a launch sell out?
Strange things have started to happen on my laptop. As I am writing this email, the following words appear without me touching the keyboard: "is to the open is in the U. A. N. on a way you". Any idea what is happening please and how I can stop it? a a day, they may have a man may man a man may I may I say how a man There it goes again. Do I have a virus or have I been hacked? Mark ShardlowMy best guess (which turned out to be correct) is that you have the Windows speech recognition module running. Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to bring up the task list, look for Sapisvr.exe under Processes and terminate it if you find it. This is sometimes loaded on notebook PCs that have built-in microphones. Microsoft has a long Knowledge Base article, "How to install and configure speech recognition in Windows XP", which you can find by searching for 306537. Scroll down about half way and you will find the removal instructions in a section that starts "How to remove speech recognition".
TVs seem to be well provided for with their set-top boxes, but I have yet to see anything in the general press about devices for radios. Is there any move to convert analogue radios in this way and, if so, can you recommend any devices? David BishopThere are several products that can be plugged in to a traditional radio or hi-fi tuner to enable them to receive digital audio broadcasts. You can check what's available by going to the Digitalradionow.com site's product finder (http://www.digitalradionow.com/prodf.php#results), clicking on Type of Radio and selecting Adaptors. For home users, the options are the DA-1 adaptor from Dixons (44) and the Genus DU1 Digital Radio Upgrade (50, www.genusdigital.com/du1.htm). However, the existing radio must have some sort of line-in plug such as an AUX socket, though the DU1 also works with optical S/P DIF. There's also the Revo Dock (50, http://www.revo.co.uk/digital-radio/home.php), "coming soon", to connect a Revo digital radio to a home system. I have not heard any of these products and cannot comment on their sound quality, but the prices seem rather high compared with the cost of buying a new standalone digital radio. An adaptor could make sense if you have a radio that delivers good quality FM but you want to use DAB to listen to an AM (medium wave) station such as Radio Five Live.
I can view all my holiday pictures on my Nikon CoolPix 7900 but on my PC, only five of more than 50 are viewable. Are there any free programs that will help me recover these damaged/corrupt files from the SD card? Tom CrokerI don't know of any free programs, but LC Technology's Photorecovery 3.0 is worth a go (www.lc-tech.com). It costs $39.95, but you can test a demo version before paying for it.Backchat: John Cartlidge suggests trying Digital Photo Recover from Art Plus (www.artplus.hr): "It's not fast but it is free!" Colin Leeds points to an open source alternative, PhotoRec (www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec). Marian Harcourt says: "I haven't tried it, but ImageRecall can be downloaded fromwww.imagerecall.comas a free trial version. There is also a useful little PDF file there, How To Look After Your Memory Cards." Finally, Raymond Dalgleish says: "An excellent alternative isPC Inspector Smart Recoverywhich costs whatever you wish to donate via PayPal. I have used earlier versions of the program and it did an excellent job, even being able to recover parts of otherwise corrupted image files." Thanks also to many other readers who wrote in.
Please can you point me in the right direction for backup software that will enable me to restore a complete hard drive or incremental files without having to reactivate Windows. Bill PhillipsAcronis True Image 9.0 Homewill do what you want, but for continuous backups, Centered Systems'Second Copyis also worth a look.Unfortunately, it's not easy to tell whether using a backup will mean Windows XP has to be reactivated. If the hardware has not changed, I don't see why it should. Even if the hardware changes substantially, Microsoft allows XP Pro to be reactivated four times a year. There's an interesting account of how WPA (Windows Product Activation) works atwww.licenturion.com.
A file called thumbs.db is copying itself into folders as and when I copy/scan image files. Is it malicious or just an unfortunate blip? Isabel JackThumbs.db is an operating system file where Windows XP stores thumbnails of images to save recreating them each time you open a folder that contains images. Normally these files are hidden, but you can delete them if you see them. You can stop XP from creating them by opening Windows Explorer, selecting Tools and then Folder Options. Click the View tab, put a tick in the box next to "Do not cache thumbnails", and click OK.
Technology Guardian: The hype is everywhere about Web 2.0. How do things like Ajax fit into the guidelines you've been espousing?Jakob Nielsen:It's always been good usability to make interfaces reactive, to have as fast response times as possible. Many of these Web 2.0 things are tricks to provide it in a faster way. - in that sense it works well ... it's just a programming technique for achieving these goals. I used to say that I don't like a lot of functionality inside a web browser ... but now you can view the browser more like a programming system or a programming language almost, and therefore your browser can become a support platform.The question then becomes "is that the best way of doing these applications", or is it still best to download them and use them as a full-featured application which sucks in small amounts of data. But it's all a continuum: at one end you have pure data and information on the web, and on the other the full applications. Most things exist in the middle. Information-only websites have are still useful, and then something like Microsoft Office has rich interaction styles that are still easier to do on the desktop.TG: Are there problems with the way people approach web businesses?JN:There is a misunderstanding of internet advertising. There is some advertising that is working and funneling money back to the search engines. But because most advertisements work so poorly on the web, the advertisers are yelling more and more loudly and they are getting more garish and being deceptive. Those are really big problems, and they cause users to feel like the internet is a less welcoming place. It's like being in the bad part of town, with people insulting you. It backfires because it damages credibility; they assign the blame partly to the advertiser and partly to the website.TG: How irritating is it that people still aren't getting your message?JN:It's very annoying. There are many new and interesting things to talk about, but it's baffling that we have to continue talking about these old findings. But we have to. Business-to-business websites still live in the 90s in terms of interacting with customers online. The sites may look good, but there's no clear-cut information - just slogans.TG: Have you seen any significant changes in the way people use the web?JN:General behaviour is very search-dominated. You go to your favourite search engine, type in two words and click on the first few results. Users spend one or two minutes and then decide where to do their business.That has been a big change. Search has changed from being something that's somewhat useful to being something that works surprisingly well. People do tend to only type in two words, and two words is a very minute and impoverished description of a human need. But search engines can - most of the time - pick four or five sites that you actually want. Because people have experienced that it works, this has become their number one behaviour.TG: People either love or hate you. Have your methods helped you?JN:There probably are some people who are beyond reach because they don't want to listen. It's kind of like being an astronomer and you're looking up at the sky and saying that it looks like the earth is revolving around the sun, not the sun revolving around the earth. You can report it and the Pope can like it or not, but it doesn't change what's going on. It's the same here: I'm reporting what average people find when they visit a website. If you don't listen your users will suffer and your business will suffer.You have to fight for the people. These new technologies aren't just for the technological elite. Remember that the average user is not there when a company or design team has a meeting about what to do on our website.TG: There's a perception that you are the guy who comes to the party and tells them to turn the music down. Do you enjoy that reaction?JN:I have my own techno-enthusiasm, I like advanced fancy stuff too. If you're only doing something that's targeting a few thousand web designers, then you can make it challenging because those users would find it engaging and fun. But the average user doesn't find it engaging and fun to struggle against technology.You have to acknowledge the way the real world works. You shouldn't design for designers, or design for your boss. Good design is about problem-solving under constraints - design has to have a goal of achieving some purpose.TG: Sites like MySpace are hugely populated by savvy younger people still developing a sense of design. Do you feel that sites directed towards young users are failing to teach them best practice?JN:If a teenager is just making a page for their three best friends, then these guidelines aren't relevant. You can put a pulsating heart on the page, make it play your favourite song - these atrocities would be the kiss of death for a mainstream website, but here it's a case of personal expression. It is OK for somebody's MySpace pages to contradict everything we know about usability because they're purely self-expression.We have to get through to them that the way you communicate among yourselves is different from the way you communicate with other people. This goes back to the school system, which needs to explain the different ways of communicating in different media. If you wrote a job application like your MySpace pages, you'd be out of work.TG: So is there room for talking about these issues in the classroom?JN:There was a study done at the Open University found that in elementary schools, for every &pound;100 spent on books, students grades improved by 1.5% - and for every &pound;100 spent on computers, grades improved by 0.7%. So books are twice as good as computers for this ... So it's not necessarily that I should study history by clicking on some web pages, but that we should teach about these electronic media forms and how to use them. The value of that education would be immense.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because they will help it get more advertisers. The search giant announced this week that while it won't display video ads on its main site, websites that take its AdSense adverts will get the option of having video ads. They'll last up to two minutes, but the user will have to click a link to start them. So it's not quite like TV.The stock market approved, pushing Google's share price up nearly a dollar to $370.95 on the announcement. But what does that mean? Probably that big companies are going to come on board, wanting to distinguish themselves from the huge number of smaller companies that advertise through AdWords - short text sentences that appear alongside search terms or on websites. Or as Gokul Rajaram, product management director of Google's AdSense program, said, "a certain segment of advertisers have told us they want richer and more engaging messaging capability."The question is: engaging for whom? In the face of mounting evidence that given the chance, people zip past adverts on TV, the logic that suggests they will (a) click on a button to watch a video advert and (b) take any action on it doesn't seem grounded in reality.Even so, Google has it ready: you can see an example at the Google AdWords blog (seehttp://tinyurl.com/k3az3).Experience suggests video adverts only attract attention when they're terrible, when they achieve a notoriety their authors didn't intend. (See, for example, the adverts athttp://streams.cei.org/by the so-libertarian-it-hurts Competitive Enterprise Institute in the US, about "the alleged global warming crisis" - possibly to distinguish it from the real global warming crisis we're living through - which qualify as some of the most misleading we've ever seen.)Google reckons that online video ads will help advertisers try out different versions of ads relatively cheaply, so they can decide which ones to show on TV. It used to be that advertisers treated the net just like TV. Now, they're going to treat TV like the net. It's progress, of a sort.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In a move designed to protect gamers from themselves, a representative of the Korean Assembly will present a Bill to the government next month requiring online games companies to limit players' gametime to under 3 hours. Failure to do so may result in a proposed 10 million won (approximately 5,575) fine.Korea is a world leader in online game consumption, and has witnessed a number of cases in which gamers have died from days of non-stop playing. The regulations would require games developers to include an automatic log-off after three hours for users under 18.viaKorea Times
Sometimes you just have to put aside your prejudices and bow down before the audacious brilliance of EA's marketing department. The publisher has just drawn up a deal with Jeep to include the car manufacturer's Willys-Overland model in Medal of Honor Airborne. That's a licensing deal... in a WWII sim. From the press release:"Jeep played an integral role in the war effort as an indispensable tool in tracking the enemy, exchanging information and moving troops. Over 350,000 Willys Jeep vehicles were built and used during WWII, and at one point the assembly line was pushing out one vehicle every 90 seconds. When driving a Willys Jeep in Medal of Honor Airborne, the player can choose to use it as a mode of transportation, or as a mobile attack platform taking full advantage of a variety of mounted weapons."But of course, this isn't to do with some noble, if mistaken, quest for authenticity, it's about selling cars. "Video games are quickly becoming the medium of choice for a new generation of consumers and Chrysler Group has been at the forefront of this exciting revolution," said Jay Kuhnie, Director of Jeep Communications. Perhaps he imagines gamers thinking, "Wow, I love the way my Jeep handled during that machine gun skirmish, I must buy one for the school run..." Actually, he's probably got a point.The madness doesn't end there. Patrick Gilmore, VP and Executive Producer at EALA says, "This is the first time in any Medal of Honor game that a player will have the ability to drive a Willys Jeep, and we're very excited to see this new addition increase the fun and intensity of the gameplay."Perhaps I'm missing something, but during my countless hours of playing Battlefield, Medal of Honor and Call of Duty I have neverat any single momentthought that the experience would be in anyway improved by the addition of licensed motor vehicles. In this contextbrands just don't matter. Obviously, driving games are much enhanced by the addition of real-life vehicles - the competing specs and aesthetics of the cars is key to the experience, as are our own experiences and preferences. But is there any place for licensing in a WWII title?Well... there is now...
Id may have gone retrowith their recent Orcs title for mobile phones, but CEO John Carmack is looking fowards the future with a sneaky suggestion of an online game for mobile phones. Carmack toldCNN Moneythat he has no intention of taking on World of Warcraft owners Blizzard, but he's got ideas that MMOs on mobile may be the next big thing.Indeed, this is another example of how ubiquitous computer gaming technologies may shape how the non-gamer demographics views interactive entertainment. A mobile MMO's ideal for a platform which is often used as a time-filler. Further, there's anincreasingnumber of systems potentially catering to the mobile MMO development market, and phones with increased technological capacity are beginning to spread beyond the early adopters.If MMMOGs are of interest, check outotherMMMOGs alreadyoutthere.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Making a song and danceDon't believe all you read about web-driven musical phenomenons. From the Arctic Monkeys to Sandi Thom, old-fashioned PR and marketing still have a big part to play in their success. Adam Webb reports.One small step on a long-haul journeyGovernment advisers are taking notice of our campaign toFree Our Data, but it will take time for the idea to permeate to ministers, explains Michael Cross.Window's Vista requirements come into viewWhen Windows Vista arrives, will you get a first or business class seat, or will you be relegated to economy? Here's how to find out'Two words is a minute description of a human need'Famous for citing website design mistakes,Jakob Nielsen, the web's original usability guru, explains why search has taken over, why adverts aren't working, and how to make browsing better. Interview by Bobbie Johnson.Why we all sell code with bugsCreating quality software products means knowing when to fix bugs and when to leave well alone, writesEric Sink.Broadband has become a utility for the 21st centuryCharles Arthur: We're moving house, and I didn't bother to ask one question that would have been essential only a few years ago: does the new place have broadband? Because I knew the answer would be yes.Newly Asked Questions:Why is Google planning video ads when I already hate the ones on TV?The search giant announced this week that while it won't display video ads on its main site, websites that take its AdSense adverts will get the option of having video ads.Why will Sony start off selling only the pricier PS3 here?Possibly because we're all rich. Or else because keeping UK customers happy is less important to Sony than maximising retailers' margins by letting them sell only the higher-priced of the two PlayStation 3 models.Gadgets roundupSky's HD TV systemThe picture quality is at times breathtaking, especially on documentary channels National Geographic and Discovery.HP's iPaq NavigatorFor a few years, manufacturers have been building satellite navigation equipment into PDAs - the theory being that owners can use the device as an electronic organiser and then slip it into their car for help while driving.HTC StrTrk smartphoneHTC, best known as the maker of smartphones such as the Orange SPV series and the T-Mobile MDA models, has turned its attention to the mass market with a Razr-style skinny clamshell.Get real: now it's time for physics to join the gameGamesblog: Keith Stuart: Games journalists emerged from E3 sharing one whispered anecdote: next-generation graphics were still falling short of all that wild pre-release hype.Satellite navigation still drives me madVictor Keegan: There are some gizmos I have been poised to buy for years but have procrastinated until improved price and reliability make further resistance impossible.TechnobileKieren McCarthy: Never in human history has the disparity between name and function been so large than with what we laughingly call "support".Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesBigger than yours | Aiming off | Portable for pros | PCs by instalments | Word attack | Unsafe IM worm | Symantec sues MS | Soft targetsLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
There are some gizmos I have been poised to buy for years but have procrastinated until improved price and reliability make further resistance impossible. A GPS (global positioning system) satellite navigator, preferably linked to my mobile phone, is one of them. Over the years, the paraphernalia needed has shrunk from a small jungle of wires and hardware to models that simply need a mobile phone (or personal digital assistant) and a matchbox-sized receiving device that resides on the dashboard, or in your pocket if walking. The device links to the phone by a short-distance wireless connection (Bluetooth) so there are no wires unless it is being recharged through the car's cigarette socket.This is more than a navigational aid, because a new industry is springing up that sells services and games based on knowing exactly where you are. The trouble is that virtually every model I have trialled has had faults, and often had to be exchanged for one that worked better.The latest one, CoPilot, from ALK Technologies, was no exception. Its main selling point is a fascinating new feature enabling (approved) people to follow your route on a map on a website. This has obvious commercial, as well as personal, uses: firms could see exactly where their vehicles are and the likes of Tesco could let customers track their web-ordered goods.Potentially, you could keep a history of where you have been on holidays or your daily journeys, as long as you can afford the data charges. Someone is bound to find a way of linking the geographic data to Flickr's photo website or Google Earth's wonderful zoom-in reproduction of the planet. If used with the new Olympus digital recorders (with up to 150 hours of storage) you could soon get a record of your life.CoPilot came as a package including a Windows Mobile MDA, one of the few PDAs that feels like a phone, and a huge improvement on earlier chunky versions. I entered the postcode of my Herefordshire destination from a starting point in central London between two blocks of flats. It picked up satellite signals almost immediately and calculated my journey, beginning with an unusual route out of town that was justified by the comparative lack of traffic. Going down the M4 was fine, until it signalled we should take a longer route through Chepstow (GPS navigation has a built-in love of motorways). We went off instead at the Swindon exit to go cross-country to Gloucester, only to be embroiled in rush-hour traffic. All was plain sailing from then on, despite the fact that the voice guide sometimes gave different instructions from the map on the screen.This is one of the more user-friendly satnav kits. It has good satellite signals most of the time, fast calculation - and recalculation - of routes, and the web-tracking facility is ingenious and worked reasonably well. However, there are still too many bugs, ranging from the voice telling you to veer left when she really means turn sharp right and occasional erratic satellite signals that give crucial instructions seconds too late.If you are relying on a GPS system, being right 80% of the time is not good enough. I wouldn't buy one yet for myself as they are not reliable enough, and within weeks, GPS will be incorporated as a standard feature into more new phones. But if you are thinking of buying a T-Mobile package complete with the MDA, then CoPilot comes "free" with a rental package costing &pound;30 to &pound;35 a month.As with all these gizmos, the longer you procrastinate, the better they get. While I was writing this a new Navman iCN750 (a dedicated in-car model costing &pound;549) arrived, which has an easy-to-use camera that enables you to take photos of places you have visited, complete with longitude and latitude, and embeds them as icons on your route map. The possibilities for satellite navigation are only just beginning.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Bigger than yoursIt looks like an old-fashioned phone with big buttons for numbers, but inside, it's a mobile. Burnside says its P23 Desktop is "ideal for the elderly or disabled": just add a sim.www.burnsidetelecom.comAiming offAOL has launched a beta version of a social network/blogging site designed to compete with MySpace (http://start.aimpages.com). It's also testing an UnCut Video site to compete with YouTube (http://communityvideo.aol.com).Portable for prosToshiba has launched the Satellite Pro U200 wireless notebook PC with a 1.67GHz Core Solo processor, 12in widescreen and built-in fingerprint reader.http://tinyurl.com/mcqcuPCs by instalmentsLenovo and Microsoft plan to try marketing pay-as-you go PCs in India and China. The FlexGo scheme follows the approach used with PAYG mobile phones.http://tinyurl.com/g8dd4Word attackMicrosoft is working to fix a security hole in Microsoft Word, used to attack a large company in Japan. The exploit uses a Trojan delivered via email attachment. Other malware authors may now try the same approach.Unsafe IM wormA worm program travelling via Yahoo's instant messaging network installs its own "Safety Browser," which leads users to adware and spyware sites, several security firms said this week.Symantec sues MSSymantec is suing Microsoft to stop the launch of Vista because it "improperly" uses code from Veritas, which Symantec bought last year. Microsoft licensed the code from Veritas and has been using it since 1996.Soft targetsThe Business Software Alliance says 27% of UK software is pirated, costing the UK's technology sector almost &pound;1bn a year.
Ten weeks after Guardian Technology launched the "Free Our Data" campaign on March 9, government advisers are starting to consider its message.Last Friday, the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information - set up in 2003 to advise the government on how to exploit its digital crown jewels - published the minutes of its annual seminar. They reveal that "the 'Free Our Data' campaign organised by The Guardian was raised". The chair of the advisory panel, Professor Richard Susskind, told us this week: "We welcome the thrust of your campaign because you recognise the value of public-sector information, and are doing a fine job of raising awareness."So, can we now turn our guns on another issue - the difficulty of cancelling broadband contracts, perhaps? Not at all. The backing of a government adviser for our "thrust" is a long, long, way from turning around the juggernaut of government policy. The more we probe the issue of public-sector information, the more complexities - and vested interests - we find. This will be a long haul.But first, to recap. The campaign's argument - made in "Give Us Back Our Crown Jewels" (March 9,http://tinyurl.com/s33cq) is that the British government owns one of the world's most valuable collections of intellectual property. Government policy on what it should do with this information is muddled. On one hand, it encourages free access, for example to historic census returns. On the other hand, agencies holding some of the most valuable information are required to operate on a quasi-commercial basis, charging for access to their data. The most efficient and astute of these so-called trading funds, such as Ordnance Survey, operate at no direct cost to the taxpayer and even make a profit for the Treasury.However, we contend that this policy has a wider cost. At best, it generates an absurd bureaucracy in which one government agency has to negotiate contracts with another government agency for permission to use information which the government already owns.At worst, it stifles the knowledge economy because any start-up business based on government data is liable to find itself in direct commercial competition with the very body which produces that data. Tales of unfair practices abound.Our proposal is that the government gets out of the market and leaves data pricing to the market. Data collected by the public sector (apart from necessary exceptions to protect privacy and national security) should be available to all for free, to exploit as they wish.This would require higher taxes to fund the national collection of, for example, meteorological data. But this cost would be outweighed by the economic benefits of creating taxpaying companies and jobs.What are the obstacles? Susskind, a lawyer with a (rare) expertise in information technology - he is IT adviser to the Lord Chief Justice - outlines barriers ranging from the political priorities to the practical aspects of maintaining data quality to the academic uncertainties about the value of information as an economic good.Significantly, he says that crown copyright in itself is not necessarily a barrier - innovations such as the "click use" licence run by the Office of Public Sector Information already operate in a similar way to the "creative commons" model (http://creativecommons.org).On the practical level, says Susskind, the government needs to be confident that in making information more freely available we can still be confident of its quality. It is also important to beware of replacing public-sector near-monopolies with private-sector ones. "If major private-sector bodies exploit the free data, which the taxpayer has paid for in the first place, then charging citizens and profiting substantially looks like citizens are paying twice and possibly over the odds."The main political barrier is that no single minister is in charge of public-sector information. The advisory panel's latest report warns that whatever the chosen economic model, the value of public- sector information will not be fully exploited without leadership from the top.Rather, each department sees it as valuable for a different reason: the Treasury as revenue, the Department for Constitutional Affairs as a means of making government more transparent and the Department of Trade and Industry as part of the knowledge economy. No minister sees public sector information as a pressing priority for reform.The final barrier is a lack of evidence to underpin a largely intuitive argument for change. The advisory panel has called for a "sustained and detailed study into the economics of public sector information". Technology understands that the Office of Fair Trading will make a similar call in its market study - echoing one made by the Treasury in 2000 in its spending review.An immediate need is for accurate figures on the cost of running the infrastructure of contracting and copyright protection in government. The study would also need to consider the social cost of raising taxation to pay for "free" data.Susskind concludes that our campaign "must be seen as a long-term strategy rather than a quick win". We agree. Clearly, the government is not going to free its data overnight, especially if to do so would involve short-term and visible tax rises. However, we stand by the arguments at the centre of our campaign:&middot;The public sector is best positioned to collect data, and the private sector best placed for commercial exploitation&middot;Taxpayers should not have to pay twice, or three times, for data they already own&middot;At the very least, the government needs to produce better evidence to justify the overall cost of the status quoAt least three organisations are studying our arguments, we believe. Apart from the advisory panel, they are the Office of Fair Trading, whose study of the market in public sector information is expected to report in September, and the Office of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which is carrying out an international study. We present our campaign at an OECD seminar in Paris next week.It will be a long haul, but we believe history is on our side.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Charging police is hypocritical of BTIf the BBC asked for proof that I have a TV licence (Ringing up the wrong numbers, May 18), I doubt it would back away if I said that supplying a copy or proving that I do not have a TV would cost it &pound;1,500. So how can BT charge &pound;1,500 - or any fee at all - to police in pursuit of criminals? Next time I get one of BT's coy little letters saying "It appears from our records that" my bill is outstanding, I'll respond: "Investigation of this alleged discrepancy will cost you &pound;25; please send cheque in advance."Bob JonesWorcester&middot;Why should BT want to assist the police? It makes far more money by letting the fraudsters dial up expensive calls on other peoples' accounts.Donald ParsonsWillowbrook, Llantrissent&middot;It is presumably not in BT's interest to stop such fraud - it gets extra revenue as the affected firm has to pay the inflated bill regardless of the fact that it has been incurred through fraud. Large gin and tonics all round!Colin CraigStratford-upon-Avon&middot;I read of Whirlwind WS's plight with mounting disbelief. When did the pursuit of criminals become a matter of economics? What of complicated fraud trials ending in tatters, costing the taxpayer phenomenal sums of money? And when did it become possible for commercial organisations such as BT to demand cash for the release of evidence required in a criminal inquiry? Why did Kent police not simply obtain a court warrant requiring BT to hand over the data?Jack CumminsEditor, Scottish Licensing Law and Practice, Glasgow&middot;Surely there is a simple way to prevent "dial-through fraud". Cancel the dial-through facility. As for past fraud, apply for a writ of mandamus, which would require the police to investigate it.Andrew BelseyCardiffAn opportunity lostKieren McCarthy's article (Why can't I find .xxx on the net?, May 18) demonstrates why domain names and the internet in general need to be under the control of an international body such as the UN. Although I share the fears of those that feel the whole process may end up weighed in bureaucracy, it would be worth the sacrifice to stop interference from the US government and Icann's appalling management of top-level domains. Now the opportunity to clearly signpost adult content has been lost and this will make managing web content all the more difficult.Yasir GulzarReadingPink is the new blackAs the company that supplied the laptop used in the recent Channel 4 TV series Chantelle's Dream Dates (Is white or black the cooler colour?, May 18), we feel we have to point out that your fashion editor's comment - "White looks like the sort of thing Chantelle would have" - is way off the mark. Chantelle's choice was, of course, pink.Ralph MillsErgo.co.ukPassword blockCould not agree more (Technobile, May 18). I wonder if the editor of Guardian Media reads the Technology section?Paul DohertyWarrington, CheshireSelfish soundsI guess I'm not the only reader who almost burst a blood vessel reading Steven Thomson's "humorous" letter (Letters, May 18). As someone who has been forced out of their home by people like Thomson, fortunately I can now suggest Council Environmental Health Department (v1.0.1) to Thomson's unfortunate neighbours. It can provide Seizure of Equipment (v1.0.2), Asbo (v1.0.3) and even Termination of Tenancy (v1.0.4). Thomson's form of file sharing is one we could all do without!John WaltersBexhillCorrection:Ian McCarthy, Myersville, Maryland says "Farenheit 451 - who is illiterate?" We did indeed mean "Fahrenheit 451" - Technology editor.
Hidden voicesStrange things have started to happen on my laptop. As I am writing this email, the following words appear without me touching the keyboard: "is to the open is in the U. A. N. on a way you". Any idea what is happening please and how I can stop it? "a a day, they may have a man may man a man may I may I say how a man" There it goes again. Do I have a virus or have I been hacked?Mark ShardlowJack Schofield replies:My best guess (which turned out to be correct) is that you have the Windows speech recognition module running. Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to bring up the task list, look for Sapisvr.exe under Processes and terminate it if you find it. This is sometimes loaded on notebook PCs that have built-in microphones. Microsoft has a long Knowledge Base article, "How to install and configure speech recognition in Windows XP", which you can find by searching for 306537. Scroll down about halfway and you will find the removal instructions in a section that starts "How to remove speech recognition".Recovering snapsI can view all my holiday pictures on my Nikon CoolPix 7900 but on my PC, only five of more than 50 are viewable. Are there any free programs that will help me recover these damaged/corrupt files from the SD card?Tom CrokerJS:I don't know of any free programs, but LC Technology's Photorecovery 3.0 is worth a go (www.lc-tech.com). It costs $39.95, but you can test a demo version before paying for it.Back it upPlease can you point me in the right direction for backup software that will enable me to restore a complete hard drive or incremental files without having to reactivate Windows.Bill PhillipsJS:Acronis True Image 9.0 Home (http://tinyurl.com/5hh5v) will do what you want, but for continuous backups, Centered Systems' Second Copy is also worth a look (www.centered.com). Unfortunately, it's not easy to tell whether using a backup will mean Windows XP has to be reactivated. If the hardware has not changed, I don't see why it should. Even if the hardware changes substantially, Microsoft allows XP Pro to be reactivated four times a year. There's an interesting account of how WPA (Windows Product Activation) works athttp://tinyurl.com/52gwr.DAB retrofitsTVs seem to be well provided for with their set-top boxes, but I have yet to see anything in the general press about devices for radios. Is there any move to convert analogue radios in this way and, if so, can you recommend any devices?David BishopJS:There are several products that can be plugged in to a traditional radio or hifi tuner to enable them to receive digital audio broadcasts. You can check what's available by going to the Digitalradionow.com site's product finder (http://tinyurl.com/k6jdc), clicking on Type of Radio and selecting Adaptors. For home users, the options are the DA-1 adaptor from Dixons (&#163;44) and the Genus DU1 Digital Radio Upgrade (&#163;50,www.genusdigital.com/du1.htm). However, the existing radio must have some sort of line-in plug such as an AUX socket, though the DU1 also works with optical S/P DIF. There's also the Revo Dock (&#163;50,http://tinyurl.com/gwqvt), "coming soon", to connect a Revo digital radio to a home system. I have not heard any of these products and cannot comment on their sound quality, but the prices seem rather high compared with the cost of buying a new standalone digital radio. An adaptor could make sense if you have a radio that delivers good quality FM but you want to use DAB to listen to an AM (medium wave) station such as Radio Five Live.Thumbs upA file called thumbs.db is copying itself into folders as and when I copy/scan image files. Is it malicious or just an unfortunate blip?Isabel JackJS:Thumbs.db is an operating system file where Windows XP stores thumbnails of images to save recreating them each time you open a folder that contains images. Normally these files are hidden, but you can delete them if you see them. You can stop XP from creating them by opening Windows Explorer, selecting Tools and then Folder Options. Click the View tab, put a tick in the box next to "Do not cache thumbnails", and click OK.Backchat&#183;Last week, Deirdre Janson-Smith wanted to understand her PC better, and I suggested Digital Unite (formerly Hairnet). Richard Dexter says he "knows the feeling. We in Fleet are fortunate in having a very lively U3A (University of the Third Age) group", which runs sessions in a local school's IT lab. "For a nominal &#163;1.50 or so per session, we are allowed full use of a bank of broadband computers in the care of a retired IT project manager." Geoff Wicks suggests trying a book: PC Upgrading and Troubleshooting by Kirk Steers.
Sky's high definition TV system, which tunes into its eight high definition channels, the BBC's HD offering and Sky's standard definition ones, will be worth the wait. The picture quality is at times breathtaking, especially on documentary channels National Geographic and Discovery. I saw amazing footage in which an airborne camera lingered over African plains, capturing incredible levels of detail of both animals and the landscape. The BBC's HD trailer is also glorious, delivering a tantalising taste of how atmospheric and rich in colour the World Cup transmissions will be. Sky has kept the box simple with only minor revisions to its easy to use Sky+ unit. Its weaknesses are a 160GB hard drive, which can only capture 30 hours of high definition footage, and the way Sky hasn't grouped the HD channels. This makes it tricky to move from one HD programme to another. At &pound;299 (and a monthly subscription), the box is expensive, and for the time being it is for early adopters only, but HD really is a leap forward for television.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The world's six billion people can be divided into two groups: group one, who know why every good software company ships products with known bugs; and group two, who don't. Those in group 1 tend to forget what life was like before our youthful optimism was spoiled by reality. Sometimes we encounter a person in group two, a new hire on the team or a customer, who is shocked that any software company would ship a product before every last bug is fixed.Every time Microsoft releases a version of Windows, stories are written about how the open bug count is a five-digit number. People in group two find that interesting. But if you are a software developer, you need to get into group one, where I am. Why would an independent software vendor - like SourceGear - release a product with known bugs? There are several reasons:&middot;We care about quality so deeply that we know how to decide which bugs are acceptable and which ones are not.&middot;It is better to ship a product with a known quality level than to ship a product full of surprises.&middot;The alternative is to fix them and risk introducing worse bugs.All the reasons are tied up in one truth: every time you fix a bug, you risk introducing another. Don't we all start out with the belief that software only gets better as we work on it? Nobody on our team intentionally creates new bugs. Yet we have done accidentally.Risky changesEvery code change is a risk. If you don't recognise this you will never create a shippable product. At some point, you have to decide which bugs aren't going to be fixed.Think about what we want to say to ourselves just after our product is released. The people in group two want to say: "Our bug database has zero open items. We didn't defer a single bug."The group 1 person wants to say: "Our bug database has lots of open items. We have reviewed every one and consider each to be acceptable. We are not ashamed of this list. On the contrary, we draw confidence because we are shipping a product with a quality that is well known. We admit our product would be even better if all these items were 'fixed', but fixing them would risk introducing new bugs."I'm not suggesting anybody should ship products of low quality. But decisions about software quality can be tough and subtle.There are four questions to ask about every bug. The first two are customer ones, and the next two are developer ones.1) How bad is its impact? (Severity)2) How often does it happen? (Frequency)3) How much effort is required to fix it? (Cost)4) What is the risk of fixing it? (Risk)I like to visualise the first two plotted on a 2D graph, with severity on the vertical axis. The top of the graph is a bug with extreme impact ("the user's computer bursts into flames") and the bottom one has very low impact ("one splash screen pixel is the wrong shade of grey").The horizontal axis is frequency: on the right side is a bug that happens very often ("the user sees this each day") and on the left, one that seldom happens.Broadly speaking, stuff gets more important as you move up or to the right of the graph. A bug in the upper right should be fixed. A bug in the lower left should not. Sometimes I draw this graph on a whiteboard when arguing for or against a bug.Questions three and four are about the tradeoffs involved in fixing the bug. The answers can only ever make the priority of a bug go down - never up. If, after answering questions one and two, a bug does not deserve attention, skip the other two. A common mistake is to use question three to justify fixing a bug that isn't important. We never make unimportant code changes just because they're easy.Every code change has a cost and a risk. Bad decisions happen when people make code changes ignoring these two issues.For instance, our product, Vault, stores all data using Microsoft SQL Server. Some people don't like this. We've been asked to port the back end to Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and Firebird. This issue is in our bug database as item 6740. The four questions would look like this:&middot;Severity: People who refuse to use SQL Server can't use Vault.&middot;Frequency: This "bug" affects none of our users; it merely prevents a group of people from using our product.&middot;Cost: Very high. Vault's backend makes extensive use of features specific to Microsoft SQL Server. Contrary to popular belief, SQL isn't portable. Adapting the backend for any other database would take months, and the maintenance costs of two back ends would be quite high.&middot;Risk: The primary risk lies in any code changes made to the server to enable it to speak to different backend implementations of the underlying SQL store.Obviously, this is more of a feature request than a bug.Example: Item 10016. Linux and MacOS users have problems over how end-of-line terminators show up. Last October, we tried to fix this and accidentally introduced a nastier bug that prevented users creating new versions of a project. So the four questions for 10016 would look like this:&middot;Severity: For a certain class of users, this bug is a showstopper. It does not threaten data integrity, but makes Vault unusable.&middot;Frequency: This bug only affects users on non-Windows platforms, a rather small percentage of our user base.&middot;Cost: The code change is small and appears simple.&middot;Risk: We thought - wrongly - that the risk was low.If testing had told us that the risk was higher than we thought, we would have revisited the four questions. Because the frequency is relatively low, we might have decided to defer this fix until we figured out how to do it without breaking things. In fact, that's what we ended up doing: we "undid" the fix for Bug 10016 in a minor update to Vault, so it's now open again.Contextual understandingNot only do you have to answer the four questions, you have to answer them with a good understanding of the context in which you are doing business. You need to understand the quality expectations of your market segment and what the market window is for your product. We can ship products with "bugs" because there are some that customers will accept.I know what you want, and I want it too: a way to make these decisions easy. I want an algorithm with simple inputs to tell me which bugs I should fix and in what order.I want to implement this algorithm as a feature in our bug-tracking product. Wouldn't it be a killer feature? In the Project Settings dialog, the user would enter a numeric value for "Market Quality Expectations" and a schedule for the closing of the "Market Window". For every bug, the user would enter numeric values for severity, frequency, cost and risk. The Priority field for each bug would be automatically calculated. Sort the list on Priority descending and you see the order in which bugs should be fixed. The ones near the bottom should not be fixed at all.I'd probably even patent this algorithm even though, in principle, I believe software patents are fundamentally evil.Alas, this ethical quandary is not going to happen, as "Eric's Magic Bug Priority Algorithm" will never exist. There is no shortcut. Understand your context, ask all four questions and use your judgment.Experienced developers can usually make these decisions quickly. It only takes a few seconds mentally to process the four questions. In tougher cases, gather two co-workers near a whiteboard and the right answer will probably show up soon.&#183;Eric Sink is a software developer at SourceGear. A longer version of this article appeared on his website: seehttp://software.ericsink.com/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When Windows Vista arrives, will you get a first or business class seat, or will you be relegated to economy?The next version of Microsoft Windows, due to reach consumers in January, comes in a variety of flavours, and the Starter and Home Basic editions don't include the new Aero Glass interface, which provides extra features such as live thumbnail screens that pop up from the taskbar, and Flip 3D, a three-dimensional view. Arvind Mishra, a senior product manager with Microsoft in Redmond, says: "We think [Aero] is a higher value feature, so it should be in a higher value product."Last week, Microsoft finally provided more details of the kind of PC required to run Windows, and released a beta version of its Windows Vista Upgrade Advisor. XP users can download and run this software to find out if their systems are up to scratch.The Basic version of Vista does not require a powerful PC. Microsoft reckons it will run with an 800MHz processor, 512MB of memory and a 20GB hard drive with 15GB free. This counts as a Windows Vista Capable PC, and new machines that meet this spec can carry a sticker that says so.However, the Aero user interface - included in the Home Premium, Business and Ultimate editions - requires 3D graphics hardware. Technically, the graphics system should have 128MB of memory, Pixel Shader 2.0 hardware and support for WDDM graphics drivers. Any PC that runs games using DirectX 9 should be OK. Microsoft also recommends at least a 1GHz processor, 1GB of memory, and a 40GB hard drive with 15GB free. A new PC that can run Aero qualifies for a Windows Vista Premium Ready sticker.With Aero, the user interface is handled by the graphics processor, not by the CPU, as it is with XP and Vista Basic. Using the GPU also means an Aero version runs faster than a Basic system, and is also less likely to suffer visual glitches or crashes. Mishra says that "20 to 30% of blue screen crashes are actually due to graphics drivers."Vista also has a fourth option: Windows Classic. This has much the same appearance as Windows 2000. Many companies are still running that version, and the Classic mode allows them to keep a similar interface across all their PCs, and put off the cost of retraining their users.Running the Vista Upgrade Advisor is the simplest way to find out if a PC can run Aero, and Microsoft thinks most PCs released in the past year should be able to. With notebook PCs without a graphics card, it may mean increasing the amount of main memory devoted to the screen display.But previous launches of Windows have shown that very few users ever upgrade their operating system. The vast majority only switch when they buy a new PC.And since many XP users will have to upgrade their hardware to run Vista with Aero - by adding more memory and perhaps buying a new graphics card - it seems reasonable to guess that the number of upgraders will be even lower than usual.Get capable, get ready ...Basic ("Vista Capable")800 MHz processor (or better); 512MB Ram; 15GB hard drive spaceAero ("Vista Premium Ready")1GHz processor (or better); 1GB Ram; DirectX 9 class graphics card; 128MB video Ram; 15GB hard drive spacewww.microsoft.com/windowsvista/getready&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For a few years, manufacturers have been building satellite navigation equipment into PDAs - the theory being that owners can use the device as an electronic organiser and then slip it into their car for help while driving. HP's latest iPaq, the &pound;320 rx1950, is better than most. It is slim and light, with a 3.5inch QVGA colour screen, a fast 300MHz processor and excellent wireless facilities. However, the GPS system won't work on the PDA alone; it has to be fitted into the unit's in-car cradle. This is fiddly to install but once in place feels rock solid. The PDA, which uses Via Michelin maps, offers the usual GPS features, such as spoken directions and the option of 2D or 3D maps. It also has the usual satnav foible of not being able to recognise a seven figure postcode - users have to type in five letters/numbers and then add a street name. The maps are clear and easy to use, but can be less accurate than some rivals. Overall this is a good bet for those who want both a PDA and a GPS system, but for road warriors there are better-specified systems.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Games journalists emerged from E3 sharing one whispered anecdote: next-generation graphics were still falling short of all that wild pre-release hype. The demos of War Hawk and Gears of War were stunning but failed to make everything that had gone before seem ridiculously dated. The fantasy of photorealism was pushed back five years.We shouldn't be surprised. It will take developers years to create visuals that fully exploit the new hardware. Some are not even sure it will be practical or desirable. During a workshop entitled "Next-gen game design: how the new consoles stack up", Clint Hocking, creative director of Ubisoft Montreal, admitted: "We need to double team sizes to 100 or ... 400. It makes designers and developers ... assembly-line workers."Unable to rely on looks, developers are turning to brains or physics. For years, programmers have been working on physics models to create authentic collisions and destructible environments, but limited processor resources have reined in ambitions. Freed of those constraints and with new hardware to push, studios and console manufacturers have turned physics into the new battleground.On the Sony stand, a demo of Heavy Rain featured a leading character with such authentic facial animation you could see emotions flickering into life with just the slightest muscle tweaks. Epic Games' demo of its Unreal Engine 3 showed hundreds of boulders cascading down a hill, accurately reacting to each other and the surface. When LucasArts revealed the latest Indiana Jones videogame, the company focused on the "euphoria" behavioural simulation engine by NaturalMotion, which claims to create computer-controlled characters that behave like people through simulated movement.Dublin-based outfit Havok had more than 30 titles using its physics development kit at E3. Ageia, which produces the PhysX engine, was also busy, its product powering those Heavy Rain and Epic demos, among others.The scramble to create the most realistic physics - rather than the best graphics - should lead to fresh experiences. "We think the future is all about the gameplay advanced physics can bring to the table," says Andy Hess, director of content acquisition at Ageia. "We'd love to see a GTA-style game with fully destructible environments, but what is required is advanced simulation technology to procedurally fracture and break the building apart."Is this the future, where developers compete to create games of depth, authenticity and intelligence? Beside such a utopia, those dreams of photographic visuals look like folly. It's time to get real.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers:blogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Possibly because we're all rich. Or else because keeping UK customers happy is less important to Sony than maximising retailers' margins by letting them sell only the higher-priced of the two PlayStation 3 models. Following Sony's announcement at E3 that the PS3 will come in two flavours, Sony Computer Entertainment UK's boss Ray Maguire has suggested that initially we may only get the fully specified PS3, costing &pound;425 (higher than the mooted &pound;410) at launch in the UK. In time, though, both should be on sale.Maguire told the games industry trade magazine MCV that "the lower-end 20GB version of the PlayStation 3 has no Wi-Fi, no HDMI and none of the card slots in it, so it's really a question of where we would position it. It's more likely that we will only launch the 60GB version." And he added: "We have to watch the yen and be flexible but that 60GB version looks like &pound;425 in the UK at the moment."The PS3, a complex machine, will cost more than &pound;425 to make, but Sony will lose less on the high-spec version. (It profits on licensing fees from publishers writing games for the console.)The UK office, however, doesn't seem enthusiastic about the announcement, which was unexpected and comes a year after the company's head of worldwide development, Phil Harrison, criticised Microsoft for selling two versions of the Xbox 360. People in glass houses ...Cash-strapped buyers who can find a "core" (read: cheaper) PS3 model will be able to upgrade it towards the full-price spec: Sony will produce add-on upgrades bringing Wi-Fi capabilities and memory card slots. How much would they cost? Even with the higher-than-average margins that Maguire says UK retailers take, the low-end version would be significantly cheaper, at around &pound;350. You just won't be able to find one, is all.And how many will be available in the UK? Whispers suggest 150,000 units, but these are simply based on the size of this market relative to the 2 million PS3s that Sony says will be available worldwide.In glass-half-full mode, Maguire told Eurogamer TV that the &pound;425 tag isn't so bad: "If you think a Blu-ray player by itself might be &pound;600-700, and we're coming in at just &pound;425 - it's a bargain." Unfortunately this plays right into Microsoft's hands: it accuses Sony of "forcing" consumers to pay for a technology they don't want. And at a higher price to boot.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
HTC, best known as the maker of smartphones such as the Orange SPV series and the T-Mobile MDA models, has turned its attention to the mass market with a Razr-style skinny clamshell. Slightly larger than rivals, the &pound;350 StrTrk (also known as the Qtek 8500), below, is a fully fledged smartphone running Windows Mobile 5.0 and its versions of Internet Explorer, Outlook and Windows Media player. The StrTrk makes a fairly useful music player as it sports media player controls on its fascia and includes a reasonably good speaker. Cosmetically, it is a classy affair, with an OLED screen. Its only weakness is that key rivals such as the Motorola Razr V3i and the Samsung A900 are likely to be a lot cheaper on contract.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We're moving house. We finallly found somewhere we wanted to live, made an offer, watched in amazement as the solicitors made the whole process seem unfathomably complicated, and sighed in relief as the process concluded.And I didn't bother to ask one question that would have been essential only a few years ago: does the new place have broadband? Because I knew the answer would be yes.This hasn't always been the case. At the end of 2003, a survey in Bristol by UKOnline found that having broadband in your home could increase its value by around 10% - four-bedroomed houses without sold for about &pound;265,000, while those with had an asking price closer to &pound;300,000.At the time, not every property had broadband; it depended on whether BT had "upgraded" its exchange, or if a cable company had dug up your street. In rural areas, your chances ranged from slim to none.That price differential cannot now exist, because last year BT completed its project to provide broadband through all its exchanges; and since last month it has been upgrading those so that anyone with an always-on connection can get speeds of up to 8 megabits per second. In practice, the maximum you'll see is more like 6Mbps of data transfer, but that's adequate for nearly everything we do today. Only a tiny proportion of people are so far from an exchange, or have a phone line so old that they can't get an always-on connection. (I sympathise.)What's interesting is how quickly broadband has wormed its way into our consciousness. Earlier this month a survey of more than 1,700 people by tickbox.net for Eclipse Internet found 92% said that in the first month after moving into a new home, they'd have to have their broadband; that compares with 32% who'd need to get the curtains up before the month was out.By contrast, nearly 92% said they could survive the first month without their microwave. Possibly these were people who've never moved, since the microwave is one of the last things you pack and the first you unpack, because it's kitchen stuff.The tickbox survey also said that broadband is now considered part of everyday life, a "utility" just like electricity, gas, water and the phone. However, the respondents found it was their internet connection that behaved most like airline baggage, arriving long after they did. Nearly half found it took longer than any of the utilities to be transferred: 70% had to wait more than seven days, and 21% more than a month. That's because first the phone line and then the broadband activation has to go into place.If getting your electricity transferred involved a similar two-step process, rather than just reading a meter, house movers would probably spend lots of time buying candles and sitting in the dark.But it does raise an interesting point. I'm considering moving to an internet phone provider for outgoing calls, since it's bound to be cheaper than BT. But I can already see a fly in the digital ointment. BT has been farsighted in providing facilities such as 1471 (caller ID) for free; that won't work on an internet-connected phone. If someone rings and we want to know who it was, we'll need to check on a BT-connected phone, and then dial the number on the broadband-connected phone. That's one step too many.We could have the internet phone assigned a number for incoming calls too, but I can see the possibilities for complication when the net or electricity goes down. The telephone - the "plain old telephone service", or Pots - is a resilient service that works even in power cuts. Broadband ones don't - no power for the router. We could use mobiles, but we're moving somewhere rural where the mobile signal isn't great.I suspect we'll end up with a mixed system, partly old-style, partly new, as we shift - as the world is shifting - to a broadband-enabled phone world. Straddling technologies is uncomfortable. But it's a lot better than not having them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Never in human history has the disparity between name and function been so large than with what we laughingly call "support". If a close family member died and someone from a computer company came round to give you their form of "support" in your time of need, he'd end up on the pointy end of a kitchen knife.It was bad enough when you had to call a telephone number only to be left on hold for an hour with some inane tinkly music. When you did get through, the odds were only even that the other person would know any more than you. These phone numbers, if they exist at all, are now premium rate. And the odds of success have fallen to 2-1 against. Why? Because "support" is now offered by email and searchable forums.These forums used to have technical staff. Now companies in effect force us to fend for ourselves in the laughable belief that other users will supply answers to queries. And so we have become beholden to one of the lowest forms of life on this planet: the smug and ill-informed geek. A special circle of hell has already been reserved for you, matey.Something goes wrong with your software, you find the appropriate support forum and do a search. Your heart swells as the exact same problem has been asked three months ago. And then you read the responses. Comment after comment of absolutely nothing.Even if it has no relevance to the problem, everyone is asked what operating system they are using. Er, Windows. "There's your problem. You should use a Mac." What is that?! Are these people so socially incapable that they have nothing better to do than hang around support forums being unhelpful?Even better is the geek showoff. You ask in plain English how to do something. Back comes an almost intelligible technical explanation that means "unclick this box in Options". You try it, and it doesn't work. In fact, you go through all 43 replies, try 15 different methods, and right at the bottom you find someone else just like you saying "thanks for nothing". So you search again, only to have the same experience all over again, often with the same people posting the same useless responses.Most annoying and pervasive of all is the oxygen-waster who consistently posts: "That's an interesting question - I don't know." Who is this person? I would flame him, but it would only add one more useless comment.What's the solution? Simple: rename support. Call it "hindrance". Then when you see an ad, or look at the box and come across: "Comes with free hindrance"; "We offer hindrance 24/7"; "Please visit our hindrance forums", you'll know exactly what you're getting. And won't bother.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This is very interesting. Carr (who wrote "Does IT matter?") doesn't mean "dead" as in "offline" (Wikipedia is still very much there); he means "dead" as in "not open to anyone to edit at any time". Dead as in no longer living by its original ideal.Carr is worth reading on this. A few weeks ago we ran Andrew Orlowski's piece on what Wikipedia misses ("A thirst for knowledge") and my, didn't people disapprove of that message. Well, if you didn't like that, you're not going to like what Carr's written. But that doesn't make it untrue. Just uncomfortable.EntitledThe death of Wikipedia, it begins:"Wikipedia, the encyclopedia that 'anyone can edit,' was a nice experiment in the 'democratization' of publishing, but it didn't quite work out. Wikipedia is dead. It died the way the pure products of idealism always do, slowly and quietly and largely in secret, through the corrosive process of compromise.There was a time when, indeed, anyone could edit anything on Wikipedia. But, as eWeek's Steven Vaughan-Nichols recentlyobserved, 'Wikipedia hasn't been a real 'wiki' where anyone can write and edit for quite a while now.'...The end came last Friday. That's when Wikipedia's founder, Jimmy Wales, proposed 'that we eliminate the requirement that semi-protected articles have to announce themselves as such to the general public.' The 'general public,' you see, is now an entity separate and distinct from those who actually control the creation of Wikipedia. As Vaughan-Nichols says, 'And the difference between Wikipedia and a conventionally edited publication is what exactly?'The conclusion one reaches is that the barbarians were at the gate. So they closed the gate.Update:Carr has posted an addendum to his post.CORRECTION: Jimmy Wales [co-founder of Wikipedia] informs me that in fact there was never a time when "anyone could edit anything on Wikipedia," as I wrote. "There have always been restrictions on editing," he says. I guess I made the mistake, as others may have as well, of taking literally Wikipedia's slogan that it is "the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit." I apologize for my error.I'm just going to go and look up "sardonic" in my dictionary..
For those of you who enjoy the odd 'games are good for you' story, here's an interesting twist on the theme.According to Reuters, research carried out by the Advanced Medical Technology Institute at Beth Israel indicates that surgeons perform better and with fewer errors if they play videogames for twenty minutes before operating on patients. From the story:"The research involved 303 surgeons participating in a medical training course that included video games and was focused on laparoscopic surgical procedures - which use a tiny video camera and long, slender instruments inserted through small incisions."Interestingly, the only game mentioned in the report is Sega's Super Monkey Ball in which you must carefully guide the eponymous simians through tight mazes. Perhaps this has some hand-eye coordination similarities with directing cameras into people's bodies - although during the course of laparoscopic surgery, medical staff are highly unlikely to discover small bunches of bonus bananas.Ultimately, lead investigator, Dr. James "Butch" Rosser, wants to see training tools 'akin to flight simulators' provided to surgeons. "We can't practice on patients," he points out mercifully. Perhaps copies of Trauma Centre should be distributed to all junior doctors?I, for one, agree with Dr Butch and will refuse to go under the knife from now on until I see my surgeon's Monkey Ball score. After all, none of us want to face that most deadly end-of-level boss, medical incompetence.
Gluhas rolled out its very decent mobile version of Dreamcast classic, Chu Chu Rocket, through Europe today. The phone version includes 100 puzzle-based levels in which you guide cute little chuchu mice through a series of mazes ensuring that they don't run into evil kapukapu cats. Sadly, but predictably, there's no mulitplayer mode - not even a Bluetooth two-player option. No doubt the developers will blame handset fragmentation or something, but this is the sort of thing that would have workedbrilliantlyon mobile.Anyway, to help us through the disappointment, Glu has generously shoved aShockwave version of the Chuchuon its website. Get over there now and re-live those Dreamcast glory days.
Here's a clever idea. AsUSA Todayreports: "The wireless kit lets Nike's new Air Zoom Moire shoes send fitness data to your iPod Nano -- via a sensor you tuck inside the running shoe and a small receiver that attaches to the Nano. As you run, the sensor records your distance, time, pace and calories burned in real time and displays data on the Nano. At the push of a button, audio feedback is delivered through Nano's earbuds."It's onApple's site.However,The Apple Coreblog adds: "Conspiracy theorists hoping that the iPod dongle was a forbearer to a wider Bluetooth announcement will be disappointed to learn that the Nike+ iPod transponder uses a proprietary 2.4 GHz signal to transfer information to the iPod. This means that third party manufacturers won't be making wireless accessories (i.e. headphones) for Nike+ any time soon."
"Preview the 2007 Microsoft Office system and gain first-hand experience with the new look and feel, features, and functionality of the 2007 Microsoft Office release. 2007 Microsoft Office system Beta 2 is a public preview release designed to help you evaluate the Microsoft Office system. The beta is not final and should not be used for business-critical work," saysMicrosoft.You can also take aone hour courseon the new user interface. There are more than a dozen courses availale at the2007 Microsoft Office - Learning Portal.
"The first working prototype of the $100 Laptop is unveiled at the Seven Countries Task Force Meeting, 23 May 2006," says theFlickrpost, reportsBoing Boing.
"The world's most expensive phone number was auctioned for charity yesterday in Qatar. The number, 666 6666, sold for 10m Qatari riyals or 1.5m," saysThe Register."The previous record holder was Chinese number 8888 8888, which sold for 270,000. The Cantonese word for eight sounds very similar to the word for rich. It was bought by Sichuan Airlines."
ModelAlfa 159 JTD 1.9Price&pound;20,495Top speed119mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11secsConsumption47.9 mpg (combined)Emissions159g/kmAt the wheelPavarottiThey'd rather walkNana MouskouriOn the stereoPucciniEn route forNapoliWhy aren't we nicer to traffic wardens? The one who gave me a ticket me for parking a new Alfa 159 saloon in a loading bay was, I eventually came to appreciate, only doing his job - the vital one of facilitating unhindered access to the nation's loading bays, thus maintaining the free flow of commerce and, by extension, upholding the economy. (My claim that I, too, was technically "loading", on the grounds that I had gone to a shop for a couple of things with every intention of putting those things in the Alfa's generous, 405-litre boot, fell on stony ground.)What is more, protecting loading bays is only one part of the burden that traffic wardens take upon themselves. It is also their responsibility to ensure vital rights of access for fire engines and ambulances. They have a valuable function as fundraisers for cash-strapped councils. It's not their fault that the penalties they impose are hilariously disproportionate to the crime. They are but the messengers in this regard. And think of the chaos if they were not there - the sick people who would go untreated, the houses that would burn to the ground, possibly containing children, the loading that would never get loaded.Clearly, under any reasonable analysis, the traffic warden is society's friend. Yet, more even than estate agents, they know only pariah status, disdain, contempt and, sometimes, plain rudeness from their fellow man. And how badly does it reflect on us, as a society, that we have marginalised and effectively cast out a community dedicated to working specifically towards the social good? Are wardens not, despite the uniforms, human? If you run over their toes, do they not shout?As for the widely held belief that it brings a warden special pleasure to ticket a spanking-new, slightly flashy car - a box-fresh, silver Alfa 159, for instance, which has only stopped for two minutes so its driver can go into a bloody shop, for God's sake - and that they might almost go out of their way to do so ... we don't hold with that kind of thinking for a moment, believing that it belittles the conscientious and fair-minded detachment with which these notable public servants go about their work.Mind you, if wardens were unusually drawn to the Alfa 159, you could hardly blame them. The 159 is a very attractive car - easily attractive enough to qualify as a warden magnet. All smooth lines and cool folds, it seems to trail the scent of Italian aftershave, from its nubby boot right through to the shield-shaped grille, the exotically offset number plate and the three-in-a-row headlamp clusters. Even in the right-hand drive, UK versions of the car, the water gauge is inscribed "acqua". You won't get that in a Vauxhall Vectra.And check out those lethally sharp, busily spoked alloys. You could juice carrots in the wheels of this car. Meanwhile, with its steel trim, dark, hooded fascia and angled, circular clocks, the dashboard more nearly approaches the condition of a private jet's cockpit than any new car in recent history.The new 159 is sent to do battle with the BMW 3 Series and, to a slightly lesser extent, the Audi A4. It's an executive saloon, but with an additional twist of style, an extra spritz of elan and a quiet undertone of wickedness. It's for the kind of finance manager who likes to drive as if his trousers are on fire and as if the briefcase on his passenger seat contains a ticking bomb.Of course, historically, the incentives to buy an Alfa Romeo have had to be weighed against the disincentives, which can include a certain amount of eccentricity in the engineering and electrical departments and the peculiar tendency of an Alfa's residual value to flatten like a wind-blasted souffl&eacute; about five minutes up the road from the dealership. The company has also laboured under a reputation for thinly scattered and not entirely reassuring dealers, an aspect of its business which Alfa Romeo has urgently pledged to fix this year.Yet the allure of these new Alfas (not just the new 159, but also the powerfully charismatic Alfa Brera coupe, which appeared earlier this year), with their hugely commendable, high-performance diesel engines (no contradiction in terms in relation to the fine Alfa Romeo JTD series) may be magnetic enough to obliterate a few niggling side issues. Merely look upon those sweeping lines and marvel. This car is enough to turn a traffic warden's head, and how many things can you emphatically say that about?
Looking at my E3 notes again I'd forgotten that I'd bumped into Simpsons creatorMatt Groeningas he was leaving a crowdedSporedemo. Sadly the time it took for my brain to go from recognition to name recall - luckily I didn't congratulate him onLord of the Rings- meant I missed out on the opportunity to ask what he was doing at E3. Hopefully the experience of one of the few titles at the show that helps prove the theory that gaming has "grown up" will lessen the chance of another shoddy Simpsons game.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Earlier this week, EA founder and 3DO visionary Trip Hawkins featured heavily in alengthy New York Times articleabout mobile entertainment. At every stage of his dramatic rollercoaster career, Trip could always be relied upon for a soundbite, and he's good value here, discussing his latest company, mobile game developer,Digital Chocolate.By concentrating on simple social experiences, rather than console conversions or retro ports, the company hopes to discover the elusive killer app that's going to drag mobile gaming out of its current ghetto. At the centre of these plans there are two community-themed titles -MLSN Sports Picks, in which players can make friendly bets against each other based on forthcoming sports events, and The Hook Up: Ava Flirting, an avatar-based dating game following in the traditions of Hotel Habbo. Both are subscription-based and aimed at US customers.Sports and flirting are, let's face it, pretty smart areas to focus on, and Hawkins is clear on why mobile can exploit these interests effectively:"Because it's when you're mobile, you're the most socially needy and vulnerable and insecure, and that's when the one platform you have is the mobile, wireless platform"This is, in some ways, close towhat I was sayingin my Gamesblog column for the Technology section a couple of weeks ago. Mobiles phones now fill those awkward moments of social exclusion, perhaps when we're waiting for friends in a bar, or just sitting alone on a bus. Pushing buttons on a handset not only provides a focus for the solitary user - it also sends out a message: 'I'm comfortable being in this space, I'm not bored, I'm not alone'.If mobile developers can provide a better, more fulfilling use of this time than simply texting friends or clearing out your image gallery... well, there's your killer app.Mobile games vs social vulnerability? Bring it on.
