Apple shares fell 3.9% in early trading on Friday after the launch of its iPhone 5 received a frosty reception in China, and two analysts cut shipment forecasts.It was a dramatic contrast to the scenes at the iPhone 4S launch in January when an angry crowd pelted the store in Beijing with eggs and fights broke out between would-be touts aiming to resell new phones.On Friday there was one person waiting at Apple's store in Shanghai's financial district before it opened. But the lack of queues may have been down to the online lottery scheme introduced by Apple to prevent a repeat of January's chaos. It used the same method earlier this month for the launch of its iPad mini, and enforced a two-per-person limit.Although the company has 300,000 pre-orders for the phone from China Unicom, one of the three big mobile providers, and will also sell it through mobile company China Telecom, it has still not sealed a deal with China Mobile, the biggest player with 703 million users of whom 79m are 3G (ie smartphone) users. Despite years of talks, the two sides have disagreed on revenue splits and business models.That means Apple is unable to increase its shipments there as fast as the market for smartphones is growing.    There are already 290 million smartphone users and that is forecast to double in the next 12 months.Nokia's shares rose earlier this month after it tied up a deal to sell its Lumia smartphones through China Mobile.Even so, China Mobile announced in March that an estimated 15 million people use iPhones on its network, despite their being incompatible with its data services.More broadly, But Apple and Nokia are struggling in the face of competition from devices powered by versions of Google's Android software: those make up roughly 90% of the smartphones sold in China, although many connect to Chinese services rather than Google's."In absolute terms, this (iPhone 5) launch will certainly result in strong sales for Apple in China. However, in relative terms, I don't believe it will move the needle enough in market share," Shiv Putcha, a Mumbai-based analyst at Ovum, a global technology consultant, told the Reuters news agency.Peter Misek of Jefferies said he was lowering his iPhone shipment estimates for the first quarter of 2013 by 5m to 48m, on the basis that the company was cutting orders to suppliers. He also cut his estimates for the company's gross margins by 2 percentage points, to 40%. He said it was unclear how much the snowy weather and requirement to pre-order were factors in the small queues.That seems to have helped push down Apple shares, which have lost a quarter of their value since hitting an all-time high of $705.07 on 21 September.Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS Research, told clients in a research note that he didn't expect the iPhone 5 to do as well in China as the iPhone 4S. The brokerage cuts its price target for Apple's stock to $700, substantially down from $780, on the expectation of lower iPhone and iPad shipments in the first quarter of 2013.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new iPhone and iPad apps, including games, in what's been a very busy week on Apple's App Store.New Android apps get their own weekly roundup: you can find thecurrent week's batch here.Prices are included, but especially for games (free) often means (freemium), so check the App Store listings for fuller details on in-app purchases. Here's this week's roundup:Google Maps (free)By now, you probably know thatGoogle Maps has returned to iPhone(although not yet iPad, natively) as a downloadable app. Topping the App Store charts within hours of its release, this is significantly improved on the version that was preloaded as part of Apple's iOS 5 software. Turn-by-turn navigation is included, and Google is releasing an API for app developers who want to hook their apps into Google Maps rather than Apple Maps.iPhoneThe Snowman and the Snowdog (free)Channel 4 is screening the sequel to The Snowman this Christmas, with a free game available in advance to whet the audience's appetite. It's a lovely piece of work too: The Snowman and Snowdog swoop across the countryside while you tap on snowflakes and items, before flying over London landmarks towards the North Pole.iPhone / iPadFootball Manager Handheld 2013 (£6.99)Sports Interactive's feted football management game is back on iOS, offering 14 countries to ply your trade in, fully licensed players and teams, deep tactics and training strategy, and now in-app purchases to unlock power-ups and extra tests for the game's supplemental Challenge Mode. As addictive as ever.iPhone / iPadToca Hair Salon 2 (£0.69)Toca Boca is making a big name for itself with a series of colourful, creative children's apps. Toca Hair Salon 2 is the sequel to one of its most popular ones, getting kids to cut, wash, shave and blow-dry the barnets of four characters, while dressing them up in accessories. Joyful fun for parents as well as children.iPhone / iPadElmo Loves 123s (£2.99)There's a trend for educational apps using familiar children's characters: witness Disney's recent Letters with Pooh and Numbers with Nemo. Now Sesame Street's Elmo is getting in on the action with this mathematical app for young children. Focusing on the numbers one to 20, it includes songs, video clips, digital colouring and mini-games.iPadScrobbler for iOS (free)Digital music service Last.fm is trying something different on the App Store. Rather than personal radio, Scrobbler for iOS is all about helping you dig deeper into your own music collection, including songs stored in Apple's iTunes Match locker. It can create playlists on the fly based on individual tracks in a "more like this" way, and it "scrobbles" details of everything you play back to Last.fm to build a profile based on your preferences.iPhone / iPadThe John Lennon Letters (£5.99)Book publisher Hachette has released this collection of John Lennon's private letters, edited by author Hunter Davies, and read out by actor Christopher Eccleston. Each letter – and there are 88 of them – has a transcript and explanatory notes, with links to Lennon's music on iTunes.iPadRounds: Parker Penguin (£2.99)Children with an interest in the world around them (and its wildlife) will love this delightful book-app from Nosy Crow. It follows a penguin called Parker through its life from birth to parenthood, with a mixture of storytelling and interactivity.iPhone / iPadTheatrhythm Final Fantasy (free)The latest Final Fantasy game for iOS is less traditional RPG and more music rhythm game. Newly converted for Apple devices, it involves levelling up characters by playing through songs by tapping on the screen. Although free to download, it uses in-app purchases for the in-game content.iPhone / iPadiTunes – 12 Days of Christmas (free)With heaven knows how many new iPhones, iPads and iPod touch devices being unwrapped on Christmas Day, Apple is standing by with its annual 12 Days of Christmas app. As ever, the app will offer a different freebie song, music video, app, e-book or TV episode every day from 26 December for the customary dozen-day giveaway.iPhone / iPadRework_ (Philip Glass Remixed) (£6.99)There's a new compilation album of remixes of composer Philip Glass's songs by the likes of Beck, Amon Tobin and Cornelius. This is its companion app, offering an eye-popping "interactive visualisation" for each remix, as well as a separate "Glass Machine" section to make your own Glass-esque music. It's the work of Scott Snibbe Studio, which previously did Bjork's Biophilia album-app.iPhone / iPadStrum (free)Strum is the latest app from music-apps developer Smule, which previously made Magic Piano, Glee Karaoke and Ocarina, among others. Strum wants to "turn your life into a music video" (no, not like Glee) by adding "audio filters" to your 15-second video clips, then sharing the results on social networks.iPhone / iPadTop Gear Magazine (free)Top Gear Magazine has had iPad issues before, but now it's "fully interactive" – ie not just a digitised version of the print edition. What that means is more videos, photo galleries, live feeds from Facebook and Twitter and other interactivity.iPadMiddle Manager of Justice (free)There's justifiable buzz around freemium game Middle Manager of Justice, launched by Double Fine Productions. It puts you in charge of a branch of Justice Corp, staffed by superheroes who buzz around the city fighting crime. It's very,verygood indeed.iPhone / iPadAA Drivescore (free)This is the latest example of an app designed to track your driving ability, then (assuming you're not the Maureen From Driving School of 2012) get you discounts on your car insurance premiums. You have to let the app track 200 miles of your driving before it calculates your score, and tells you whether you can save money – IF (and you surely saw this coming) you take out one of the AA's Drivesafe insurance policies.iPhoneAudiobus (£6.99)Audiobus is (quietly) a rather big deal in the iOS world. It's an "inter-app audio routing system" for iOS music creation apps, meaning that musicians can finally use different apps together in a structured way. "Just like virtual cables" Audiobus handles the connectivity as you squirt sounds and loops from one app to another, with a number of apps including Rebirth for iPad, Loopy and JamUp already supporting it.iPhone / iPadMothercare (free)Mothercare is the latest British retailer to hit the App Store, with an iPhone app enabling "busy mums and mums-to-be" – although surely there'll be a fair few dads and dads-to-be using this too – to browse and buy products, watch videos, read reviews and scan barcodes in-store to get more information. There are also pregnancy checklists, baby-name search tools and music for babies: a very handy collection of features.iPhoneDavid Nash at Kew Gardens (£7.49)Sculptor David Nash is currently exhibiting at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Kew, with this app released as a way for visitors and potential visitors to view the sculptures and their locations within the gardens, watch video interviews, and read essays about Nash's life and work.iPadPokedex for iOS (£1.49)From sculpture to, er, Skiploom (yes, I had to look that one up). Nintendo isn't yet bringing its game franchises to iOS, but The Pokémon Company has released this companion app for the Pokémon series of games, offering a guide to all the mini-beasties appearing in the games. Numbers 494 to 647 come in the initial download, with other batches available as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadGrimm's Puss in Boots (£2.99)It's been a very strong week for new children's app releases, which is good news for parents who may be in need of digital distractions over the Christmas holidays. This is the latest app from StoryToys, which specialises in turning fairytales into faux pop-up book-apps. This time Puss in Boots is getting the treatment with a mix of storytelling and mini-games for children to enjoy.iPhone / iPadBubble Safari (free)If you've been playing Puzzle Bobble / Bust-a-Move for a decade or more, the sudden enormousness of bubble-popping games on Facebook feels a bit surreal. Now they're all coming to iOS, with Zynga's Bubble Safari following King.com's Bubble Witch Saga and Wooga's Bubble Island onto the App Store. The gameplay here is similar: fire coloured bubbles at other coloured bubbles to make matches, with power-ups and Facebook functionality (oh, and in-app purchases, obviously) built in.iPhone / iPad50 Christmas Recipes from Olive (£2.99)Not decided how to roast the turkey yet? Frankly you're running out of time. But never fear: Olive Magazine is here with a festive recipe collection: 50 starters, mains, sides, desserts, bakes and cocktails/canapes, as well as a step-by-step guide to carving the turkey.iPadWince – Don't Feed the WorryBug (£1.99)The aptly-named Wince is a character who worries too much, not least when his "nemesis" the WorryBug hoves into view. This lovely looking book-app tells the story of how he learns to deal with the problem – the idea being that children may take inspiration. It's based on an existing printed book and plush-toy range designed to build kids' confidence.iPhone / iPadMonsters, Inc. Run (£0.69)Disney is getting into the endless runner games ... game with characters from its Monsters, Inc. film. It sees you choosing tag teams to run through 48 levels booting other monsters out of the way, and grabbing power-ups to help your progress. Although a paid game, in-app "bucks" are also sold to speed your way.iPhone / iPadAmpliTube Jimi Hendrix (£10.49)Want to play guitar like Jimi Hendrix? Good luck with that. But if you want to at least have a guitar that sounds like his, AmpliTube Jimi Hendrix may be able to help. It's a mobile guitar effects processor based on Hendrix's pedals and amplifiers, with its own single-track recorder and the ability to play along with Jimi's songs if you have them on your iOS device.iPhone / iPadPlaymobil Pirates (free)The famous Playmobil characters come to iOS in a freemium game from Gameloft that sees you building a pirate village, sailing the high seas and looting treasure left, right and centre. It's certainly faithful to the look of the characters, although its use of in-app purchases up to £69.99 will make some parents uneasy, even if their IAP settings are locked down.iPhone / iPadAmelia and Terror of the Night (£2.99)If Tim Burton made illustrated book apps, he might make something like Amelia and Terror of the Night. It's the work of indie developer OhNoo Studio, and tells the dark and distinctly spooky tale of a girl called Amelia who hangs out with an oversized teddy, a blue two-wheeled cat and a shy tortoise for fun. Their adventure encompasses eye-catching animation, dress-up activities and four mini-games.iPhone / iPadKnights &amp; Dragons: Rise of the Dark Prince (free)And another freemium game angling for your in-app purchases. This one looks like a keeper though: a fantasy-themed strategy game where you build a castle, battle other players and unlock all manner of knights, armour and items to bolster your power.iPhone / iPadEnergy Flow (free)Energy Flow is an app to relax with: "A filmic dream rush of paintings in motion: Energy Flow is an immersive film experience that is unique every time it is played, exploring the complexity of how things are connected in our lives today – the fragile equilibrium between physical, political, and cultural tensions". Okay, perhaps "relax" wasn't quite the word! It's a thought-provoking digital art project.iPhone / iPadWink! (free)Finally for this week, another photo-sharing app – this time focused on sharing pics with friends who are nearby. NOBODY MENTION COLOUR! No, that app flopped, but Wink! looks like it has potential if word of mouth starts to spread. The idea: you take a shot, and it gets beamed to the phones of nearby friends (if they have the app), tagging them in the process. It'll need an Android version to really spread, mind.iPhoneThat's our choice, but what have you been enjoying on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch this week? Post your recommendations or give your views on the picks above in a comment.
China appears to be tightening its control of internet services that are able to burrow secretly through what is known as the "Great Firewall", which prevents citizens there from reading some overseas content.Both companies and individuals are being hit by the new technology deployed by the Chinese government to control what people read inside the country.A number of companies providing "virtual private network" (VPN) services to users in China say the new system is able to "learn, discover and block" the encrypted communications methods used by a number of different VPN systems.China Unicom, one of the biggest telecoms providers in the country, is now killing connections where a VPN is detected, according to one company with a number of users in China.VPNs encrypt internet communications between two points so that even if the data being passed is tapped, it cannot be read. A VPN connection from inside China to outside it also mean that the user's internet connection effectively starts outside the "Great Firewall" – in theory giving access to the vast range of information and sites that the Chinese government blocks. That includes many western newspaper sites as well as resources such as Twitter, Facebook and Google.Users in China suspected in May 2011 thatthe government there was trying to disrupt VPN use, and now VPN providers have begun to notice the effects.Astrill, a VPN provider for users inside and outside China, has emailed its users to warn them that the "Great Firewall" system is blocking at least four of the common protocols used by VPNs, which means that they don't function. "This GFW update makes a lot of harm to business in China," the email says. "We believe [the] China censorship minister is a smart man … and this blockage will be removed and things will go back to normal."But the company added that trying to stay ahead of the censors is a "cat-and-mouse game" – although it is working on a new system that it hopes will let it stay ahead of the detection system.
Apparently I shouldn't ever have liked Apple's Maps app.When I tested the iPhone 5 for myreview, after its announcement but ahead of its official release, I was struck by a number of things about it – particularly how different the iOS 6 Maps app was.Google Maps, in the iOS 5 version, was good enough for many uses. But it wasn't great. For a start, it used rasters – every screen was in effect a separate download, so when you dragged the map to look at the adjacent locations, it initiated a whole new download. Zoom in or out – more downloading, because you're looking at slightly different pictures. (This is how it works on the desktop, but it preloads the tiles on each edge so you don't notice any delay.)Raster maps, as I know from the timecampaigningfor people who wanted access to the UK Ordnance Survey's vector map data, are a pain. They're otherwise known as "tiles"; you see the raster tiling effect most clearly when you switch to satellite view on an online map, and the picture fills in square by square. That's what Google's maps – as the default maps app – used to do on iOS 5. It chews up data, and it's highly dependent on network connectivity. Barely anything is cached.Also, on iOS 5 you couldn't get turn-by-turn navigation without buying a separate app – unlike Google's Android, where since 2011 it has been built into the maps.So when I tried out the iPhone 5, and discovered that Apple's Maps app used vector mapping (where a huge amount of the map is downloaded straight away, in a form where the elements are encoded by their spatial relationship, not as a fixed picture), and also included turn-by-turn navigation, I was impressed. That's good, I thought.I tried it out for some navigation near where I live, which is very rural, and where the signal while you're driving is patchy. And it worked well. I searched for a destination; the search found it first time. I set up the route and it found a shortcut I didn't know about. Directions were given by (computer-generated) voice. When I had to divert because a road was closed, it re-routed without complaint. Even better, I thought.Of course, you expect that from a dedicated satnav, but compared with what had gone before – where you'd have been wrestling with the phone and trying to figure out where you were and where you needed to be, with only the silent text of your route directions on screen – it was a colossal improvement. As I noted in the review, it brought feature parity with Android.I also looked at what there was around London, which I also know, having lived there for many years. I tried typical searches that one does for locations (ie places where I'd lived). I looked at what there seemed to be offered. I looked at places where I'd lived. It seemed fine.So I wrote:The news in May that Google was sidelined as the provider of maps for the iPhone (in any phone that runs iOS 6, to be released later on Wednesday 19 September) caused a fair amount of hand-wringing and worry. Would it be as good? Or would it just use some in-between rubbish?Don't worry – it's very good. Here we need to distinguish between the maps themselves, and the maps app. The maps don't have all the highlighting of Google's, but the amount of detail such as road names seems to me greater.Now – did I try to drive toMildura in Australia? No. Did I look upplaces called "Airfield" in Ireland? Nope. I just used it like I use maps most of the time, while trying to use other elements of the phone too. On that limited basis, I thought that Apple's maps were very good. They'd taken me where I wanted to go, found shortcuts, re-routed, didn't use so much data, and were better than what had gone before.Of course when Apple's maps began to be more widely used, and the list of errors in them began appearing and kept on coming, my brief summary in my iPhone 5 review based on my experience, that they were "very good", looked pretty foolish. Certainly, a small group has since enjoyed playingNelson Muntzin the comments. Ha-ha.In retrospect, yes, I should have tested the new maps element in iOS 6 more thoroughly. At the time I thought I had. One of the challenges of doing reviews is trying to figure out what will be important to people, and what won't; companies frequently give you thick "reviewer's guides" with the intention of directing you at particular things, but those don't tell you whether, say, maps will be more important than photos to many users. Nor is it self-evident that you should search for airfields, or remote Australian towns. (This is Apple's problem too.) What if some devastating flaw had been lurking in the Passbook system, but I hadn't been able to test it sufficiently to find it, and so commended something that was no good? Well, ha-ha. (The other reviewing challenge, of course, being limited time.)The simple solution to that would be to do a review where you studiously avoid passing any opinion at all. You don't say if you think something is good or bad. You just recount what's there - a laundry list you could get off the side of the box. I don't enjoy reading those reviews, and don't think they provide anything useful; cereal boxes are more entertaining. If you don't have an opinion about something, you probably don't care about it. A product or service should ideally have provoked some emotion - for or against.So do I still think Apple's maps are "very good"? Well, I've been using an iPhone, and using the iOS 6 maps system for navigation regularly, and they still haven't led me astray. They've kept navigating me to places I need to get to without hassle. This, I know, isn't the experience of everyone; some have had terrible experiences. (Apple may have been lucky not to have a fatality over the Mildura mislocation.) The Nelson Muntzes demand – Spanish Inquisition-style – that I recant; that I shouldn't like the experience of using Apple's maps, on behalf of anyone else who doesn't. (More odd is that many of the Muntzes don't seem to be iOS 6 – or even iPhone – users themselves, so I don't know where their experience of it comes from.) If maps contain any mistakes, they can't be "good". At all.Trouble is, that's still not my experience. Are Apple's maps perfect? Nope. Could they be better? Yes. Are they getting better? Actually, they are. Are Google's maps even better? Yes,farbetter - but until now, with theavailability of Google's Maps app, you couldn't get the vector maps and turn-by-turn functionality, which are what is actually needed now at this stage of smartphone development.Not having that functionality was far worse – unless all you really needed was location, rather than navigation. Google's data on iOS 5 provided great location, but no navigation, and I've already been in situations where navigation became much more important than location. I know of other people who aren't rabidly attached to any platform who haven't had a problem with the maps. But the errors are there nevertheless.So, I'm sorry that my review didn't pick up the fact that Apple's Maps fall short for a number of people. I called them "very good" because I was comparing them with what had gone before on the iPhone, and my experience was positive. Vectors beat rasters any day; similarly, free turn-by-turn voice-directed navigation beats none. Some of Apple's errors were egregious. But many were also well-hidden until a huge number of people started using them. Location and navigation is at least partly a search business, and if you don't try the right searches, you won't find the flaws in the arrangement of the data. I failed to find the right searches.Now, here's the thing: Google's maps aresuperb. The choices of colours, for instance, are outstanding (blue for motorways in Britain; Apple still uses yellow, the same as interstate highways - motorway equivalents - in the US). The fine detail, such as minor roads, is picked out with higher contrast. Google simply does it better.And here's the other thing. A number of people seem to have been holding off updating to iOS 6 after hearing about the problems with Apple's maps. Now that Google's Maps app has landed, they're heading off to update their phones - which means that the default Maps app that used Google's raster data will be replaced by Apple's one, and Apple's maps will be the default when people search for locations.That means Apple has a growing number of people who are using its maps app. More data means better maps. The whole experience of launching their own maps service has surely scarred Apple's executives - and gotten a couple fired - but the irony is that it now has what it wanted all along: vector mapping and turn-by-turn navigation on the iPhone. And users have not one, but two free versions to choose from. Competition turns out to be good. Very good, in fact.
Anyone unwrapping a new Android device this Christmas is in for a treat: the last couple of months have seen a blizzard of interesting apps and games released for Google-powered smartphones and tablets.This week's crop is no exception, with some big games hogging the spotlight, but also some interesting social and sports apps making their way onto Google Play.iOS gets its own roundup, which will be published later in the day. Remember too that prices quoted here are for the initial download: "Free" often means "freemium" with in-app purchases. Here's this week's roundup of brand new Android releases:Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (£3.74)A week after the iOS version touched down, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has made its 80s-inspired way onto Android. Its signature free-roaming gameplay is intact, with reworked controls and LOTS of bad shirts. The game's release celebrates the original game's 10th anniversary.The Snowman and the Snowdog (Free)Channel 4 is screening the sequel to The Snowman this Christmas, with a free game available in advance to whet the audience's appetite. It's a lovely piece of work too: The Snowman and Snowdog swoop across the countryside while you tap on snowflakes and items, before flying over London landmarks towards the North Pole.Viddy (Free)Social videos app Viddy has been an enormous hit on iPhone, and now it's followed Instagram's (late) path onto Android. The app involves shooting short video clips, applying visual filters and music, then sharing on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Tumblr. Like Instagram, too, it acts as a self-contained social network with a feed of videos from friends and celebrities.Football Manager Handheld 2013 (£6.99)Sports Interactive's feted football management game is back for a second season on Android, offering 14 countries to ply your trade in, fully licensed players and teams, deep tactics and training strategy, and now in-app purchases to unlock power-ups and extra tests for the game's supplemental Challenge Mode. As addictive as ever.Toca Hair Salon 2 (£0.69)Swedish studio Toca Boca has made a collection of marvellously playful children's apps on iOS, but this is its first effort for Android. Exclusive to Amazon's Appstore and Kindle Fire tablet for now, it sees your children cutting, dyeing, washing and blow-drying the barnets of four cartoon characters.Broken Sword II Smoking Mirror (£2.99)Android gamers may be having a busy weekend, given the blitz of big releases this week. This is the sequel to excellent adventure game Broken Sword: Director's Cut, and sees heroes George Stobbart and Nico Collard return for another dose of intrigue and exploration. Nifty use of Dropbox for saved games lets you play across devices, and there's a digital comic thrown in too.Modern Combat 4: Zero Hour (£4.99)Another game, and another biggie. Modern Combat is publisher Gameloft's attempt to make a mobile equivalent of the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare console games. The fourth in the series looks the best yet: a military first-person shooter that lets you play villain as well as hero, with a choice of solo and online multiplayer modes.Wakeify - Spotify Alarm (Free)Wakeify is one of the growing number of apps built using streaming music service Spotify's APIs. It's an alarm clock that plays your chosen songs from Spotify to wake you up in the morning. It does require you to have a Spotify subscription, though.Baseball Superstars 2013 (Free)Gamevil's Baseball Superstars series of games are huge in its native South Korea, but growing fast in their global popularity too. The freemium game sees you training up your team and taking on the world, while also practising your hitting and pitching in My Batter and My Pitcher modes, and playing against friends over the network.Motiongraph (£0.83)Here's another social app, although unlike Viddy this is less about pure videos, and more about photos that move – short two-second videos where you set areas of the screen that you want to freeze. Just like the Cinemagraph app that Nokia recently released for its Lumia Windows Phone handsets, in fact. Motiongraph does the same thing on Android, and is the work of Sony's Digital Network Applications team.Grimm's Puss in Boots (£2.99)Irish developer StoryToys specialises in turning fairytales into faux pop-up books for iOS and Android. Its latest is a take on Puss in Boots just in time for pantomime season. Turnable pop-up pages aren't the only draw, thankfully: there are mini-games and puzzles to hold kids' attention too.Nike Training Club (Free)This is one of Nike's fitness apps: this one promising to give you "your own personal trainer, anytime, anywhere". That means a collection of 114 workouts, some provided by pro athletes, with instructions and voice guidance, as well as the ability to play your own music in the background, and brag about your exploits on social networks.Energy Flow (Free)Energy Flow is an app to relax with: "A filmic dream rush of paintings in motion: Energy Flow is an immersive film experience that is unique every time it is played, exploring the complexity of how things are connected in our lives today - the fragile equilibrium between physical, political, and cultural tensions". Okay, perhaps "relax" wasn't quite the word! It's a thought-provoking digital art project.Icy Tower 2 (Free)The original Icy Tower has quietly become something of a success story, with more than 40m players. Its freemium sequel offers more of the tower-jumping action that made the first game so popular: you leap up the tower collecting coins to spend on power-ups, as well as unlocking other upgrades and customisations.Voxeet (Free)Voxeet certainly isn't scared of making grand claims: "Such a radical improvement to conference calls it's hard to imagine going back". It's aiming to be a better-sounding Skype for use in business conference calls, working over 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi.iPNP 2012 (£1.87)Portable North Pole is proving to be a popular website for parents, since they can create personalised video messages from Father Christmas to their children. This Android app provides a window into that feature, while adding a digital advent calendar, Christmas countdown and world map for children to play with.Vocre – Translate Voice &amp; Text (£1.86)There are lots of translation apps around, some whizzier than others in terms of their technology. Vocre's innovation is more about its interface: it cleverly splits the screen in two to be used when opposite someone who speaks a different language. Voice features are included thanks to its use of Nuance's speech recognition and iSpeech technologies.Google Zeitgeist 2012 (Free)This is Google's own Android app for digging into its Zeitgeist 2012 research into what people were searching for this year, although sadly it seems to be a US-only download for now. The app helps you dig into the people, films, events, TV shows and gadgets that were trending on Google's search engine in 2012.Weather Live (£0.61)Android is increasingly well-stocked for decent weather apps, with Weather Live being the latest. It offers a neat display of local weather conditions, including seven-day and 24-hour forecasts. Early Google Play reviewers are rather raining on its parade by pointing to its lack of homescreen widgets, though.Cheezburger (Free)This is the official site for online publisher Cheezburger Network, promising to bring "all the memes and lolz" to Android phones from sites like FAILblog, I Can Has Cheezburger and Memebase.Super Monsters Ate My Condo! (Free)I know a number of addicts to this game on iOS, so its appearance on Android is good news (or bad, depending on how much work you have to do in the coming days...) Released by Adult Swim, it's a "condo-matching" game where you're matching apartments in a tower block, with freemium fare like coins and power-ups thrown in to keep the action going.Isaac Newton's Gravity 2 (Free)And another game, this time a physics-based puzzler from Namco Bandai: the follow-up to its first Isaac Newton title. It sees you manipulating magnets, trampolines, switches and pinball bumpers – among other elements – across 110 levels. And when you're done, there's a level editor to create new puzzles and share them with other players.VyprVPN (Free)A more serious app now: an app "to safely connect to unsecure wireless hotspots — airports, coffee shops, anywhere — by encrypting your internet connection, including all cellular data, using 256-bit OpenVPN encryption". Working with servers in North America, Europe or Asia, it requires an existing VyprVPN subscription.Ice Age: Pirate Picasso (Free)Fox Digital Entertainment has released this app to promote the Blu-ray release of the latest Ice Age film. It's a colouring app for children, with plenty of characters and scenes to be finger-painted. The results can be saved and/or shared on social networks.Send It Pro (£1.79)More big claims: "an application that allows you to send ANYthing to ANY smartphone", including iPhones and Windows Phones. It basically combines SMS and a Google account: you choose a file to send to a specific phone number, and Send It Pro uploads the file to your Google Drive cloud locker, then texts the recipient with a link. An inventive approach.Aviary Stickers: Holiday (£1.24)Photo-editing firm Aviary is newly prominent thanks to its technology being used for the photo filters in Twitter's official app. Aviary has its own standalone photo editing app too, though, with this being the latest plugin for it. It's a Christmas-themed sticker pack with 30 digital stickers (snowmen, Santa hats etc) to slap onto photos.Little Things Forever (Free)Little Things Forever is a lovely piece of work: a "seek and find game" that gets you hunting through patchwork pictures for specific objects, with nine puzzles to play with, and charming graphics.Beer Citizen (Free)Beer! All the beer, basically. That's the goal of Beer Citizen: "an advanced tool for true beer fans to discover, review, and share the brews you drink from around the world". That means getting people to rate their tipples, which the app then uses to build an "aggregated beer profile" for each one. An ideal pub companion.Piccyboo! (Free)An app called Snapchat has been hugely popular for sending photos that self-delete after a set time on the recipient's device (Why? sexting and... well, there are probably other uses). Anyway, Piccyboo wants to go a step further and let people share videos as well as photos, again with a built-in timer that deletes them on the other person's device. "You are in control. You can share pure experiences. You can share those real moments," says the developer. Or just pictures of your unmentionables, obviously.happy@work (£1.50)Imagine becoming "happier and more satisfied" at work in just 10 minutes. No, not (necessarily) by throwing your PC out of the window. Happy@work is a questionnaire app that, in 22 questions, aims to figure out what's good and bad about your current job, how that relates to your ambitions, and what to do about it.That's our selection, but what do you think? Give your responses to the apps above, or make your own recommendations by posting a comment.
A proposed global telecoms treaty that would give national governments control of the internet has been blocked by the US and key western and African nations. They said they are "not able to sign the agreement in its current form" at the end of a International Telecoms Union (ITU) conference in Dubai.The proposals, coming after two weeks of complex negotiation, would have given individual governments greater powers to control international phone calls and data traffic, but were opposed as the conference had seemed to be drawing to a close late on Thursday.The move seems to safeguard the role of the internet as an unregulated, international service that runs on top of telecoms systems free of direct interference by national governments.The US was first to declare its opposition to the draft treaty. "It is with a heavy heart and a sense of missed opportunities that I have to announce that the United States must communicate that it is unable to sign the agreement in its current form," Terry Kramer, head of the US delegation, told the conference, after what had looked like a final draft was approved."The internet has given the world unimaginable economic and social benefit during these past 24 years. All without UN regulation. We candidly cannot support an ITU Treaty that is inconsistent with the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance."The US was joined in its opposition by the UK, Canada, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Kenya, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Qatar and Sweden. All said they would not sign the proposed final text, meaning that although a number of other countries will sign it, the treaty cannot be effectively implemented."In the end, the ITU and the conference chair, having backed themselves to the edge of a cliff, dared governments to push them off,"commentedKieren McCarthy, who runs the internet consultancy dot-nxt. "They duly did."But Access Now, a lobbying group against ITU oversight of the internet, said that "despite all of the assurances of the ITU secretariat that the WCIT wouldn't discuss internet governance, the final treaty text contains a resolution that explicitly 'instructs the [ITU] secretary-general to take the necessary steps for the ITU to play and active and constructive role in... the internet.'" It urged governments not to sign it.The ITU is a UN organisation responsible for coordinating telecoms use around the world. The conference was meant to update international treaties which have not evolved since 1988, before the introduction of the internet.But the conference has been the source of huge controversy because the ITU has been accused of seeking to take control of the internet, and negotiating behind closed doors. Google has mounted a vociferous campaign against conference proposals that would have meant that content providers could be charged for sending data and which would have given national governments more control of how the internet works. Instead, lobbyists have said the treaties should simply not mention the internet at all because it is a service that runs atop telecoms systems.But a bloc led by Russia, with China and the United Arab Emirates – where the conference is being held – said the internet should be part of the treaties because it travels over telecoms networks. A Russia-driven vote late on Wednesday seemed to push to include the internet in a resolution – a move the US disagreed with.The failure to reach accord could mean that there will be regional differences in internet efficacy. "Maybe in the future we could come to a fragmented internet," Andrey Mukhanov, of Russia's Ministry of Telecom and Mass Communications, told the Reuters news agency. "That would be negative for all, and I hope our American and European colleagues come to a constructive position."The US and Europe have indicated that they instead want private companies to drive internet standards.McCarthy, who has published ITU planning documents that would otherwise have been kept out of sight on dot-nxt's website, criticised the conduct of the meeting: "attendees were stunned to find a conference style and approach stuck in the 1970s," he said.Writing on the dot-nxt site, he said: "A constant stream of information was available only in downloadable Word documents; disagreement was dealt with by increasingly small, closed groups of key government officials; voting was carried out by delegates physically raising large yellow paddles, and counted by staff who walked around the room; meetings ran until the early hours of the morning, and "consensus by exhaustion" was the only fall-back position."Attempts by the ITU to encourage the US to sign the proposed treaty by removing clauses – such as one that would give individual countries rights over website addresses – failed.
Friday! What re you up to this weekend? Don't mention Christmas shopping.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOne O'Clock News Christmas 1986 Part One &gt;&gt; YouTubeIncludes the sound from the producer's gallery. You know what they say about a duck being calm above the water and frantically paddling below? (Via BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones)Putting Privacy First in 2013 &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet BlogsBrad Smith, Microsoft's legal chief:The [Do Not Track] technology, together withTracking Protection Lists, follow our commitment to innovate around privacy to give consumers more control of their personal information online, something our customers overwhelmingly say they want. A recent Microsoft survey bears this out: Fully 75 percent of consumers we surveyed in the U.S. and Europe said they wanted DNT "on." Similarly, a recent Pew Research study found that 56% of consumers decided not to complete an online transaction because of the data they were expected to share.Even so, it will take our collective efforts to give consumers the control they're asking for. As we acknowledged at the time, enabling the signal is only part of the solution. The second is how we and others respond to the request when they encounter it.Elsevier editorial system hacked, reviews faked, 11 retractions follow &gt;&gt; Retraction WatchRetraction Watch has learned that the Elsevier Editorial System (EES) was hacked sometime last month, leading to faked peer reviews and retractions -- although the submitting authors don't seem to have been at fault. As of now, eleven papers by authors in China, India, Iran, and Turkey have been retracted from three journals.Scientific skullduggery.Galaxy Note 3 with 6.3-inch display reportedly in the works &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSamsung has continually hammered the point that the Galaxy Note has been successful around the world, and has been unusually quick to tout sales numbers as it justifies the new category. Last month, it said it sold 5 million units of the Galaxy Note 2 in two months, or double the rate of the original.The carriers like the device because it appeals to heavy users who tend to be affluent and willing to spend more on monthly smartphone plans. Samsung sees it as a complement to its flagship Galaxy S3, which has proven to be nearly as strong a draw as Apple's iPhone 5.The Korea Times also reiterated its belief that the Galaxy S4 will be unveiled at Mobile World Congress in February. Samsung, however, held its own event last year to unveil the Galaxy S3, and many expect the company to follow the same track this year.Admit it, you felt terribly starved of giant phone rumours the past couple of weeks.Hotmail &amp; Yahoo Mail using secret domain blacklist &gt;&gt; SlashdotBennett Haselton:"Hotmail and Yahoo Mail are apparently sharing a secret blacklist of domain names such that any mention of these domains will cause a message to be bounced back to the sender as spam. I found out about this because -- surprise! -- some of my new proxy site domains ended up on the blacklist. Hotmail and Yahoo are stonewalling, but here's what I've dug up so far -- and why you should care."Though he can't figure out why, one possibility is down to the age of the domains: newly registered domains that suddenly start sending thousands of emails are likely to get blocked. Seems smart. (Haselton is a longtime activist in the whole field of censorware and blocking.)Below the Surface &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:The economics of tablets imply a "commoditization" of system and application software. So what's Microsoft to do?The answer is Surface where the software margin is captured in hardware. This explains the pricing of Surface. The price isn't significantly below what Apple charges because Microsoft wants to capture a comparable (30%+) margin. On a $500 product that amounts to $150. After subtracting hardware operating and distribution costs we can get pretty close to the $120 it currently obtains from a PC.This also explains the lack of appetite for "partnerships". OEMs which would normally compete on hardware would have to deal with zero margins (or less) after license fees and would be encouraged to cut corners and shave costs, compromising the experience and causing the platform to suffer.He also gives a suggestion to why Microsoft dislikes the phrase "post-PC".US court rules iPhone violates MobileMedia patents &gt;&gt; The Next WebA US court has ruled that Apple's iPhone infringes on three patents held by MobileMedia Ideas, a shell company that exists to enforce patents held by Nokia and Sony,reports Bloomberg.MobileMedia is a company that is actuallyowned by Nokia, Sony and MPEG-LA. It wasformed in January of 2010as an entity for enforcing those companies' patents. Essentially, MobileMedia is there so that Sony and Nokia don't have to get their hands dirty enforcing their own patents.Well, I Finally Got An iPhone 5... &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget, that is.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Three large online analytics companies are exploiting a flaw in multiple versions of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser that lets them track the user's mouse - meaning they can see what people are looking at online.The companies provide advertising analytics for billions of web page views every month, for hundreds of billions of adverts, says Doug de Jager, chief executive of spider.io, a London-based analytics firm which discovered the flaw."The vulnerability is being exploited rather mischievously by these companies to measure the viewability of display ads - arguably the hot topic in display advertising at the moment," de Jager told the Guardian. "Almost every US-based user of Internet Explorer will have their mouse cursor tracked via this exploit almost every day they browse the web."Microsoft has confirmed that every version of Internet Explorer, from version 6 - dating back to 2001 - up to 10, released this year, is vulnerable.The flaw means that a user's cursor can be tracked anywhere on the screen even if the browser window isn't active.But Microsoft has said that it does not consider the vulnerability sufficiently important to merit an urgent security patch. "We are currently investigating this issue, but to date there are no reports of active exploits or customers that have been adversely affected," Microsoft said in a statement, adding that it would take "appropriate action to protect our customers".De Jager insists that that is complacent - and wrong. He says that his company notified one of the companies which is using the flaw on 27 September, but has so far received no response. He also told Microsoft about the flaw on 1 October, and the company wrote back 11 days later saying that it had been able to reproduce the hack - but that it was still discussing the security implications.De Jager has now decided to go public with it to prompt action.The attacks can be triggered by display advertising on any website; if that page is open in the browser the movements of the mouse can be tracked. It also means that people using "virtual" keyboards and keypads in Internet Explorer, for example on tablets, would be vulnerable.Malicious hackers might also be able to use the vulnerability, says de Jager: by watching where someone goes on a virtual keyboard, they could work out a credit card number and other personal details.. "Having deciphered credit-card details, email address and telephone numbers, no more work needs to be done. Credit-card details would be used. Email address and telephone number would be sold to companies exploiting contact details – spammers and others."The next step would be to find the site/application to which these login details apply. This is typically done in brute-force fashion, by testing the login details on as many sites/applications as one can. One can reduce the number of sites/applications to which login details might apply by geolocating the IP address of the user whose login details have been compromised. By doing this, one might know that a user is based in Barcelona, and so the most likely sites/applications are unlikely to include a Californian bank, for example."Updated: the headline previously called Spider.io a security firm; it is an analytics firm.
Social games publisher Zynga had a difficult 2012, but a bright spot is the news that one of its games was the highest grossing iPhone game for the year on the UK and US App Stores.Not a new game, though. Poker by Zynga was released in May 2010, but is sitting pretty in top spot in Apple'sTop Grossing iPhone games chart for 2012.The chart was published today as part of Apple's traditional end-of-year iTunes recap, which has been renamed from Rewind to simply Best of 2012 this year.More than half the 99 iPhone apps listed in the Top Grossing chart are freemium games, with Kingdoms of Camelot and Bejeweled Blitz taking second and third places behind Poker by Zynga.Fellow freemium games The Simpsons: Tapped Out (7), CSR Racing (9) and DragonVale (10) also make it into the top 10, alongside three social apps – Match.com (4), WhatsApp Messenger (5) and Badoo (8) – and navigation app TomTom UK &amp; Ireland (6).Thehighest grossing iPad appin the UK in 2012 was Apple's own Pages word processor, followed by The Times, Kingdoms of Camelot, DragonVale, The Telegraph, The Guardian and Observer, QuickOffice Pro HD, Smurfs' Village, Comics and The Sims FreePlay in the top 10.Yes, three newspaper apps in the top 10, with The Sun (21), Daily Mail (25) and Sunday Times (38) also making it into the top half of that chart.In terms of sheer downloads (rather than revenues), WhatsApp Messenger was the top paid app for iPhone in the UK, while Draw Something Free was the top free app. The most popular paid iPad app was Pages, while BBC iPlayer tops the free iPad apps chart.Apple's App Store editorial team have also chosen Editors' Choice apps, choosing private rentals app Airbnb as their App of the Year, and another travel app, Hailo, as runner up. Rayman Jungle Run is Game of the Year, followed by Super Hexagon.On iPad, productivity app Paper by FiftyThree is App of the Year, with cookery app Green Kitchen the runner up. Puzzle game The Room is iPad Game of the Year, followed by Eufloria HD.Apple has also compiled themed recommendations of other recommended apps from 2012, which developers will be poring over to see if their own releases have been included, and if not, to gauge which developers and apps are currently favoured by the company.Why is this news? Because the most lucrative day of the year for app developers is Christmas Day and the second most lucrative is Boxing Day – in both cases, because people have unwrapped new devices and are actively looking for apps to download.In 2011, mobile analytics firm Flurry estimated that242m iOS and Android apps were downloadedon 25 December that year, up 125% on the average daily volume earlier in the month.Apple's recommendations are likely to mean significant sales spikes for the paid apps chosen, a big boost for in-app purchases in the freemium ones, and increased traffic for those relying on advertising.Google has yet to launch a similar end-of-year promotion on its Google Play store for Android, although it is also likely to be mulling its store-promotions strategy for the festive period.With Apple's list now public, attention on iOS will turn to a week of frenzied price-cutting and big-app releases leading up to 21 December, when Apple will freeze the App Store charts and stop putting new apps live until 28 December.Apps and games riding high in the charts when they lock for Christmas can expect a bumper festive period.The Best of 2012 charts are country-specific, so elsewhere in the world the rankings varied, and other apps were spotlighted by the App Store editors. For example, Poker by Zynga was still the top grossing iPhone app in the US, but DragonVale beat Pages to take top spot in the iPad rankings.
It is a mere 130g of polycarbonate and glass encasing a miniature computer, but on this smartphone's slim shoulders rest the future of two companies. Its manufacturer HTC is hoping the top-of-the-range Windows Phone 8X, and its lower-priced sibling, the 8S, will reverse its recent sales tailspin, while Microsoft hopes HTC's efforts will convince a new generation of customers that Windows Phone is a genuine alternative to Android and Apple in mobile computing.So far the signs are good. HTC's sales rose 23% month on month in November, having been flat or down for six straight months. The numbers are not split out by model, but the improvement must be in part due to Windows Phones. If the trend continues into Christmas and the Chinese New Year, the Taiwanese manufacturer will be breathing a sigh of relief.HTC began as a maker of Windows Mobile phones, before finding greater success building smartphones using Google's Android. It continued to support Windows, helping with the arrival of Microsoft's first true smartphone software, Windows Phone 7, but HTC's efforts were minimal. Those handsets had little to please the eye and used basic processors, cameras and screens.Lately, faced with Samsung's technological leaps and massive marketing budgets, HTC has failed to gain traction with new Android launches. So it has cast its eyes back to Microsoft HQ in Redmond, Washington again. The result is the Windows Phone 8 range, released in November.At first glance, HTC has thrown the kitchen sink at the task. The 8X is packed with much of the best technology developed for its top Android phones, and its hardware is a leap forward in design terms.Its main Windows rival, Nokia's Lumia 920, is only available on the EE 4G network in the UK, leaving the rest of the field free for HTC. For those who are willing to try an alternative to Apple and Android – an admittedly small group at the moment – the 8X is the high end handset to consider.HardwareIn keeping with the brightly coloured "live tiles" of the Windows interface, the 8X comes in red, violet and acid yellow as well as the traditional black. HTC has taken a few pointers from Nokia with the casing. Like Nokia's Lumia range, the 8X is carved from a single shell of polycarbonate (a synthetic resin) with a matt finish. It takes a lot to dent or scratch this curved-cornered case. Unlike the iPhone 5, which seems to attract gashes like a magnet attracts iron filings, there is no need for the design purist's nightmare of a rubber case for these handsets.The phone is light at 130g (iPhone 5: 112g; Samsung Galaxy S3: 133g; Nokia Lumia 820: 160g; Lumia 920: 185g), and cushion-shaped, with a fattish 10.1mm bulge at the back housing the battery, tapering to thinner edges.The top edge holds a standard 3.5mm headphone jack, a small hole for a secondary mic, and the power/lock key. The right hand side houses a micro-sim tray with pin release hole, a volume rocker, and a camera button. The primary mic and power socket are at the bottom, and the left hand side is free of clutter.One grumble: the buttons are so flush with the casing they are difficult to locate by touch – and once found they are hard to press.ScreenMade of black gorilla glass with curved edges, the screen is absolutely top of the range. The resolution beats the iPhone 5, at 341 pixels per inch versus 326 for the Apple phone. At 4.3inch on the diagonal, it is wider than the iPhone 5 and a little longer too, but not as glaring large as the Nokia Lumia 920.SoundAs an extra sweetener, the handset comes with Dr Dre's Beats Audio technology, essentially an extra amplifier in the headphone jack which can crank up to 2.5V, compared to the usual 0.5V, and more than enough to pump up the volume on a large set of headphones.ProcessorThe 8X uses Qualcomm's Snapdragon dual core 1.5Ghz processor with 1GB of RAM. This is a step up from the single core processor in HTC's Windows Phone 7 models, and puts it on a par with the top smartphones. With a few exceptions such as the Huawei Ascend, which has a headline-grabbing quad-core processor, most manufacturers (including Apple) are content with dual core for now.CameraStandard-issue rather than bleeding-edge, the 8X's camera leaves a little to be desired compared to rival models and even HTC's flagship phone. At 8 megapixels, it's on a par with the iPhone 5, but behind the Lumia 920, which sports 8.7MP and a range of Nokia photo-editing software which puts most other phones in the shade.Unlike HTC's Android One X, the 8X does not have the 30 shots per second burst mode, nor the panorama feature.Before pointing and shooting, the shutter speed, colour and resolution are all adjustable. The Bing lens, named after Microsoft's search engine, can scan barcodes and QR codes, as well as book, CD and DVD numbers and then call up information on the items.For those who want more features, the only option is do it yourself. The camera screen links through to a range of recommended apps. One does Time Lapse, another uploads your citizen journalist photos to CNN.The video camera resolution is excellent, recording in 1080p, which is good enough to view on a television set, and considered the standard for high definition today.NetworksThe 8X supports 4G in the US, but not in the UK, so don't buy it on a two-year contract if you are hoping to be able to make the most of 4G wireless when it becomes available on all the main networks in May/June next year.However, the 8X does support the fastest version of 3G, called HSPA+, in the bands used by each one of the British networks. While they wait to catch up with EE (which was the first to launch 4G in the UK), Three, Vodafone and 02 are all investing in the latest 3G technology, which can connect to the internet as fast as the average home broadband service and – outside of smartphone rush hours – copes with even the most data hungry tasks like watching live video.Software: coreWhereas Windows Phone 7 was a revolution, Windows Phone 8 is a solid evolution. Microsoft has found an interface it thinks will catch on and is improving it. The standout feature are the live tiles, which replace the static icons that represent apps on Android and iOS. In design terms they are a bang-up-to-date digital-era feature. The best ones show live information from the sources they represent – photos stream from friends' feeds, the calendared meeting you are meant to be in.WP 8 now lets you choose from three sizes of tiles, so by pinning different ones in different sizes you can create a personalised, dynamic home screen.Another improvement is the Kid's Corner. This is a roped-off area which contains only apps you want your offspring (or friends) to play with, and can be accessed with a right-to-left swipe from the lock screen, meaning there is no need for them to enter more personal sensitive parts of your phone.AppsThe range and quality of apps however is still disappointing. There may be thousands available, but some of the best are missing or are a little out of date. None of the BBC iPlayers are there, Instagram is absent, the Twitter and Facebook versions are bare bones compared to those on Android and iOS, and the eBay app, which still uses the old company logo, has been over-customised to the WP8 look.CalendarThe calendar, which should be one of the most accommodating features to use, is anything but. The WP8 house style of white script on a black background looks great when navigating screens with large writing, but hurts the eyes when reading small print calendar entries, and the information is only available by day or by month (the latter too small to be readable) with no weekly appointments view.MapsMaps are both a joy and a disappointment. Produced using Nokia's excellent mapping service, they zoom in to satellite view and even show live traffic updates. The turn-by-turn navigation comes from Nokia – part of its move to monetise the Navteq maps company it bought.Prices and conclusionWhile the live tiles interface may be struggling to find its raison d'etre in Windows 8, Microsoft's traditional stomping ground of the personal computer, it is absolutely made for smartphones. Windows Phone 8 is among the easiest, most instinctive and visually entertaining mobile operating systems to use. I have found its new phone setup to be the simplest and fastest of the three operating systems, particularly when it comes to things like installing company email. It deserves a place as the third ecosystem. (Sorry, RIM.)A big UK marketing campaign, with advertising and product placement for Nokia Lumia handsets around prime time TV shows like Homeland should help familiarise users with the look of WP8; HTC will benefit indirectly.Prices are a little more appealing than Nokia's too. The 8X is available on PAYG from Carphone Warehouse from £380. Its opposite number at Nokia, the Lumia 920, is only on sale through EE in the UK.The more basic Lumia 820, equivalent to the 8S, costs £350 on PAYG, making HTC's top-end Windows Phone device is just £30 more expensive than the more basic new model from Nokia.Overall? The 8X is a worthy Windows Phone torchbearer.
The new Google Maps application for the iPhone became the most downloaded free item in Apple's App Store on Thursday, just hours after its launch.The long-awaited app launched in the early hours of Thursday morning, finally bringing relief to the millions of iPhone users forced to rely on Apple's own much-maligned mapping system.The popularity of Google Maps provided an insight into the unpopularity of Apple's own attempt at providing a map service. Its launch came after Appleditched its partnership with Googleahead of the launch of iOS6, the most recently launched operating system for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch."People around the world have been asking for Google Maps on iPhone," wrote Daniel Graf, director of Google Maps for Mobile in a thinly veiled dig atApple's own geographical travails."Starting today, we're pleased to announce that Google Maps is here – rolling out across the world in the Apple App Store. It's designed from the ground up to combine the comprehensiveness and accuracy of Google Maps with an interface that makes finding what you're looking for faster and easier."Early reviews of Google Maps were overwhelmingly positive.The New York Times described itas "free, fast and fantastic," concluding that "Google Maps for iPhone is an astonishingly powerful, accurate, beautiful tool".The Next Websaid the new toolwas "pleasantly responsive and feature-rich," although noted "a few rough spots that suggest it's been rushed ahead to market".The early response to Google Maps is in stark contrast for the widespread despair provoked by Apple's own attempt at building a mapping system.Usersreported that railway stationshad been imagined, the Sears Tower in Chicago had been mislabelled, Paddington Station in London had ceased to exist and searches for 'London' directed UK iPhone users to the Canadian London in Ontario, rather than Britain's teeming metropolis.Google Maps had been an inbuilt part of the iOS operating system until this year's update. Appledecided not to renew its licencewith Google, reportedly frustrated that Google had refused to allow it access to its voice-directed turn-by-turn navigation and vector graphics for mapping.
Within seconds of placing an order at Amazon I received two messages purporting to come from DHL saying "Processing complete successfully". I assumed they related to my Amazon order, but I noticed a couple of odd things: (a) that they were sent to (different) email addresses that I have only infrequently used, and (b) the attachment had two extensions: pdf and zip (DH'L_Express_Processing_complete.pdf.zip).During the summer, after booking a hotel room, I quickly received two or three emails with the subject "Booking confirmation". They were obvious spams from the poor quality of the content.I am used to spam, and know how to deal with it. What concerns me is the apparent link between my activities and the content of the spams. It makes me feel as if there is an automated "watcher" waiting to see if I use certain sites then sending relevant spam.I am running Windows Vista Business SP2 with Windows Defender, and for extra security, I manually scan with Malwarebytes Antimalware about once per week. Everything is up-to-date.Rob CameronI suspect these are coincidences. Billions of spam emails are sent every week, and you may well receive hundreds of legitimate emails each week. They almost never coincide, but we are pretty good at spotting when they do.In this case, all the emails were spam, and the first one was part of a virus attack. A quick search on the attachment's filename finds Graham Cluley, our old friend from Sophos,identifyingthe malware as a Trojan (Troj/BredoZp-S) and warning against it.But I would not have been surprised if the various emails had turned out to be genuine. Data tracking has been getting more and more sophisticated over the past few years, while users have been getting more predictable, thanks partly to broadband internet connections that keep you on the same IP address for months or even years.Some websites now use software that can identify visitors by name, using tracking cookies (small text files websites store on your hard drive), internet addresses, and forms filled in at other sites. (See, for example,You're not anonymous. I know your name, email, and company, andNowhere to hide: Advertisers can now stalk you across multiple devices.)Google is the web's biggest advertising company and one of the most obvious trackers. It uses a huge network of ads that are shown across millions of websites, DoubleClick ad-tracking, the Play marketplace on Android phones and Google Search on Apple iOS devices – unless youopt out. It also looks as though the main purpose of its Google Plus website is to get users' real names and other accurate data, which Facebook has but won't provide to Google.Facebook has also extended itself across much of the web using Facebook Connect and Like buttons. Users can log on to participating sites using their Facebook identity, and this gives these sites access to some information from their Facebook profiles. This is handy but less private than using different IDs for different sites, or using throwaway IDs and passwords fromBug Me Not.The latestWeb Privacy Censusby the UC Berkeley Center for Law and Technology found the most popular 100 websites dropped thousands of cookies (6,485 on 24 October), and that 84.7% of them were third-party cookies. In other words, most cookies were not used by the site you visited (Amazon, Twitter etc) but by advertising and tracking companies such as Google's doubleclick.net (the biggest, dropping 69 cookies), scorecardresearch.com (54), and bluekai.com (41).So yes, there's a whole host of "automated watchers" waiting to see if you use Amazon/your bank/hotel booking sites etc, and they may "spam" you with targeted advertising or perhaps legitimate email offers. (The companies argue that it is better to show you ads about things you are interested in, and they have a point.) Given that there are several hundred tracking companies, it would be surprising if there wasn't some "leakage" into less legitimate approaches, though I've not seen any evidence of this happening. However, hacking is always a possibility.Several companies offer software to control or block cookies, and most web browsers let you block third-party cookies selectively. This means you can keep the website's cookies that, for example, remember which pages you have viewed while blocking the trackers. Two free ones I use are Abine'sDoNotTrackMeand Evidon'sGhostery. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) also has an interesting project calledHTTPS Everywhere, which uses a Chrome or Firefox extension to redirect some popular websites (Google Search, Wikipedia) over secure connections without breaking anything.You can also load sites such as Gmail, Google Plus and Facebook using each browser's "private browsing" feature. This is called InPrivate Browsing in Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Incognito in Google Chrome, and Start Private Browsing in Firefox. While it's not practical to block all cookies, you can set each browser to delete cookies when you close it, which you should then do every couple of days. This will make the web less convenient, and you will have to enter passwords more often, but it will help increase your privacy.Further, avoid using search engines like Google, which save your searches and send data to websites. Some alternatives are designed to protect your privacy, such asDuckDuckGo. This has an easy-to-read explanation atdonttrack.us. If you absolutely must have Google search, access it via Ixquick'sStartpage. This is a secure (HTTPS) page that sends your search to Google but throws away your search data and all the tracking information. (It also has a "family filter" which makes it a good search engine for kids.)Another way to protect your privacy is to use an anonymous browsing service, though the free ones greatly limit what you can do online. I often useAnonyMouseandHide My Ass!, which set up an encrypted "virtual private network" (VPN) between your PC and their servers. Websites get loads of hits from these anonymous servers, but can't identify you from thousands of other users.VPNs are a particularly good idea when using public networks such as Wi-Fi hotspots. See my earlier answer,Using a VPN to protect your web use, for more details.Finally, although you say "everything is up-to-date", I'll bet it's not. If you runSecunia's Personal Software Inspector(PSI), it will probably find half a dozen programs that need updating.This may well include Google Chrome and various Adobe programs, Apple's QuickTime and Oracle's Java. PSI finds the non-Microsoft programs that are not up-to-date, provides links that you can click to update them, and charts your progress week by week.
Videogames are routinely accused of manifesting all sorts of failings, principally by those who would never dream of playing any of them. But one oft-heard criticism that even the most passionate gamer would concede is broadly valid is that they suffer from shallow, facile writing. Which is one of the reasons why Ubisoft'sFar Cry 3] made such an impression and generated such widespread plaudits. Its storyline was simply magnificent, displaying deep complexity, memorable characterisation and a willingness to tackle all manner of specifically 21st-century issues. So we tracked down its lead writer, Jeffrey Yohalem, who cut his teeth on Assassin's Creed II and Brotherhood, and has even worked on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart.The gamer as actorUnsurprisingly, Yohalem's thoughtful, even intellectual, approach to his craft shines through. We began by asking him  whether reconciling an open-world FPS with a rich storyline was a challenge: "It was at the beginning, and that's the reason I got into videogames. It's all about interactivity, so defining how you tell a story through interactivity has always been my goal, and I hope that with Far Cry 3 I've done that. For me, the answer was about the way that the player needed to interact with the game, through shooting. That's how the player acts. For an actor on stage, it's all about the lines, how they say them – how the actor plays Desdemona, say. But in a game, your ability to perform comes from whatever gameplay mechanic exists, and you can move around freely. The gameplay you use to perform is shooting, collecting and operating the character."The gamer as actor is an attractive concept, but it has only recently come into play, as games have evolved. Indeed, 2012 was a breakthrough year for that, with a number of games arriving which let you play them in whatever style you fancied – notably Far Cry 3, of course,DishonoredandHitman: Absolution, and we shouldn't forget last year'sDeus Ex: Human Revolution.Nuanced charactersFar Cry 3Of course, if you're acting in your game-universe, it won't be much fun if the characters you interact with are two-dimensional and wooden. Far Cry 3's are highly memorable, especially the psychotic Vaas and the brain-fried Dr Earnhardt. Yohalem explains where they came from: "For me, with a story in a game, the storyisthe game. It's like a puzzle. You have a house, let's say, that hides all these secret passages that you don't see at first glance. For me, the best stories are where, at first, you think things are a certain way, and everything makes sense on the surface, and then things start changing and transforming, so the player suffers all of these things, not the characters. So, each of these characters have secrets, and those secrets all relate to different aspects of the meaning of the game. The player gradually discovers the secret behind that character – or doesn't discover it. But either way, you have a person who is alive, and has motivations that involve the player, and that makes it interesting."He continues: "Because there's full face and body motion-capture in this game, I always write so that the words the actors are saying don't matter – it's the secrets that actors know about the characters. Each character has something in their past, and the words are a mask for that. So you have characters who have been through torment, like Blanche, in A Streetcar Named Desire, who is hiding dark truths behind these words and lies she comes up with. In Far Cry 3, each character is hiding something, and the actors knew that. So we worked with them, and you can see in their faces that when a character tells you one thing, in reality, behind what he's telling you is something else."Tripping for a reasonAnother striking aspect of Far Cry 3 is its hallucinogenic sequences. Dr Earnhardt has clearly devoted his life to turning Rook Island's flora into powerful psychedelic drugs, and there are various junctures in the game when the character, Jason Brody, embarks on hallucinatory trips. Generally, games that have attempted psychedelia in the past have merely plumbed the depths of cringe-worthiness, but in Far Cry 3 the chemically enhanced dream-sequences are believable and deeply enjoyable. However, Yohalem maintains that he didn't just put them in out of a sense of subversiveness: "The thing about a hallucinogenic sequence is that allows you to learn about who your character is. I don't know whether you noticed on the island that there are flashbacks that you find and that you can play in? You can take a pill and all of a sudden, you're back in the past. The goal with these was always, again, that story-as-game thing. So, each of these hallucinations tells the story in a fun way, and everything in them is a metaphor for something else. When there's meaning in a story, all of the story comes together to create one overarching meaning. There's a bunch of random weird stuff, but it's all there for a reason, and I think that's really powerful."Movie influencesInfluences-wise, it's clear that Yohalem is a major-league movie-buff: "A History Of Violence, the Cronenberg film, was a big one.  Pulp Fiction, Alice In Wonderland, Animal Farm. And other essays and stuff about technology and modern society. There are a lot of issues going on in the game. The cool thing about having this large metaphor for discussion with the audience, the way that Animal Farm does, is that the characters come easily for the actors." And he cites more influences for the games intro, a montage showing Brody and his friends engaging in a welter of partying and extreme sports on the island: "Again, with A History Of Violence, things at first are a certain way, and they gradually turn out not to be that way. If you think about the beginning of a film like The Deer Hunter, with the wedding sequence, I was trying to create a sequence at the beginning that has this generation – today's generation – living in an unbroken fantasy, and then the game is about the breaking of that."Story as gameplayYohalem also offers an insight into how Far Cry 3's gameplay and storyline were meshed together so seamlessly: "There were all of these artists and visionaries [working on the game] who were pushing things forwards in their different fields. We knew what Far Cry 3 was going to be – it's part of the Far Cry universe, and those mechanics were there. On my side, I knew what they were interested in exploring, and I used the story to support that, rather than ignoring it. I think a lot of games ignore it – where they're not really looking at the emotion that the gameplay on its own frees in the player. Or the sense of freedom that the game issupposedto give the player. I think a lot of well-intentioned stories are failing in videogames, because they are written like a film or a TV show which ignores the viewer – viewers are looking in at this thing, but they can't grasp it, so I'm afraid those scripts are just about creating a believable world. But in a game, they should be about putting a player in that world."Next-gen: breaking the rulesSo, with a new generation of consoles, boasting huge amounts of power to render incredibly believable characters and emulate real-life processes, waiting in the wings, what can we look forward to in the future? Will the tired sequence of cut-scene-action-cut-scene-action die a death at last? "Yes. I think we're on a mountain overlooking a valley, and the valley would be all these things combined seamlessly. My big thing right now is that there are all these rules that are taken for granted in videogames. For example, if you're in first person at the beginning of the game, you should be in first person for the whole game. If your character doesn't talk for the first half-hour, he shouldn't talk for the rest of the game. If a game isn't in a dream world, then there shouldn't be hallucinations in it. Or if you have a choice at a juncture in the game, then the whole game should be choices at junctures. And I think all of those are non-rules.""Each director should have a system of rules that they like. Just the way Stanley Kubrick films are all about something similar, and Spielberg films are all about something similar. Each time you see a Spielberg movie, you're resuming a conversation with the same person, and it influences your expectation of what a Spielberg movie is. What I can see is that, in games, you're going to have directors who are interested in a set of rules, and then each of their games will follow those rules. And there are no overall rules then, when directors just pick those rules that they like. You could have a game with one cut-scene in it and no other ones – and that's OK, as long as it supports the meaning of the game."
BioShock Infiniteis an absolute pig of a game to preview. The reason is that so much of the game's draw – so much of its spellbinding power – is wrapped up in the experience of going into it completely cold. When it comes to BioShock Infinite, to paraphrase the Bard, the plot's the thing; the less one knows about the events contained in Irrational Games's latest brainchild before they sit down to play it, the better a time will be had.And yet, without giving away at least a couple of details, players won't have much to go on. Sure, there are a series of mechanics I can report on and a collection of screenshots of some admittedly beautiful vistas of Columbia – the floating city that serves as the game's centrepiece – to gawp at. But the only other news about the game that's been reported concerns the list of development staff that left Irrational between August and November.Irrational's creative director Ken Levine appears rather laid back when questioned about the departures at the company."It's really far less dramatic than people think it is," he says."Sometimes people are the right mix for a company and sometimes they're not. Sometimes people have been at a company for an awfully long time and they just want something different," he adds. "Look, of all the old timers ... we only lost one, [art director] Nate [Wells]. And he's off surfing! He's out in sunny California working at Naughty Dog – I love the guy!"When you put it like that, it does sound pretty reasonable. With the housekeeping out of the way, I'm tempted to pick Levine's brain a bit more for plot details, but he won't be drawn on it – it'd ruin it for me, he says."I can't actually wait for people to finish the game," he says. "I'm very curious as to how it goes over. It feels like it did before the first BioShock was released. I'm interested to see how people take to the ideas and how they evolve."This brings me back to the original problem inherent in writing a preview of BioShock Infinite. How much should I reveal? How much wrath do I risk? Anyone with a passing interest in the game already knows about its hero, Booker DeWitt, a shady ex-Pinkerton tasked with entering the floating city of Columbia circa 1912 to rescue a woman named Elizabeth. They also know that Columbia is, in both its construction and society, a city built on the belief of American Exceptionalism, and that its population have started to split into factions run by the haves and the have-nots. They may even know about Songbird, the mechanical horror that guards Elizabeth at the behest of the city's nominal leader, Comstock.It gives nothing away, I suppose, to reveal that the relationship between Booker and Elizabeth features prominently in both the game's plot and its mechanics. As far as the latter is concerned, this translates into the player having an extra pair of eyes and hands when it comes to scrounging up cash, ammunition and firearms. Elizabeth is particularly useful in a firefight; she finds cover quite quickly and then tosses loaded guns and bullets Booker's way if the player finds their supply of ammo running dry. She even makes the odd suggestion about how the pair might best progress, should the player become stuck.Elizabeth is also able to activate rifts in reality – or 'tears' as they called here. At intervals the player will come across parts of the scenery that look stretched and out of place. If they focus on them, entire objects flash in to view – obstacles, gun racks filled with weapons, ammunition dumps, turrets and the like – and if they hit the X button, Elizabeth can pull them through to the material plane.The other new mechanic in play revolves around Booker's Skyhook, a device that combines a trigger and grip ending in three magnetised hooks. It's Booker's best means of transport between the floating islands of Columbia and it happens to be a wicked melee attack to book. Hit A, and Booker latches onto either raised hooks or rails that run overhead, allowing him to move about the city. Hit Y and he delivers a teeth-rattling blow to the face of the closest enemy. Hold down Y and he plunges it into an enemy's face and pulls the trigger, producing some rather horrible results.Aside from Elizabeth and the Skyhook, however, there's a lot about Infinite that will strike BioShock fans as familiar – perhaps a little too familiar. The basic gameplay involves scrounging for items, collecting audio diaries, buying equipment off robotic vendors and juggling gunplay and supernatural attacks – they were called Plasmids in Bioshock, here they're called Vigors. The firearms offer the standard range covered by most shooters – pistol, submachine gun, sniper rifle, shotgun and rocket launcher – although all of them are skinned in a suitably archaic-looking aesthetic. The launcher, for example, requires DeWitt to load a new round into the breach by winding a crank after each shot.The Vigors all have two tiers of attack, which are launched by alternately flicking, and holding down and then releasing, the left trigger. The first attack is a simple projectile launch – flick the trigger and DeWitt hurls a molten grenade or unleashes a flock of murderous birds if the player has either Devil's Kiss or Murder Of Crows loaded, respectively. If the player holds down the trigger and releases it, they plant a trap variant of whatever Vigor they have loaded in the floor; Devil's Kiss in this instance is a firetrap that engulfs enemies if they step on it, while Murder Of Crows places a nest filled with eggs, which hatch in a flurry of sharp claws and beaks if disturbed.The Vigors themselves offer a decent range of powers, although, once again, it has to be said that their effects are more than a little reminiscent of those of the Plasmids in the original BioShock. Devil's Kiss, for example, is simply Incinerate in grenade form, while Murder Of Crows is a feathered version of Insect Swarm. Possession, which allows players to take control of both human and robotic enemies and turn them on their allies, is basically the Enrage and Security Control Plasmids rolled into one, while Shock Jockey feels very similar to ElectroBolt. Only Bucking Bronco, which allows players to suspend enemies briefly in the air, doesn't seem to replicate the effects of any Plasmid – although if you were being picky, you could say it contains elements from both the Winter Blast and Whirlwind Trap.If all I had to go on was the new mechanics, I'd have to chalk the first five hours of BioShock Infinite up as a disappointment. Even with the gorgeous new city in the clouds and the fact that Irrational has worked hard to make Columbia feel like a living, breathing city, complete with era-specific social mores – hardline evangelical Christianity and racism abound – the fact that the gameplay doesn't seem to have moved on significantly since the first BioShock is, for want of a better way of putting it, a shock.But the more I sink into the steampunk nightmare of BioShock Infinite, the more kinks and clues start poking through, prompting me to take stock of not only the world Booker and its inhabitants, but the reliability of my foil in this world. Without giving too much away, it becomes apparent very early on that Booker DeWitt isn't dealing from a full deck with the player controlling him. After a while, one can't help but start to question the motives of this protagonist, the legitimacy of what he sees around him and his reactions to events and characters that occur in his environment.At some stage, I remembered how the original BioShock toyed with the player right up until its knife-to-the-gut twist, which mocked both the player's expectations and the very agency of the medium they were enjoying. This moment took place on a beachfront, shortly after Booker had freed Elizabeth from the tower in which she was imprisoned. As Booker and Elizabeth walked along the sands, she noticed a band playing at the end of a pier, and overjoyed at hearing music for the first time in ages, she ran off to dance. It was then I realised that this band, playing in an otherworldly city from the year 1912, were playing a cover of Girls Just Want to Have Fun by Cyndi Lauper. At that point, details I hadn't even taken stock of began to flood my brain.I could tick off a tonne of them – starting with the damage bars that appear above the heads of enemies as I shoot them down, which seems distinctly out of step with Irrational's philosophy of immersing the player in its worlds and removing any hint that they're playing a videogame. However, saying more than that would be tantamount to heading into spoiler territory. As it is, I may have said too much already…• This preview took place in Los Angeles using an an Xbox 360. All flights, accommodation and food were paid for by 2K
Thursday! Just writing some of next week's top 25 games of the year...
Google has released a downloadable app that makes its maps available to users of Apple's new iOS software – and has included turn-by-turn navigation and "vector" maps which don't need constant data downloads, just as the iPhone maker had previously wanted.The move comes two and a half months after Apple banished Google from providing the core maps experience on the iPhone and iPad because of a dispute over advertising, revenue shares and the provision of those navigation and vector functions.But that move led to humiliation for Apple, which included its own Maps system with the iOS 6 software that is used on the iPhone 5 and which has been downloaded by more than 200 million people since September.Themaps have come in for widespread criticismbecause they mislabelled locations, left off some public transport information and in some cases could evenput people in life-threatening situations.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, wasforced into a humiliating public apology, including recommending that dissatisfied users try rival products from Microsoft or Nokia.Soon afterwards Cook fired the head of the iOS 6 software team, Scott Forstall, and more recently was reported to have fired the chief of Apple's maps group.But the Google maps app will not be the default one for mapping on the iPhone; Apple's own will still be the default, providing location data from any other app, and there is no mechanism to let people use Google's instead.But the Google Maps app includes elements that Apple's own lacks, including embedded public transport directions. Crucially, Google has also provided an API – essentially software "hooks" for developers – that will mean that if it is installed, third-party apps can use Google's Maps rather than Apple's to deal with mapping.The app's approval seems to have been accelerated: the Wall Street Journal reported that Google was putting the finishing touches to it four weeks ago in preparation to submit it to Apple's App Store.Apple's own Maps introduced turn-by-turn navigation for walking and driving and uses"vector" maps, which compress data stored in a file so that they will provide mapping even without a data connection.Those were precisely the features that Apple had wanted from Google – but the two disagreed over the provision of the features, which had been included on Google's Android mobile operating software since the end of 2010.Google wanted to be able to include adverts on the maps as a source of revenue; that would mean getting data about the location of the phone, among other information. Apple resisted that. The drawn-out dispute between the companies eventually saw Apple decide to build its own Maps content and make that the default on the iPhone and iPad.The new Google Maps app is so far only available for the iPhone; although it will work on the iPad there is not yet a specific version for Apple's tablet.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry 10 'L-Series' device fully exposed in new hi-res images, video &gt;&gt; CIO BlogsThe general appearance of Research In Motion's (RIM) first BlackBerry 10 smartphone, the all-touch "L-Series," is no secret; images and video of the upcoming handset have been slowly leaking for the past couple of months. But today, a Vietnamese tech site posted the first set of high-resolution photos of the BlackBerry 10 L-Series handset, along with a five-minute video that gives an in-depth look at the phone and compares it to RIM's Dev Alpha BlackBerry 10 developer smartphone and Apple's popular iPhone 5.Fortune Exclusive: Larry Page on Google &gt;&gt; Fortune TechThere's loads to ponder in this interview, but probably the most interesting is this:Q: So is there one thing that keeps you more occupied right now than any other thing?The thing I'm most occupied with now actually is the overall structural questions. We want Google to be wildly successful. What does Google look like five years from now? What are we doing? Who's doing it? How are we organized? What people do we have? And I think we have some answers to those questions. But I think, like I said, what I'm trying to do is to get a technology company that continues to scale its impact and aspirations in its everyday. We're at a certain scale now, but I don't see any particular reason why we shouldn't be much bigger, more impactful than we are now.Read the whole thing, though.Google chairman says Android winning mobile war with Apple &gt;&gt; BloombergAnd Eric Schmidt also comments on this:The company avoided about $2 billion in worldwide income taxes in 2011 by shifting $9.8bn in revenue into a Bermuda shell company, almost double the total from three years before, filings show.Governments in France, the UK, Italy and Australia are probing Google's tax avoidance as they seek to boost revenue. Schmidt said the company's efforts around taxes are legal."We pay lots of taxes; we pay them in the legally prescribed ways," he said. "I am very proud of the structure that we set up. We did it based on the incentives that the governments offered us to operate."The company isn't about to turn down big savings in taxes, he said."It's called capitalism," he said. "We are proudly capitalistic. I'm not confused about this."Android appears to infringe Nokia patent relating to multifunctional phone-computer USB connections &gt;&gt; FOSSPatentsUnless this patent is invalidated, which won't happen to the German part of this patent before 2014 at the earliest, it's hard to see how any Android device maker would not want to license it. Workarounds are possible but would come with reductions in functionality and/or easy of use for USB connections of smartphones and tablet computers to desktop computers.Which would logically add to the drag on profits for Android handset makers. It's starting to add up. This case is only against HTC but would easily extend to others.Samsung knocks Apple Maps in Sydney marketing stunt &gt;&gt; CNET NewsCNET Australia has snapped pics of a little guerrilla marketing by Samsung featuring a muddied-up vehicle with a tent and other camping supplies. Next to it is a sign that says, "Oops, should have gotten a Samsung Galaxy S III. Get navigation you can trust."That would be Google's maps. Read on... (Thanks @mopoke on Twitter for the link.)Police warn of safety concerns from Google Maps &gt;&gt; ABC NewsNow police in Colac, west of Melbourne, say faults with Google maps are putting people's lives at risk along the Great Ocean Road and in the southern Otways. Sergeant Nick Buenen says trucks, buses and tourists are being directed down Wild Dog Road, which is a one-way track, not built for heavy traffic.He says VicRoads has denied responsibility and Google Maps has not responded."My issue is it's a significant safety issue for tourists [and] locals, who are getting the wrong information from their GPSs," he said."My concern is that one day we're going to be at the coroners court [being asked] well what did you do about it. We're trying to do something about it, but if a 22-seater bus rolls off Wild Dog Road today, [there wouldn't be] the multi-agency response to this issue that I would like."Google Maps in GPS? Anyhow, clock started. Australia seems to be the hardest place to map - keep reading...Another Apple maps desert death trap down under &gt;&gt; The RegisterJust when Apple thought it couldn't get any worse for its beleaguered Maps app, which has been leading motorists deep into the desert when they try to find the town of Mildura, The Register can reveal another SNAFU that could send travellers to an even less hospitable destination.The site in question is Mount Isa, a town in the interior of Queensland. Famed for its colossal mines and attendant facilities, the town is home to around 23,500 souls.Another case where you need human intelligence applied to the official gazetteer of Australian locations - which shows multiple entries for "Mount Isa"; some are population centres, some aren't. Google gets it right because it assumes that humans will be looking for other humans - that is, centres of population - and puts that top of the search results. Apple's offering has the populated location as its second result.Google sells Motorola's factories in China and Brazil to Flextronics &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityGoogle, which officially acquired Motorola Mobility in May of this year, has just announced that Flextronics will acquire Motorola's factory Tianjin, China. Flextronics will also "assume the management and operation" of Motorola's factory in Jaguariuna, Brazil. Who exactly is Flextronics? You know how Foxconn is the largest company that spits out consumer electronics? Flextronics is thesecond largest. Assuming both companies get all the required approvals, this deal will close during the first half of 2013. Financial terms were not disclosed, though we expect them to be leaked rather quickly.And also Motorola's factory in Chennai, India, is being closed - taking out 76 jobs. The picture that emerges is of a company retreating extremely quickly from having its own manufacturing operations in favour of contract manufacturing.The Dumbest Apple Rumor of the Year &gt;&gt; GizmodoBecause this morning, the two worst rumor sources in tech found each other. Analysts met patents, and created a perfect storm of bullshit...The problem with taking patents at face value is that patents aren't products and, more importantly, are often never even intended to be. Companies file patents defensively, stockpiling them like warheads for the never-ending infringement wars. They are, in their own way, every bit as Not Even a Thing as iTV itself. That's what every single one of these "features" is based on.Great use of the &lt;blink&gt; markup, which hadn't previously been seen in the wild since 1995.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Britain has become a gadget-obsessed nation, watching more television online, spending more on internet shopping and using smartphones and tablets to access the web more heavily than any of the world's leading economies, according to new research.The British love of the latest devices has even seen the UK overtake Japan in mobile internet use, according to the report from media regulator Ofcom, which compares data across 17 countries, including the US, China, India, Russia, Brazil, Ireland, Sweden, France and Germany.A seeming obsession with Facebook, Twitter, watching Gangnam style clips on YouTube and using online music services has seen UK consumers download a record 424 megabytes of data each per month on their smartphones and tablets. The figure is almost 60% more than a year ago.Much of the increase in use of mobile devices, especially smartphones, has been driven by the popularity of social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter, with 40% of UK adults accessing their profiles on the go.British 18–to 24-year-olds are proving to be the world's top mobile social networkers, with 62% accessing their profiles from smartphones and tablets, a higher proportion than any of the countries analysed in the report.The smartphone has now almost become a must-have in the UK, with almost 60% of British mobile phone owners saying they have one, second only to Germany, a jump from 46% in last year's report.Ownership of tablet computers such as Apple's iPad stands at 19%, putting the UK fifth in terms of take-up. However, James Thickett, director of research at Ofcom, said huge sales of tablets were expected over Christmas.The British penchant for the latest gadgets can be seen in the changing face of the living room. Almost 24% of TV sets sold in the UK in the first quarter of this year were considered to be "super large" – bigger than 33 inches (84cm) – with almost 12% sold considered "jumbo sized" at over 43 inches.A decade ago, sales of widescreen TVs were so small they barely even registered, according to the Ofcom report.Thickett said that increasingly the idea of TV sets in children's bedrooms is being replaced with a hi-tech, multi-screen family affair in the living room.The UK also is something of a leader in the take-up of the next-generation smart TVs, which allow access to internet services, with 15% of homes owning one. This is at the top of Ofcom's smart TV table, alongside France, and ahead of nations such as Germany, the US and Australia on 10%.The popularity of video-on-demand services such as the BBC's iPlayer and Channel 4's 4oD have also made Britons the most likely in the world to watch, or catch up, with TV online.Almost a quarter of Britons use an online catch up TV service each week, well ahead of second placed US on 17%, according to Ofcom.Some 39% of Britons own a digital video recorder, such as Sky+, again the largest proportion of the population among the 17 countries the report focuses on, while 41% have access to high definition TV.UK consumers also set the pace in internet shopping, spending an average of £1,083 each a year, almost £250 more per person than the second placed Australians.Ofcom suggests the higher incidence of internet shopping is down to high credit card take-up, a historical habit of mail order shopping, and the early arrival of internet retail giants such as Amazon and eBay in the UK.The British are among the most likely to make internet purchases from their mobile phones, with more than 23% having visited a retail website, the highest in Europe, with Germany second on 22.6%.UK internet users spent an average of 728 minutes (more than 12 hours) a week online in total, although this is a slight drop from the 746 minutes recorded in the last report.However, Britons have some way to go to catch up with Australians, who spend an average of 992 minutes a week online, a big year-on-year jump from the 901-minute average reported a year ago, according to Ofcom. Despite the rise of a new wave of digital technology, good old-fashioned linear TV viewing is showing no signs of diminishing in popularity.Ofcom said that the amount of TV viewing in the UK has remained stable at 242 minutes – more than four hours – per person daily."TV viewing in all the countries surveyed is very healthy," said Thickett. "In many countries, including the UK, it has increased over the last decade. A lot of that is down to the quality of the TV that we continue to have."The seventh annual International Communications Market Report examines 17 countries, although some of the trends are only analysed across eight or nine major nations including the UK, France, Germany, Spain, USA, Italy, Australia, Japan and China.
Facebook is to make sweeping changes to its privacy controls, making them easier to find and offering people the means to review every publicly available picture of them on the site.The move follows repeated criticism that the site made it too hard to keep information private, and kept shifting default settings to open up more data.The change is the biggest overhaul to its privacy settings in more than a year, and will begin appearing to the site's 1 billion registered users over the next few weeks. The most visible change will be "privacy shortcuts" which will show up as a tiny lock at the right-hand side of the screen, at the top of the "news feed", with a menu offering answers to questions such as "Who can see my stuff?" and "Who can contact me?"Another tool will let people review every publicly available picture on Facebook that includes them, with suggestions on how to ask for them to be removed. "If you spot things you don't want on Facebook, now it's even easier to ask the people who posted them to remove them," the companysaid in a blogpost.Users will also get more precise control when they first use most apps (though not games apps) of how much it can do – such as reading their profile and friends list, but stopping it from posting into their public feed.Facebook has come under repeated fire from privacy advocates because it kept shifting the boundaries of where privacy ended and publicly visible data began, and made it hard to understand how to change those back.Critics also said that Facebook made the changes intentionally to expose more data about people publicly so that it could benefit from selling adverts to them.Facebook's move, which it said is unconnected with a poll that ended at the weekend over users' right to vote on changes in the service, is in effect an acknowledgement that its privacy settings had been hard to understand and control. This includes "rogue apps" which would post unwanted content into users' feeds to try to pull in their friends.Samuel Lessin, Facebook's director of product management, said in the post: "We continue to strive toward three main goals: bringing controls in context where you share, helping you understand what appears where as you use Facebook, and providing tools to help you act on content you don't like."Being able to remove embarrassing or unpleasant photos has become increasingly important for users of the nine-year-old service, many of whom first started using it while they were still at university in the US – but who are now discovering that their digital history has followed them around.For many younger users now, Facebook has become a record of who they are – but also a source of potential disruption in their first work interviews or careers. Getting rid, or hiding, photos that might show them in compromising or unpleasant situations may be a high priority.
For Reddit, 2012 has been a banner year, with highlights including a live question and answer session with Barack Obama at the height of the election battle and a whopping 3.8bn page views in October,not to mention one significant trolling scandal.But all this may pale by comparison with the site's latest achievement – smashing its own previous world record for the largest  "secret Santa" ever held.Redditgifts.com harnesses Reddit's greatest strength: a critical mass of people, many of whom are longtime users of the site.In 2011, 30,250 of them from 115 countries took part in the exchange,earning the site a place in Guinness Book of World Records. To put that in context, the previous holder of the record was the ITV television network in the UK with 1,562 participants.But this year, as Reddit moves further into mainstream public view, the secret Santa has exploded, with 59,742 people from 125 countries signed up to participate in the gift exchange.On the secret Santa message board, known to redditors and 'redditgiftors' alike as a subreddit, participants are swapping trinkets, including Tardis cookie jars, Mythbusters DVDs and customized coffee mugs.And, unlike traditional Christmas, bland tube socks or ill-fitting wool sweaters won't pass muster in redditgifts (unless, of course, either is a specific interest of the recipient). On Reddit, the rule seems to be the more thoughtful, the better. Redditor ZineZ, who mentioned his love of books to his 'SS', received a Kindle with the accompanying message: "I wasn't sure if a book would be enough, so I give you all the books in the world. Enjoy". Another user received a miniature bonsai tree, a childhood wish.A map shows that users on six continents are participating in the exchange, including two in Tehran and 192 in New Orleans. According to Santa statistics, redditgiftors have spent $695,354.97 in gifts, with a median gift price of $23.98. The maximum amount spent, shipping included, has been $2,864.98 – no word if that amount was spent on one of the number of laptops spotted by this writer, or the slab of bacon that was the size of one redditor's torso.If any redditors missed the secret Santa deadline, redditgifts has created a marketplace where users can peddle such wares as Reddit stickers, vanilla almond soaps and actual "awesome sauce" (which, as it turns out, has a hot garlic flavor).
Picture the scene: you're a British developer keen to take advantage of the government's forthcoming 25% tax relief for games production. But there's a problem: to qualify, you have to pass a test, a test that judges your project against a series of cultural criteria. Was it made in the UK? Does it feature the UK? Does it in anyway promote the UK? It's all very clear but, well, how do you effectively approach these questions if your game is an abstract puzzler written by one person who lives in Slough but perhaps emigrated to the country from Australia? Welcome to the world of EU-regulated aid.On Tuesday, the government revealed its draft legislation for UK games industry tax credits, which it committed itself to in the 2012 budget and which it formalised in last week's autumn statement. From April 2013, British developers will be able to claim relief on up to 25% of the tax they pay, a system that should, as everyone keeps saying, "level the playing field", in a global industry where some countries (we're looking at you Canada) offer up to a 37.5% tax relief on games production. Importantly, there is no minimum spend threshold, so smaller studios and startups can apply. It also covers development expenditureafterthe game is release, thereby recognising that most titles these days have some form of online multiplayer service and DLC plan. That's all good.But this is where the cultural test comes in. EU law prohibits the straightforward use of state aid to help domestic businesses because it would provide an unfair advantage in what is supposed to be a single common market. "However, it is possible to have a tax credit for video games production if it supports culturally relevant products," says Dr Richard Wilson, the chief executive of Tiga, which represents independent developers in the UK. "Under the government's plans, games will have to pass a cultural test in order to be classified as culturally British games and so benefit from games tax relief."This is exactly how tax relief works for the British movie industry, and how France is able to offer its games developers tax credits. It's all about culture.So what does the cultural test look like? At this draft stage, it takes the form of a Britishness checklist; to qualify for tax breaks, a developer must show that their project would earn at least 16 points on the list. Sixteen points are available for actual content; so for example, you get four points if 75% of the game is set in the UK or another EEA member state and up to four points depending on how many characters are from the UK or another EEA state. A further eight points are available in respect of personnel involved with the project. So you get one point each for, say, a programmer, producer, artist or musician who's a EEA citizen or UK resident. There are bonus points available if the game uses the English language and if it, "promotes, develops or enhances British culture".The UK trade bodies have declared themselves satisfied with the draft – though some tweaking is going to be necessary. "Broadly speaking the legislation looks like it's heading in the right direction," says Jo Twist of UKIE. "Government seems to have listened to some of the key recommendations that we made, such as not having a minimum budget threshold for games to qualify for relief and allowing games businesses to claim for post-release development costs. We mustn't be complacent though and we'll be working through the legislation in great detail to make sure that all other aspects of the scheme are fully considered".What some developers are asking, is how some of the parameters of the test are going to be applied to products which take place in wholly imagined virtual environments. "The vast majority of games are not set in real places, and even when they are it's not as easy as taking a camera to a location," says Matthew Hanlon of Bitbybit Games. "It's as easy to create the Mushroom Kingdom or the surface of a colonised Mars as it would be to build parts of the UK. Additionally, how are we judging this? Does an historical UK count, or a fictional one?  If I build a Victorian steam punk game in a dark, foggy city and call it London does it count?"One major gripe seems to be that the test is weighted in favour of content (a possible 16 points) rather than staff (a possible eight points), which some feel will discriminate against developers working on more abstract concepts. "Take our title Land-a Panda as an example," says Paul Virapen of Big Pixel Games. "It's a puzzle game set in a make-believe world with floating platforms, and two lovestruck pandas. These pandas are named after the two in Edinburgh Zoo – Yang Guang and Tian Tian – does that make them UK characters? Or are they Chinese characters on loan to the UK?"The story isn't exactly British – it's about the male panda trying to meet up with the female panda to save the world's panda population. And there is no dialogue. So if we were making this game again and applying for tax breaks, the chances are we'd get zero points for the content, but our entire team is based in the UK, so we might get eight points for that, which is nowhere near qualifying".It's an ironic prospect – tax credits were meant to release UK developers from certain financial restraints, allowing them to take more creative risks. So what happens if projects start to be modified to meet the cultural test criteria, not just in terms of setting, but in terms of genre? "The cultural test seems biased towards traditional third- and first-person games with characters and realistic locations," agrees Anna Marsh, design director at Lady Shotgun. "Abstract puzzle games with no characters and non-realworld locations (like we're planning for our next game!) are going to have a hard time making up the points they'd be ineligble for. And this may, rather ironically, make for less "cultural" games, and more that conform to the well-trodden third/first-person path".Other developers haven't been as worried, convinced the system can be played to garner the requisite number of points. "Many people have been talking about the cultural test like it'll mean they have to put union flags throughout, and create massive story-driven games with characters popping up to say 'what ho!' every now and again," says James Parker of Opposable Games. "But a number of years ago, I worked on the American Idol game, a karaoke game made exclusively for the American market, based on American franchise, and sold only in America ... and eventhatpasses the cultural Britishness test!""With that in mind, I'm sure that most British developers are not going to struggle with the rules as they stand. And if we do struggle, then we'll stick our best QA people on it – they'll always find a way to bend, break, or exploit a badly designed system!"Byron Atkinson-Jones, founder of Xiotex Studios, was involved in the consultation process that led to the draft legislation. He reckons developers need to understand that this is the beginning of an ongoing process. "[The government advisers] were keen to point out that this is by no means the end of the story; as with all legislation the first round is hardly going to be a sweeping success and that it's something that they plan to evolve and improve upon when it's actually put into action."That means it's up to us as developers to make sure that we shape the future of the tax break by giving feedback and actually attempting to apply for tax relief. The fact that we got a tax break at all is an amazing step forward, but we would be naive to assume that meant the baby steps stopped as soon as they announced it. This is going to take work from both sides before we get something we are all happy with".Indeed, the legislation process will now enter into another period of consultation until 6 February giving interested parties time to respond to the draft and seek clarifications. Jo Twist wants developers to take an active role: "It is absolutely vital that we all take the time to pore over the detail of the legislation to make sure that the system that we have in place in 2013 offers maximum benefits to all games companies, from small start-ups, to established publisher-owned studios. And we mustn't forget that we will need to get EC clearance too".Beyond all this is an argument that it isn't about merely filling in inconvenient forms; that the cultural test really ought to stand for something. "I suddenly hit the fairly stark and obvious realisation that this is other peoples' tax money we're talking about, here," says Dan Marshall of Size Five Games. "This is money that could otherwise be used for over-worked nurses, or underpaid teachers."Spending it on videogames seems a little frivolous unless of course it's art for the cultural betterment of the country. It's an impossible line to straddle, and I think I've come to the conclusion that in order to justify taking that tax money away from other arguably more-vital services there needs to be some sort of quantifiable knock-on benefit. To that end, I think the points system, and list of criteria is actually fairly vital".UKIE is running a series of workshops to help developers to understand and take advantage of tax relief. You can find out more at theUKIE website.
Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer has earmarked photo-sharing site Flickr as a top priority for investment in an attempt to regain lost ground on rivals Facebook, Twitter, Google and Instagram.Flickr unveiled an overhaul of its iPhone app on Tuesday, including the ability to add retro-style filters to photos and share them on Twitter and Facebook.The new app is the first significant update to Flickr on mobile in more than two years, in which time Instagram has grown from a one-man startup to a daily habit for more than 100 million amateur photographers.Development on Flickr has accelerated since Mayer – herselfa keen Instagram user–took over as chief executive in Julyin a bid to turn around the once-market leading digital content company. It is understood that the number of people working on Flickr at Yahoo's headquarters in San Francisco has as much as doubled since Mayer joined.The new iPhone app includes many features similar to Facebook-owned Instagram, including the ability to add filters, browse the most popular Flickr photos and subscribe to updates from friends. Users had complained about the lack of functionality of previous versions of the app, which had not been significantly updated as Yahoo's development effort focused on the Flickr Android app.Jennifer Davies, Flickr's head of product marketing in Europe, said: "It's huge for Flickr. There are a couple of things really important for Yahoo and one is focusing on our users' daily habits, and photography is one of those things."Supporting our core products on mobile is an important goal as well. With the launch of this app we hope to optimise the rich functionality of Flickr on desktop on the mobile. It's been a core focus since Marissa's been here."The renewed focus on Flickr is an indication that Mayer listened to the internet clamour that greeted her appointment as chief executive. Several high-profile Flickr users, entrepreneurs and journalists spawned the Twitter hashtag #dearmarissamayer alongsidea dedicated website that pleaded, "Dear Marissa Mayer, please make Flickr awesome again".The iPhone app launch comes just 24 hours after Twitter unveiled its own photo-editing features, including Instagram-like artistic filters. The microblogging site introduced the new tool shortly after Facebook-owned Instagram disabled integration with Twitter, meaning that users have to click away from the social network to view photos properly.Flickr was bought by Yahoo for a reported $35m in March 2005 but has languished amid the rise of Facebook, Google and Instagram as simpler and trendier places to share photos online.Mayer joined Yahoo at a time of existential crisis for the company, as its advertising share had been stolen by newcomers and a succession of bosses struggled to reinvent the web portal as a content company.
Tablets, third-party apps built on APIs from services like Spotify and Deezer, and ad-supported business models all have the potential to boost digital music consumption in the coming years, according to Francis Keeling, global head of digital business at Universal Music.Keeling was talking at the2013: A Survival Guideevent in London, where he hailed the "massive transition to mobile" as something that isn't just focused on growing smartphone usage."I think tablet is going to have an enormous impact actually, just as a far more portable device giving you that improved experience, to find music, to build playlists," he said."You've got the ability to listen, but at the same time to be curating, and building. The tablet can give you a much more immersive experience of music."Keeling also talked about the growing importance of mobile apps built using APIs from streaming music services like Spotify, citing iPhone appSpotOn Radioas a good example."Consumers will subscribe to certain services, but I think often their consumption will be through third-party apps."One challenge for these services is missing out on new album releases from artists like Rihanna, Taylor Swift, Coldplay and Adele through windowing strategies, where they're not made available to stream until months after their release on iTunes and other download stores."Us trying to implement windowing in our business is a complete disaster, it's the wrong thing to do, and can only alienate the fanbases," said Keeling – a point UMG is likely making just as forcefully behind the scenes to the managers of artists like Rihanna.Keeling also addressed the question of business models for mobile music – and music more generally – in the future. He said Universal is not just focusing on how to convince music fans to pay for subscription services.He said music companies should be studying the newspaper and magazine industry for pointers."In a world where newspapers and magazines have so traditionally made so much money from advertising, and the publishing world is still vastly ad-funded, we've got to look at that market, learn, understand how they've done it and how we integrate advertising into our product," said Keeling."Advertising is not something we should be afraid of. We should embrace it, and use it to fund a lot of what we're doing."Universal Music's Francis Keeling, far left, with FAC's Crispin Hunt far rightThere's a long history of unsuccessful ad-supported digital music services – mention of SpiralFrog and Qtrax still brings industry veterans out in a sweat.There have also been bright spots though. US personal radio service Pandora generated $120m of revenues in the third quarter, with the majority coming from ads – although like Spotify, it has faced criticism about the amount of money artists make from streams of their songs.Ad-supported music videos service Vevo recently announced it had paid more than $200m to rightsholders since its launch in 2009. And Spotify's ad-supported free tier has been an important factor in its growth to 5m paying subscribers in the last four years.Keeling also hopes that more advertising around digital music will lead to a closer relationship between labels and technology companies like Google and Facebook, as a counterpart to the retail-based relationship with the likes of Apple and Amazon."As we move more towards an ad-funded consumption of music environment, then Facebook and Google get far more out of music," said Keeling. "That then brings them far more closer to everything we're doing."Artists want to be brought into these loops too, though. One of Keeling's fellow panellists at the London conference was Crispin Hunt, formerly of Britpop band Longpigs, who nowadays is a songwriter and producer, and also co-CEO of musicians' rights group theFeatured Artists Coalition."One of the things I'd like to see is that artists are included in the discussions and debates that are going on with our future and our work," said Hunt."Artists have always been at the forefront. We were the first ones to start setting up websites and flogging stuff ourselves. It's now very important that the industry deals with us transparently, and then we'll be able to get behind it."Hunt said he uses Spotify himself, but feels "sick" when receiving financial statements showing that "there are 80,000 streams of something and it's made me £1" on streaming services."As the digital environment opens up, it's got to become more transparent: the way that these new deals are done, because new and groundbreaking innovations spring out of nowhere the entire time," he said."Artists have to be included in that, or we won't be able to make art any more."Hunt was also dismissive of Pandora's campaign to reduce the royalties it pays for music played on its service, suggesting that it is not just the industry's fault if the company is struggling to balance its books."Maybe they've got a crap model and it doesn't work," said Hunt, before training his sights on Google."They're an incredibly good search service, but I don't think they've got any sympathy for the music industry whatsoever. In the universal sphere of things they don't give a damn about how much we're selling, or the needs of our lobby," he said.
It's Wednesday and very frosty – be careful out there!
Microsoft is expanding the sales base for its Surface tablet laptop, and will start selling it in US retail outlets Staples and Best Buy,the company has announced.It has also hinted that it may begin selling it through retail outlets in the UK.The move comes amid mixed reports for the Surface, which runs a form of Windows written for ARM architecture processors – like those found in smartphones and tablets – rather than the Intel architecture chips common in Windows PCs.Supply chain data suggested last month thatMicrosoft halved the number of Surfaces that it ordered, while browsing data from Chitika on Monday said it had a minusculeshare of the tablet browsing marketin the US.But Microsoft directly contradicted the first point by headlining its announcement "Microsoft increases production" for the Surface, while its share of tablet browsing is unsurprising given that the Surface has so far only been sold online from Microsoft's own online outlets in a limited number of countries, putting it up against Apple's iPad – which has been on sale since April 2010 – and a range of Android tablets.In its statement, Microsoft hinted at UK availability through retail: "Surface will continue to be available for purchase at all Microsoft retail stores in the United States and Canada and online in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States," it said. "Based on the success of the Microsoft holiday stores, the company will extend all of these locations into the new year. These stores will transition into either permanent brick-and-mortar retail outlets or specialty store locations."Chitika's figures said that the Surface generated just 0.13% of all tablet traffic to its ad network in the US and Canada between 12 and 18 November, where the majority of the devices would be expected to sell. That compared with 0.91% for the entire family of Google Nexus tablets, including the Nexus 7 and Nexus 10, Chitika said.Microsoft has also announced that it will start selling theSurface Pro, a version of the Surface that uses Intel chips, early in 2013.Prices for the Pro will start at $899, compared with $499 for the Surface running RT. Even so, it is expected to prove more popular both with businesses and consumers than the original Surface because it should have direct access to a larger catalogue of apps. Although developers can produce apps for Windows RT by recompiling apps written for Windows on Intel, many have not taken the time to do so – and the requirement to submit such apps to a Windows App Store has meant comparatively slow takeup.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTouchscreens and the myth of Windows 8 'Gorilla Arm' &gt;&gt; TIME.comBen Bajarin:With everything I am mentioning about touch on Windows 8, I have convinced myself that the absolute best Windows 8 experience includes a device with a touchscreen. This is not to say that Windows 8 is horrible on a notebook or desktop which does not include touch, simply that it is better with touch.Big Data in creepy hook-up with big-game whales &gt;&gt; The RegisterBig Data, that promise of an online world tailored to our every whim, may instead tailor our purchasing habits to the whims of vendors.This is particularly important to online gaming companies, which depend upon so-called "whales" for revenue. As one former Zynga employee revealed, 1% of Zynga's players account for 25 to 50% of its revenue. Get one of these whales on the hook and you can literally sell them a never-ending supply of virtual goods.Small wonder, then, that mining Big Data has become such a big deal. But what happens when the "whale" is a 13-year-old boy? At what point should these social media companies take some responsibility?Shock and awe: Apple legend Guy Kawasaki has become a hardcore Android fan &gt;&gt; ReadWriteKawasaki switched to Android about a year ago and today uses no Apple mobile products. "People are kind of amazed, but I don't use any iOS products, none at all," he says. "I fell in love with Android on the smartphone, and then I got a Nexus 7 and started using Android on the tablet as well. To me the great irony is that Apple's slogan was 'Think Different', but today if you think different you're looking at Android."Kawasaki likes the 7-inch Nexus tablet size and wasn't tempted to switch to an iPad Mini when Apple finally came out with it in October. "If there was something compelling about the Mini I would switch in a second, but what's compelling? Why switch?" he says.Google accidentally transmits self-destruct code to army of Chrome browsers &gt;&gt; Wired.com"It's due to a backend service that sync servers depend on becoming overwhelmed, and sync servers responding to that by telling all clients to throttle all data types," [Google engineer Tim] Steele said. That "throttling" messed up things in the browser, causing it to crash.The problems were short-lived, but widespread. Over at Hacker News -- a news discussion site that tends to attract Silicon Valley's most knowledgeable software developers --a long thread quickly filled up with dozens of crash reports. "My Chrome has been crashing every ten minutes for the last half hour," wrote one poster.This may be a first. Bad webpage coding can often cause a browser to crash, but yesterday's crash looks like something different: widespread crashing kicked off by a web service designed to help drive your browser.Think of it as the flip side of cloud computing. Google's pitch has always been that its servers are easier to use and less error-prone than buggy desktop software. But the Sync problem shows that when Google goes down, it can not only keep you from getting your e-mail -- it can knock desktop software such as a browser offline too.Chinese algebra &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOn Baidu's latest figures:Webkit is the browser used by iOS and by Google's stock Android browser, and also Chrome. Something looks funny about that number...22% of mobile PVs on Baidu use Webkit.11% use iOS34% use AndroidSo 11% use Webkit and aren't on iOS, but 34% are on Android. By extension, the other 23% are using other browsers. That means that, on these numbers, two thirds of Android phones in China (that are being used online) are not using Google's own browser. What other changes have been made, I wonder?Rumour: iPhone 6 to come in 6 to 8 colours with NFC, Retina+ display, 128GB of storage &gt;&gt; Macworld UKApple could launch its seventh-generation iPhone, dubbed iPhone 6 or iPhone 5S, in June or July of next year, with several improvements and new features including NFC, 128GB of storage and a choice of six to eight colours.In a research report released on Monday, Jefferies analyst Peter Misek said: "Based on our checks, likely updates [in the next iPhone] include a new super HD camera/screen, a better battery, and NFC."Admit it, you felt terribly starved of iPhone rumours the past couple of weeks.Google60 - Search Mad Men Style &gt;&gt; MaswerkJOB ID=671111-2706; START OF JOB AT 10:41:57 UTC,RUNNING PROGRAM 'GOOGLE'; . LOADING SUBROUTINE LIB_IO @SEGCODE A15                              GGGGGG                                     lll                      GG      G                                     ll                     GG             ooooo      ooooo      ggggg g   ll     eeeee                     GG      GGG  oo     oo  oo     oo  gg     gg   ll   ee     ee                     GG       GG  oo     oo  oo     oo   ggggggg    ll   eeeeeeeee                      GG      GG  oo     oo  oo     oo   gg         ll   ee                             GGGGGG      ooooo      ooooo      gggggg   llll    eeeeee                                                        g      gg                                                         ggggggg                       GABBY ONTHOLOGY OPERATED GRADER AND LINGUISTICAL EXTRAPOLATOR       . READING FROM CHANNEL #4 (DEVICE CARD READER)Simply fantastic.Your Money: The Apple Tax - America's costly obsession &gt;&gt; ReutersThe analogy of an Apple tax might sound facetious, but think about it. Median U.S. household income was $50,054 in 2011, according to the Census Bureau. That means a sizable chunk of that is getting diverted to Apple headquarters in Cupertino.Remember, this is not something that consumers are being forced to pay. They are dipping willingly into their own pockets, because they're essentially slaves to the devices.So not actually a tax, then, in any sense of the word, since it's not government-mandated or even mandatory. They could even - what's the phrase? - "not buy anything at all".iPhone Settings Mind Map &gt;&gt; macorios.comI made an outline which contains all iPhone 5 iOS 6.0.1 settings from the iPhone itself and from the preinstalled apps. I did this with the iPhone setup with English as the OS language and German for time formats and so on. I tried to write everything down, but I couldn't write down some things, like Japanese characters and such. So the mind-map competition should be about 98 % or more.Simplicity itself. Android and Windows Phone next?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
If you thought pornography occupied a lot of space on the net, think again. It occupies a vast space: according to MetaCert, which has developed a web-flitering technology, a scan of 645 miilion web pages - out of 3 billion or so online - contains more than 31 billion links to porn.But it also shows that thecreation of the ".xxx" web domain suffix in 2010, which was meant to create a space where pornographers, and pornography, would congregate and leave the rest of the web relatively clean, has had little effect so far.Instead, according to a new analysis by MetaCert, a web-blocking firm, the .xxx domains contain just 0.56% of the sites that it has to block to create a "clean" web - while the original .com, .net, and .org domains contain 83.32%, 8.13% and 0.9% of the relevant domains respectively, adding up to 92.35% of the total that it blocks. Meanwhile a surprisingly high number of pornography sites - around 26% - are located in the Netherlands, and the countrywide .nl suffix hosts 2.41% of the pornography found by the company.Top-level domains and the amount of pornography they host. Source: MetaCert"Every day we are given a list of .xxx domains that are registered," Paul Walsh, chief executive of MetaCert, explained to the Guardian. "We upload the domains to our system and they are then automatically labeled and crawled. All other sites/TLDs to which they link and also contain porn, are then labeled and crawled for more sites."And porn sites turn out to be surprisingly interconnected: MetaCert, baased in San Francisco, found that there are approximately 5,000 URLs per pornography website, and that on average each site links to another 10 sites.MetaCert has been indexing sites around the clock, but so far the findings reinforce the suspicions of web activists who thought the creation of the .xxx suffix would be a bonanza for the company which allocates web domains there - but wouldn't actually make porn any easier to block. The ".com" suffix is available worldwide and houses some of the world's biggest brands.Major companies have questioned the benefits of .xxx, feeling it was necessary to preserve their brand by defensively buying .xxx domains and not using them. Meanwhile pornography businesses have been less quick to buy them because they would be too easy to filter out. Many search engines automatically filter out searches containing ".xxx" on their default "safe" settings.MetaCert says that as well as having the world's biggest set of porn URLs, it also offers a reliable filtering service - because it uses its own DNS (domain name server), the service which translates human-readable addresses such as "guardian.co.uk" into machine-readable strings of numbers. "This means, whether or not they are already deploying existing filtering technology, virtually any type of network can hook into our system without any additional hardware or software and be up and running within hours, not days or weeks," Walsh says.He thinks that companies such as BT and Starbucks which offer customers free or paid-for web browsing in public locations should be keen to adopt his company's technology.Blocking sites has been controversial because innocent sites - or sites which contain content that is legal in one country but not another - can be trapped. Walsh claims though that MetaCert has an error rate of less than 0.3% and that sites can be removed or added to the blocklist in two hours or less.John Carr, an independent campaigner for child safety online, said that he endorses the company's product: "it is by far the most effective solution available on the market for ISPs and companies that provide Wi-Fi or other forms of public access to customers or members of the public."Top 10 countries hosting pornography sites. Source: MetaCertThe location of porn sites is also heavily focussed in the US, with 58.9% located in there. The Netherlands is the next largest, with 27%, followed by the UK (7.4%) and Germany (1.5%).Walsh said the company has been researching and developing its crawling and classification platform for the past six years, and has just spent 12 months tweaking the crawler-based algorithms to construct the world's largest database of pornography web sites.But Walsh things that the new top-level domains (TLDs) announced earlier this year by Icann, which allocated .xxx and has given permission for more than a hundred new ones - including .sex and .love - to be created - won't be a serious problem. "Given that the number of .xxx domains represents 0.56% of our data set and they have been on sale for a year - it's coming up to the anniversary this week - I would say that new TLDs will not pose any issues for two reasons. Firstly because I don't anticipate an upsurge in domains sales specifically for pornography and secondly, our system is constantly crawling, identifying and labelling new sites."
Apple wasn't completely wrong in directing Australians who searched for "Mildura" to the midst of the Murray-Sunset National Park – at least according to theAustralian government's official gazetteer, which includes a location called "Mildura Rural City" at the place where Mildura was previously marked on iPhone maps.Asfirst noted by The Register news website, the official gazetteer – which is the authoritative reference for the names and locations of 384,104 places, objects and towns in the continent – contains an entry at the precise place to which Apple was directing hapless driversuntil making a hurried correction on Monday.Police in Mildurahad warned that using Apple's iOS 6 maps could lead drivers astrayand leave them stranded in the Murray-Sunset park, which at this time of year sees temperatures of up to 47C and has no water and poor phone reception. One man was stranded for 24 hours last week after navigating to the location, which is 44 miles (70km) from the actual town of 30,000.However Apple's source for its misleading data is unimpeachable: the gazetteer is the official reference. It contains 36 entries for "Mildura", including the fateful one for Mildura Rural City – which has "official" status and is listed as a "district" (comprising an "agricultural area, county, district, local government area, parish or region").According to Wikipedia, Mildura Rural City is in fact an area of over 22,000 sq km in the northwestern part of Victoria state – but a gazetteer has to locate every entry at a point, and Geoscience Australia chose one in the middle of the park, rather than in the town.Apple's mistake though was to ignore another entry for Mildura, which the gazetteer records as having the class of "POPL" – that is, a population centre, even though the gazetter's explanatory index doesn't explain that.The problem highlights an observation made by Ed Parsons, one of the chief geoscientists at Google, and formerly chief technology officer at the UK's Ordnance Survey. Writing on his personal blog after Apple dropped Google from providing its maps product in September, but before the problems in Australia,Parsons wrote: "Making maps work well on a phone is not actually a cartography problem … yes you can use poor maps or conflate content from various sources without care producing a poor map, and people might get lost … but the reason we all use maps on out phones is that they help us find stuff – maps on smartphones are interfaces to local search … To be fair to our friends in Cupertino the maps are not that bad, all maps have some mistakes, but the bigger issue is the lack of a true geocoded search index of places and the search algorithms that sit around it."
It's freezing, every packed store is playing dreadful music, and Channel 4 has aired Elf yet again – it can only mean one thing: it's that time of year when every online venture (and their respective dogs) release their "end of year" roundups.Today, it's Twitter's turn. Ina lengthy post, the social network's team showcased the top British trends of 2012, in culture, politics and sport.As ever with Twitter trends and metrics, there's plenty of scope for misunderstanding. Star placing is given to a chart of "highest spikes in Twitter conversation" – a chart topped by the Olympic closing ceremony, England crashing out of Euro 2012, and Ella being voted off the X Factor.Stirring, nation-uniting moments that resonate with each and every one of us though those are, this doesn't mean they were the most tweeted about – let alone most important – moments of the year. Twitter has picked the events which, for short periods, garnered the most "tweets per second" of the year.Any topic that was discussed regularly at high volume, but without a huge-but-brief spike, would be entirely missed out of this ranking, but is likely to have generated a far larger volume of conversation.So while Twitter's metric does find the "events" that got the most interest, it really doesn't reflect life on the social network. Given we each tailor our Twitter activity to the topics and people we're interested in, what an actual reflection would entail is a complex matter of itself.The "trends" Twitter picks are also a little perplexing. As most Twitter users know, topping the trending list doesn't mean you're the most-talked-about thing on Twitter (that's Justin Bieber), but rather the subject that's accelerating fastest.What, exactly, the year-end lists are measuring, then, is anyone's guess: in politics, the NHS is top and #Assange is third – butGoogle trends suggests interest in both has fallen year-on-yearacross the 'net more broadly.Twitter is measuring esoteric targets in opaque ways. Usually, the default response to this – so what? – would be fine. But 2012 has been something of a coming-of-age year for Britain on Twitter, in a way the official notice doesn't even begin to reflect.This was the year when we really started to see the effects Twitter, and other social networks, are having on our society. The official list highlights the closing ceremony as Twitter's moment of the year.For others, the standout Olympics moments for the social network might include the temporary suspension of journalist Guy Adams's account for criticising NBC, a commercial partner of Twitter, during the Olympics – highlighting Twitter's emerging and difficult relationship with corporate partners. Anover-zealous junior employee eventually copped the blame.Others might remember the year Twittermobs got nasty. Or, at least, nastier. A teenager who sent an abuse message to Olympian Tom Daley, who reposted the message, was hounded on the network and by the press, and eventuallyarrested for his misdeed– not a fate a 17-year-old in a bedsit could easily have faced a few years ago.That was but one of a string of incidents in which the Twitter pack turned out in force – and some have faced jail time for their missteps.The tail end of the year also marked a possible end of the gleeful abandon with which Twitter users ignored UK law. During the superinjunction rows of 2011, tweeters gleefully broke court orders left, right and centre – often incorrectly "naming" people involved in injunction cases.Last month, many (including high-profile tweeters) took the similar step of naming Lord McAlpine as the subject of a Newsnight film making allegations of paedophilia. But McAlpine was entirely innocent, the allegations a result of mistaken identity, and he seems unwilling to take the actions of Twitter users in his stride.He's making a list (and checking it twice), and plans to issue writs to those who've been naughty.Britain and Twitter have got to the difficult stage of any relationship. We can still remember what we loved – the TV watchalongs are going strong, the political campaigns still fire up, and the nonsense hashtag games continue unabated – but we've also noticed how we're each changing, and the consequences of what we're doing.It's been a pretty seismic year for Twitter in Britain, and one that should leave us asking where we want things to go next. But none of that stuff makes for a neatly packedyear-on-Twitter slideshow. Shame, really.
Angry Birds Star Warshas been topping app store charts around the world, but now the game's developer Rovio has its sights set on Hollywood in another way: an official Angry Birds movie to be filmed in 3D.The company hasannouncedthat the film will be released in the summer of 2016, with John Cohen signed on to produce it, and David Maisel executive producing. Rovio will be making and financing the film itself, rather than working with a big studio partner.Cohen's production credits include Despicable Me and Hop, although his CV also includes work on Ice Age, Robots and Dr Seuss' Horton Hears a Who. Rovio's announcement also boasts that he "had the idea to reimagine Alvin and the Chipmunks" for their 2007 movie comeback.Maisel, meanwhile, has been working with Rovio in an advisory role since June 2011. He used to be chairman of Marvel Studios, and was also executive producer on the Iron Man film."With John's hands-on producer background and David´s expertise in establishing and running his own successful studio, these two are the dream team for making a movie outside the studio system," says Rovio CEO Mikael Hed in a statement.While fans have a four-year wait for the film to be released, Rovio will be filling the gap with short-form animation. In April 2012, the company announcedplans to make 52 episodesto be released weekly through digital channels, although they missed their promised launch window of Autumn 2012."We're going to roll it out on all possible devices," said head of animation Nick Dorra at the time. "We're looking at building a video app for that, and we're also looking at partnerships and so on... We want to be on all screens."By keeping control of the movie's finance and production, Rovio will be able to choose its distribution channels for that too: potentially making it available to watch on smartphones and tablets shortly after its cinema debut.The company certainly has the internal capabilities to make a film. The same month it hired Maisel, it acquired Finnish animation studio Kombo to gear up for the planned animated shorts and film.Rovio also has a huge community of Angry Birds fans to promote the film to – assuming they're still fans in 2016. In October 2012, executive vice president Andrew Stalbow saidthe games have been downloaded more than 1bn times, and had 20m-30m daily active players, and 200m monthly active players.Stalbow also talked then about Rovio's big-screen ambitions. "Hollywood has seen the success that Angry Birds has had, and Hollywood is hot for our brand, and hot for working with us on many different levels," he said. "For us, the shortform series is just the start of our plans in animation."As a franchise, Angry Birds has been lucrative already for Rovio.Financials published in Mayrevealed that the company's total revenues were  €75.4m (£60.8m) for 2011, with earnings before tax of €48m (£38.7m). 30% of those revenues came from merchandise and licensing income.Rovio's grand ambitions have often been treated with derision by other companies within the mobile games industry, and the wider entertainment world.Yet the company has made a habit of delivering on its promises, and has already attracted a generation of young fans responding to the birds as characters, rather than a specific game mechanic.With that in mind, the mobile and entertainment industries would do well not to write off the film, even if it is four years away."We want to be the first entertainment brand with one billion fans," said marketing boss Peter Vesterbackaat the recent SLUSH conference in Helsinki."People think of the one company people use day, which is Coca Cola, and that's just a soft drink. So it should be straight-forward for us to get to one billion fans every day in the next two to three years..."
From the crowd-funding explosion to the arrival of the first 'next-generation' console, the games industry has had quite a time of it this year. Although the technological plotlines that brought us to this point have been building steadily throughout the decade, 2012 saw a period of tumultuous change, lurching from incredible highs to depressing lows, often within the seconds it takes to fire off an ill-advised tweet.So here are the five key lessons I've taken from the past 12 months – feel free to disagree, or add your own in the comments section.The PC is back, the consoles are confusedA few years ago, plenty of industry pundits were writing obituaries for the PC as a games machine. Rampant piracy led to plummeting game sales and mainstream publishers were either introducing draconian and invasiveDRMmeasures or abandoning the platform altogether. For a while, it was all about World of Warcraft and the odd Triple A shooter.But then came affordable broadband and digital distribution (or Steam as we may as well call it) and alongside that, the incredible growth of the indie sector. The income channels stabilised, tempting the traditional publishing giants back, while the freemium model introduced us to emerging mega-powers such as Bigpoint and Nexon.These interconnecting factors have produced some of the most important and impressive gaming experiences of the year. There has been innovation, but mostly there has been confidence in the classic PC gaming genres, especially the RPG, with Diablo III, Guild Wars 2 and Legend of Grimrock all excelling.And this has all happened during a year in which console gaming has suffered a crisis of confidence – or more accurately of identity. The Xbox and PS3 dashboards now act as glorified advertisements for video-on-demand suppliers, while the 3DS and Vita have struggled to establish a user base amid competition from smartphones and tablets. There have been some astonishing games, of course, but there has also been a fin-de-siècle atmosphere creeping through the corridors at Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo as their respective architectures have stared into the abyss of retirement.The PC has come out of its crisis with a renewed sense of optimism and self-belief; the consoles don't know whether they want to be set-top boxes or social gaming servers. They'll need to sort this out before they evolve.Indie mattersFor so long, the old boys' club of console gaming, with its certification programmes and hugely expensive development kits, kept indie developers out of the mainstream equation. Much of the bedroom coding scene was restricted to flash gaming sites such as Newgrounds and Kongregate, with only a few fortunate souls attracting the dismissive charity of major publishers.With the growth of digital distribution and the arrival of connected gaming consoles there was a sudden requirement for broader content offerings. Hardware manufacturers suddenly realised that they were in a long-tail market where communities would gather around niche products; meanwhile, the App Store showed that the next mega hit could just as easily come from five guys working in a shack in Finland as it could from 250 coders in a mainstream publishing house.So in 2012, indie gaming has earned its place at the top table. The power of Minecraft, Angry Birds and insta-hits such as Draw Something has shown that old models of supply and demand are irrelevant in the era of cheap downloadable software and social networking. The likes of Microsoft and EA used to make half-hearted overtures toward the indie community, chucking a few scraps at the dirty upstarts; now they've realised the power Notch wields. Many of the most exciting and discussed titles this year – from Slender to Fez – have come from independent studios.This year has shown that when the next-gen consoles are announced, they had better make sure they have compelling infrastructures to support and promote indie titles. It isn't about patronage anymore, it is about business.Crowds are the new dictatorsIn February, US studio Double Fine used Kickstarter to raise funds for a new adventure game – within 24 hours it had attracted $1m in donations. From that point on, this was always going to be the year of crowd funding.The results have been fascinating. There have been heartwarming Kickstarter triumphs (Faster Than Light, Maia, The Banner Saga), there have been Kickstarter scams (Mythic: The Story of Gods and Men) and there has been a controversial glut of nostalgia projects, aimed at testing the love of veteran gamers. It will be interesting to see what 'investors' will make of Elite, Star Citizen and Wasteland 2.But the 'wisdom of crowds' dynamic was not confined to Kickstarter and its rivals. In July, Valve announced Greenlight, a new aggregating service that would allow community members to assess prospective Steam titles and vote on whether they should receive a full digital release via the service.Some saw this as a dereliction of duty, others as a chance for studios to mobilise their fans and take destiny into their own hands. Whatever the case, it was a challenge to the benevolent dictatorships operating on the smartphone and console app stores and introduced a new era in which developers would need to be shrewd publicists and charismatic community leaders to garner success.But what of the arty titles, the insular, delicate experiments that might not catch the eye of Steam's most active demographics? The past year has introduced us to what may well become a key question going forward: does popularity mean quality? Or does the crowd – like the major publishers – naturally gather around the most familiar and understandable projects? Are we trading one form of elitism for another?The hardcore/casual boundary is downIt used to be so simple: there were hardcore titles for real gamers, and then there were the mainstream inanities that brought families together at Christmas. A few titles managed to span the divide, but not many.But then came smartphones, app stores, social games and the freemium revolution. Suddenly, everyone was playing games everywhere, and with hundreds of titles released every week, your mum was just as likely to discover some indie ripoff of Angry Birds as you were.At the same time, the mechanisms of casual games have infiltrated the 'hardcore' sector. Auto Log, Battle Log and Call of Duty Elite are effectively social networks for gamers, while the free-to-play paradigms of endless iteration and updating have brought us into an era of episodic content and multiple DLC drops.The barriers between devices have turned into pathways. The ideas of cross-platform connectivity and pervasive gaming have led to titles that play and save seamlessly across consoles, tablets and handheld machines. The idea of the 'second screen' – the image of families watching TV while simultaneously browsing on their iPads and laptops – has infected gaming to such an extent that we know have a console (the Wii U) and a major new application concept (Microsoft SmartGlass) based around the proposition.Minecraft should be hardcore, but it is everywhere; it is even a Lego model now. The market has widened this year; mainstream consumers are no longer bound by the old gatekeepers, they have been emancipated. And it turns out that they actually want to play Dark Souls as well as Call of Duty. We're all gamers now.This is the brutal generationThe transition from the old games industry of boxed copies, huge publishers and dominant consoles to a highly competitive content-rich digital marketplace has been tough. This year has seen major closures from Sony Liverpool to Eurocom, while the likes of Zynga, THQ and Popcap have laid off staff and cancelled projects.2012 was a year of extremes. At the grassroots level, the rise of indie gaming and digital distribution have opened new avenues to success for smaller developers. But at the other end, the huge costs involved with producing Triple A console titles has shut doors for all but the richest and largest mega-publishers. Major titles now call for teams of several hundred staff and budgets of $50m – this is unlikely to be sustainable going into a new console generation. The whole shape of the mainstream industry is changing accordingly – at first it was about outsourcing routine graphics tasks to specialist studios in the Far East or Eastern Europe; but we may now be seeing a more dramatic restructure, away from vast in-house teams and toward a movie industry model of freelance specialists brought in for specific tasks.At the same time, the rise of social networks, gamer forums and community engagement has led to a new era of accountability and mass controversy. Games developers, publishers and journalists have all found themselves in the firing line this year as consumers have mobilised via Twitter and sites like NeoGaf to wage war on industry failings.Games companies have found themselves out of step with the sensibilities of this empowered audience – the Hitman sexy nuns trailer being a case in point. Game news sites, too, have become answerable to a powerful and engaged user base that sees conspiracy and subjectivity in the relationships between journalists and publishers. The Doritos-gate controversy, originating with Robert Florence'sattack on comfy press/publisher relationsled many writers to rethink their dealings with the industry.Mistakes leapt on, miscreants savaged, careers ended – the games industry in 2012 became a hyperactive microcosm of wider business and media practice. The will of the people, once easily influenced, curtailed and controlled is now an unpredictable force, and the old adage that all publicity is good publicity has been smashed against the rocks of Twitter outrage.Freedom – of choice, of expression, of access - has brought volatility. There are no cosy second acts in games industry lives.
Christmas is coming and it's all going to pot! Sorry!
Google compiles its annualZeitgeistlists measuring the fastest growing search terms throughout the year, rather than largest volume of searches. These lists all relate to Google searches by UK internet users. Here are some of the most prominent lists:Top 10 trending UK search terms of 20121. Euro 20122. Olympic tickets3. Whitney Houston4. Kate Middleton5. April Jones6. Netflix7. Natwest online8. iPad 39. Gary Barlow10. Gangnam StyleTop trending people1. Whitney Houston2. Kate Middleton3. Gary Barlow4. Tulisa5. Jessica Ennis6. Fabrice Muamba7. Michael Clarke Duncan8. Morgan Freeman9. Prince Harry10. Usain BoltTop trending British people1. Kate Middleton2. Gary Barlow3. Tulisa4. Jessica Ennis5. Prince Harry6. Tom Daley7. Mo Farah8. Jimmy Savile9. Victoria Pendleton10. Danica ThrallTop trending news stories1. Euro 20122. Olympics3. Hurricane Sandy4. Olympic torch route5. Eurovision 20126. Whitney Houston7. Felix Baumgartner8. Costa Concordia9. Lance Armstrong10. Diamond JubileeTop trending UK politicians1. Jeremy Hunt2. Boris Johnson3. Justine Greening4. Alex Salmond5. Michael Gove6. George Osborne7. Louise Mensch8. Nadine Dorries9. Keith Vaz10. Ed VaizeyTop trending British Olympians1. Andy Murray2. Tom Daley3. Jessica Ennis4. Mo Farah5. Victoria Pendleton6. Bradley Wiggins7. Chris Hoy8. Rebecca Adlington9. Laura Trott10. Louis SmithTop trending global Olympians1. Usain Bolt2. Michael Phelps3. Roger Federer4. Yohan Blake5. Ryan Lochte6. Venus Williams7. Rafael Nadal8. Novak Djokovic9. Tyson Gay10. Missy FranklinTop trending TV shows1. Mike the Knight2. Homeland3. TOWIE4. The Jonathan Ross Show5. Celebrity Big Brother6. Sherlock7. The Great British Bake Off8. Game of Thrones9. Big Bang Theory10. How I Met Your MotherTop trending movies1. Skyfall2. Prometheus3. The Hunger Games4. Magic Mike5. Taken 26. The Avengers7. The Woman in Black8. The Dictator9. Sinister10. The Devil InsideTop trending music artists1. Lucy Spraggan2. The Military Wives3. Will.i.am4. Emeli Sandé5. Psy6. One Direction7. The Spice Girls8. Muse9. Girls Aloud10. Dizzee RascalTop trending songs1. Gangnam Style2. Call Me Maybe3. Blow Me One Last Kiss4. Beneath Your Beautiful5. The Official Olympic Song (Survival by Muse)6. Skyfall7. Somebody That I Used To Know8. We Are Young9. Too Close10. 212Top trending fashion labels1. Stella McCartney2. Karl Lagerfeld3. Victoria's Secret4. Alice Temperley5. Versace6. Mulberry7. Marks and Spencer8. Ossie Clark9. Burberry10. LK BennettTop trending sports1. Synchronised swimming2. Murderball3. Wheelchair basketball4. Volleyball5. Archery6. 100m sprint7. Taekwondo8. Gymnastics9. Cycling10. AthleticsTop tech trends1. Netflix2. ipad 33. iPad mini4. moviestarplanet5. Kik6. Pottermore7. Moshi monsters login8. Samsung Galaxy s39. Superbia10. Diablo 3Top trending travel destinations1. Rio de Janeiro2. Greece3. Brazil4. Dubai5. Paris6. London7. Bruges8. Cornwall9. Edinburgh10. BarcelonaMost searched cities in Google Maps (UK)1. London2. Bristol3. Manchester4. Edinburgh5. Brighton6. Surrey7. Leeds8. Oxford9. Cambridge10. BirminghamMost searched Local Places in Google Maps (UK)1. hotel2. restaurant3. pubs4. camping5. Tesco6. parking7. trainstation8. Premier Inn9. supermarket10. B&amp;BTop searches for "how to" in 20121. draw2. kiss3. make4. crochet5. knit6. meditate7. flirt8. sing9. hack10. pronounceTop searches for "what is" in 20121. love2. icloud3. 3g4. scientology5. instagram6. autism7. diabetes8. yolo9. illuminati10. ms
This week on Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski, we meet the CEO and founder ofShutterstock.comJon Oringer.  Jon talks to Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur about his data-driven twist on the photo-library business and why cheap high-quality cameras are allowing both photographers and commercial customers to do business in a very different way.Aleks and Charles discuss the impendingChristmas battle of the tabletsand why a small townAustralian police force is furious with Apple maps.And Pierre Noizat fromBitcoin.org discusses its peer-to-peer currency.
Most mobile applications aimed at children collect information – including device IDs, location data and phone numbers – without their parents' permission, according to aFederal Trade Commission report released Monday.The FTC is also launching investigations to see whether some of these app companies are acting in violation of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (Coppa) or the Federal Trade Commission Act."While we think most companies have the best intentions when it comes protecting kids' privacy, we haven't seen any progress when it comes to making sure parents have the information they need to make informed choices about apps for their kids. In fact, our study shows that kids' apps siphon an alarming amount of information from mobile devices without disclosing this fact to parents," FTC chairman Jon Leibowitz said.The most commonly shared information was the device ID that can contain personal information including names, phone numbers, friends lists, emails and location data. Of the 400 apps reviewed, 235 shared this information with third parties.Nearly 60% of the apps send information from a device to developers, advertising networks, analytics companies or other third parties.Of these third parties, a very small group receives the information, which the FCC says could allow these companies to create detailed profiles on children based on how they interact and use different apps.Many of the apps also failed to disclose in-app features including advertising, links to social media and the ability to purchase virtual goods.The FTC first surveyed children's mobile apps last year and released its findings in February 2012. The FTC felt that mobile application companies had failed to address the commission's concerns."All of the companies in the mobile app space, especially the gatekeepers of the app stores, need to do a better job," said Leibowitz. "We'll do another survey in the future and we will expect to see improvement."Of the surveyed apps, the FTC found only 20% disclosed information on their privacy practices.Kathryn Montgomery, a spokesperson for the Center for Digital Democracy,said in a statementthat the FTC's findings show "a widespread disregard for children's privacy rules.""In the rapidly growing children's mobile market, companies are seizing on new ways to target children, unleashing a growing arsenal of interactive techniques, including geo-location and use of personal contact data" Montgomery said. "It is clear that there is an urgent need for the FTC to update its Coppa regulations and to engage in ongoing enforcement."This study was released as Center for Digital Democracy and other privacy rights groups are issuing support for a proposed update to Coppa, which requires online companies to obtain permission from parents before collecting information from children under 13.If passed, the proposed update would make changes accounting for technological advancements made since the act was went into effect in 2000. It would limit the amount of time companies can keep data collected on children, and that third parties who collect the information adequately protect it.
Like the Oxford Dictionaries' word of the year (2012: omnishambles), Google's annual Zeitgeist list of the year's top UK internet search terms is becoming a handy barometer of what is on the nation's mind.In 2012 the top UK search terms included Whitney Houston, Kate Middleton, Gangnam Style and April Jones, the Welsh five-year-old who went missing in October.Zeitgeist measures the year's fastest-growing search terms, rather than the largest volume of searches. The top 10 overall list of trending terms features familiar online preoccupations – sport, celebrity, the royal family, viral videos, Apple product launches – along with others relating to big stories of 2012, including NatWest Online, which went down in July leaving customers with no access to their internet accounts and unable to use debit cards, and the disappearance of April Jones, who remains missing despite a massive search effort.Sport is represented by Euro 2012, the fastest growing Google UK search term of the year, ahead of Olympic tickets (possibly because these went on sale in 2011). Houston, the US singer who died in February, is at No&nbsp;3, followed by the Duchess of Cambridge.Also in the top 10 list are Netflix, the US video-on-demand service launched in the UK in early 2012; iPad 3; Gary Barlow; and South Korean pop star Psy's song Gangnam Style, the video for which has become YouTube's biggest ever hit,approaching 1bn views four months after going online.The top 10 trending politician was Conservative minister Jeremy Hunt, who as culture secretary survived a grilling at the Leveson inquiry over his relationship with News Corporation, before inheriting the controversial NHS reform brief. Tories dominate the political list – Boris Johnson, Justine Greening, Michael Gove, George Osborne, Louise Mensch and Nadine Dorries also feature.Andy Murray, Tom Daley and Jessica Ennis were the top three on the British Olympians list, with Usain Bolt, Michael Phelps and Roger Federer heading the list of foreign Olympians.The fastest-growing sports-related searches were dominated by Olympic events, with synchronised swimming, murderball (officially known as wheelchair rugby), wheelchair basketball, volleyball and archery all ahead of the 100m sprint. Rio de Janeiro, which is hosting the 2016 Games, was the top travel destination search term.Bond film Skyfall and Gangnam Style topped the movie and song top 10s but other Zeitgeist lists produced some surprises. BBC children's show Mike the Knight was top of the TV shows and Lucy Spraggan, an X Factor contestant who fell ill and quit in November, topped the music artists category.Dr Grant Blank of the Oxford Internet Institute said the Google Zeitgeist results reflected popular concerns and highlighted the perennial question of whether popular culture is really important."To many people it is, though it's outside institutional society, politics and foreign affairs," he said. "Popular culture is a way for people to be connected to larger society, to something bigger than they are, and it's easier to connect to a person than to something more abstract."Blank pointed out that Google's search trends can only reflect the UK's online population, with as much as 25% of the country – likely to be poorer, older and less educated – not yet online.Another unspoken constituency omitted from Google's trend reports is the adult content market. Metrics firm comScore declined to provide statistics on adult content, although a 2010 figure from researchers at Nielsen estimated that as much as 27% of UK web traffic was porn related. "Searches for adult keywords are pretty constant, and although unquestionably popular, we don't think they define the Zeitgeist for any one year," said a Google spokesperson, though the company would not release trending data on adult content. "We apply the same kinds of filters to the Zeitgeist that we use for SafeSearch, so no adult keywords are included."Google retains a near monopoly on UK search engine traffic with, according to comScore, a 90.2% share of the market. It faces a challenge as consumers come to rely more heavily on their mobile devices for internet services, changing the nature of how and what people search, and because information stored in mobile apps cannot be indexed by the search engine.Google would not break out what proportion of its traffic is mobile, but said the volume of combined searches had nearly doubled year on year.Blank is confident that Google will continue to dominate as the most intimate relationship we have with technology."There are people who feel that the coming wave of machines are going to be making decisions for people in a way they don't understand, though I think that's a little overstated," he said. "But power stations are now automated to some extent, and we're looking at automated landing systems for airplanes and cars that don't need drivers. There is research into how these things might fail, but they will be easier and safer because the machine makes decisions faster and without distraction. Where the balance lies is yet to be determined."
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBusiness: Live and unplugged &gt;&gt; The EconomistIDATE, a consultancy, reckons that the number of people accessing the internet via mobile devices will overtake the number using fixed-line connections in mid-2014.That does not mean that mobile devices will displace PCs altogether. The rise of mobile phones, after all, did not mean that fixed-line phones stopped working, even if their number is now in decline. Although mobile devices and users will soon be more numerous, for the time being they will account for a smaller volume of traffic and fewer minutes of overall use than PC-based browsing. Yet the centre of gravity of the internet will have shifted.IBM creates first cheap, commercially viable, electronic-photonic integrated chip &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechAfter more than a decade of research, and a proof of concept in 2010, IBM Research has finally cracked silicon nanophotonics (or CMOS-integrated nanophotonics, CINP, to give its full name). IBM has proven that it can produce these chips on a commercial process, and they could be on the market within a couple of years. This is primarily big news for supercomputing and the cloud, where the limited bandwidth between servers is a major bottleneck.Brands and ODMs see less than 10% on-month drop in November notebook shipments &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe global top-5 notebook brands together suffered a 4% on-month drop in November, but Hewlett-Packard (HP) and Acer, which had deep on-month drops in October, saw rather stable performance for the month. HP enjoyed a slight shipment growth in November, while Acer had flat performance; however, Asustek Computer, which achieved strong shipments in October, saw the worst drop among the top-5 vendors in November due to unsatisfactory demand for Windows 8 notebooks, according to Digitimes Research senior analyst Joanne Chien.Perhaps more significant is that Dell fell from 4th to 5th place, behind Asus, in November.Launch Chrome as a Windows 8 app &gt;&gt; Google Chrome HelpTa-da - it's there.Google - Facebook amicus brief criticising patents on abstract ideas &gt;&gt; ScribdBare-bones patents like the one asserted in this case are invalid under 35 USC s101 because they claim abstract ideas when used on a computer or over the Internet, without more. Because such patents merely divide an abstract idea into its component parts, the real work comes later, when others undertake the innovative task of developing concrete applications.Ubuntu Spyware: What to Do? &gt;&gt; Free Software FoundationRichard Stallman:Proprietary software is associated with malicious treatment of the user: surveillance code, digital handcuffs (DRM or Digital Restrictions Management) to restrict users, and back doors that can do nasty things under remote control. Programs that do any of these things are malware and should be treated as such. Widely used examples include Windows, the iThings, and the Amazon "Kindle" product for virtual book burning, which do all three; Macintosh and the Playstation III which impose DRM; most portable phones, which do spying and have back doors; Adobe Flash Player, which does spying and enforces DRM; and plenty of apps for iThings and Android, which are guilty of one or more of these nasty practices...Ubuntu uses the information about searches to show the user ads to buy various things from Amazon. Amazon commits many wrongs (see http://stallman.org/amazon.html); by promoting Amazon, Canonical contributes to them. However, the ads are not the core of the problem. The main issue is the spying. Canonical says it does not tell Amazon who searched for what. However, it is just as bad for Canonical to collect your personal information as it would have been for Amazon to collect it.Android won. Windows lost. Now what? The battle of the century is decided. Microsoft relegated to ever smaller PC corner as Google conquers the world &gt;&gt; Communities Dominate BrandsTomi Ahonen:the winner is Google with Android. The future of computing, the future of the internet, the future of music, of gaming, of television, of newsmedia, of banking and credit cards and even cash itself. The platform that will be in our cars, soon in our clothes and eventually embedded within humans - all that will be owned and controlled by Google, as an evolution of what we now know 'only' as the smartphone platform, Android. Wow. So this is my first blog after Google achieved its victory, to examine these thoughts, what does that mean for humanity, for business and tech, for media and marketing and advertising.Those who know Ahonen's writings will know that (a) he examines this at length (b) it turns out to be Nokia's fault. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Review: 21.5-inch 2012 iMac takes two steps forward, one step back &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaHere's our biggest problem with the new iMac: making a laptop thinner and lighter is immediately noticeable. You touch and move a laptop constantly...In a desktop computer, though, the pursuit of thinness at the cost of features makes less sense. The vast majority of the time, it's going to be sitting on your desk, and users will be interacting with a separate keyboard and mouse, pausing only occasionally to plug something in or adjust the screen's angle. Giving up desirable features like user-upgradeable RAM just to make a thinner desktop seems like the wrong move, even if it's one that only IT people and power users will notice or care about.It's also a maintenance, support and repairability issue. All disk drives die. RAM upgrades are desirable. And you don't see the thinness when you're using the machine. Making a desktop less repairable is a bad move. Nothing else. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Over three times more smartphones shipped than PCs in 2012 Q3 in the Peoples' Republic of China &gt;&gt; IDCAccording to the latest IDC Asia/Pacific Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker, the PRC smartphone shipments reached a record high and broke past the 60m unit mark in 2012 Q3, over three times more than PRC PC shipments in the same quarter. Smartphones shipped to the PRC grew 38% QoQ, far outpacing the 9% QoQ growth of the total mobile phone market."Vendors ramped up shipments and aggressively launched new models to meet consumer demand during the Q3 summer school vacation and the National Day holiday period," said James Yan, Senior Market Analyst for Computing Systems Research at IDC China. "A new wave of sub-US$150 smartphones with upgraded specifications, such as a 4-inch+ screen size and dual-core application processors, were especially popular."That's mainland China (as opposed to Taiwan.)No more Instagram photos inside of Twitter &gt;&gt; AllThingsDInstagram completely turned off support for Twitter Cards technology on Sunday, a Facebook spokesperson confirmed to AllThingsD.While users can still post links to their Instagram photos on Twitter, they'll no longer be able to view Instagram photos from within the Twitter stream across both the Twitter Web site and mobile apps.That's really rubbish.Police concerned with Apple iOS 6 mapping system &gt;&gt; Victoria Police Online News CentreMildura Police are urging motorists to be careful when relying on the mapping system on the Apple i-phones operating on the iOS 6 system after a number of motorists were directed off the beaten track in recent weeks.Local Police have been called to assist distressed motorists who have become stranded within the Murray-Sunset National Park after following directions on their Apple i-phone.Tests on the mapping system by police confirm the mapping systems lists Mildura in the middle of the Murray Sunset National Park, approximately 70km away from the actual location of Mildura.Police are extremely concerned as there is no water supply within the Park and temperatures can reach as high as 46 degrees, making this a potentially life threatening issue.Serious. (And fixed within 12 hours of this going viral.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The British manufacturer Pace has confirmed it is in talks to buy the set-top box division of Google's Motorola Mobility (MMI) subsidiary in a reverse takeover that could be worth up to $2bn (£1.2bn).The Bradford-based company is understood to be among the front-runners for the profitable part of the Motorola business, which sells set-top boxes and systems to cable TV firms in the US.Other bidders are understood to include Arris Group, an internet access company based in Suwanee, Georgia, and Technicolor SA, a video technology business, as well as some private equity firms.Google spent $12.5bn buying MMI in August, acquiring a loss-making mobile phone division and a profitable set-top box division. Google sought to sell the latter almost at once, while it has been cutting back extensively on staffing and locations for the mobile phone business.For Pace, getting a firmer foothold and solid reach in the US would strengthen its business.In a statement, Pace said: "Discussions with Google are currently at a preliminary stage and there is no certainty as to whether any agreement regarding any transaction will be reached."The "Home" division of MMI, which is up for sale, generated revenues of about $900m per quarter and profits of about $50m per quarter in the two years ahead of the Google acquisition, while the mobile phone division, which Google is keeping had revenues of about $2.4bn but consistently made losses of about $80m.No deadline has been set for completing the acquisition, and Google may want to hold on to the patents owned by the set-top business in order to fend off lawsuits from other companies as it seeks to expand its own Google TV business.There is also an ongoing lawsuit between MMI and TiVo, a set-top box maker that provides personalised TV recommendations.Google's prime reason for buying MMI was to gain access to its portfolio of thousands of mobile and wireless patents to protect its Android software from lawsuits – though none has yet proved decisive in any legal case.Pace shares were suspended from trading because the acquisition would be a reverse takeover under UK rules.
Alex Moulton, who has died aged 92, was one of the leading lights of the great days when the British motor industry nurtured revolutionary innovations and changed the popular car forever. As a creative engineer and thinker, Moulton was intimately involved through his work on the new rubber suspension systems for the Mini and the Austin 1100 – and he went on to arrive at another radical redesign of a familiar object with theMoulton bicycle, cited for its "sparse beauty" by the architect Norman Foster, as representing "the greatest work of 20th-century British design".Moulton's bike, launched to enormous interest in 1962, was a reinvention of the classical bicycle. He used small wheels, which he argued gave better acceleration and faster overall speeds; springs, again of rubber, and a new feature on bicycles; and a new design of the step-through frame – he considered the top tube of the traditional bike dangerous and an obstacle to dismounting in emergency. The Moulton went through many evolutions from his original "F" frame to later exotic handbuilt stainless steel space-frame machines. However, the success of his design showed their practicality and pointed the way for other small-wheeled and stowable bikes.Moulton grew up in Bradford on Avon, Wiltshire, in a kind of industrial aristocracy. The family had established a factory in the 1840s making rubber products, mainly buffer springs for railways. They lived close by in the Hall, a remarkable 16th-century house that was to exercise a lifelong hold over Moulton. His father, a naturalist, had been recruit ed by Charles Brooke, the "white Rajah of Sarawak", to start a museum in Borneo. He died in 1926 and Alex was brought up by his mother and a strict "Victorian" grandmother.With the mighty steam locomotives of the Great Western Railway hauling trains past the bottom of the garden and the rubber factory close by, he grew up with a deep interest in engineering, converting a GN light car to steam power in his teens. On leaving Marlborough college, he joined the Sentinel truck company for experience, and in 1938 went to King's College, Cambridge, to study engineering.The second world war took him to the Bristol Aeroplane engine company, led by the great engineer-autocrat Roy Fedden. Aero engines were the most sophisticated devices made, and Moulton had a "most enormously interesting time" as a fitter in the test shop until he became Fedden's personal assistant. At the war's end he also helped with Fedden's failed project to build a "British Volkswagen", with the journalist and stylist Gordon Wilkins.After completing his Cambridge course, Moulton started a research department at the family firm into the engineering uses of rubber. An early success was the Flexitor spring, used for caravan and boat trailers, which illustrated Moulton's contention that "a new thing needs a new name". At the time, there were concerns about the durability of the bond between the rubber and the metal parts, but these proved unfounded. Decades later, Moulton would come across rusted trailers on sea fronts: "I jump up and down on them; the Flexitors always still work."In 1949, through a mutual friend, Jeremy Fry, he metAlec Issigonis, like Fry, a keen builder and driver of hill-climb racing cars. Issigonis had just achieved great success with his design of the Morris Minor, and this was the start of a close personal and professional friendship. At this time, the Austin and Morris companies were merging, and Issigonis left to design a luxury car forAlvis. Moulton became a consultant for BMC – British Motor Corporation, the new Austin-Morris conglomerate – working with Jack Daniels, Issigonis's righthand man on the Morris Minor, and fitting one with his Flexitor rubber springs. The car survived 1,000 miles running on the pavé – cobblestone – test track at the Motor Industry Research Association's proving ground. This was double the mileage that steel suspensions could endure, and proved definitively that the rubber suspension was practical.Moulton also collaborated with Issigonis at Alvis, devising new cone-shaped rubber road springs that offered the possibility of great space saving, a degree of self-damping and the possibility of interlinking the suspension front to back on each side to smooth the ride.This idea was already in use by Citroën in the notable DS, using pumps and complex high-pressure hydraulic units. Moulton's system was elegant and simpler. His hollow rubber springs were filled with fluid and joined front to back by pipes. When a bump moved a front wheel upwards, fluid was displaced to the back spring, extending it and raising the rear suspension in sympathy. This minimised body pitching over bumps, giving a smoother ride, but without the usual penalty of soft suspension – body roll and a deterioration of control and handling.Alvis eventually shelved the car, but the  BMC supremo Leonard Lord saw Issigonis as the outstanding design talent he needed for a new mid-sized car and brought him back to BMC. However, the project took a new turn following the 1956 Suez invasion and the ensuing oil embargo imposed on Britain by Arab states.Moulton recalled driving to meet Issigonis during the petrol rationing winter in a three-wheeler single-cylinder Heinkel bubble car ("simply a device for getting 60 miles to the gallon"). Issigonis sniffed, quipping that Lord wanted him to design a really small economy car, but "whatever it is, it will have four wheels and four cylinders".The result was the Mini, revealed at the 1959 London Motor Show. From the outset it used Moulton's rubber springs, though initially without the fluid interconnection, adopted in 1964. This Hydrolastic system became a feature of the Mini and its larger successor, the Austin/Morris 1100 – for several years Britain's bestselling car. In 1969, Moulton launched Hydragas suspension, which added some gas to the system to soften the springing. All these Moulton systems gave the little vehicles outstanding comfort and road holding, and also contributed to their roominess.Though Moulton's specialism was rubber springing, he was central to the atmosphere of inquiry and adventure in which these new cars were conceived. Colleagues dubbed Issigonis, with Moulton and John Morris, the chief engineer of SU carburettors, the "three musketeers" as they ceaselessly discussed the future evolution of automobiles at work and socially. Sadly, however, the commercial success of BMC began to falter. Later Issigonis cars did not quite hit the mark with buyers, and in 1968 BMC was taken over byLeyland Motors, headed byDonald Stokes, who brought Harry Webster from Triumph as chief engineer. Issigonis, recalled Moulton, "retired to his cell and would have nothing to do with the new incumbents".  Moulton, however, collaborated with the new designers of what was now British Leyland, who adopted his suspension on the Allegro, Metro and MGF cars. Issigonis took this as unforgivable disloyalty, creating a sad rift, which was never repaired.The petrol rationing after Suez was also responsible for the other great strand in Moulton's career. When borrowing a handmade lightweightHetchinsbicycle, he found it "a revelation of joy" and began to consider how he could improve on it. Buoyed up by the success of the Mini and 1100 cars, he redesigned it "in an analogous way to the Mini, starting with fundamentals: what struck me immediately was 'Why are the wheels so big?'" Prototypes were a success, and he began talks with Raleigh, the UK's largest cycle maker. But though senior figures were enthusiastic, Moulton believed that the "not invented here" syndrome killed the project, so he set about producing the Moulton bicycle himself in a relatively small way at Bradford on Avon, launching at the 1962 Earls Court Cycle and Motorcycle Show. Such was Moulton's prestige within the car industry that Lord sent the message: "Alex, don't hesitate in taking orders, because we will make the thing for you."Though he sold all he could make, Moulton found that he could not build it economically, while Raleigh countered with the launch of a copycat design, which, though heavy and unsprung, attacked Moulton sales. In 1967, Moulton was forced to sell to Raleigh, which made Moulton designs until 1974.Eventually, Moulton was able to buy back his own patents. He continued to develop the cycle, designing the elegant and light "space frame" machines as special handmade versions created in the former stables at the Hall. It was an achievement in itself to cultivate a market of connoisseurs for a necessarily expensive bespoke product and this fostered a specialised workforce displaying superb workmanship and pride in craft production. In 1992, he licensed thePashleycompany, in Stratford-upon-Avon, to produce a more affordable version of the "space frame" machine (initially the Moulton All Purpose bicycle and later the TSR series). In 2000 he also licensed Bridgestone, in Japan, to make an aluminium Moulton derived from his original "F frame" design.Moulton was not a technocrat. Though adept at mathematics and engineering science, his inventions were all human-centred and focused on the experience and enjoyment of the user. He abandoned his design of a steam motorboat engine, for example, because once he had developed it to rival diesel power it lost its suppleness and "was not a nice thing any more". His car suspensions and the cycle developments were entirely aimed at providing a superior experience for the user. He was very taken, through his association with Bridgestone, with the Japanese sense of the "spirit" of an artefact, reflecting its origins and the care with which it was made. He liked the idea that by seeing and using something one can detect this "spirit", which fitted his own conviction that manufacture and industry are morally rewarding. "Man should make things … Make a profit, of course, but don't take the money gain as the prime judgment."Moulton was appointed CBE in 1976. He was active in the promotion of engineering design and education, set'ting up a foundation in his name in 1997. He produced a series of pocket engineering guides, was co-editor of a mechanical engineering handbook, The Moulton Formulae and Methods (2005), and wrote a memoir,Bristol to Bradford-on-Avon: A Lifetime in Engineering(2010).The work of theMoulton Bicycle Companyis being continued by his great-nephew Shaun.• Alexander Eric Moulton, engineer and inventor, born 9 April 1920; died 9 December 2012
Google's web-based email service, Gmail, crashed on Monday afternoon with widespread outage reported around the world.It went offline just before 5pm London time, leaving users unable to send, receive email or check any of the cloud-based services Google has built up over the past two years including spreadsheets and other document storage.Attempts to send emails were met with a #502 error.It appeared only web-based gmail access was affected. The service was working on iPhones and iPads.The service was back within 15 minutes but nearly sent Twitter into overdrive with users around the world noting it had gone down.Gmail is used by many businesses around the world, including the Guardian, as an alternative to other services such as Microsoft's Outlook Express or Lotus Notes.It is not the first time Google has experienced such an outage.Google was still investigating the issue late on Monday afternoon and apologised to users.A spokeswoman said: "We are currently experiencing an issue with some Google services. For eveyone who is affected, we apologise for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will be posting updates throught theapps status dashboard."
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii U (1)42 (2)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (33)23 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (34)VITA (6)Wii (5)114 (6)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (6)Wii U (2)PS3 (2)105 (5)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)PC (3)Wii U (1)66 (4)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)PC (2)37 (8)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)58 (29)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (40)VITA (14)PC (1)69 (33)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (26)Wii (20)3DS (6)310 (13)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)Wii (2)611 (9)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (16)812 (16)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (67)3DS (33)713 (18)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)714 (13)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (92)PSP (8)615 (-)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (81)PS3 (11)PC (8)5116 (-)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (26)Wii U (19)VITA (10)117 (19)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)1618 (-)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (20)PS3 (15)DS (13)2219 (-)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (2)1020 (12)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)PC (6)9UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Mobile shopping has been around for a long time: I remember analysts first getting excited about "m-commerce" back in the days when it was all about WAP sites.Fast forward to 2012, and a blizzard of celebratory press released recently about rocketing use of smartphones and tablets around the Black Friday sales event, as well as bullish predictions for the Christmas season.In the UK, Deloitte hasforecasted £330m of salesdirectly through smartphones this Christmas, with another £500m coming from tablets, and £3.2bn of in-store sales "influenced by smartphones" as people research products and prices on their handsets.Adobe's Digital Index 2012 Online Shopping Forecast, meanwhile, expects tablets to account for 8% of total Christmas sales in the UK at the end of 2012, up from 3% in 2011.Near enough every big retailer has an app to capitalise on this, with the more savvy companies also having slick mobile websites to capture incoming customers from search engines. Meanwhile, online services like eBay, Amazon and Fab are poised for intense pre and post Christmas usage of their apps and mobile sites.There's another trend happening among some British retailers, too: tablet shopping as more of a browsing and editorial-based experience, rather than purely transactional.Apps from Harrods, Debenhams and ASOS are three examples for Christmas 2012, all coming more from the contract publishing sides of these retailers.Harrods gets playfulThe Harrods Magazine iPad app digitises the print edition's features, while adding video interviews, fashion-shoot footage and interactive sections to try on virtual makeup. Originally intended for overseas customers, it's attracted 30k readers, many of them in the UK."It's not transactional, although it will be eventually," says Deb Bee, editor-in-chief of the magazine. "We know people want it to be transactional. But they also appreciate the fact that it's not a hard sell. We're adding value to the brand, just not in a transactional kind of way for now."Bee notes that the makeup tester section has been a huge hit with the app's users, while the magazine's team has also put in hidden easter-egg features to raise a smile, like a cartoon mule that runs across the screen when a Mule show was tapped on."For the Christmas issue, we've got a feature on easy-to-make canapes, with a stop-frame animation of the ingredients to music. Eeach component dances onto the screen and makes itself into a chocolate pudding," she laughs.Bee says the app is an extension of Harrods' real-world brand persona. "If you go to the Harrods store, they really do have opera singers singing in the halls, tastings, face painters and all that madness," she says."That's one reason why people come to Harrods: it's like retail theatre, and a destination in its own right. And that's what the app is doing in digital form: it's digital retail theatre."The Debenhams for iPad appDebenhams' tablet boomDebenhams has a well-established mobile strategy, with apps available on iOS and Android, and 1.4m downloads across those platforms so far."Mobile has always been important, but for some things we're thinking mobile-first now," says Fiona Lay, head of online at Debenhams."Over half our emails are opened on a phone, and we're seeing a really high proportion of visits from mobile, and even more so from tablets. 20% of Debenhams customers now own an iPad, and compared to a dotcom customer, an iPad customer is worth twice as much in terms of sales."Hence the Debenhams for iPad app, which offers full shopping features, but also editorial content, videos and a gift-finder feature in good time for Christmas.Lay says that the retailer is expecting a big spike in traffic over Christmas, with the tablet app contributing to that. "Last year on Christmas Day, we had more than 800k visitors on our website, and a huge volume of them were mobile," she says."This year, we see that mix increasing. On Christmas Day, it's somehow acceptable to be sat there with your new iPad, rather than sat at a computer."Lay also says that Debenhams also sees clear trends emerging in the times of day when each digital property sees its highest traffic, based on people's locations and moods."In the morning, it's definitely mobile. Between 10pm and 2pm it's dotcom, and then in the evening definitely tablet right through to very late. 10pm is becoming your peak shopping time," she says.ASOS Fashion Up appASOS gets engagedFinally, online retailer ASOS also has a mix of apps, including pure shopping, but also ASOS Fashion Up, a weekly digital magazine that offers a more editorial spin on the company's catalogue of products."It's more of an engagement thing than a revenue thing," says Duncan Edwards, editorial and design director at ASOS, who explains that the Fashion Up app had been downloaded 100k times by late November."The idea is we take the best bits of [print] ASOS magazine, and also do weekly content, using it to try to capture new customers. We've deliberately kept content and shopping separate, although we're looking at ways early next year of syncing the app with your ASOS account to easily move things into your saved-items basket."As with Debenhams and Harrods, ASOS Fashion Up has its roots in contract publishing: it seems many of the publishers and creatives in that industry are gearing up to provide apps for their retailer clients – when it's not handled in-house – that often sit separately to their main e-commerce apps and sites.For now, many of these apps are iOS-only, but the release of new tablets from Amazon and Google will change that in 2013, with strong UK sales of the Kindle Fire and Nexus 7/10 devices expected this Christmas.Edwards says that ASOS is looking at doing an Android tablet app early next year, with Android smartphones likely following. Debenhams already has an Android app, but Bee says the company is "obviously thinking about the other things that are coming, like the Kindle Fire and Nexus, as well as Windows 8".Edwards also talks about the likelihood of this more-browsable approach to mobile/tablet shopping going beyond the native app stores in the not-too-distant future."Mobile internet technology is getting so much better, I can almost see a position where you might not need to do an app: the sensible thing might be just to have an amazing mobile website," he says.
Cold, late train, lots of people coughing their germs over everyone else with abrasive indifference – it can only be Monday!
Apple has updated its new maps system after police in Mildura, Australia, said a number of people trying to find the town of 30,000 people became hopelessly lost in the bush in scorching temperatures.One man was stranded for 24 hours last week in temperatures of up to 46C and at least three more have had to be rescued after following the directions given on Apple's new maps, which located Mildura among the dusty, sun-baked trails of Murray-Sunset National Park, the second-largest in Australia and far from the town's actual position.Mildura, whose previous claim to fame was the ill-fated Nowingi toxic waste scheme (proposed in 2004, defeated in 2007), suddenly found itself the focus of international media interest over the latest example of Apple's calamitous move into mapping."We've had at least four documented cases," senior sergeant Stephen Phelan said on Monday before Apple made the update. "The map puts it at least 70&nbsp;kilometres (45 miles) from where it should be. We have had people bogged down in Sunset country."The iPhone maker updated the given location on Monday following widespread coverage of the problem. A search for Mildura now points to the middle of the town in the state of Victoria. At the time of writing it also showed an incorrect location near the edge of the park called Mildura – but that does not show up in searches.Mildura policeissued a warningon its website, pointing out the difference between the point then offered by Apple and the actual location. It confirmed drivers had been led astray and said the problem was "potentially a life-threatening issue" due to the intense heat and lack of available water in the area.Apple said it was working hard to fix problems on its maps, which it introduced in September. It dumped Google's maps because the search portal refused to offer iPhone users features such as turn-by-turn navigation.Butproblems quickly emerged with the detail in the Apple maps, which omitted a number of locations and mislabelled others .Getting lost near Mildura is dangerous. "There's no water, and you can get bogged down in the sand," explained Toby Prime, a reporter on the local Sunraysia Daily. "Temperatures go up to 46 degrees." People may also have to walk some distance in the heat to get phone reception. Summer is beginning in Australia, and temperatures are soaring.One man following the map on his phone had driven into the park at 6pm, three hours before it got dark, then realised he was nowhere near Mildura, but that to continue driving could get him stuck because of the sand on and around the road."The phone says Mildura is in the middle of the national park," Prime said. The man was rescued only after he had been in the park for 24 hours.Mildura lies outside the park, as the police indicate on their own site. Apple's maps correctly identify the location of Mildura airport, near the town – but do not offer it as a destination for people searching for "Mildura".The problems have only occurred since Apple moved to its iOS 6 software in September, the police said.Apple dropped Google as its map provider in September with the launch of its iOS 6 software for the iPhone and iPad. But problems quickly emerged with the map detail, which had omitted a number of locations and mislabelled others compared towith the product that had gone before.In October, chief executive Tim Cookissued a public apologyfor the poor quality of the maps and soon after fired the head of the iOS 6 software group, Scott Forstall. The head of the mapping group is also reported to have been sacked in November.Apple buys its map data from a number of providers including TomTom, but there is no indication that its suppliers' databases are at fault.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChristmas gift for someone you hate: Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Philip Greenspun's WeblogMicrosoft has had since October 2008 to study Android. It has had since June 2007 to study iPhone. It seems as though they did not figure out what is good about the standard tablet operating systems.One thing that Android and iOS do not address is how to handle the requirement of offering a legacy Xerox Alto-style mouse-and-windows environment. Microsoft here integrates the tablet and the standard Windows desktop in the most inconvenient and inconsistent possible way.Greenspun approaches it calmly enough, and the comments (there are lots) are fascinating too because - once you ignore those which say "I'm a developer.." or "I've been using it since the RC.." - they come from actual users.Android's Google Now services headed for Chrome, too &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland:It looks like Chrome users, not justAndroidusers, will get access to Google Now, the search giant's technology for bringing weather reports, trip departure reminders, birthday alerts, nearby restaurant reviews, and more to the attention of Android users.Google's Chrome team added a "skeleton for Google Now for Chrome" to the Google browser yesterday, an early step in a larger project toshow Google Now notifications in Chrome.Google Nowintegration into Chrome gives Google a new way toconnect people closely to online servicesthat Google judges to be relevant depending on time and location.Francois Beaufort, who keeps a close eye on the Chrome source code, spotted the move.The OS is in the browser. How soon will there be a Windows 8-native version of Chrome?Google's Lost Social Network &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedHow Google accidentally built a truly beloved social network, only to steamroll it with Google+. The sad, surprising story of Google Reader.Long - arguably overlong - and detailed look at the dispossessed Google Reader community.Besides scalpers, few turn out for iPad mini launch in Beijing &gt;&gt; WSJThe release of Apple Inc.'s iPad Mini on Friday at its flagship store in Beijing was missing the massive and unruly crowds reminiscent of some the company's previous product launches in China, but scalpers were still out in force despite rules making it tougher for them to buy most of the stock.Apple is requiring Chinese customers to participate in an online lottery one day in advance to buy the Wi-Fi version of the iPad Mini at its seven retail stores in China. Those selected, however, are limited to two iPad Minis each and must bring photo identification..."Most Chinese consumers have a modest disposable income, and a lot of them are going for cheaper offerings," [Mark]Newman [of brokers Sanford Bernstein] said. "We believe the mass market is more interested in specs rather than brand - similar to what we've seen for smartphones in China."But David Wolf, chief executive of marketing consulting firm Wolf Group Asia, said:... "This will do better than some of the naysayers suggest... Apple is going to make the iPad technology available to a market that either couldn't afford it or couldn't fit it into their lives."Take your pick. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)SplashMaps by David Overton &gt;&gt; KickstarterA SplashMap is a map printed onto a fabric, and like its inspiration (the escape and evasion silk maps used in the second WW and distributed around the continent in Monopoly boxes) they are light-weight, durable, washable, wearable and ideal for the "real" outdoors of mud, wind, snow and rain... all the conditions that paper is not "cut out" for. This is a fresh new market offering, never done before; uniquely based upon the best Ordnance Survey data and other Open Data Sources.Terrific - and already past its target, so join in and make it all gravy. (Via @edparsons blog.)Google's Android failure in China is another setback for the search company in the world's largest internet market &gt; MIT Technology ReviewJessica Leber:Now it's clear that Google is paying a price for leaving the country just as the mobile market took off. Today, it's barely a factor for Chinese consumers who use mobile phones. Because Google no longer has servers in China, Google Play and Google Web search aren't particularly useful to people there. Google Play suffers from bad connectivity, and the Web search is routed through Hong Kong. "Google won't improve the situation unless they resolve the bigger issue of having a presence in China," says Nicole Peng, the Shanghai-based research director for the market research firm Canalys.Google also has accused China of slowing or blocking access to Gmail. And its mobile mapping service has fallen from popularity in part because the service is poor and has been infrequently updated while Google has been waiting for the Chinese government to approve a necessary licence.That's in stark contrast to Apple, which tightly controls its devices--and hasn't battled with the Chinese government over censorship. It was able to simply remove Google Maps from its phones in China in favor of its own new map service, just as it did elsewhere around the world this year.Chinese companies, too, are jumping in where Google can't. Baidu has its mobile search and mapping services and has released a cloud-based service to help developers build apps for Android devices. Tencent's chat and payment app, WeChat, has become popular. And companies like Xiaomi have developed customized versions of Android that phone owners can install on new phones after their purchase.Microsoft Silverlight: shattered into a million broken urls &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingI am not sure when it happened, but it is true. Silverlight.net now redirects to apage on MSDN. Some but not all of the content has been migrated to MSDN, but Microsoft has not bothered to redirect the URLs, so most of the links out there to resources and discussions on Silverlight will dump you to the aforementioned generic page.One of the things this demonstrates is how short-sighted it is to create these mini-sites with their own top-level domain. It illustrates how fractured Microsoft is, with individual teams doing their own thing regardless. Microsoft has dozens of these sites, such as windowsazure.com, windowsphone.com, asp.net, and so on; there is little consistency of style, and when someone decides to fold one of these back to the main site, all the links die.Google adds bizarre requirement for SFPD's bike theft workshop attendees &gt;&gt; SFAppeal"The workshop will offer speakers from the San Francisco Police Department on topics ranging from how authorities investigate bike theft to tips and tricks on protecting your bicycle," according to SFPD. What they don't mention is that those who create content for Google are apparently offered priority access to the event.According to the RSVP page for the event, admission to the bicycle theft event is guaranteed only if community members include a link to their Google Plus Local profile with five or more reviews..."You know you try and do something good, you try and do something for the community and something like this happens," Officer Carlos Manfredi, an SFPD spokesperson told The Appeal in apparent frustration.Well, it's one way to increase the "activity" on Google+. (Google declined to comment to the reporter.)Thoughts on Apple's 6.4% Stock Drop &gt;&gt; AAPL Orchard"Sammy" has frequently forecast Apple's revenues and profits more accurately than Wall Street analysts:I'm skeptical that any rumored (or even factual) news story was capable of causing the world's most valuable company to drop 6% in a few hours. Instead, I think the intense selling pressure was caused by several mid-sized hedge funds forced to sell Apple positions because their computer models were programmed to sell Apple. In an effort to remove emotion from trading, some funds program models to buy and sell stock given certain market conditions (most likely momentum characteristics). By removing the human from the equation, one is unable to avoid selling a stock on no news (in many ways, for the model to be successful, all decisions have to be followed).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the 197th birthday of Ada Lovelace, the 19th century mathematician and daughter of romantic poet Lord Byron.Often described as the world's first computer programmer, Lovelace showed a keen interest in mathematical studies from an early age and was taught by her mother, Annabella, who was also a gifted mathematician.In correspondence with Charles Babbage, who was working on the ideas for a machine that is now recognised as a forerunner of the modern computer, Ada demonstrated her gift for mathematics and was described by him as "the enchantress of numbers".She was introduced to him by another female scientist famous in her day, the mathematician Mary Somerville, who mentored Ada during her relatively short life.Babbage was impressed by the mathematical skills Ada possessed and invited her to translate a piece in Italian written by Luigi Menabrea describing Babbage's 'analytical engine', so that it could be published in England.Her notes include what is recognised as the first algorithm intended to be processed by a machine, while she also speculated on its future ability to create graphics and complex music.Born in 1815, she had no relationship with her father, who died when she was eight. In 1835, she married William King, who was created Earl of Lovelace in 1838. She died in 1852 at the age of 36.Her lasting legacy as role model for girls and young women considering careers in technology is remembered onAda Lovelace Day, which is dedicated to the celebration of the achievements of women in science and technology.
It was the hangar which incubated Howard Hughes's aviation dreams, each aircraft model more fanciful than the last, and half a century later it is the launchpad for another striking ambition: a new generation of slicker, better YouTube videos.The video-sharing websitehas converted the 41,000 sq-foot Los Angeles complexinto a state-of-the-art digital production hub to catapult selected creators into another league of quality video making.Where engineers once made helicopters and the Spruce Goose airplane for itsreclusive tycoon owner, camera crews, lighting technicians and editors are now producing and polishing videos for YouTube creators who previously worked out of bedrooms and garages."I think it's a turning point for people to be able to make real shows on YouTube," said Felicia Day, producer and co-creator of thethe Geek &amp; Sundry YouTube channel, who has become one of the first to use the complex. "I think the next Spielberg or Hitchcock will be discovered somewhere like this. It's an amazing platform."YouTube Space LA is tucked on a quiet street between Los Angeles international airport and a wildlife reserve. A small red helicopter, a Hughes 269A, marks the entrance, an homage to the site's previous owner. When it formally opens next month it will give free access to dozens of selected creators each quarter, with YouTube, which is owned by Google, picking up the reported $25m cost of building the site.YouTube receives around 4bn hits per day, a staggering amount, but viral hits such as kittens climbing walls draw viewers for just a few seconds or minutes, which is not much time for advertising and not, in the long run, a sustainable commercial model.The company hopes improved production values and storytelling skills will hook viewers for longer, underlining Silicon Valley's increasingly bold push into the entertainment industry."There is a correlation between watch-time and quality," said Liam Collins, 40, head of the complex, while giving a tour to the Guardian on Tuesday. Google opened similar but much smaller "Spaces" at offices in New York and London earlier this year. One in Asia is due next year.The goal was to improve quality, said Collins, be it webcam monologues in badly lit bedrooms to sophisticated shows which already had big followings. "We like to think that they'll come here with 70% of what they need to be successful, and we'll supply the 30%. We want people to be more ambitious, to realise their potential."YouTube has given early access to a few creators in recent weeks, including Day and her co-producer Kim Evey. It was thrilling to film their new web musical,Learning Town, with professional equipment, green screen stages and screening facilities, said Evey. "When we walked in for the first time it was like a wonderland."Instead of the usual "frenetic" rhythm of guerrilla-style filmmaking they could focus and polish, said Day. "This gives us the means for higher production values. Before it was who could we beg to use their backyard, or borrow baby toys."Dozens have applied for the first places which open in January, followed three months later by another batch. Each applicant must already have a YouTube channel, certain resources (such as time), and a predisposition to collaborate with other creators."We've always seen amazing things happen when we put collaborators together," said Collins. "One of the most powerful ways to grow an audience is to collaborate with other channels."He cited CBGB, the New York club which became a hub for punk rock bands such as Patti Smith in the 70s and 80s, as an example of how groups could inspire each other.YouTube hopes "cross pollination" such asiJustine, a so-called lifecaster who has guest-appeared on other shows such asAnnoying Orange, will become more common.The New York architectural firm HLW International designed the LA Space to maximise light and loft-style openness. The reception has brightly coloured sofas, a wall of 36 screens and a fireman-style pole which lets you slide down from an upper floor. Nooks with armchairs and coffee bars dot the complex to encourage talk. "We want people to feel comfortable hanging out," said Collins, a former naval officer who moved to YouTube after Google bought Next New Networks, where he was chief operating officer.YouTube has published a "creator playbook" of tips and best practice on how to improve videos. A chapter titled "captivate your audience" advises: "Use editing, varying camera angles, cut-aways, and other alternating visuals to make your videos more dynamic. Long static shots can sometimes make a video drag on or feel slow."The 111-page manual later says: "No matter what type of content you're making – how-to, comedy, vlog, music – you inevitably tell a story. Having a beginning, middle, and end is fundamental to video structure."Collins said his top tip to any aspiring creator was to be yourself: "Talk about something you're passionate about."• This article was amended on 12 December to state that YouTube receives 4bn hits per day, not per month; to correct a reference to the role of Liam Collins at Next New Networks; and to clarify the cost of building YouTube Space LA.
If a maven is,as Wikipedia maintains, "a trusted expert in a particular field, who seeks to pass knowledge on to others", thenMary Meekeris definitely a maven. She started her professional career as a stockbroker at Salomon Brothers, but then morphed into an early version of a technology analyst at Morgan Stanley. Since this firm was the lead manager for the IPO of Netscape in August 1995, which triggered the first internet boom, one might say that she was present at the Creation.As the boom gathered its frenzied pace, Meeker and a colleague published a slide presentation labelled "The Internet Report", which became the nearest thing the nascent information-starved industry had to a statistics bible and ensured Meeker's place in its hall of fame. Publication of the slide deck became an annual event.Ms Meeker is now a partner in Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers, Silicon Valley's poshest venture capital firm, but she's still doing her thing. I've been wading throughher latest "Internet Trends" report, which is an updated version of the one she published in May and has lots of intriguing statistics, some of which have pretty sobering implications.We will get to the implications in a moment, but first let's consider some of the numbers. Meeker estimates that 2.4 billion people are now using the net, which is a shade over a third of the world's population. Overall, the number of internet users is growing at 8% a year, but in some countries (Iran, Indonesia, India, the Philippines, Colombia, for example) the growth rates are much higher than that.But it's when one sees how all these people access the net that the data leap into life. Meeker claims that the world now has 1.1 billion smartphone users, ie people who can access the internet and use the web via a handheld device. This trend is reinforced by other developments. A third of US adults now own a tablet or e-reader (up from 2% less than three years ago). And Apple's iPad is the fastest-selling mobile device of all time (which, in the internet world, means "until the next Big Thing"). There's a serious&nbsp;trend&nbsp;here.The really staggering figures, however, are those relating to how people use their mobile devices. They already account for 13% ofallinternet traffic. This year, 24% of all online shopping on "black Friday" in the US was done via mobiles (up from 6% two years ago). And Meeker claims that in May this year mobile internet traffic in India overtook PC-based traffic.What do these statistics mean? Well,&nbsp;basically they imply that the future's mobile. We're heading for a world in which most people will access&nbsp;the internet via handheld devices – phones and tablets. And this&nbsp;is a really big deal. On the one hand, it will make it easy for billions of people to integrate the net into their daily lives, with all the benefits that that can bring. On the other hand, it will greatly enhance the powers of corporations that few of us have any reason to trust.Why? Well, mobile devices are radically different from PCs because they are essentially closed, tethered devices that are to a greater (Apple) or lesser (Android) extent controlled either by their manufacturers or those who supply their operating systems. Nothing goes on an Apple device, for example, that hasn't been explicitly authorised by Apple. Moreover, access to the net from a mobile device is also mediated by another set of corporate control-freaks: the mobile network operators (aka telcos).So one implication of a mobile-dominated world is massive enhancement of the power of large corporations to control both the pace of innovation and what users do (and pay for) on the net. The consequences for innovation have been well articulated by scholars such asJonathan ZittrainandTim Wuand so need not detain us here.The possibilities of telco control are only just becoming apparent – in Dubai of all places, where theWorld Conference on Information Technologyis currently underway. There's been much understandable concern aboutthreats to freedom of speech etcimplicit in the conference, but many people see the biggest threat coming froma proposal by the telcosto meter and charge users for the internet content they relay through their electronic pipes.In the early days of mobile phones, one network had a slogan: "The future's bright, the future's Orange." An updated version might be: "The future's mobile, the future's bleak."
Price £35,995MPG 39.8Top speed 144mphSwaggering 20in chrome wheels, headlamps sparkling with LED mascara and a body so vast it bulges over the white lines of a supermarket parking space like John Candy in Speedos… No wonderChrysler's 300C is a stop-and-stare affair. Rubberneckers peer through the smoked glass for a snatched glimpse of the celebs lurking in its deep-buttoned recesses. And who do they spot? My kids – so they are mostly disappointed. No starlets, no&nbsp;moguls, no gangstas, no DJs… The 300C is gaudy, preposterous and dangerously addictive: essentially it'sMade in Chelseaon wheels.I am not sure what most of the 300C's clientele use their car for, but I am sure I'm the first person to use one to drive their wife and mother-in-law to a farm in Devon to choose a&nbsp;new puppy. Yet, unexpectedly, it was exactly the right vehicle for the trip. Leaving London early one morning, we pointed the great white beast at Dartmoor, let the driverless cruise control set the speed, and watched as 224 miles of England's glorious scenery washed over us.The farmer came over to inspect the 300C. "What's this then?" he asked in his West Country accent. "A big Chrysler," I&nbsp;said. He scratched his chin  with a&nbsp;massive thumb, then said: "Thought they'd gone bust."He was almost right. In 2009  many predicted the giant carmaker wouldn't make it to the end of the year, let alone down to Devon, but then in what must be the industry's oddest couplings,Fiatcame to Chrysler's rescue. Earlier this year,Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of both marques, announced that profits for Chrysler were up eight times on the previous year.The 300C benefits heavily from its dual parentage: from America it has inherited its improbable scale and pampering comfort, while from Italy it has learned to tone down its excesses with an economical engine. The outgoing 300C was almost cartoonish with its huge square jaw and brash detailing. Now it's slightly less broad shouldered, its flanks tapering towards the rear.Inside, the sense of space will still make a Texan feel at home. It's so big you have to pull the driver's seat forward, clinging to the wheel like  a boy driving a lorry. There are flashes of chrome and wood everywhere and the central console is trimmed in varnished wood, which gives it a&nbsp;homely, midwestern touch. There are strange inconsistencies: the touchscreen is the biggest I have ever seen, yet the information panel on the dashboard is so small I had to put my glasses on to read it. There's a long list of standard equipment, the most unexpected of which is a cupholder that can heat or cool your drink.The car is available with just one engine choice, a surprisingly frugal 236bhp 3-litre V6 diesel linked to a&nbsp;five-speed automatic. This sends out a dramatic rumble, and rather than easing the car along the road seems to hurl it forward. This, and its bulk, makes urban driving unnerving, but it comes into its own on the open road where it feels composed, powerful and unrelenting.And the puppy? We chose a&nbsp;Dalmatian. She's called Dill.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
