A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface Windows 8 tablets - in pictures &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukGet a look at it. Orread our story.Microsoft announces Surface: new family of PCs for Windows &gt;&gt; MicrosoftToday at an event in Hollywood, Microsoft unveiled Surface: PCs built to be the ultimate stage for Windows. Company executives showed two Windows tablets and accessories that feature significant advances in industrial design and attention to detail. Surface is designed to seamlessly transition between consumption and creation, without compromise. It delivers the power of amazing software with Windows and the feel of premium hardware in one exciting experience.Microsoft-branded; no prices or availability yet.Google, Asustek expected to unveil 7-inch Nexus tablet PC at Google I/O &gt;&gt; DigitimesGoogle and Asustek Computer's jointly developed 7-inch Nexus tablet PC is set to be unveiled at Google I/O, a developer event that will be hosted from June 27-29 at San Francisco's Moscone Center in the US, with its initially price to be set at US$199 and manufactured by Quanta Computer, according to sources from upstream component makers.Suddenly a lot less interesting, isn't it? Microsoft knows how to put a downer on a do.Microsoft may be closer than it appears in Android's rearview mirror &gt;&gt; Flurry blogFor this snapshot, we compare Q2 2011 versus Q2 2012. Year-over-year, developer support has shifted, with Microsoft's dent becoming more visible, now representing 4% during Q2 2012. iOS and Android share continue to oscillate mildly now clocking in 67% for iOS and 28% for Android. BlackBerry remains flat. What is important to note is that all four platforms are growing, just at different rates. Specifically, growth rates per platform for year-over-year growth are: iOS 66%, Android 82%, Windows Phone 521%, BlackBerry 13%. Viewing the relative growth rates show just how much Microsoft is gaining against the market.Hacked companies fight back with controversial steps &gt;&gt; Reuters"Not only do we put out the fire, but we also look for the arsonist," said Shawn Henry, the former head of cybercrime investigations at the FBI who in April joined new cyber security company CrowdStrike, which aims to provide clients with a menu of active responses.Once a company detects a network breach, rather than expel the intruder immediately, it can waste the hacker's time and resources by appearing to grant access to tempting material that proves impossible to extract. Companies can also allow intruders to make off with bogus files or "beacons" that reveal information about the thieves' own machines, experts say.How bad Is Europe's mobile tailspin? &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:Just a few years ago, Spain was a locomotive of Europe's mobile growth - more than 40% of new mobile subscriber additions in EU came from Spain and the UK.The continent is now waking up to a grim new reality. Spain lost 380,000 mobile subs in April alone. And this was before the nightmarish debt crisis spun out of control during May and June. That 380 K monthly loss equals 0.6% of Spain's mobile subscriber base.One unpredictable facet of the new development is the pre-paid weakness - nearly 300,000 of the lost mobile subs were pre-paid customers.One wonders what the news is like in Italy, Portugal - or Greece.Apple Maps' effect on Google &gt;&gt; Business InsiderMatt Rosoff:Another way of looking at it: about 45% of all traffic to mobile versions of Google Maps comes from iOS. The remaining 55% comes from Android. (All stats are U.S. only, and measure only the app versions of Maps, not access to Google Maps through a mobile Web browser.)While more monthly users came from Android (34.8m) than iOS (31.4m), the average number of DAILY users was much higher on iOS (9.7m) than Android (7.2m). This suggests that iOS users touch the Maps app more often than Android users use the Google Maps app.The iPhone version of Maps also got greater engagement: on average, iOS users spend 75.5 minutes per month using the app, versus 56.2 minutes for Android users on Google Maps apps.Conclusion: iOS users get lost for longer than Android ones?The Oatmeal v. FunnyJunk, Part IV: Charles Carreon Sues Everybody &gt;&gt; PopehatHe belonged to the ages the moment he filed that lawsuit not only against Matthew Inman, proprietor of The Oatmeal, but also against IndieGoGo Inc., the company that hosted Inman's ridiculously effective fundraiser for the National Wildlife Federation and the American Cancer Society.But that level of censorious litigiousness was not enough for Charles Carreon. He sought something more. And so, on that same Friday, Charles Carreon also sued the National Wildlife Federation and the American Cancer Society, the beneficiaries of Matthew Inman's fundraiser.Yes. Charles Carreon, butthurt that someone had leveraged his douchebaggery into almost two hundred thousand dollars of donations to two worthy charities, sued the charities.He does indeed belong to the internet ages; he's up there in the lawyers v internet pantheon with Canter &amp; Siegel now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's mind-blowing at this stage that gamers still can't seem to get enough of the Lego series of games. After all, Traveller's Tales hasn't strayed much from the basic gaming template it introduced with its first Lego Star Wars instalment in 2005, and in the games industry, innovation is as expected as it is prized. In spite of this, every Lego game that rolls off the assembly line requires players to bash blocks, collect studs, build stuff and solve the odd puzzle. The latest release from the Knutsford-based developer, Lego Batman 2: DC Heroes, barely deviates from this rubric.And why should it? Once you've cracked the formula for gaming alchemy, why would you mess with it? That said, Traveller's Tales always packs its games with a staggering amount of collectibles and content, while tossing in a couple of new mechanics. The result is that its games boast a ton of replayability and depth, as players are encouraged to tackle conquered levels with new characters to unearth hidden Lego treasures. Once again, Lego Batman 2 is no exception to this rule – although for its latest release, Traveller's Tales has really gone to town. Lego Batman 2 is bursting at the seams with content for players to get stuck into.The game's story kicks off with Bruce Wayne and US presidential candidate Lex Luthor arriving at a ceremony for the Man Of The Year Award. Naturally Wayne beats Luthor, but just as he accepts the award, the Joker and a number of Batman villains crash the party and help themselves to the belongings of everyone in attendance. Wayne quickly switches his tux for his Batman briefs and, along with Robin, chases after the Joker. Lex, meanwhile, makes a note of the Joker's ability to create mind-altering gas, and decides it might make a worthwhile asset in his bid for the White House.While the gameplay basics of the Lego games are in full effect here, players will notice a couple of kinks in Traveller's Tales' usual formula. Lego Batman 2 is the first in this series of games to feature dialogue. In the past, the characters in Lego games mugged for the camera, putting a jovial spin on the stories of whatever film or IP their game was attached to. It was a delivery as funny as it was subtle – it even made the Star Wars prequels watchable. In a way, stuffing words into the mouths of Lego characters feels as monumental as the first time Charlie Chaplin's tramp spoke.However, TT has gone to some lengths to make sure the dialogue in Lego Batman 2 crackles with humour. Instead of the gurning, we now have snarky and witty trade-offs between DC's characters. Most of the best material centres around Batman's pathological loner status, which Traveller's Tales elevates to hilarious levels of prickliness. "We're not!! Calling!! Superman!!" he yells at Robin after the umpteenth time the Boy Wonder suggests asking the Man of Steel for help.Speaking of Superman, he and a veritable truckload of some of DC's best-loved characters are available to play with, besides Batman and Robin. Each of them brings along their own set of abilities, some of which are unique to them (such as Green Lantern's power ring or the Flash's superspeed) and some they share with other characters (Batman's batarang and Wonder Woman's tiara do pretty much the same thing, as do Superman's heat-vision and Cyborg's optical laser).Not to be outdone by their super friends, Batman and Robin have access to a selection of suits that give them special abilities. For Batman there's the Power Suit, which gives him super strength and the ability to fire rockets; the Electricity Suit, which allows him to absorb and channel electricity; the Sensor Suit, which gives him X-ray vision and invisibility; and the Bat Suit, which combines the sonic gun and gliding powers from the first Lego Batman game's Sonic and Glide Suits respectively.Robin, for his part has a new Snow Suit, which gives him an ice canon and invulnerability to cold; the Hazard Suit, which allows him to shoot water and makes him immune to toxic waste; and the Acrobat Suit, which enable him to reach and swing from higher points in the environment and allows him to create a bubble to zip about in. Robin's Magnetic Suit also makes a return from the original Lego Batman game.The different powers of each of the suits and characters factor into the level design quite smartly. The main emphasis here is on teamwork as no character is completely overpowered to the point where they can progress through the game alone. Superman, for example, can fly, is invulnerable to damage, and has heat vision and a cold breath blast, so you'd think he'd be pretty unstoppable. Then again, he can't break silver blocks and he reacts badly to kryptonite-powered weapons and force fields, so a companion is required to help him through several levels.Progression through the levels is typically a mixture of combat, platforming and puzzle solving, with the odd rail-shooting stage thrown in for good measure. It's not exactly new, but the genius of TT is that the developer manages to make tackling its game fun throughout.The game's main challenge doesn't lie in its boss battles, its combat or its shooting. It lies instead in its wondrous sense of discovery; each level the player visits on their first play-through is filled with items that are out of reach for the characters they're playing with, beckoning them back when they've unlocked a few more.On top of that, the game's hub environment is a gargantuan map of Gotham City, which the player unlocks incrementally as they progress through the game. Once the story missions are completed, players have the entirety of Gotham to explore and they can navigate it using some of the game's vehicles, hurtle through the streets as The Flash or they can fly through it with one of the characters capable of doing so – as a nice touch, whenever Superman takes to the skies, the John Williams score from the Superman movies blasts out of the speakers.The rain-lashed cityscape is filled with recognisable landmarks from the Batman universe such as Arkham Asylum, Wayne Manor, the Wayne Enterprises Tower and the Ace Chemicals plant. The city is also filled with villain boss battles, and successfully defeating a boss gives the player the opportunity to buy them as a playable character. There are also challenges in every environment, which range from using Batman's suits to nab a gold brick, riding a lion around the Gotham Zoo collecting studs, and clambering up the sides of buildings to pick up vehicle parts. To give you an idea of how much there is to do in the Gotham hub, bear in mind that my first play-through of the game's 15 story levels meant I had completed a paltry 19.8% of it.Lego Batman 2: DC Heroes isn't groundbreaking but it is consistently fun, and while it might not take top honours for best Batman game of all time (that belt is still held by Batman: Arkham City), it's easily the best Lego game we've seen in years.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Okay, Tuesday, what have you got for us?
Microsoft launched a series of tablet computers on Mondayas the tech giant fought to regain ground lost to Apple's iPad.Having announced last week that the firm was set to make a key announcement, Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, unveiled two new tablet PCs at a closely guarded press event in Los Angeles.He said the new devices – called Surface – were part of a "whole new family of devices" the company is developing. The devices will run versions of Microsoft's forthcoming Windows 8 operating system, a system the company hopes will allow it to make up ground in mobile computing lost to Apple and Google's Android."We want to give Windows 8 its own companion hardware innovations," Ballmer said.Analysts gave the as yet unpriced devices a cautious welcome. "From a design perspective it looks great," said Carolina Milanesi at Gartner.She said the device looked like a serious competitor to Apple's best-selling iPad but success would depend on price and the apps available for the devices.The 9.3mm thick device has a magnesium case, features a 10.6-inch HD widescreen display, an integrated kickstand and weighs less than a kilo (1.5lbs). The device comes with a detachable keyboard and trackpad that attach magnetically to the tablet.Apple has so far seen off most of its competitors in the tablet computers market including Blackberry maker Research in Motion and Hewlett Packard. Amazon's Kindle has challenged Apple's dominance but with a far less versatile and powerful machine. In 2011 Apple sold over 40 million iPads, out of worldwide tablet sales of 60 million.At the presentation, Ballmer and Steven Sinofsky, the president of Microsoft's Windows division, stressed Surface's computing power.Sinofsky called the device a "tablet that's a great PC – a PC that's a great tablet".Milanesi said the Surface might appeal to business users already used to Microsoft software, an area where Apple has been making inroads with iPads and iPhones. "It is certainly a very competitive product in that space," she said.The company did not reveal pricing or release dates but at the event Sinofsky said it would be "priced like comparable tablets." Milanesi said she expected the Surface to cost less than $699 (£446) in the US and be launched before the all-important Christmas selling season.The tech firm has a spotty record in launching its own hardware products and has usually left the making of hardware to partners such as Dell or Hewlett Packard. While Microsoft's Xbox video gaming system is a world leader, its iPod rival Zune and Kin telephones proved disasters.
On the show this week,Aleks Krotoskiis joined by Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthurfor the latest technology stories.Andrew Keenhas been dubbed the anti-christ of Silicon Valley. His last book, The Cult of the Amateur, was a warning that user-generated content would kill mainstream media. Now he talks to Charles about his latest work, Digital Vertigo, where he warns about the dangers of social networking and the move toward transparency.We look at the news on the Microsoft tablet, announced this week; the latest job cuts at ailing phone giant Nokia; the increase in government censorship as revealed by Google's Transparency Report; and Tesco's move into music downloads.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail the producer tech@guardian.co.uk• Get our Twitter feed for programme updates or follow our Twitter list• Like our Facebook page• See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The US is back at the top of the supercomputing leagues for the first time in almost three years, reclaiming the title from Japan, thanks to a new system developed by IBM.The computer, Sequoia, uses IBM's BlueGene/Q servers and at the US Department of Energy's Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory it achieved 16.32 petaflops – trillions of floating-point calculations per second – using more than 1.5m processor cores.Sequoia is also one of the most energy-efficient systems on thebiannual Top 500 list which ranks the world's known supercomputers, released on Monday.The previous leader since November 2009, the Fujitsu K Computer at Japan's Riken Advanced Institute for Computational Science in Kobe, has been pushed down to second place. It achieved 10.51 petaflops, using over 705,000 processor cores.Of the top 10 systems, three are in the US and two in China, and two in Germany. Japan, France and Italy have one each. IBM built five of the top 10 most powerful machines.The UK has six spots in the top 100, two of them at the University of Edinburgh and two at the UK Meteorological Office, with the largest at the Daresbury facility in Cheshire.The fourth most powerful supercomputer in the world, and the most powerful in Europe, is the SuperMUC, developed by IBM, and installed at the LRZ, the computer centre for Munich's universities and for the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities.The SuperMUC uses water for cooling, enabling it to use just 40% as much energy as an air-cooled system would, while only taking one-tenth of the size. The SuperMUC has a peak performance of 3 petaflops, equivalent to about 110,000 consumer PCs.It will be used to drive a wide spectrum of research – from simulating the blood flow behind an artificial heart valve, to devise quieter airplanes to unearthing new insights in geophysics, including the understanding of earthquakes. The SuperMUC system is also connected to powerful visualisation systems, including a large 4K stereoscopic power wall and a five-sided immersive artificial virtual-reality environment or CAVE for visualising 3D data sets from fields, including Earth science, astronomy and medicine.German state-funded institutions are interested in SuperMUC machines because they have a requirement to source their electricity only from renewable sources, which requires lower power demands than before.Up to 50% of an average air-cooled data centre's energy consumption and carbon footprint is not caused by computing, but by powering the necessary cooling systems. IBM's scientists instead developed a hot-water cooling system, which directly cools active components in the system such as processors and memory modules with coolant temperatures that can reach as high as 113F, or 45C.Some consumer PCs, including past products from Apple, have used water cooling – but the risks of leakage meant that they have been largely abandoned. Because a given volume of water can retain a higher amount of heat than the same volume of air, it makes a more efficient medium for heat transfer – but most companies solve that by pumping more air through the system to deliver the same effect without the risk of leaks.
Developers have created more than 100,000 apps for Windows Phone, as Microsoft continues its efforts to make the platform a viable alternative to iOS and Android for app developers. But how are those efforts going down?To find out, I posed some questions to five companies who've recently released Windows Phone apps, asking about their motivations for supporting the platform, how they've found it, and how they'd like to see it evolve.The five: music service7digital; cabs companyAddison Lee; IndieSkies, developer of camera appKaleidobooth; Escapist Games, developer of skygazing appStar Chart; and Distinction, developer of weather appWeather Flow.What I found: praise for the Windows Phone OS itself, and the ease with which apps can be quickly prototyped and released for it. The looming prospect of Windows 8 is becoming more of a selling point for the platform, too, but developers' reticence over actual download and sales figures hints that it's still early days.Why go WinPho?One thing is clear: developers like Windows Phone as an OS and a development environment. "Windows Phone has matured and become a solid operating system," says Ling Khor, product manager for mobile at 7digital, and she's backed up by the other developers."Windows Phone is a very attractive and responsive operating system that is easy to use and understand. It's a contender for the most polished smart phone OS out there," says Escapist Games' Chris Whalley."When we first picked up the phone we were impressed at how slick the Metro UI was and it clearly set out a standard that we could adhere to without much work," add IndieSkies' Kevin Chandler and Laurie Brown. Meanwhile, Distinction's Balint Orosz suggested that Metro makes Windows Phone "unique among the platforms."However, there's another motivation at work here too: the upcoming launch of Microsoft's Windows 8 for computers and tablets, and the expected launch alongside it of Windows Phone 8."We believe that the platform will be relevant in the mobile industry in the next few years - especially with Windows 8 coming out," says Orosz. In other words, rather than seeing Windows Phone development as a risky bet on a niche platform, some developers are seeing it as a way to ease their way into a much surer bet: the Windows 8 ecosystem.Development approachesOne of the plus points about Windows Phone for users is that Metro user interface: definably different from iOS and Android, but stylish and usable. But that could be seen as an additional barrier for developers bringing apps from those other platforms, since it requires a redesign rather than a pure port.When their apps were being ported, developers interviewed for this feature took the time to make them fit with the Metro UI. It's also clear that they're taking heed of Microsoft's encouragement to use features like Live Tiles and Bing App Connect that are specific to Windows Phone.Escapist's Whalley explains why it made sense for his company to develop Star Chart from scratch for Windows Phone: "We knew that there would be things that we could do easily on Windows Phone, so we ensured Star Chart was built with that in mind," he says."For example, the extremely high detail planet textures - you really can zoom right in to the Moon and Jupiter - and the highly accurate Augmented Reality mode on Windows Phone. In both cases we have more detail and fidelity on Windows Phone than on any other platform. Writing the app from scratch allowed us to cater to the specific strengths of the platform."Meanwhile, Distinction actually builds its apps for Windows Phone first, then takes them to other platforms. With its Weather Flow app, the company focuses on key features on the platform."From a functionality perspective, the Live Tiles are unique to the platform – although the Android version of the app has a widget with similar functionality. We were also able to build in some additional effects, such as flipping between themes, on the Windows Phone version which we couldn't do on other platforms because of performance issues," says Orosz.Speed of developmentHow quick and easy is it to get an app up and running on Windows Phone? Experiences varied. Khor says 7digital took around four months for the development process of its app, including submission to the Marketplace. "We did have to familiarise with new design patterns for Windows Metro style apps as they different to other platforms but partnering with a specialist Windows Phone agency helped."Addison Lee's partner developer, Haulmont Technology, took just four weeks to make its Windows Phone app, while IndieSkies took two weeks to make a prototype of Kaleidobooth with most of its final features, and then another two months to polish it.Chandler and Brown note that their background coding in C# helped – "we already had previous experience with it and it enables us to implement features quickly" – while also praising the fact that the hardware costs to start developing are low."It is also worth highlighting the fact that XNA is working out of the box. This is great as developers already have the tools to create a multi-platform game or application right from the start, and this enables them to take advantage of code portability," they say.Walley says that the initial version of Star Chart took three months, with Escapist pushing out three more updates with new features in the three months after that. The developer planned two weeks of work to code its augmented reality mode, for example, but found it only took two weeks.Distinction took three months to make Weather Flow – although the company was working on other projects at the same time – with Orosz comparing Windows Phone to iOS approvingly. "With WP7 – like iOS – you just have to build it once, then test it once and you have an app that is suitable for all devices," he says. "On Android we have to do a lot of testing on different devices, which makes the process less cost-effective."The resultsThese developers had the motivation for supporting Windows Phone 7, and didn't encounter any major hold-ups in the development process, then. But the key question is how those apps then performed once on the Marketplace. Is Windows Phone a lucrative – or even just a viable – platform for developers?Well, here's the thing: four out of the five developers interviewed for this piece preferred not to give actual numbers. "The release has been well received and we have been pleasantly surprised by the number of installs the app has had since its launch," says Khor. "Windows Phone downloads compare very well to other platforms at similar stages of the release cycle," says Addison Lee's IT director Peter Ingram."We are predicting a good trial/purchase ratio boosted by some solid promotion," say IndieSkies (admittedly only a month after their app was released). "We've seen a very steady increase in sales since launch… We're looking forward to seeing the numbers continue to increase throughout 2012," says Walley.Only Orosz gave hard figures: "Weather Flow has been very successful in the two months since launch. We've had more than 25,000 downloads, and a high percentage of them are paid downloads," he says.Now, there are plenty of iOS developers who don't like to give out similar numbers – Android stats are made public on Google's Play store – but it seems Windows Phone is currently a market that's encouraging rather than truly lucrative for this selection of developers, at least.What next?All five developers interviewed are continuing their support for Windows Phone, with new features in future updates for their current apps, and/or with newer products too."It is certainly a valid choice for future mobile apps," say IndieSkies. "As we have proved in the space of two weeks, Windows Phone allows prototypes to be developed very quickly. This is key in a commercial environment as you are able to get ideas running on the device and analyse their commercial feasibility."Walley says Escapist will continue to release new apps for Windows Phone as it gains market share, with some that may launch first on the platform. "We have already considered using the fast and simple development environment of Windows Phone to be the basis for prototyping and developing new app ideas before bringing them to other marketplaces," he says, mirroring IndieSkies' views.What do they want Microsoft to do to make Windows Phone more appealing, though? For the most part, it's feature requests specific to these developers' apps: more integration of third-party apps into the Music hub for 7digital; a photo viewer toolkit for IndieSkies; support for custom shaders and more handsets with gyroscopes for Escapist, and so on.Walley reflects the wider view, though: "Really all we want is to see more consumers pick up the device and start exploring the app marketplace. That, and more hardware manufacturers creating cheap but powerful Windows Phone devices for consumers to buy."In a nutshell, this is Microsoft's challenge – and that of its key partners like Nokia. The platform and development environment is attractive. It just needs to shift more handsets to boost the business case for developers.
Amid the cacophony of E3, with its massive screens showing blood-splattered first-person shooters and mega-licensed sports titles, a rather more austere series stole plenty of attention. Sim City, Will Wright's original sand-box town planning game is returning next year, boasting a beautiful new "Glassbox" simulation engine.Now, every car and every pedestrian is a simulation agent, every building can be augmented with dozens of customised add-ons and roads can actually be curvy. Curvy!"It's one of the most requested new features," says producer Jason Haber with only the faintest hint of incredulity. He goes on to explain that one of the game's designers, now freed from the tyranny of the rigidly grid-based planning structure of old, has created a town in the shape of a giant guitar. "It's a properly functioning town!" he exclaims. "It's profitable!"In short, your city will look like a functioning model town – a living simulation of a modern metropolis. Or it will look like a giant musical instrument. It's your choice. But everything functions as part of the whole. Even the trees are simulations.We pored overthe single-player components in a preview in April,but at E3, Maxis was explaining more about the multiplayer element. Players will be able to build their cities in districts shared with other friends, who'll also be constructing their own urban areas. These towns will all be linked by highways, which will allow sims to travel from one city to the next – so if your place has a large population, but your neighbour has an under-staffed new factory, your people can commute across, helping your mate's economy and boosting your own stats in the process.It will also be possible to share energy and other resources. If one town is producing an excess of electricity, it can build pylons across to a neighbour then charge to supply it with juice. This is important if any players in a region decide to specialise in a key area.Instead of growing generalised urban environments, its possible to target areas such as tourism or industry, constructing only elements that fit in with this goal. So holiday hotspots may have to rely on any smoke-churning neighbours to power their hotels, sports stadia and swimming pools.Neighbouring cities are also able to combine their efforts to work on major engineering projects called Great Works. These can be anything from airports and solar farms to space research bases, but all require the financial and human resources of at least couple of neighbouring towns. This is a neat idea that lifts the sense of cooperation beyond the level of shared utilities, and it should foster a sense of joint creativity. It also boosts the economy of every town in the area: construct an airport, for example, and tourist towns get lots more visitors while industrial centres open lucrative new export routes.I also like the idea of large projects and specialisations having an effect on the deeper simulation. Building a sports stadium, for example, brings in and entertains sims from all the other cities in the region, but that presents a major traffic challenge.In our E3 demo, Haber gets round this buy building a light railway system, plotting its course through the town by bringing up the rail data layer, which shows how many people would use the system based on its current proposed route. Okay, it's super geeky stuff, but I can imagine myself spending hours plotting the most efficiently profitable rail networks. I don'twantto imagine myself doing it, but I completely can.Sim CityThere are also disadvantages to having neighbouring cities. If you're next to a huge industrial sprawl, the pollution it creates could easily float over to your town. Similarly, if your neighbour has failed to get on top of a crime problem, you'll find your own outer suburbs becoming hives of scum and villainy. And like other areas of the game, crime is highly visualised now – you'll see graffiti appearing on buildings and armed robbers driving the streets occasionally trying their luck at one of your banks.During the E3 demo, we see a hoodlum roaring into town, blaring out heavy metal from his red convertible. The teeny figure than disappears into a bank and comes out with a bag of cash, only to find the building surrounded by cop cars. There's a miniature shoot-out, and the robber is felled – all in cute SimCity visuals. Didn't think a shoot-out could be cute? Just wait until you see one in this game.The multiplayer system supports both simultaneous and asynchronous co-operation, so it's fine if you and your friends have different town planning schedules. And it's also fine if you play alone – although I suspect those wishing to build specialist cities will struggle more.Whatever the case, this looks to be the best possible outcome for the SimCity concept. It's a game that retains all the depth required by veterans, but with plenty of new accessibility features that should open it right up. Maxis is no doubt targeting those gamers whose only experience of city building has been in certain Facebook social titles. Boy, are those poor guys in for a surprise.•Sim City is coming to PC in February 2013. Keith Stuart travelled to E3 as a guest of EA
This always happens the year before an expected gaming hardware announcement. Prototype diagrams turn up online, developers give mysterious off-the-record interviews to news sites, screenshots of unannounced games leak on to forums. Speculation, rumour and gossip are rife, fuelled by a ravenous news culture and a fanbase of tech-savvy fantasists who know how to use photoshop.Now that we're all fairly certain Microsoft and Sony will be announcing new games hardware next year, the speculation-mobile has cranked into fourth gear and the quality of the reference material is improving.Hence, the arrival of a 56-page document, apparently written by internal Microsoft sources, outlining the future of Xbox. Posted on document sharing website Scribd,and leaked to gaming site Nukezilla, the report suggests that the Xbox 720 will launch in 2013 with a price point of $299 (£191). It will feature a built-in Blu-ray drive and a new Kinect 2 motion sensor complete with better voice recognition, improved HDRGB camera and four-player tracking. The launch of the machine will be followed a year later by the arrival of an augmented reaiity glasses technology named Fortaleza (similar to Google's AR headset concept).The document goes into great depth about Microsoft's plans to dominate the living room entertainment space, offering video on demand, transmedia entertainment and other applications as well as gaming. It lists the company's key rivals as Apple, Google and OnLive – all producing TV and streaming content solutions. There is also pleny of material related to Microsoft's recently announced SmartGlass app, designed to allow cross-platform interaction between the Xbox console, smartphones and tablets.There is "information", too, on the Xbox 720 tech specs. A slide refers to processing power 6x in excess of the current Xbox 360 – although there seems to be ambiguity over whether the CPU will be based on ARM or Intel processors.So is this one of gaming's most elbaorate hoaxes? It certainly seems inconceivable that such an explicitly detailed and far-reaching document could leak from Microsoft – there's just too much important stuff in here. Furthermore, Microsoft has never refered to its next console as 720, and after losing the HD optical disc war to Sony, is highly unlikely to license the Blu-ray standard from its rival (although sticking with DVD is unfeasible, as is developing a proprietary format).Furthermore, many of the possibilities the report discusses are well-known to industry watchers – there's little that couldn't be guessed at or plausibly imagined by anyone who's been keeping up to date with Microsoft's plans for its hardware.Butaccording to Joystiq, the doc dates back to summer 2010, way before Microsoft officially announced SmartGlass – and the offending literature has now been removed from Scribd by Covington and Burling, a law firm that has been used by Microsoft. There's also a clever pay-off at the end – a single slide headed with the phrase, "Additional questions to answer for Todd" – a reference, no doubt, to Xbox hardware guru Todd Holmdahl.There's a possibility that, instead of representing an actual road map for the console, it is an early proposition written up by one Microsoft department to another, a means of clarifying messaging for the launch. Certainly it is filled with marketing vernacular and is structured in an authentic manner (ie, essentially stating the same things over and over again, but in differently headed sections).Whoever made this has worked with tech marketers and knows how they conceive and structure product pitches. Whatever else, it is certainly a step on from the poorly photoshopped "prototype console" photos we're used to seeing. Assuming its a hoax, whoever write it has alotof spare time on their hands.Microsoft, of course, doesn't comment on rumour and/or speculation. However, you can see the document yourself by heading over to Spong andfollowing the link at the end of this story.
There's a perennial problem that afflicts games based on popular TV series or films: they tend to be made to satisfy the greed of marketing men, rather than for any love of their subject matter. That, at least, is not an accusation that can be levelled at Game of Thrones – its development was under way long before the HBO series aired and elevated George RR Martin's fantasy books to the mainstream.Indeed, Martin himself was involved in the game. However, there is a big caveat: French developer Cyanide Studio has precious little by way of a track record, and unfortunately that manifests itself when you start playing Game of Thrones.It's a real shame, because there are aspects of the game which are admirable. However, its combat system, to be blunt, is awful. To such an extent that if you're coming to Game of Thrones after playing the likes of Dragon's Dogma, Skyrim, Mass Effect 3 or Dark Souls, you'll hate it.It is, essentially, a turn-based system, which tries to pretend that it operates in real time. The end result is that you feel you have no control over combat – you can queue up three types of strikes or abilities, but while you wait for them to be discharged, you essentially need to run away from enemies, furiously pressing a button to regenerate your energy, before running back towards them, all the while keeping an eye on on-screen icons. Even a Japanese-style menu system would have been preferable.RPG purists, then, would be well advised to give it a wide berth, but at least there's plenty in it for Game of Thrones fans. While the combat never provides anything that could be described as enjoyment, it is possible, at least, to figure out what you need to do to take your opponents down, and when you reconcile yourself to that work-around, enjoyable aspects do manifest themselves.The game's narrative is well structured. You alternate between two characters: Mors Westford, a gnarled veteran of the Night's Watch, and Alester Sarwyck, a red priest returning to Riverspring to assume command of his ancestral land on the death of his father.The pair's abilities contrast nicely: Mors is a formidable, heavy-armoured fighter with a dog that he can possess, which gives him the ability to track, whereas the light-footed Alester can command the power of fire. Mors' storyline involves defending the bleak area around the Wall from ever-increasing incursions by wildlings (and involves some enjoyable use of his dog's powers), while Alester gets to use his powers of diplomacy at least as much as his fighting abilities.The virtual acting is pretty decent, and the stories (which wisely steer clear of anything seen in the TV series) are involving and interesting, although the dialogue can sometimes lapse into clunkiness. Opportunities for exploration are limited, since it is more or less a single-path game, but the ability to interact with inhabitants of Westeros should thrill Game of Thrones fans.Game of Thrones, all told, is a decent game that has been horrifically let down by one sub-standard element. In a way, that's even harder to bear than if it had just been somewhat lacklustre all round. If you're a massive fan of the books or the series, you might still want to buy it, as it does at least let you immerse yourself in Westeros. However, don't blame us if you find its combat system to be a deal-breaker.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 16 June 2012PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (31)Wii (5)PSP (4)382 (1)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (33)43 (2)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)PC (6)54 (–)Lollipop Chainsaw(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)15 (4)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (36)PC (11)346 (–)Diablo III(15+)PC (100)37 (6)Game Of Thrones(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (3)28 (5)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (46)PC (5)79 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (61)3DS (39)2910 (10)Dirt Showdown(7+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)PC (0)411 (–)Gravity Rush(12+)VITA (100)112 (11)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)2913 (8)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)1414 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (39)PC (4)Wii (3)3215 (17)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)1016 (12)Dragon's Dogma(12+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)417 (16)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (49)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (15)3DS (6)2318 (14)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (38)PC (5)Wii (2)4919 (13)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (30)PC (4)1520 (–)Batman: Arkham City(15+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (39)PC (5)22UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 22 new and notable apps today:Zynga SlotsSocial games giant Zynga's latest mobile game is here, and it's a slot machine with up to 40 lines at a time, upgrades and (naturally) use of in-app purchases to buy virtual coins to play with. The link above is for iPhone, but theseparate HD iPad versionis here.iPhone / iPadKinectimalsMicrosoft has already released the mobile version of its Kinectimals game for Windows Phone and iOS, but now it's available on Android too. Players can unlock five new cubs in the app to be used in the Xbox 360 console version, too.AndroidBrave Interactive ComicDisney/Pixar has been busy on the apps front for its new film Brave, having already released a storybook-app and a reskinned version of Temple Run. Now it has a third app for its Scottish-themed film: a digital comic telling the story of princess Merida, with a tutorial section showing children how to draw the characters themselves.iPhone / iPadZombies, Run!Converted to Android from iOS, this is perhaps the world's first survival-horror-fitness app: "an ultra-immersive running game and audio adventure" that sees you running in the real world to avoid virtual zombies, while collecting supplies to build your base back home.AndroidStarhawk Mobile UplinkWe're fast reaching the point where most major console games have companion apps, with Sony's PlayStation 3 shooter Starhawk the latest to join the bandwagon. Players can access their stats and clan details from their smartphone or tablet.Android / iPhone / iPadSafeKnightThis safety app is for people on night's out who might find themselves in a position of danger, enabling them to take a photo, and have it automatically tagged with the time, date and GPS location before being sent to a server. Its developers suggest it might be handy when using taxis or public transport, or on blind dates, or just generally when travelling.Android / BlackBerry / iPhone / SymbianClimate Mission 3DNokia has turned games publisher again, but this time for Windows Phone rather than its N-Gage platform (remember that?). Climate Mission 3D is an ecologically-themed game with icebergs, ants and trees, and is exclusive to the company's Lumia handsets.Windows Phone (Lumia)MoosifyThe title makes this sound like a FatBooth-style app to make photos of friends look ugly, but that's far from the truth. Moosify is actually one of the ever-growing range of social location apps aiming to connect strangers. In this case, music is the basis for these introductions, with the app aiming to hook people up and recommend places to go to based on their music tastes.iPhoneMemebaseThe iPhone version came earlier in the year, but now Cheezburger Network has launched an Android version of its database of internet memes: "From Business Cat to Lenin Cat, from Rage Guy to Me Gusta to Troll Face..."AndroidIllusia 2Gamevil's first Illusia game blended the genres of platformer and RPG, and now it has spawned a sequel. A choice of characters and items is complemented by various modes, including player-versus-player.AndroidTeen Vogue InsiderThis is aimed at people in the US, but it's an interesting example of how magazine publishers are using apps. "Use Insider to snap select pages in the latest issue to unlock exclusive look books, videos, giveaways, shopping deals and more," explains its App Store listing.iPhoneGA3: Slaves of RemaThis Android app is part of a range of "gamebook adventures" by startup Tin Man Games which blend storytelling and RPG elements. With its dice rolls and fantasy setting, this should appeal to anyone nostalgic for Fighting Fantasy books.AndroidMake A Scene: Under The SeaBilling itself as a "creative, educational sticker app for children", this is part of a series of apps by developer Innovo. Aimed at pre-school children, it offers an array of watery backgrounds and sea-creature stickers to play with.iPadsayStatusWidebeam Digital's new app is all about updating Facebook and Twitter by speaking into the iPhone's microphone, with voice commands controlling the actual posting as well as the content. Will it be appealing once iOS 6 is released with Siri-powered social posting though?iPhoneDish.fmDish.fm is the latest food recommendations app for iPhone, encouraging people to take photos of their meals and review them for others to consult. Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest are built in for social elements. But with rivals including Nosh, Forkly, Burpple and Foodspotting, it could face a challenge cutting through the crowd.iPhoneA Gilbert Gas AdventureThe Quirkles is a series of 26 books in the US designed to teach children about science and phonics through an array of characters. One of them has now been turned into an app: A Gilbert Gas Adventure. Carbon dioxide is the main theme, complete with a couple of experiments to try in the real world.iPhone / iPadCharles Peattie's 'Mix n Match - Farm Animals'Charles Peattie is best known for co-creating the Alex and Celeb comic strips, but he's also developing a sideline in apps. This one, developed with Tapisodes, is for children, showing what happens when cartoon cows, dogs, cats and other animals are mixed and matched.iPhoneBlue Hat, Green Hat - BoyntoniOS isn't the only place developers are making apps for children, of course. Developer Loud Crow Interactive has ported its app of Sandra Boynton's Blue Hat, Green Hat book, adding sound and interactivity to the tale of animal dress-ups.AndroidCollins Big Cat: The Farmer's Lunch Story CreatorCollins Education has released another in its line of Big Cat apps, which combine storytelling with creativity. This tale focuses on a farmer searching for his lost lunch, and like other apps in the series, encourages young readers to create their own stories using its key characters, pictures and vocabulary.iPadi Learn With Boing: Savannah Adventures! HDMore edutainment on iPad, with this savannah-based adventure that aims to teach various maths skills to young children, while tracking stats on their progress for parents to see.iPadMy Puzzles with GarfieldReinvented as a cuddly kids' cartoon character, Garfield is also now the star of a digital-jigsaws app for iOS. 16 puzzles are included for children to piece together, with a choice of difficulty levels.iPhone / iPadPeter Andre OfficialPop star turned reality-TV star Peter Andre? There's an app for him. Music, photos, tweets... The usual features for this kind of promotional app.iPhone
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung ships 43m smartphones in Q1, dwarfs HTC and Motorola &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaABI Research says:Apple shipped 35m handsets in Q1 while Samsung shipped 43m, powered by popular models like the Galaxy S II. The two companies also captured 90% of the market's global profits, according to ABI, and Samsung alone captured 29.7% of the total shipments.Surprisingly, some of their gains come at the expense of two other big names: HTC and Motorola. Motorola slipped only a bit, from 5.4m handsets in Q4 2011 to 5.1m in Q1 2012. Michael Morgan, ABI's senior analyst for mobile devices, told Ars Technica that the drop was "likely due to seasonality." Motorola had a handful of handset launches spanning last fall, including the Droid Razr (which was launched globally as the Motorola Razr), Photon 4G, and the Droid Bionic.HTC's global decline was much bigger. The company was down to 6.9m shipments in Q1 2012 from 10.1m in Q4 2011. Morgan says the big drop is "due to lack of demand for their LTE handsets compared to the iPhone and Samsung devices."Disaster awaits U.S. power grid as cybersecurity lags &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSecurity technology used by U.S. electric utilities is flawed and could increase the odds of computer intrusions or sabotage, the chairman of an industry standards group warns.Jesse Hurley, co-chair of the North American Energy Standards Board's Critical Infrastructure Committee, says the mechanism for creating digital signatures for authentication is insufficiently secure because not enough is being done to verify identities and some companies are attempting to weaken standards to fit their business models.We're all doomed.Charles Carreon, attorney for FunnyJunk, likes to bully The Oatmeal, but doesn't like to be bullied &gt;&gt; PopehatThe most astonishing thing about Charles Carreon - the attorney whose ill-considered threat is at the heart of the Oatmeal/FunnyJunk debacle Iwrote about yesterday- is that the manmarkets himselfas aninternet lawyer.Yet Charles Carreon seemsmystifiedby the most basic elements of internet culture that even the rawest YouTube-watching tyro could explain.When will the Streisand Effect enter the legal language? Though of course Carron is carrying out his client's instructions.The one thing I want to see from Microsoft &gt;&gt; TechPinionsBen Bajarin, last Wednesday:The more I study the trends in the industry the more I am convinced that Microsoft's future depends on them becoming a hardware agnostic software company. Throughout most of Microsoft's history, all their major innovations and value have been strictly limited to companies who license their software platform Windows. This worked in a Windows dominated world but with the role of smartphones, tablets, and even shifting tides in notebooks / desktops, it is clearly no longer a Windows dominated world. I don't personally believe we will see a Windows dominated world again the way we did as the computing industry was maturing.If the rumours about a Microsoft-branded tablet are right, he's going to be disappointed on the first. Will it be right on the second?IDC increases media tablet forecast, expects new products and price points to drive strong shipment growth through 2016 &gt;&gt; IDCExpectations of strong demand for media tablets in the second half of 2012 has led International Data Corporation (IDC) to increase its forecast for the worldwide market to 107.4m units for the year, up from its previous forecast [in March] of 106.1m. In the latest forecast update of the Worldwide Quarterly Media Tablet and eReader Tracker, IDC also revised upward its 2013 forecast number from 137.4m units to 142.8m. And by 2016 worldwide shipments should reach 222.1m units...In addition to increasing the unit totals for 2012, IDC also updated its forecast to shift a larger percentage of future units toward iOS and away from Android. IDC now expects iOS to grow its share of the market in 2012 to 62.5%, up from 58.2% in 2011. Meanwhile Android's share will slip from 38.7% in 2011 to 36.5% in 2012. IDC expects third-place Blackberry to slip from 1.7% to 1%.The angry fundamentalists of the church of gaming &gt;&gt; New Statesman blogsGamers are an incredibly diverse bunch as I'm sure we all know, but like with any broad church there are going to be some people in there who are, for want of a better word, fundamentalists.MacBook Pro with Retina - Impressions from a Windows Guy &gt;&gt; Notebooks ReviewWhere "impressions" means "really detailed technical evaluation, including sticking a thermometer in".RIM to former co-CEOs: here's $12m for a job well done -- until about four years ago &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWhen Research In Motion's longtime co-chairmen and co-chief executives Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie relinquished their management roles earlier this year, their incentive to do so was more than just an angry mob of shareholders and critics calling for their ouster. It was money. Nearly $12m in combined payouts for agreeing to step aside.What is this "reward for failure" of which you speak?How not to write a press release, Argyll and Bute Council style &gt;&gt; Adrian ShortSomeone had to take the council's weaselly words apart. Adrian Short has done it for you. Enjoy.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Here we go again, it's Monday. Did any of you dad gamers out there get special dispensation to play Diablo III all day yesterday?
There has been an alarming rise in the number of times governments attempted to censor the internet in last six months, according to a report from Google.Since the search engine last published its bi-annual transparency report, it said it had seen a troubling increase in requests to remove political content. Many of these requests came from western democracies not typically associated with censorship.It said Spanish regulators asked Google to remove 270 links to blogs and newspaper articles critical of public figures. It did not comply. In Poland, it was asked to remove an article critical of the Polish agency for enterprise development and eight other results that linked to the article. Again, the company did not comply.Google was asked by Canadian officials to remove a YouTube video of a citizen urinating on his passport and flushing it down the toilet. It refused.Thai authorities asked Google to remove 149 YouTube videos for allegedly insulting the monarchy, a violation of Thailand's lèse-majesté law. The company complied with 70% of the requests.Pakistan asked Google to remove six YouTube videos that satirised its army and senior politicians. Google refused.UK police asked the company to remove five YouTube accounts for allegedly promoting terrorism. Google agreed. In the US most requests related to alleged harassment of people on YouTube. The  authorities asked for 187 pieces to be removed. Google complied with 42% of them.In a blog post, Dorothy Chou, Google's senior policy analyst, wrote: "Unfortunately, what we've seen over the past couple years has been troubling, and today is no different. When we started releasing this data, in 2010, we noticed that government agencies from different countries would sometimes ask us to remove political content that our users had posted on our services. We hoped this was an aberration. But now we know it's not."This is the fifth data set that we've released. Just like every other time, we've been asked to take down political speech. It's alarming not only because free expression is at risk, but because some of these requests come from countries you might not suspect – western democracies not typically associated with censorship."Over the six months covered by the latest report, Google complied with an average of 65% of court orders, as opposed to 47% of more informal requests.Last month Google announced it was receiving more than one million requests a month from copyright owners seeking to pull their content from the company's search results.Fred von Lohmann, Google's senior copyright counsel, said copyright infringement was the main reason Google had removed links from search terms.He said the company had received a total of 3.3m requests for removals on copyright grounds last year, and was on course to quadruple that number this year. The company complied with 97% of requests.
Here's a statistic: in the first quarter of 2012, of the 18m smartphones sold in the US through carriers, the majority went to existing smartphone owners. Less than half - about 8.6m - went to new smartphone owners: people upgrading from a featurephone or getting their first phone. (The former is more likely.)Decided how? A combination of two sets of data. First is the analysis by Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis, who in his latest blogpostlooks at the balance of smartphones sales in the US.Evans's post is interesting in itself:the iPhone is now roughy half of ALL smartphone sales in the USA, as reported by the operators themselves, who really ought to know. And yet globally, Android is outselling the iPhone 2:1. How to explain the discrepancy? In a word, price.US smartphone share, 1Q 2012, by carrier. Source: Benedict Evans/Enders AnalysisHe explains that "Relative to most other developed markets, the US mobile market is structured around significantly higher usage, higher monthly bills and much less competition on handset subsidy".He shows that the way US carriers set up their contracts means that an iPhone is barely more expensive than other smartphones there:With a minimum entry price of $80/month and a handset price of $200, the minimum 24 month total cost of ownership [TCO] for an iPhone 4S in the USA is $2,120, whereas the minimum TCO for a 'free' smartphone is $1,920. For a US consumer, the potential saving from getting a cheaper smartphone instead of an iPhone is just 10% of the 24m TCOConversely the lowest TCO at which a consumer can get an iPhone in the UK is just $998. This is under half what they would have to pay in the USA: however, it is also possible to get a smartphone in the UK for a TCO of just $384 – 20% of the US equivalent.Hence, an American can only save 10% over two years by getting a 'free' smartphone over an iPhone. In the UK, the iPhone is 160% more expensive than the cheapest smartphone offer.Which would go a long way to explaining why the iPhone sells so much better in the US: it's not a very competitive market. "The iPhone 4S 16Gb is available in the UK at 10 different prices (including free), depending on what contract you take out," Evans notes. "In the USA, it costs $200 on any contract".Now, to the other point, about the number of those smartphones going to existing owners. Evans's data says that in the first quarter of 2012, there were 18m smartphones sold through the five principal operators in the US - 9m iPhones, and 9m other smartphones.In parallel, ComScore has a gigantic panel of mobile phone owners whom it polls every month, and it releases the data from those polls about a month behind.Looking at the period from January to March, the installed base of smartphones (among a total of 234m users) grew from 97.9m users in thethree months ending in December 2011to its March figure, where itsays106m people owned a smartphone during the three months ending in March. That's a growth of 8.6m in the installed base - the number who have one.That indicates that less than half (47%) went to new owners. Which suggests that the real challenge for the smartphone makers who are looking to grow - and those who are looking to get into the market - will be getting the 50% who are still using a featurephone to buy a smartphone - or even to use a smartphone in that way even if they get it. Perhaps what it really needs is for the US carriers to introduce a more competitive market. But there's no sign of that happening lately.
It is 100 years this week since the birth of the revered  wartime codebreakerAlan  Turing, and 67 years since he was awarded an OBE for  leading the team, inBletchley Park's Hut 8, that cracked the German navy's Enigma code. It has also now been 60 years since he was convicted for gross indecency, after admitting to being in a consensual same-sex relationship, and sentenced to chemical castration by means of regular injections of oestrogen, as an alternative to time in prison. It's 58 years to the month since he killed himself, and just less than three years since a British prime minister saw fit to issue anofficial apologyfor his treatment.Though best known for the story of his wartime heroism and the appalling circumstances of his death, in academic circles, Turing's name carries other connotations. Among philosophers and computer scientists, he is known as the father of artificial intelligence, thanks in part to asingle essaypenned in 1950, asking the question, "Can machines think?" In the article, published in the philosophical journal Mind, Turing proposed a game capable of providing an answer: a competitive conversation in which a computer and a human attempt to convince a judge that they too are a conscious, feeling, thinking thing.The game would come to be known as the "Turing test". At the time, it was impossible to conduct: humans had yet to create the necessary networks and software; computer programs were  nowhere near intelligent enough to simulate anything resembling conversation. It took another 40 years for Turing's imagined game to become a reality, when in 1990 the American philanthropist Hugh Loebner founded the annualLoebner prize for artificial intelligence, "the first formal instantiation of the Turing test".Alan Turing (right) at work in 1946. Photograph: Science & Society Picture Librar/SSPL via Getty ImagesThe prize is not, by Loebner's own admission, a rigorous academic test. The programs competing are also not necessarily the most impressive in the field: entrants tend to be enthusiasts' passion projects, rather than multimillion-pound ventures, such as the iPhone's talking assistantSiri.Computers have not evolved quite as Turing expected them to, but Loebner has stayed determined to run the competition to the founding father's precise specifications. To mark the centenary of Turing's birth this year, the contest was held for the first time in its history atBletchley Park, and I went along to see if a computer could manage to persuade a panel of humans that it was a real person."Your job," explains the award's colourful founderLoebner, to his four nervous volunteers, "is to convince the judges that you are the human." Moments later, the four of them will sit down at their screens and begin the first of four competitive online chats. Their opponents hum quietly on the table next to them: four unmanned computers, each set up by a neutral engineer, each with a different conversational software program installed, known as "chatbot", designed by AI enthusiasts to be mistaken for a human being.Across the hall, in Bletchley Park mansion's cosy Morning Room, four judges sit at another bank of screens. In each of the competition's 25-minute rounds, the judges will hold two online chats simultaneously – one with a volunteer and one with one of the chatbots. They have not been told in advance which is the person and which the computer. If a bot manages to fool two or more of the judges, it will win its creator a gold medal engraved with Turing's image, and $100,000 (£64,000).This is Loebner's "grand prize", which nobody has ever won. In fact, year on year, with very few exceptions, not a single judge is fooled. The last time a chatbot successfully "passed" – in a single round of the 2010 competition – it did so only because a volunteer didn't follow instructions and chose to imitate a robot. When none of the judges are fooled, a $5,000 "bronze award" is given to the bot they rank "most human-like".Being here at Bletchley Park, says Loebner, is "like treading on hallowed ground". But Turing might have been a little disappointed with the competitors. When he proposed the game, he predicted computers would be comfortably passing the test "in about 50 years' time". Yet 62 years on, Loebner is disparaging about the competitors. "These are rudimentary," he says. "They have the intelligence of a two-year-old."Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire. Photograph: AlamyIt isn't hard to see what he means. The first bot gives itself away just 10 seconds into its opening conversation. "Hi, how are you?" asks the judge in both windows. "I'm fine, thanks for asking," comes one reply, the other: "Please rephrase as a proper question, instead of 'Jim likes P.'" No prizes for spotting the human there.Another bot blows its cover by asking : "Did you hold funerals for your relatives when they died?" (The judge's response: "No, I normally cut up the bodies and buried them myself.") A third bombards questions: "Have you recently been to a live theatre?", "Have you recently been to the art gallery?", "Do you want a hug? Do you have a child? Do you want a child? I can't."One tries to confuse a judge by being petulant ("Do you have a point? I must have missed it"), while last year's winner, Talking Angela, does its best to fool them by posing as a teenage girl: "I really like Lady Gaga. I think it's the combination of the sound and the fashion-look that  appeals to me," before coming unstuck by claiming: "I'm a cat."As predicted, the judges aren't taken in at all. "It became apparent quite quickly in all cases," says volunteer judge Michael Stean, who is also a chess grandmaster, though he admitted to being fooled by small patches of one or two of the conversations. "I think if you went through the conversations and you edited out the answers that were obviously wrong, it would be quite a close contest."David Levy, whose bots have won the bronze prize twice, has managed to fool a judge just once: "The first time I won was 1997. We stayed up and watched the news the night before, and I wrote a script based on that. The news was that Ellen DeGeneres came out as a lesbian." Levy's bot began all its conversations by asking the judge what they made of the news, and even shared its own opinions. "In the first section, one of the judges was completely fooled."David Levy: 'There's a fortune to be made in this field'. Photograph: Teri PengilleyThough he won that year, Levy is keen to stress the many practical applications of the technology. "I think there's an absolute fortune to be made in this field," he explained. "I think already there are areas of medical diagnosis where it's been proven thatcomputers can do better than doctors. The problem is there's a huge amount of litigation. But the logical question is which would you rather be diagnosed by, a human doctor who's 80% right or a computer doctor that's 95% right?"It's not just medicine either. Levy is confident that in 30 or 40 years, "there will be robots that are very human-like that people will be forming friendships with, and having sex with, and falling in love with".For now though, even this year's "most human-like computer" is  unlikely to be receiving any love letters. With the rankings tallied, the $5,000 prize goes to American chatbot Chip Vivant, the same bot that told one judge, "Please rephrase as a proper question, instead of 'Jim likes P'". For its creator, American programming consultant Mohan Embar, it is success at the fifth attempt. "It feels wonderful, obviously. In the early 2000s, when reading transcripts of previous years' competition, my mouth started to water and I knew I wanted to be a  part of this."For Embar, creating his bot wasn't about deceiving the judges so much as offering them a meaningful conversation. "I'm not interested in creating a chatbot that fools people, but rather one that can empathise with and provide comfort to people who can't or don't want to get it from a real person. I've become keenly aware of the futility of creating a program that comes anywhere close to fooling someone who knows what they're doing."Before I leave I ask Loebner if he thinks anyone will ever manage it. "It'll come," he says. "Probably long after I die."
Microsoft appears to be preparing to launch an own-brand tablet running a new version of Windows in an effort to compete with Apple's iPad.An invitation to an event in Los Angeles on Monday evening sent out by the software company late on Thursday  – but lacking venue details – has sparked expectation that Steve Ballmer's company is now ready to take on Apple's dominance in the tablet market.This would be a dramatic break from Microsoft's usual moves in computer hardware, where it develops the software and licenses that to hardware makers to ensure the broadest possible market. But Microsoft has fallen behind Apple and Google in the fast growing tablet market – already one-eighth as large as the PC market and forecast to be 40% by 2016. The fastest growth in tablet sales is in western countries, where PC sales are slowing, reducing sales in the Windows division in four of the past six quarters. Windows 8, to be released this year, is designed to be used on a tablet as well as a desktop PC."If Microsoft wants to control the entire user experience and the entire quality of their products, they have to build their own hardware," Michael Cherry, an analyst at Directions on Microsoft, a Redmond-based market research firm, told the Bloomberg news service.The location of Monday's event, near Hollywood, could indicate that Microsoft may announce a content deal using itsnew SmartGlass app, which bridges the gap between the TV and the smartphone or tablet. Other speculation is that the tablet will have access to an ebook store using Barnes &amp; Noble's technology, following a$300m deal made at the end of April.The timing of the launch would also spike Google's guns. The search giant is expected to unveil an own-brand tablet at its Input/Output event on 27 June although Microsoft's forays into own-branded products have had mixed success. Microsoft has declined to comment. Its invitation says: "This will be a major Microsoft announcement – you will not want to miss it."
Here's a question: if you connect an unprotected Windows computer to the internet, how long will it take before it is infected by malicious software? The answer is: much more quickly than most lay users think. In 2003, the average time was 40 minutes.A year later it was 20 minutes. By 2008 an unpatched computer running Microsoft Windows XP could only expectfive to 16 minutes of freedom. The Internet Storm Centre (ISC) provides a usefulchart of what it calls "survival time"for Windows machines. It suggests that a PC currently can expect between 40 and 200 minutes of freedom before an automated probe reaches it to determine whether it can be penetrated. The numbers for other operating systems (such as Unix and Linux) are better (from 400 to 1,400 minutes), but the moral is the same: the only way to have an absolutely secure computer is not to connect it to the net.On the back of statistics like this, a huge global industry has grown up – the PC "security" business – dominated by companies such as Norton, Symantec, Sophos and Kaspersky. They offer software tools for blocking computer viruses, worms and Trojans (programs that look innocuous but  compromise the computer in some way, rendering it controllable by an external agent).The PC security business does offer a degree of protection from the evils of malware, but suffers from one structural problem: its products are, by definition,reactive. When a particular piece of malicious software appears, it is analysed in order to determine its distinctive "signature", which will enable it to be detected when it arrives at your machine. Then a remedy is devised and an update or "patch" issued – which is why your PC is forever inviting you to download updates – and why IT support people always look pityingly at you when you explain sheepishly that you failed to perform the aforementioned downloads.So the security companies are always playing catch-up, profitably slamming stable doors after the horses have bolted. Until recently, the industry has tactfully refrained from emphasising this point, and most of its customers have been too clueless to notice.This cosy arrangement was too good to last, and a few weeks ago the industry's cover was finally blown. What happened is that computer security labs in Iran, Russia and Hungary announced the discovery of a virus called Flame, which one researcher has called"the most complex malware ever found". Forat least two yearsFlame has been copying documents and recording audio, keystrokes, network traffic and Skype calls, as well as taking screenshots from infected computers. And passing all the information it harvested to command-and-control servers operated by its creators. And here's the really startling bit: in all that time,no security software raised the alarm. It bypassed the "signatures" databases of all the PC security companies.Nobody knows who wrote Flame, but the consensus in the industry is that it was anexpensive high-end creationin the same league as the Stuxnet worm that attacked the Iranian nuclear programme. The odds are, therefore, that it was a product of the security agencies of the US, UK or Israel, or some combination thereof. But because the malware incorporated a "kill switch" that can wipe out all traces of it from an infected machine,and that switch has reportedly been activated, we may never know for sure.What we can be sure of, though, is that we've crossed the threshold into a different world. The old signature-based, reactive approach of the anti-virus industry is not up to this new game. We're going to need radically different approaches if our societies – and our industries – are going to be able to protect themselves from the imitators and successors of Flame. And for that we're going to need new metaphors and models. The current anti-virus approach is a bit like playing whack-a-mole, and it's run its course.In thinking about this, some companies and researchers are looking to natural systems for inspiration. The human body's immune response system, for example, is pretty impressive in detecting and dealing with intruders and IBM has used it as a metaphor for its"Digital Immune System for Cyberspace". The company claims that its system can automatically detect viral activity at a very early stage as well as develop a cure and distribute it across the internet faster than the virus spreads. No doubt other researchers are working on similar ideas. If so, then perhaps we won't have wasted the crisis triggered by Flame.
Set in a gorgeous, cel-shaded world filled with striking characters,Gravity Rushserves as much as a showcase for the PS Vita's capabilities as it does for progressive game design. In the role of an amnesiac called Kat, you'll move gravity around, leaping from ground to walls to ceiling, with the orientation of the world shifting with you.Combat is generally a hack'n'slash affair, with power-up orbs collected in the wake of fallen enemies. However, it's snappy and quick, and as you begin to incorporate gravity-shifting techniques into your fighting repertoire, it becomes all the richer and more interesting.Its plot may be mind-bending – protect people from a gravity storm and the monsters it brings – and it may take a while to become accustomed to the shifting orientation, but nothing else on the Vita so perfectly realises the potential of the&nbsp;console. A stunning achievement, and a must-own game.
Since entering the games console business, Sony has struggled to find a mascot inherently linked to the brand in the way that Nintendo has Mario and Sega has Sonic. There have been plenty of candidates: Lara Croft and Nathan Drake immediately spring to mind; then there are our friends Ratchet and Clank.This series of platform games, starring animal-like alien mechanic Ratchet and his diminutive robot chum Clank, is still being made today, but to celebrate the 10th anniversary of their bid to become Sony's signature characters, the company has cobbled together this compilation of adventures from their heyday, the PlayStation 2 era, when the duo wowed critics and consumers&nbsp;alike.Given a new HD polish, the trio of titles included –Ratchet &amp; Clank,Going Commando, andUp Your Arsenal– have all aged well, thanks largely to their energetic spirit and refined level design. The trilogy offers great value for gamers hankering for a nostalgic trip into a stylistically distinct past or anyone yet to give the pair a try.
Price from £32,305MPG up to 62.8Top speed 155mphBMW is renowned the world over for the exquisite precision of its engineering, and few other marques can boast such a&nbsp;formidable track record when it comes to reliability. But it seems the people who drive these steadfast vehicles are not of the same pedigree as their cars. A&nbsp;recent survey shows that BMW is by far the most popular choice for British men and women who cheat on their partners.When the extramarital dating site IllicitEncounters.com (strapline: "Rediscover romance, passion and adventure") polled its 670,000 members about what make of car they drove, it found that a fifth of husbands in the UK who were unfaithful also owned a Beemer. BMW was double the next most popular brand, Audi, which just pipped Mercedes. So, the top three spots all taken by German premium brands. What does that tell us about fidelity? BMW was also top choice by a long chalk for unfaithful wives.At the other end of the scale, the brands attracting the fewest adulterous drivers were Seat and Renault. So if your partner splashes out on a new Ibiza or a Mégane you can probably carry on picking your nose in bed. Unless, of course, they're double-bluffing you…A spokesperson for Illicit Encounters wasn't surprised: "There is an intrinsic link between success and cheating," she said. "Successful people are often risk-takers who are less likely to settle for unsatisfying relationships or monotony."Blimey! I've been driving a BMW all this week, but the only person to show any interest in the car was a&nbsp;BMW dealer from the Midlands who I bumped into at a wedding. I&nbsp;asked him if he knew about his cars' reputation. Yup. Had he considered changing his garage's name to "Wedding Crashers"? Nope. "Passion Wagons"? Nope. Was he married? Yup. He was a man of few words.You can't fault the members of Illicit Encounters for their taste in cars. The BMW I've been playing away in this week is the 5 Series Touring (posh-car speak for "estate"). Ironically, I'd say it might just be the perfect family car: it's capacious, responsive, super safe, versatile, powerful, elegant and hard working. But as I cruised up the M40 to that wedding in the Midlands, kids in the back, wife at my side, I couldn't shake the thought that there was a bunch of "risk-takers" out there driving this same faithful automotive servant to their next dangerous liaison.This is the fourth generation of the 5 Series Touring. It now comes with an eight-speed automatic transmission and fuel-saving auto start-stop function. There's a&nbsp;range of seven different engines on offer, three petrol and four diesels, ranging from the family-friendly 520d which knocks out 55.4mpg to the pick of the pack, the 535i M Sport – a&nbsp;technological whirlwind of power and driver satisfaction (a must for anyone with a fear of monotony). And the list of clever and luxurious extras is almost infinite, from active suspension and four-wheel steering to night vision with pedestrian recognition… Something, I imagine, most philanderers are born with.How to fix 3.5m vehiclesStruggling to find a spare? You could do a lot worse than visitBreakeryard.com. Founded in 2003, the site has so far helped more than 3.5m motorists around the UK find new and used parts for their cars. The site provides an extensive, UK network of car dismantlers who are looking to sell car spares online for every make and model of vehicle.You simply submit one request that is then sent to every dismantler on the site. The yards holding the part then reply with competitive prices.Developed after one too many fruitless trips to local breaker yards and having to make endless calls to other breaker yards but still unable to find a part, Breakeryard was created to try and help motorists by linking them directly with car breakers who have the part their looking for, saving them both time and money.Having damaged one Saab alloy wheel, founder of Breakeryard, Matt Bott was told he would need to buy a whole set of new wheels, costing well over £500. After ringing round different breaker yards, Matt turned to the internet to try and find something in his price range. He finally found a Saab specialist breaker yard which had a replacement alloy and would deliver it the next day complete with the tyre for only £70.Initially launching from Matt's mum's garage, Breakeryard is now based in Ilford, Essex. Matt says: "Helping more than 3.5million motorists fix their cars is a big milestone for us. I can't quite believe it's been that many!"
The iPad's touch-screen and HD display make it a good fit for real-time strategy games, so it's nice to see developers taking advantage.Autumn Dynasty(£4.99, iPad, BulkyPix) eschews graphical supremacy and hi-tech weaponry in favour of storybook battles created in a beautiful, hand‑drawn style. This is backed up with solid RTS gameplay – resources must be gathered to construct buildings, cannon fodder created to battle your foe. The missions are nicely varied, with stealth, combat and complex base building all present and correct. There's also both single- and multiplayer skirmish mode (via Bluetooth and Game Centre), which pits two opposing armies against one another, ensuring the title will keep you gripped for some time.Elsewhere,Bridge Constructor(£1.99, iOS, Headup Games) offers simpler, but no less compelling entertainment. Just build a bridge strong enough for two cars (or trucks for extra points) to get across – at first using wood, but then more complex designs involving girders, concrete and suspension. Watching vehicles topple to their doom after some shoddy construction can be heartbreaking but with 30 challenges to get through it's a sight you'll become all too familiar with.
E3 is the international games industry's annual bunfight, a jam-packed gathering for which new announcements are hoarded and luminaries duly trundled out. This year's show lacked really big news, with Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony all simply making different-shaped bids for the increasingly hotly contested place underneath your telly. But there were still a few surprises nestled among the home-entertainment promises and sequels, includingWatch Dogs(platforms to be confirmed), about a man who combs digital information from anything nearby, listening to phone calls, searching medical records and changing traffic lights in a fascinating revision of superpowers for the smartphone era. Bounty hunt 'em-up,Star Wars 1313(platforms to be confirmed) looks so beautiful there's hope it may finally be a Star Wars game that's not witheringly dreadful. Meanwhile,Tomb Raider(PS3, Xbox) is getting another reboot, this time featuring a 21-year-old Lara Croft, andAssassin's Creed III(PS3, Xbox, PC) swaps the cultural Renaissance-era setting for the American revolution.NintendoPikmin 3Even though it was revealed last year, Nintendo'sWii Uheld on to the distinction of being E3's only new featured hardware. Its GamePad is a controller-meets-touchscreen affair which even comes with its own buzzword, "asymmetric" gaming, in which players with GamePads take on separate, often adversarial roles. In single-player games the second screen supplies versatile support, such as keeping track of four discrete leaders in forthcoming bucolic real-time strategy gamePikmin 3, or allowing Batman to analyse his surroundings inArkham City: Armoured Edition. In terrifying-looking survival horrorZombiUthe GamePad becomes scanner, bludgeon and real-time inventory in a game where each character you play has only one life. A life that is short, tragic and very eventful.SonyWonderbookRumours of PlayStation 4 revelations turned out to be disappointingly unfounded, leaving Sony to talk about re-emerging favourites such asGod Of War: Ascension, in which yet more mythological beasts get the slow-motion vivisection treatment. There were new games too, the most exciting of which wasBeyond: Two Souls, about the life of a girl with strange (and obviously incredibly destructive) powers, made by the Frenchmen who brought you the emotionally charged and experimental Heavy Rain. Sony also demonstrated theWonderbook, which uses a PlayStation camera to animate the pages of specially designed books. The book they used wasHarry Potter's Book Of Spells, in which you can cast your own spells by using the PS Move wand and adding a bit of fancy wrist work.MicrosoftHalo 4Having seen Wii U at last year's E3, Microsoft clearly decided two-screen gaming was a box it desperately needed to tick. Using an app calledSmartGlass, players' Android, iOS or Windows tablets will be able to interact with Xbox, though at this stage Microsoft's attention seemed more focused on films and entertainment, with games support discussed in vaguer terms. There were also new software announcements, withHalo 4becoming the latest franchise to try a TV-style episodic format, in which five new missions will be added each week.
They've only gone and&nbsp;sent me a black one. I knew it. A&nbsp;black up! That's not my exclamation mark, by the way, it's Volkswagen's. Which, along with the&nbsp;lower case u, just adds to the wrongness of a black up!There's a&nbsp;worrying fashion for odd letters and punctuation in car names, I've noticed –Alfa Romeo's MiTo, for example, or the&nbsp;even more bafflingKia cee'd. But they're as nothing compared with the inappropriateness of a&nbsp;black up! Where am I supposed to go in it? One of those places in the West Country where the morris men still consider it acceptable to darken their faces? Or should I&nbsp;teleport myself to the 1970s and the set ofThe Black And White Minstrel&nbsp;Show?The up! (the exclamation mark becomes even more absurd mid-sentence) is VW's new small city car. To replace the Fox, which replaced the Lupo, which was born because the Polo grew too big for its boots. That tends to happen with cars – models grow, so they have to bring in new models to fill the gaps left behind. Like children really.Anyway, I'm a bit underwhelmed, to be honest. In many ways it's an excellent car for the modern world. It's economical – to buy, and especially to run. Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions are even better on the super-frugal BlueMotion edition. It may be tiny, but the space has been used very cleverly. Big&nbsp;enough for four adults, and there's more luggage room than most of its rivals have. OK, so it's not the best car for overtaking, on an incline. And it's not going to put a smile on Jeremy Clarkson's face on an open, twisty road. But that's not what it's about (plus no one and nothing should be about putting a&nbsp;smile on Jeremy Clarkson's face). It's about nipping about town cheaply and cheerfully. Which the up! does extremely well.Where it disappoints is in character. This is almost certainly a better car than a Fiat 500 – more technically advanced, loads more roomy, it makes more sense – and yet I'd rather have the Fiat, because it's more desirable. A little town car should be cute, cheeky, sexy, which&nbsp;the Fiat is and the up! isn't. It's actually rather dull in appearance, hasn't moved on massively in looks from the Lupo or the Fox, doesn't stand out from a Renault Twingo.It's cheap without being cheerful. Or bold. Which is ever so slightly disappointing for such an important car for VW. Certainly it doesn't merit its exclamation mark. Oh, and the radio is rubbish, fades in and out, like they used to in the olden days, remember? Maybe I really have been teleported to the 1970s.VW Up! 1.0 litre 60 PS 5-speed manualPrice£8,970Top speed99mphAcceleration0-62mph in 14.4 secondsCombined fuel economy62.8mpgC02 emissions105g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating6/10
The coalition's defamation bill will not make it easier to unmask internet trolls (Spot the troll, G2, 13 June). Spin from Downing Street is giving victims of cyber-bullying false hope.The best advice to victims is often to ignore the unpleasant or offensive comments made by those who cower behind anonymity online. It is best not to "feed the trolls" because a reaction is precisely what they want. Worse, taking action can often unleash the "Streisand effect" – as footballer Ryan Giggs found to his cost when he obtained a super-injunction over a (true) story that he ought simply to have ignored.Only if the trolls cross into harassment is it worth doing something – and the defamation bill (as the name suggests) only deals with defamatory comments, not harassment.Donal BlaneyDirector and principal, Griffin Law, London
Ryan Cleary, a 20-year-old allegedly linked to the activities of the LulzSec hacking collective, could escape extradition to the US on charges of computer misuse if he is tried in Britain for the same charges.Cleary was indictedon Tuesdayby a grand jury in Los Angeles on charges that accused him of being involved in hacking into US sites for the US X Factor, PBS Newshour, Sony Pictures and others.But Cleary's solicitor in the UK, Karen Todner, saidin a statementshe understood from US prosecutors there would be no extradition moves against her client if the UK courts tried him on the same charges he faces there.Cleary is accused in the UK of conspiring to bring down the websites of the CIA and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) last spring, and of co-ordinating attacks against a number of websites. He will have to be extradited to the US to face the charges there if they are not dealt with in the UK.Todner pledged to fight any moves to extradite Cleary, who is said to have Asperger's syndrome, on the basis that it would be "totally undesirable".She said: "As yet no decisions have been made as to which charges Mr Cleary will deny or accept but we can state now that should any application be made for Mr Cleary's extradition then it will be fiercely contested."She added: "We would once again urge the UK government, particularly in light of the evidence of internet and computer cases coming through the courts, that they now review the US extradition treaty." The treaty has been repeatedly criticised for favouring the US by offering a lower barrier to extradition to the US than vice-versa.Cleary, from Wickford, Essex, was detained in June 2011 at his home, and now faces a number of charges under the UK's Computer Misuse Act, including attacks on the Soca website and various UK music sites. One of the UK charges is that he conspired with three other people to create a "botnet" of virus-infected PCs which could be remotely controlled to attack and crash websites – a so-calledDDOS attack.Cleary was held in custody in April after breaching bail orders which forbade him from contacting other alleged members of LulzSec.He is accused of conspiring with Ryan Ackroyd, 25, Jake Davis, 18, and a 17-year-old boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, to do an unauthorised act with intent to impair or with recklessness as to impair the operation of a computer between 1 February and 30 September last year.The four are also charged with conspiring to hack into computers operated by the NHS, News International, Sony, Nintendo, film studio 20th Century Fox, US public broadcaster PBS, and US computer security organisations HBGary, Black &amp; Berg and Infragard.LulzSec, a hacking group which grew out of the hacking collective Anonymous, embarked on a month-long spree of attacks in May 2011 against various websites including Sony Pictures Europe, games sites and News International. A series of arrests followed in June and July, culimnating with the revelation in March that the leader of the group, Hector Monsegur, had been working for the FBI after being caught in July 2011.Cleary faces a maximum of 25 years in prison if convicted on all US charges.
A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:CaratCarat is a research project out of Berkeley university that could be the answer to iPhone and Android owners' prayers. It aims to "detect energy bugs – app behavior that is consuming energy unnecessarily", and let you know which apps to shut down to preserve your phone's battery life – complete with an estimate of the improvement you'll get.Android / iPhoneP&amp;G Beauty RecommendedBrand giant P&amp;G has worked with agency Grapple Mobile on its new beauty app, which focuses on tips, trends and product recommendations – "like having your own personal 'glam squad' in your pocket" – as well as a Beauty Spots guide to London hotspots.Android / iPhoneHuffington.Huffington. (yes, the full-stop is part of its name) isn't available in the UK App Store – for now the Huffington Post's weekly tablet magazine appears to be restricted to the US. Longform features and exclusive content are included, with a $1.99 monthly subscription or individual issues for $0.99. Even News Corp's US-focused The Daily tablet newspaper is available in the UK, so HuffPo's geographical restriction is puzzling.iPadPacemakerRIM is making a noise about the release of Pacemaker for its PlayBook tablet, and justifiably so: it's an impressive DJ app with plenty of professional features for users to play their music.BlackBerry PlayBookAVG Family SafetyOnline security firm AVG has ported its family-friendly browser app from iOS to Windows Phone. That means blocking malware-ridden sites, as well as stopping children from surfing "inappropriate content".Windows PhoneThe Very Hungry BearAustralian author Nick Bland's The Very Hungry Bear children's book has made the leap to iOS, with an app by We Are Wheelbarrow. It sees Bear trying to fill his rumbling tummy, accompanied by voice narration, animations and sounds, and fish-collecting that unlocks a secret feature.iPhone / iPadBabel, the KingThis children's storybook-app has been a chart-topping hit in France, Belgium and Luxembourg, but now an English-language version is setting its sights on the UK. The story focuses on Babel, "a megalomaniac cat who dreams of becoming king".iPadSetlist – Powered by RdioThis is the latest app that wants to recommend gigs to you based on your music preferences. However, rather than scanning your iPhone's music library like most rivals, this digs into artists in your collection on streaming service Rdio. Of course, that does mean you have to be a Rdio subscriber to use it.iPhoneDictionaryUS publisher Merriam-Webster has released its flagship dictionary as a Windows Phone app, with more than 20,000 entries and 1,000 illustrations on board.Windows PhoneAstraware Word GamesMobile games firm Astraware has gathered five word games in one iOS app, complete with a daily puzzle to finish and compare your score with other players. Anagrams, letter-tracing, wordsearch and spelling all feature.iPhone / iPadDress Up Kate MiddletonDescribed as "the perfect sticker book app for aspiring princesses everywhere", this involves dressing up the Duchess of Cambridge for various occasions, and is the work of Michael O'Mara Books.iPad
Guitarists of the Pete Townshend school wouldn't be impressed, but their managers would be.The Who's pioneering instrument-smasher could find he's met his match with one of the bespoke nylon-bodied guitars made by Olaf Diegel, professor of mechatronics at Massey University in Auckland, New Zealand."You could throw one against the wall without worrying about it breaking," said Diegel, who will beginselling the guitars onlineat the end of June.Their robustness might be music to a band manager's ears. But perhaps more notable is how Diegel makes the instruments, which are attracting interest from around the world.Diegel is an exponent of 3D printing. His zany guitar bodies are created usingcomputer-aided design (CAD) software, output in one piece on an EOS 3D printer. This is the new world ofadditive manufacturing."The old style of [subtractive] manufacturing is you start with a block and cut away the material you don't need. With this you start with nothing and add material one layer at a time until the object is finished."The process is a little like inkjet printing, but instead of ink squirting out of the print head, successive layers of plastic or metal powder are deposited according to the CAD file's instructions.Layers are fused together by the heat of the molten plastic or with a precision laser beam in a process called sintering.Pundits say the technology ushers in a manufacturing revolution.Whereas designers have for a couple of decades been using 3D printers costing several thousand pounds to create manufacturing prototypes, devices for less than £1000 are now appearing on enthusiasts' desktops. They can be used for making anything from plastic toys to circuit boards.An open source 3D printer development effort –the RepRap project, based at the University of Bath – is building models that can replicate themselves, 10,000 of which are thought to be in use worldwide.Diegel's guitars are catching the attention of about a dozen people a day, who are enquiring about having one for themselves. They won't come cheap, starting at about £1000 for standard Scarab and Spider designs.The bodies are formed with a cavity in the back, into which a block of wood is fitted for attaching the neck and pickups. The wooden core was added to Diegel's original solid plastic design to make the sound brighter."If we want it to sound like a Gibson we use mahogany and if we want a [Fender] Strat or Telecaster sound we use maple."Depending on the degree of customisation, and the buyer's choice of neck and hardware, the price could end up at about £1500.Straightforward designs will be despatched within about 48 hours of ordering while custom models will take a week or more.Diegel, who plays guitar and has a collection of electric models, printed his first one as an experiment."It was so good that I decided to set up a business selling them."The 3D printer he uses limits him to making electric guitars. That's a function both of its size – it's too small to print an acoustic body – and the plastic it uses, which lacks the resonance of wood.He is working with printer maker3D Systemsin the US to make Gibson Les Paul-style bodies from polyether ether ketone (PEEK), which has similar rigidity to wood. Combined with 3D printing's ability to produce objects with complex internal shapes, this offers a range of accoustic possibilities."That's where you can have enormous fun with having each string resonate to a different acoustic chamber."Diegel expects to have a guitar on the 3D Systems stand atthe 3D Printshowin London in October, which has the tagline "The world is about to change again".Kicking change along is the proliferation of comparatively low-cost printers such as 3D Systems' $1300 (£837) Cube, and models from China, which are affordable enough for Massey University to put at the disposal of design students."They go wild on them – whenever they have an idea they test them out on these baby printers, which are very cheap to run."Websites such asthingiverse.comare sources of free designs. But Diegel says design software has a way to go before it's simple enough for everyone."Before 3D printing is really mainstream the software will need to be so easy to use that your grandmother could design a new knob for her oven. We're not there yet."Vik Olliver, a long-time collaborator with Bath University's Adrian Bowyer on the RepRap project andseller of 3D printer consumables, points to another elusive goal: as a self-replicating machine, the RepRap was envisaged as colonising to the developing world, where it would be used to make the consumer goods that sustain modern life but which are often inaccessible to poor communities.For a variety of reasons that hasn't happened, Olliver says.In turbulent regions of the world such as Palestine, whose people could do with RepRaps, trade restrictions block their importation.RepRap development has also diverged from the goal of making simple machines that can print most of their own parts to becoming increasingly complicated."It's at the stage where it's still a rich white guys thing."He remains optimistic that the technology will eventually get into the hands of those who need it most."It will reach a point where it will just flow over the dam, as it were. Once the rich white guys have their toys, everyone will think: 'what about the poor buggers in the third world?'."Olliver and Diegel foresee 3D printing having a future on both a grand and tiny scale.With chemical reagents as their raw materials, RepRaps could be used for "DNA origami", or putting DNA to work as a nanoscale construction material, Olliver said.Diegel, meanwhile, expects to soon see the day when 3D printers are capable of outputting entire buildings."I think in five to six years that will be possible. Ten years ago one guy at the University of Southern California was researching this, and now I know of at least six universities that are working on printing houses."That is going to accelerate the pace."
From the very first rev of a Ford Mustang engine, from the first cruise through the streets, the sun glinting, the back-end sliding gracefully, it is clear this is a Criterion game. Starting with Burnout and charging through to the majestic Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, this Guildford-based developer has always made games that shun painstaking motorsports authenticity in favour of unadulterated joy – the joy of belting along a freeway in a banana yellow Porsche 991, tyres screeching like terrified zoo animals.Need for Speed: Most Wanted is the latest chapter in that quest for giddy high-speed thrills. Taking the bare bones of the original game – its urban racing competitions and police chases – this reboot grafts the franchise into a vast open-world, where events can crop up on any corner or any stretch of road, and where every cool action you take adds to your haul of Speed Points – and your Wanted status. The key message is "racing without rules" – players can take shortcuts, smash into opponents and leap over ramps – anything goes; and between events, it's time to shake off the cops via high speed, free-roaming chases.I played a brief single-player race through the Four Bridges area of Fairhaven City, gunning the Porsche across multi-lane roads, through deep curves and along swooping straights. Handling is classic, classic Criterion, a touch of oversteer, a beautifully intuitive drift mechanic that invites you in with a dab on the break before swirling you through corners like a fairground Waltzer. Meanwhile, AI cars nip at your vehicle, edging in from the sides, stealing your slipstream – everything feels super condensed and competitive, yet there's space to zip out of line and head off from the pack down side roads and incoming lanes.Crashes, meanwhile, are utter Burnout wreckage porn. Head-on collisions swap to slow motion as mangled supercars disintegrate in mid-air; but even the slightest touches realistically dent your chassis, giving cars a lived in feel after every race. Gone is the sterile Gran Turismo reverence – at Criterion, the catchphrase is very much "drive 'em like you stole 'em" - they want your engine over-revving, they want you throwing evasive bootleggers, they want you trying to tuck in between an underpass wall and a Cosworth Impreza buffeting both in the process. Nothing looks new for long.As in the ostensibly similar Burnout Paradise, there are landmarks to discover throughout the map. Auto garages will repair your car as you whizz through, while ramps and billboards provide mini-tasks, and fences can be knocked down to reveal new areas. This time, Criterion has added jack spots - secret areas hiding previously unattainable ultra exotics to pick up and drive away. There are also special cool down spots, which allow you to escape the police and douse the heat.Autolog is back, of course, only now it's Autolog 2: the next generation. While the first version only really recorded your best race times and shared them with your friends, in Most Wanted, the system saveseverythingfrom your fastest laps, to your longest jumps; anything you achieve or discover in the game is sent to your friends and becomes a potential competition. The aim is to become the most wanted among your peers; the ultimate illegal street racer.For the drop-in/drop-out multiplayer, Most Wanted introduces a new playlist option, which serves a barrage of challenges so the competition just keeps going. Meet online with a bunch of friends, and it'll  get you all to assemble at a meeting point somewhere on the shared map – there are no grid starts here, you'll need to compete for the best positions, bumping mates out of the way.From here, you may get a straightforward race through the city streets, followed sharply by a "speed test" to see who can jump the furthest over a specific ramp; next it could be a team race, where the cars are divided up into two sides, and then compete together for the better score. Here, players who have finished the race will be able to go back and crash into opponents, helping their team mates place better.The important thing is, everything flows. Criterion says it has been learning from Battlefield, looking at the way FPS players are seamlessly moved from map to map, and how team-based modes incorporate group tactics. The Most Wanted team challenges even allow you to "spot" opponent cars by looking through the rearview mirror and hitting a button, alerting members of your squad that a rival vehicle is approaching. And instead of dog tags, players get customised license tags, which record successful takedowns.Up to 12 players can compete in these online skidmishes, and it seems that there will be a selection of special Freedrive co-op challenges, allowing up to a dozen players to work together. There's no other info just yet, but we're intrigued to see what all this entails.Speed points earned during racing can be spent on unlocking new cars, as well as paint jobs and modifications to your tyres, nitro system, suspension and chassis. It's a familiar set-up, a Need For Speed staple since tuner culture hit the mainstream in the late nineties, but the car models are so luscious in Most Wanted that it should feel like an exciting addition once again.And that's really what Most Wanted promises. Frenetic speed challenges, enthralling cop chases, exciting cars, competing with friends … Hot Pursuit brought the whole concept of asynchronous social play to console gaming; this is likely to be the next step.But at its core, fundamentally, every Criterion game is about this: the sound of an engine ripping through the city air, and the drift of tyres along blistering Tarmac.•Need For Speed: Most Wanted is released on 30 October for PC, PS3, PS Vita and Xbox 360
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCan Intel's Thunderbolt go mainstream with help from Apple and Acer? &gt;&gt; CNET News"Thunderbolt is a good spec, but the price is not so good," said Michael Chen, a marketing director for Taiwanese motherboard maker Biostar Group, which sells about 6 million of the electronics boards a year.Chen estimated that Intel's Thunderbolt chips cost about $35 for a PC and $20 to $25 for devices that attach to it. "This technology -- it may be possible to promote next year with second-generation technology from Intel. It depends on price," he said.Fragmentation and segmentation &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOf Enders Analysis:Android fragmentation is a serious problem for developers, since they face a massively fragmented user base, though it is rather less of a problem for Google, since a forked fragmented screwed-up Android phone still has a web browser and a data package and so is still generating Adsense eyeballs.Indeed, a helpful way to think about this is that Apple makes money from great apps by selling the hardware to run them, while Google loses money from great apps, since they lead to less web search.iPhone fragmentation looks rather different.He has an intriguing thesis there.Nokia: Microsoft is giving us 'specific support' to compete with Android at even lower prices &gt;&gt; EngadgetExecutives dropped hints that "important catalyst dates" in Microsoft's Windows Phone timetable were instrumental to lower price... The cost-cutting was considered vital to competing with the very low-cost Android smartphones that thrive in countries like China.The contentious case against the MacBook Pro with Retina display &gt;&gt;The Unofficial Apple WeblogHere's a list of all the proprietary stuff Apple has shoehorned into the "best Mac it has ever made", the MacBook Pro with Retina display (henceforth referred to as "MBPwRD"), taken from the iFixit teardownIt's a long and rather depressing list if you thought that computers were made to be repaired, and with user-replaceable parts.The rumor regarding a project named 'Samsung Facebook' is groundless &gt;&gt; Samsung Global'Family Story' has been available since February 2012 on Samsung Smart TVs, Smartphones, Tablets and the web*. This service, like its name, is a family-oriented convergence service that focuses on sharing and storing families' special moments.It is true that we currently are working on upgrading 'Family Story' as we always thrive to provide consumers with enhanced experiences, but this is far from a "Samsung Faceboook" as some are claiming it to be.So dies another rumour.iPad sees small drop, Nook tops Kindle Fire In new tablet traffic rankings &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIn May, the iPad had accounted for 94.64% of all tablet web traffic, the company previously reported. Today, the company says the iPad has dropped to a 91.07% share.These are US stats, generally, rather than worldwide. The next biggest is... Samsung, at just under 2%. Remember, these are browsing stats, not sales stats.Nokia's survival in question after 10,000 more job are cut &gt;&gt; The GuardianNokia's future as an independent company is hanging in the balance and Microsoft could be forced to rescue the business if chief executive Stephen Elop cannot resuscitate the group's smartphone business by the end of the year, analysts have warned.Dramatic.Which iOS 6 features can which iOS device run? &gt;&gt; EngadgetNeat table layout indicating which will be able to do what. Fragmentation? Striation? Whatever, it seems to set up Apple (is it still going to be selling the three-year-old 3GS in autumn?) with a strategy where it can offer different phones with different capabilities at different prices, once the next device comes out.HTC resists push toward low-end phones &gt;&gt; WSJ.comDespite the company's focus on emerging markets, it has no intention to enter the low-end segment of the smartphone market, Chief Executive Peter Chou said in an interview Wednesday."We don't want to destroy our brand image," Mr. Chou said. "We insist on using better materials to make better products that offer premium experience. Many consumers like that."Mr. Chou's comments come as many analysts are raising questions about HTC's strategy, with some of them saying that the company needs to rethink its pricing and offer less-costly phones.How many premium brands can exist at the top of each mobile OS? We know who's got the top spot on Android, and it isn't HTC.World's first 'tax' on Microsoft's Internet Explorer 7 &gt;&gt; BBC NewsThe Australian online retailer Kogan.com has introduced the world's first "tax" on Microsoft's Internet Explorer 7 (IE7) browser.Guaranteed to be taken up by as many as zero other retailers.Dealing with trolls: a guide &gt;&gt; The GuardianTim Dowling:I, for example, enjoy reading the blogs of people who tell me I can't write.Worth reading, of course.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hurray, it's Friday. Go on, tell us what you're up to at the weekend!
Nokia's future as an independent company is hanging in the balance and Microsoft could be forced to rescue the business if chief executive Stephen Elop cannot resuscitate the group's smartphone business by the end of the year, analysts have warned. The Finnish mobile phone manufacturer announced 10,000 job cuts on Thursday and issued its second profits warning in nine weeks.Nokia's shares dropped 18%, falling below the €2 mark for the first time since 1996, as it acted to stem massive losses by cutting a fifth of its handset workforce. A total of 40,000 jobs have gone at the company and its Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture since Elop joined in September 2010.With Nokia still unable to dent Apple and Samsung's dominance in the smartphone market, Elop all but admitted the date of Nokia's recovery was impossible to forecast, saying in the second profits warning since April that the intention was to return to profit "as soon as possible"."Stephen Elop is running out of time," said Francisco Jeronimo at telecoms research firm IDC. "If Nokia doesn't grow by the end of this year they will be in a very dangerous position. Many people are saying Microsoft will acquire Nokia."With smartphones emerging as the personal computers of the future, and Nokia the only company attempting to sell significant numbers of those operated by Microsoft's Windows Phone interface, the US software company's prospects are closely entwined with Nokia's."A Microsoft takeover is within the realms of possibility," said analyst Janardan Menon at broker Liberum Capital. "Microsoft needs its Windows strategy on smartphones and tablets to work quite desperately, and desperate requirements could result in desperate moves."Nokia is pinning its hopes of survival on the Lumia range of phones, its first to use Windows software. But between the lavishly marketed global unveiling last November and March this year, the company had sold just 3m Lumias – a drop in the ocean compared to the 72m Apple iPhones sold since October.Having lost its position as the world's biggest phone maker to Samsung earlier this year, Nokia is burning through cash. It has spent €2.1bn (£1.7bn) over the past five quarters, meaning that, without cost cuts, its €4.9bn reserves could be gone within a couple of years. The savings announced on Thursday  are designed to address that problem. Analysts at JP Morgan forecast that operating losses combined with restructuring outflows will leave Nokia with €1.63bn at the end of 2013.In what Elop said was a "hard day" for the company, Nokia announced it would turn out the lights at the Salo factory, its last in Finland: Nokia's home country will bear 3,700 of the job losses. Research and development facilities in Germany and Canada are being closed, and Nokia is retreating from non-key markets, so that it can concentrate its firepower on America, China, the UK and larger European economies.The Vertu luxury phone business, which operates from Hampshire and produces jewel-encrusted handsets for the super-rich, is to be sold to Guernsey-based private equity house EQT, and further disposals of non-core assets are expected.Asked why his strategy had not yet produced results, Elop said there was "frustration" because so few consumers were aware of Nokia's new products: "We have truly great products but aren't getting the traction that we would prefer."The marketing department will now report directly to Elop, and a management reshuffle has seen key staff replaced and US executive Chris Weber – who, like Elop, previously worked for Microsoft – promoted to run sales and marketing.The company is pinning its hopes on Windows Phone 8, the next version of the operating system and the first that Nokia has helped design. Microsoft is expected to unveil a test version next week, and Nokia phones running the system will be on sale for Christmas.Although other manufacturers, such as HTC, make some Windows handsets, the software's share of the market is currently just 1.5% worldwide, leagues behind Google's Android, which is used on most non-Apple smartphones. Nokia's chief financial officer, Timo Ihamuotila, said Windows needed to reach 10% market share."They have got to show meaningful signs of turning the business around by the end of the year or there are going to be some big questions asked in terms of the management team," said Ben Wood, head of research at CCS Insight.Both the Lumia phones and the Windows software appeal to consumers, said Carolina Milanesi at research firm Gartner. "There's a big party saying Nokia is dead. I'm not one of those. I still think there is a lot of value in Nokia."
Europe certainly isn't a tech-funding wasteland, but the investment ecosystem for mobile startups on this side of the Atlantic is still a world away from Silicon Valley. So should more European firms be looking to California for funding?One possibility isTandem Fund II, a $32m fund unveiled by Tandem Capital. The company, based just outside San Francisco in Burlingame, styles itself as a "mobile-exclusive accelerator", investing $200k sums in early-stage mobile startups – including companies from outside North America.Founded in June 2007, the company's first fund invested in startups including ZumoDrive and Attassa – since acquired by Motorola and YouSendIt respectively. It has also invested in mobile games firms PlayHaven and BitRhymes, taking a hands-on approach in all cases."We call it muscle capital," says co-founder Doug Renert. "We invest funding, but very importantly our own sweat and time and effort into each business, to come in very early to try to get those businesses traction and take them forward."Renert claims that nine of the 10 companies receiving investment from Tandem's first fund were either acquired or went on to raise money at higher valuations – a 90% success rate. Hence the second $32m fund, with an array of high-profile Silicon Valley figures on board as strategic investors."We're funding three companies every quarter, so 12 a year," says Renert. "We now have enough capital to participate not just in first rounds, but to continue being a part of the later funding rounds too."Funded companies are expected to relocate to Tandem's Burlingame office for the duration of their six-month incubation period, although they're free to then move elsewhere. Including back to their home countries, for Tandem is casting its net wide."We had one team move out from Norway for six months, and another from India. They may not stay out here, but it's important to closely collaborate during that critical phase," says Renert."There are great founders, engineers, product experts and entrepreneurs around the world. If all you do is fish around Silicon Valley and go hang out at Stanford [University], you're fishing in a relatively small pond. And lots of other people have lines in the water!"Silicon Valley is thrumming with incubators, angel investors and other sources of funding for startups, with apps and mobile technology firms high in the mix. Renert hopes that Tandem's exclusive mobile focus, its promise of close collaboration and its decision not to spread its money and time too thinly will make it an attractive option."You see some of these other programmes doing 100 companies at a time, which by the nature of the volume, means at best you can be a mentor or an adviser, but you really can't get deeply involved in the company and understand the market as much as you would otherwise," he says.Tandem may be focused on mobile, but it's not narrowing down much within that: Renert says it hasn't ruled out any category of mobile startup, from e-commerce and gaming through to payment solutions and productivity apps.There are nuances within this strategy. Renert admits that mobile gaming is "a very crowded space – it's going to be harder and harder to build the breakout game studio". Yet that didn't stop Tandem investing in BitRhymes, which has carved a niche for itself with female-focused casino games, attracting 2m active users.Renert says mobile commerce still has lots of untapped potential, and suggests that health and education are key "transformational" areas where mobile startups could grow very large very quickly.He's also bullish on the potential impact of tablets across all these categories. "We have just scratched the surface of how a tablet disrupts all these markets, and user behaviour in general. It's a much bigger opportunity than even the phone was," he says."There are not as many apps out there, and there is still a wide-open window to become a leader on the tablet. That window may be around for another 12 months or so: it's a pretty critical time in establishing leadership, and we're seeing a lot of companies starting with tablet and then going to phone later."That said, Tandem expects mobile to continue to spawn big brands – a shift from the last few years, where the likes of Facebook, Zynga, LinkedIn and Groupon all emerged as primarily web-based businesses, before going to mobile later."We feel that the next set of game-changing brands are going to come out of the mobile space," says Renert."Billions of new users are getting their first access to high-bandwidth internet around the world with these devices. Location and touchscreen change the way people behave, and every industry is completely disrupted by this. And startups for the first time have equal access to those users to the large companies: it's a total level playing field."Tandem's next deadline for applications for its Tandem Fund II is 1 July. It will be interesting to see if more European mobile startups throw their hats in the ring.
There's something depressing about the fact that even in one of the most progressive industries in the world, we're still debating the treatment of women.We can fit 4,000 songs into something the size of a matchbox! We can kill demons in previously unimaginable resolutions while sat on the sofa! Wait, treat women as equals? I'm not sure we're ready for that...It's been a hell of a week to be a woman in the technology industry, especially in the games sector. There were celebrations, there were achievements, there were comments that would make even the most extreme of stand-up comedians cry.Take media critic and gamerAnita Sarkeesianwho set up a Kickstarter to fund her work on a Tropes v Women video series. She hit her target, she exceeded her target, she got thousands of horrific internet comments, of which "I hope you get cancer" was the mildest.Meanwhile at E3 2012, actress Aisha Tyler hosted the Ubisoft conference, and stepped off stage as congratulatory messages of support like "this is what happens when you let the Jews and liberals infect your industry" flooded in. Shehit back at them, with the signoff message "GFYS". Yes, it is an abbreviation.No one can argue that sort of comments Sarkeesian and Tyler have been subjected to are anything other than vile. It's easy to dismiss them as the work of the always disappointing "bottom half of the internet", that place where sense and reason ends and comments begin, but it's more than just empty trolling.The worst part? However shocked you are at the words used, we have to realise that this sort of ultra-sexism is being reinforced by the supposedly forward-thinking tech companies at the very top of the industry.There are the manufacturers who hire the booth babes to stand by their products; the marketing men who sign off on thesexist advertising, the company events whereidiotsare paid actual money to talk like a 1960s pub landlord.You know there's an issue when even the dullest of the computer firms are getting in trouble for abadly judged tweetabout a (female, obviously) model's behind.Separately these issues might seems like trifles, but together they add up to an unflattering portrait of the tech industry as the slightly sleazy executive, greying around the temples while simultaneously obsessing over and yet excluding women from his world. Take the thoughts of one middle-aged UK gaming executive, helpfully posting on an article about booth babes: "We once staffed our E3 booth with Hooters girls. Tastefully." Because nothing says good taste like a pun on owls and boobs. And boobs are funny, aren't they? Men don't have them, so they must be.These attitudes have to change, and until they do, the comments aimed at women like Tyler and Sarkeesian won't either. Those grim little bottom-half insults are inspired by the same top-half sexism that leads to model arse tweets; they're just magnified by the anonymity of the internet.Some top tips for companies? Don't tweet anything about an employee you wouldn't want someone saying about your little sister. Come up with a new gimmick for trade shows that doesn't involve human buttocks. Don't run advertising that might make Alf Garnett chuckle. And a tip for all the would-be soooo brave anonymous critics of Tyler, or Sarkeesian: if you'd find those insults OK aimed at your mother, with the same relentless quality – then hey, how about imagining having them aimed at yourself? Now that really would be Lara Croft gameplay.You might think you're bored with seeing this debate. Guess what? As a woman covering the technology industry, I'm bored with having to have it. The sooner we stamp it out, the sooner we can go back to talking about Facebook, the new Call Of Duty and how much we'd have to sell a kidney for to get that new MacBook Pro.•Rachel Weber is a full-time writer atGamesIndustry International
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today – a games-heavy selection, since it's Thursday, which has become the key release day for mobile developers.Pocket PlanesBrand new from NimbleBit – the developer behind iOS hit Tiny Tower – is a simulation game where you manage a fleet of airplanes as they fly passengers and cargo around the world. The game features similar pixel-perfect visuals to Tiny Tower, and social features to trade plane parts with friends.iPhone / iPadTemple Run: BraveArcade game Temple Run has been hugely popular with mobile gamers, but now there's a new version tying in with Disney/Pixar's new film Brave. It sees heroine Merida doing the running, sliding and jumping, with spruced-up visuals and Scottish scenery.iPhone / iPadMax Payne MobileRockstar Games didn't waste much time porting its mobilised Max Payne game from iOS to Android. It sees you playing framed cop Max as he tries to clear his name, with the game's signature slow-motion bullet time intact. It's available for Android smartphones and tablets.AndroidToca TrainSwedish kid-apps developer Toca Boca was feted during Apple's WWDC keynote. Now it has a new app out, Toca Train, which puts children in the position of a train driver on a cartoon island. It's less a game with goals, and more a digital train set, marking the company's move into 3D.iPhone / iPadAmpliTube SlashTwo new apps in one week for rawk guitarist Slash – his album-app came out earlier in the week, but this is more for other musicians. AmpliTube Slash is a mobile guitar effects processor and recording studio app, based on Slash's real-life pedals and amps. It's a branded version of the existing AmpliTube app, and the link above is for iPhone – here's theseparate iPad version.iPhone / iPadTop Gear: Stunt School RevolutionThe BBC's Top Gear already has a popular Stunt School app, but now it's been rebooted with more cars, locations and stunts to pull. Escaping Alcatraz, balloon-hopping motor-homes and the ability to "speed through a roller-coaster on a New York skyscraper with a cow on your pickup". As you do.iPhone / iPadMy Xbox LiveMicrosoft has taken its Xbox Live app to Android, providing people with a way to sign in to their profiles and check their achievements, tweak their Xbox Live avatar and chat to friends on the gaming social network.AndroidAviary Photo EditorAviary's photo-editing tools are used by other apps, but now they've been turned into a standalone app too. It includes core editing tools, including the ability to sharpen pics, adjust the colour balance and add virtual stickers and text. Effects packs are available as in-app purchases too. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneMagic PianoMusic apps developer Smule has brought its Magic Piano app from iOS to Android. It's a virtual piano with more than 200 songs available to download and play, from the worlds of rock, pop and classical.AndroidBrave: Storybook DeluxeTwo Brave apps in one day, as Disney puts some marketing welly behind its new animated film. This is a storybook-app based on the Pixar movie, with interactivity and animation, as well as an archery mini-game.iPhone / iPadPinstagramYes, your instincts are correct: this iPad app mashes up Instagram and Pinterest, showing people's Instagram photos in a Pinterest-style board, and helping them to post those pics to their actual Pinterest account. Whether it has a chance of survival when those two services launch official iPad apps is open to question.iPadReturn to Wolf CreekAcclaimed Australian horror movie Wolf Creek has a new iPad app, including its original trailer, interviews, deleted scenes, a 45-minute documentary and storyboards, as well as the option to "post your scream" to the film's companion website.iPadNo Zombies AllowedMobile social games firm Booyah's latest title focuses on the undead, as you try to save a town by recruiting survivors from a zombie invasion – getting supplies from businesses in the real world around you.iPhone / iPadTexas Hold'em King LiveRIM's BlackBerry PlayBook gets a good-looking online poker game from Magmic, albeit in beta for now. It includes in-game chat, a host of avatars to choose, and is played purely for fun.BlackBerry PlayBook
I'm trying to find sources for purchasing FLAC music files online. One of my search results is formelodishop.com, which is selling albums at prices much lower than other online retailers. How can I confirm the legality of the service? Can I proceed to purchase in good faith?Gary CrightonDigital music files are available in a lot of different formats, including MP3, WMV, AAC and FLAC. MP3 was the first popular format, and it is still the de facto standard. However, it uses "lossy data compression" to reduce file sizes and download times. Basically, using an idea known as "perceptual coding", it reduces the precision or discards data that most people wouldn't hear if it were there.As hard drives have become bigger and cheaper, and broadband has got faster, people have become more comfortable with larger files, which can deliver better sound quality. In the early days, bit-rates of 96kbps to 160kbps were common. Today, most online sources offer MP3s encoded at 320kbps, which should sound significantly better. Not many untrained listeners can reliably distinguish a 320kbps MP3 file from an original CD.Nonetheless, there is a growing demand for "lossless" files that don't sacrifice any of the musical information in the source material. There are several lossless audio formats, and they should all sound identical. However, the open source FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) has become the most widely supported, and is currently the de facto standard.This doesn't mean FLAC is popular. It appeals mainly to the minority of the population who consider themselves audiophiles, but it's not supported by Apple's iTunes store or the iPod players that dominate the mass market. Amazon could probably push FLAC into the mainstream, but since it has failed to support FLAC, the main sources of legal downloads are ofen quite specialised. They include smaller music stores and record labels, bands selling their own music, and audiophile sources such as Linn Records.There's probably not a huge demand for FLAC files of pop/rock music (unless Amazon wants to prove me wrong). However, there is a demand for new music that will never appear on CD, and for recordings that offer better sound quality than CDs (which sounded great in the 1980s, but are far from perfect). This includes "studio masters", which may be 96kHz/24-bit or 192kHz/24-bit compared with the 44.1kHz/16-bit music you get on an audio CD.If you really want FLAC files of popular music, then I suggest you buy the CDs and make your own. If you can find legitimate FLAC versions of these albums, they are unlikely to be cheaper than the CDs, especially if you buy in sales or on eBay.If you want a reasonably mixed selection of FLAC files, then the best online stores includeBleep.com,Qobuz,HDtracksandRhino. HDtracks only works with American internet addresses, but I'm told you can use a proxy and pay by PayPal. Rhino requires a credit or debit card issued by a US bank with a US billing address. Qobuz is French. All four have some mainstream music on FLAC, and Qobuz has more than 60 studio masters.Gubemusic, based in Norway, has a good selection of classical, jazz and experimental music, and currently offers 90 studio masters. There's alsoiTrax.com, which specialises in high-definition surround sound.If you want to buy from bands thenBandcampis a fantastic source: it currently offers more than 4m tracks and 530,936 albums. Bandcamp requires bands to upload lossless files (uncompressed WAV, AIFF, FLAC) which it uses to create the lossy download files most people buy. The site tells bands: "Sure, most fans will just want the MP3 and won't know or care about anything else, but there's a rabid minority out there who'll love that you're giving them a choice. And if a new format/quality becomes à la mode (like when Amazon's MP3 store made iTunes' 128k AACs seem antiquated), we'll transcode to that too, without you having to do a thing.""Future proofing" is a major part of FLAC's appeal.Juno Records offers about 2m tracks atJuno Download, and if you buy a WAV file then you can download a FLAC version instead. Other sources includeBlue Coast Records,Audioporn Records,2L the Nordic Sound, andHigh Definition Tape Transfers. Audioporn does drum'n'bass. 2L records classical music, often in Norwegian churches. HDTT is digitising tapes of "forgotten performances of historical importance", again mostly classical music. I suspect that many of the people who buy from 2L and HDTT will use their downloads to burn CDs or DVDs.Among the audiophile sources,Linn Recordsis well known for recording and distributing high quality CDs and music files that bring out the best in Linn hi-fi equipment. The website offers 24-bit studio masters in both FLAC and lossless WMA. Linn's rival, Naim, has launchedNaim Label, offering "320kbps MP3, FLAC and fully uncompressed 24-bit WAV downloads". Bowers and Wilkins has aSociety of Soundwhere subscribers get "high-quality albums from Peter Gabriel's Real World Studios and the London Symphony Orchestra … in Apple Lossless and studio-quality FLAC".So what about MelodiShop.com? The site's FAQ asks"Is your web site legal?"and replies: "Yes, the activity of MelodiShop.com is carried out according to the legislation of the license agreement # I-003/11 from June, 14 2011 of the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Agency of Copyright and Related Rights" (UACRR)." It says it pays "full-scale author's royalties to owners of pieces of music, trademarks, names, slogans and other copyright objects used on the site".It reminds me of the Moscow-based AllOfMP3 site, which sold cheap downloads under a Russian licence until the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) sued it for $1.65tn and it came under pressure from the Russian and American governments. (The story is atWikipedia.) I am not a lawyer, obviously, and I don't know how the RIAA views MelodiShop's Ukrainian licence, but I would not be totally astounded if it suffered a similar fate.If you are downloading FLAC (or APE or WAV) files from unknown sources, including MelodiShop.com, it's a good idea to check them withAudiochecker, which will attempt to identify the source material. It may say, for example, that a FLAC file was made from CDDA, ie an audio CD, which might be fine. It could, however, be made from an MP3 file, which would not.
It started almost immediately – the anonymous bile; the senseless aggression. Minutes into Ubisoft's E3 press conference, gamers were hitting Twitter and forums like Neogaf, complaining about the host, actor Aisha Tyler.News site Kotakupicked out some of the choicest examples. "This is what happens when you let the Jews and liberals infect your industry to inject 'diversity' and 'progress' don't let them kill our games people" was one of the more extreme.The contention is that Tyler knew nothing about games; that the TV actress modestly famous for roles in cartoon series Archer as well as Friends and US magazine show Talk Soup was here just to grab the fee and run.It is an accusation Tyler herself has now addressed viaa furious prose poem, posted on her Facebook page on Wednesday. Titled simply "Dear gamers", the piece details her lifelong love of games, her voice-over roles in various game titles, and her regular attendance at E3:I go to E3 each year because I love video games.Because new titles still get me high.Because I still love getting swag.Love wearing my gamer pride on my sleeve.People ask me what console I play.Motherfucker, ALL of them.24 hours later, the post has gone viral, amassing more than 7,000 likes and 2,000 shares, and gaining coverage on all the video game news sites.The piece comes at a time in which debate over games industry sexism is raging. This week, the executive producer of Tomb Raider, Ron Rosenberg, was criticised for suggesting that an attempted sexual assault had been introduced into the game as a means of "breaking down" lead character Lara Croft and making her appear more vulnerable to players. Earlier this month, a trailer for the assassination game Hitman: Absolution – also from Tomb Raider publisher Square Enix – was attacked for its fetishised depiction of violence against women.Tylerhas suggested that, in her case, the internet invective has been more about a perceived non-gamer hosting a games press conference, rather than a woman. There's a possibility she is being overly generous to her detractors.In 2007, when Ubisoft producer Jade Raymond took to the stage at the Microsoft E3 press conference to introduce Assassin's Creed, she was subject to a barrage of internet misogyny. Countless comments questioned her involvement in the production of the game, with many suggesting she was onstage merely as "eye candy". Indeed, the controversy reached its shameful nadir when an internet comic was produced showing Raymond in a variety of pornographic situations with gamers.And right now, blogger Anita Sarkeesian is the target of sustained abuse, thanks to her Kickstarter project,Tropes v Women in Video Games. Sarkeesian is seeking funds to produce a video series analysing the depiction of female game characters.However, her Kickstarter, YouTube and Twitter pages have been inundated with aggressive comments, threatening Sarkeesian with sexual violence and death – some of the more disturbing examples have been collectedhere. There has reportedly been an organised campaign to get her YouTube videos labelled as terrorism so that they could be banned.However, both Sarkeesian and Tyler have received an enormous amount of support and solidarity. Sarkeesian's Kickstarter target was originally $6,000: so far, supporters have donated more than $120,000, with many becoming involved as a direct consequence of the hate campaign. As one comment on the Kickstarter page puts it: "You deserve every extra cent for having to face all that hateful trolling and misogynist crap."Meanwhile, Tyler's Facebook page has become a sort of meeting point for game players outside of the traditional male teen demographic. "My hero!" writes one female gamer. "I get so much crap at work for playing games. I wish they would get off my back."
The government's "online snooping" scheme to track email, Facebook, Twitter and other web use comes with an official pricetag of at least £1.8bn and an official warning that the figure may well prove to be an underestimate, the Home Office has revealed.Ministers have already agreed to pay all the costs of the scheme, which will require phone and internet companies to collect and store for 12 months the records of internet and mobile phone use in Britain for access by police and intelligence services.The draft communications data bill published on Thursday says the move will cost £1.8bn over 10 years but that an official impact assessment says the pricetag is in line with the Treasury's "optimism bias" that understates the cost of major projects. It adds that the technical complexity of the scheme may well increase the costs and that the estimate does not allow for inflation or VAT.The former Tory shadow home secretary David Davis accused the home secretary, Theresa May, of proposing an "incredibly intrusive'' scheme that was exactly the same as the proposal David Cameron had attacked when Labour proposed it in office.May, in turn, branded the scheme's critics "conspiracy theorists", risking an even deeper breach with her own party's libertarian wing over the plan.The communications data that police and intelligence services may seek about an individual under the communications bill includes email addresses and phone numbers of people who have been in contact; when this happened; where; and the details giving the police records of suspects' associates and activities. It will remain the case that they will not be allowed to access the content of emails, texts, mobile calls and other confidential web use without a warrant signed by the home secretary.The Liberal Democrats are expected to scale back their criticism of the legislation after Nick Clegg's intervention secured a series of safeguards, including a scrutiny inquiry by MPs and peers that will report by the end of November.May defended the 550,000 individual requests for data each year made by security officials as a vital tool to catch serious criminals and terrorists.She told the Sun: "I just don't understand why some people might criticise these proposals. I have no doubt conspiracy theorists will come up with some ridiculous claims about how these measures are an infringement of freedom. But without changing the law, the only freedom we would protect is that of criminals, terrorists and paedophiles."May's comments were backed by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, who wrote in the Times that the powers could be "a matter of life and death".He said having greater powers to access data was essential to waging a "total war on crime" and that police risked losing the fight against crime unless parliament passed a law enabling them to collect more communications data."Put simply, the police need access to this information to keep up with the criminals who bring so much harm to victims and our society," he wrote.But the measure is expected to continue to attract fierce criticism from libertarian Conservatives.Davis said the fact that there were already half a million requests each year from the police and intelligence services showed just how intrusive it was."This is exactly the same thing that Labour proposed in 2009. They went from a central database to this and we attacked it fiercely. In fact, David Cameron attacked it," said Davis, referring to a period when the Conservatives were campaigning against the spread of the "surveillance society".He said serious criminals would quickly find other ways to communicate and the only people it would catch were the innocent and the incompetent."It's not content, but it's incredibly intrusive," Davis told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "If they really want to do things like this – and we all accept they use data to catch criminals – get a warrant. Get a judge to sign a warrant, not the guy at the next desk, not somebody else in the same organisation."
A spectral presence threatened to loom over this year's E3: Microsoft and Sony are both preparing consoles to replace the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, but held off unveiling them since their existing consoles have both reached the most profitable phase of their life-cycles.However, much to the surprise of everyone at the LA Convention Centre, next-gen gaming turned out to be on display, in thoroughly corporeal form – namely, Ubisoft's Watch Dogs and LucasArts/Activision's Star Wars 1313.Not that either party, of course, was prepared to admit that Watch Dogs and Star Wars 1313 are next-gen games: they couldn't, given that neither Microsoft nor Sony has even admitted that its future consoles are waiting in the wings.Instead, we were asked to accept that they were operating on "PCs" – undoubtedly fantastically high-end rigs crammed with currently experimental components that will power the unacknowledged consoles of the future (and in the case of Star Wars 1313, made by graphics-processing specialist nVidia, which may well supply chips for either or both of the Xbox 360 and PS3 replacements).Such niceties were irrelevant in our opinion – all will become clear in due course, when both companies are ready – which, in the case of Microsoft at least, almost certainly means E3 2013. But the important aspect of the exercise was to glean an unprecedented insight into what the next generation of console gaming will bring.Watch DogsAnd that's certainly what we got from the hugely impressive Watch Dogs – for many people, it was a candidate for game of the show.Set in a meticulously reconstructed Chicago, it casts you as a sort of uber-hacker, able to mine crucial information from the mobile phones of any character he comes across, hack into and manipulate traffic lights and CCTV cameras, create diversions by jamming mobile phones and so on.Ubisoft's tagline for the game was presented as: "The city is your weapon," and the fact that the game derives its gameplay from the excessive information overload which is becoming a growing societal concern is simply delicious.From what we saw of Watch Dogs, the next generation of consoles will allow developers to create strikingly realistic cities, populated by a plausible number of AI-controlled characters with which you can interact, and the gameplay possibilities that alone throws up are boundless.Star Wars 1313LucasArts' demo of Star Wars 1313 showed a game which is clearly at a much earlier stage of development than Watch Dogs, but it did highlight some vital elements of both the process of making next-gen games and their execution.One daunting aspect of developing games for a new crop of consoles is that with greater number-crunching power and better graphics come increased risks – bigger, more expensive teams are required.LucasArts, part of George Lucas' legendary creative empire, emphasised how, for Star Wars 1313, it has drawn on the expertise of CG pioneers Industrial Light &amp; Magic, Skywalker Sound and LucasFilm Animation.Before they got stuck into a live demo of the game, LucasArts showed a couple of videos, the first consisting of talking heads from all those Lucas-owned companies, and the second drilling further down into the incredibly detailed performance-capture that will drive the game's characters.LucasArts and their affiliates had developed a rather uncomfortable-looking item of headgear, including two video cameras pointing back at each actor's face.The result was to massively up the level of motion-capture detail from what we are currently accustomed to – with random, tiny eye-movements and even, it was explained, an accurate depiction of the way the skin in the eye-socket deforms with different facial expressions.As a result, the computer-generated characters into whom the resulting data had been plugged looked and felt far more human than they do in even the best current games. The next generation of platforms should banish that wooden, robotic, dead-eyed ambience that games characters routinely possess at the moment.The demo itself placed two characters in a spaceship at what will apparently be the beginning of Star Wars 1313 – descending to level 1313, below the surface of the planet Coruscant, and a notable den of lawlessness and criminality.You'll play a bounty hunter, no doubt drawn from Star Wars' huge and familiar pool of characters – LucasArts explained that the characters shown were place-holders. In terms of gameplay, Uncharted was clearly the reference point, as both third-person combat and clambering around were on display.After some gloriously convincing dialogue between you and the ship's pilot, things didn't go as planned during the descent: a nearby ship grappled onto yours, various unsavoury characters boarded and a big fight broke out, eventually leading you to grapple across to the other ship and clamber from its precarious extremities to a safer point.A few aspects were very striking: the presence of virtual fire while looked vastly more convincing than anything we've seen in a game before, an incredibly high level of detail in the environment (as well as on the characters) and a general crispness to the graphics.Frankly, Star Wars 1313 looked much more convincing and compelling (not to mention better written and acted) than anything George Lucas has added to the Star Wars canon since the 1980s.When the next generation of consoles appear, from the evidence of Watch Dogs and Star Wars 1313 alone it seems the very least we can expect is for games to compete with films on a level aesthetic playing field, while letting you control their protagonists.You could argue that the likes of Mass Effect 3 have already achieved that. But be prepared for it to become the norm rather than the exception.•Steve Boxer travelled to E3 2012 with Activision
The technology industry and government should do more to protect young internet users from potential abuse, the NSPCC has warned in the wake of revelations about highly sexualised content on Habbo Hotel, a virtual world popular with children and teenagers.Sulake, the Finnish company that owns Habbo, which has about 15 million users a month across more than 100 countries, has suffered a series of setbacks since a Channel 4 News investigation found seemingly routine occurrences of sexualised or violent online chat on the site, as well as sexual approaches to young participants.The British private equity group 3i announced it was selling its 16% stake in Sulake, it said in a statement late on Wednesday: "3i has actively supported the Sulake board in determining the right course of action in these very challenging circumstances. Following a board meeting today, we have resigned our board position and will cease to be a shareholder in the company."Tesco, WH Smith and Gamehad announced shortly before that they had stopped selling gift cardsfor the virtual currency used on the site, with which players can "buy" extras, such as accessories for virtual hotel rooms. The revenue from this helped Sulake bring in an annual turnover of more than £50m.Habbo, in which users create online alter egos, or avatars, to explore a hotel-themed world of brightly coloured teddy bears and cartoon characters, is officially aimed at children aged 13 upwards but used by some as young as nine.Channel 4 News producer Rachel Seifert spent two months playing on Habbo Hotel, visiting the site 50 times. Posing as an 11-year-old girl, she found the speech balloons through which users communicate were often full of pornographic chat. She said: "Within two minutes I was being asked individually: 'Do you have a webcam?', 'Can we chat on MSN, on Skype?' I was also, within a couple of minutes, asked to strip, fully naked, and asked what would I do on a webcam."Not only were such activities not blocked, but the infrastructure of the online world appeared geared to such sexualisation, with some rooms given names such as "naughty nightclub".Sulakeannounced earlier this week  it was blocking all chatbetween Habbo users while the claims were investigated. The company's chief executive, Paul LaFontaine, said: "I am greatly saddened that following reports of abusive behaviours amongst a very small part of the Habbo community we have taken the decision to mute all conversations across the site."Sulake says it employs 225 moderators who monitor 70m lines of typed conversation every day.Jon Brown, head of strategy for the NSPCC, said: "We've been concerned for some time that websites designed for children and young people are vulnerable."While would-be online predators seeking to get access to children are "extremely skilled and extremely inventive", he said, more needed to be done: "It is very difficult, but I think the industry needs to take it a bit more seriously. They're reluctant to. It's not very good publicity for them to say: this is a fantastic resource for their child, and they may also be targeted for abuse."The government's UK Council for Child Internet Safety (UKCCIS), which brings together industry groups, campaigners and police, also needed to "pick up this issue more robustly", Brown said, while schools could also deliver better education about online safety.Ultimately, he said, it was up to parents: "Particularly for younger children, it's really important that parents are monitoring internet use, that the laptop isn't tucked away in a bedroom and they're not able to monitor the sorts of sites the children are visiting."The children's minister, Tim Loughton, said the government was working on the issue through the UKCCIS. He added: "Businesses need to do more to help parents enable their children to use the internet safely and responsibly. Websites should make it straightforward for people to complain about offensive content, and should have systems that allow them to feed back what they have done in response."Parents have to help their children learn how to be safe online just as they would teach them to be safe in the offline world. Sites where children – some really very young indeed – are known to be networking should have suitable and appropriate moderating."
The government is to offer a blank cheque to internet and phone firms that will be required to track everyone's email, Twitter, Facebook and other internet use under legislation to be published on Thursday.The disclosure means the taxpayer could face an as-yet-unspecified bill running into hundreds of millions of pounds for the "internet snooping scheme".It came as the former Conservative shadow home secretary, David Davis, accused the home secretary, Theresa May, of proposing an "incredibly intrusive'' scheme that was exactly the same as the proposal David Cameron had attacked when Labour proposed it in office.May, in turn, branded the scheme's critics "conspiracy theorists", risking an even deeper breach with her own party's libertarian wing over the plan.The Home Office has confirmed it will foot the bill, thought to run into tens and possibly hundreds of millions, for collecting and storing the extra social media and web browsing records needed to implement the scheme, which critics have dubbed an "online snooper's charter".Ministers did not put a figure on the cost of the scheme but said it would be far less than the £2bn price tag estimated when Labour put forward a web-tracking scheme based on a central Home Office database in 2006.The communications data police and intelligence services may seek about an individual under the communications bill includes email addresses and phone numbers of people who have been in contact, when this happened, and where, the details giving the police records of suspects' associates and activities. It will remain the case that they will not be allowed to access the content of emails, texts, mobile calls and other confidential web use without a warrant signed by the home secretary.The Liberal Democrats are expected to scale back their criticism of the legislation, which is to be published in draft form on Thursday, after Nick Clegg's intervention secured a series of safeguards, including a scrutiny inquiry by MPs and peers that will report by the end of November.May dismissed critics of the new powers, which will allow police and intelligence services to track Facebook, Twitter, email and other web use, as "conspiracy theorists". She defended the 550,000 individual requests for data each year made by security officials as a vital tool to catch serious criminals and terrorists.She told the Sun: "I just don't understand why some people might criticise these proposals. I have no doubt conspiracy theorists will come up with some ridiculous claims about how these measures are an infringement of freedom. But without changing the law, the only freedom we would protect is that of criminals, terrorists and paedophiles."May's comments were backed by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, who wrote in the Times that the powers could be "a matter of life and death".He said having greater powers to access data was essential to waging a "total war on crime" and that police risked losing the fight against crime unless parliament passed a law enabling them to collect more communications data."Put simply, the police need access to this information to keep up with the criminals who bring so much harm to victims and our society."But the measure is expected to continue to attract fierce criticism from libertarian Conservatives.Davis said the fact that there were already half a million requests each year from the police and intelligence services showed just how intrusive it was."This is exactly the same thing that Labour proposed in 2009. They went from a central database to this and we attacked it fiercely. In fact, David Cameron attacked it," said Davis, referring to a period when the Conservatives were campaigning against the spread of the "surveillance society".He said serious criminals would quickly find other ways to communicate and the only people it would catch were the innocent and the incompetent."It's not content, but it's incredibly intrusive," Davis told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "If they really want to do things like this – and we all accept they use data to catch criminals – get a warrant. Get a judge to sign a warrant, not the guy at the next desk, not somebody else in the same organisation."Anonline petitionrun by the campaign group 38 Degrees has  attracted more than 163,000 signatures under the slogan: "Our civil liberties have taken a battering in recent years from politicians of all backgrounds. Now it's time to for us to push back."Tom Brake, co-chair of the Lib Dem home affairs committee, said the decision to publish the bill in draft meant there was  an opportunity to examine all its aspects before it was voted on in parliament.He said there was no objection in principle to extending the capability of the police and security services to access communications data from emails, texts and mobile phones to Twitter, Facebook and other   social media. But the party wanted assurances that it was technically possible to access the "who sent what to whom, when and where" traffic data without accessing content – a point about which there is much debate.Brake said the Lib Dems wanted to see the list of state agencies that could not access such personal data without a warrant extended to cover bodies such as the Food Standards Agency. He also wanted to know what proportion of the  550,000 requests for communications data each year successfully contributed to investigations, and whether it was possible to reduce the volume.The safeguards secured by Clegg include the joint scrutiny committee of MPs and peers, who will hear expert evidence, including  from the Home Office, and examine all aspects to ensure the measure is not "rammed through parliament". It has already been quietly agreed that the committee should report by the end of November, implying a timetable that could see the measure on the statute book within 12 months.It is expected that inquiries into the bill will be mounted by parliament's intelligence and security and home affairs committees before it emerges in its final form.Other safeguards to be detailed in the draft bill are a "case-by-case" oversight by the interception of the communications surveillance commissioner, the publication of a privacy impact statement, and powers for the information commissioner to ensure the stored data is kept secure then destroyed when the 12-month retention period expires.Individuals who feel they have been subject to unlawful tracking will be able to complain to a panel of senior judges in the investigatory powers tribunal.Internet and phone companies are already required to give the police and security services access to the communications data they retain for their own billing and business purposes. But the Home Office states that the rapidly changing nature of the net, including the widespread use of social media that is not billed item by item, means that this power is no longer sufficient for tracking the activities of criminals online.Officials say 25% of requests for communications data by the police and security agencies can no longer be met.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnalysis: Apple's big enemy in smartphone wars: delay &gt;&gt; ReutersBig piece, worth reading in full.Microsoft Is Buying Yammer, According To People At Yammer &gt;&gt; Business InsiderUm, wow: "UPDATE: Bloomberg is now reporting that Microsoft is in talks to buy Yammer for more than $1 billion, with a deal coming as soon as Friday."Samsung Chromebook Series 5 550 Review &gt;&gt; CnetHere's the biggest problem with the Chromebook: the hardware's fine, and the simplified Web-based OS is clever, and even versatile if you don't mind its limitations. Still, it's a radically reduced subset of what you can get on a Windows or Mac laptop...or even an iPad or Android tablet, for that matter. Yet, it costs more than a new iPad 2, a thinner, keyboard-enabled Android tablet like the Asus Transformer Pad, or a fully featured 11-inch ultraportable laptop like the AMD-powered HP dm1z.If the Chromebook were $99, this could have been a revolutionary product. As it currently stands, it's merely an invitation to pay a lot of money to be part of a Google experiment. And you're the test subject.Their verdict: 2/5. The money you pay: $550. Is that how they named it? (Thanks @nazo for the link.)Thunderbolt Software Update 1.2 causes boot failures &gt;&gt; TidbitsApple yesterday releasedThunderbolt Software Update 1.2, with the single comment that it "Adds support for the Apple Thunderbolt to Gigabit Ethernet Adapter." Although it's unclear if all Thunderbolt-equipped Macs are affected, a number of people have reported that installingthe update causes a variety of strange boot-related problems(kernel panics, getting stuck at the gray boot screen,"Unexpected error" messages, and more).Solution: reinstall Mac OSX. Simples!Intel claims Android is not ready for multi-core processors &gt;&gt; The Inquirer[Intel general manager of mobile and communications Mike] Bell also claimed that Intel's internal testing had shown [Android] multi-core implementations running slower than single core. However he did not finger any particular chip. "If you take a look a lot of handsets on the market, when you turn on the second core or having the second core there [on die], the [current] leakage is high enough and their power threshold is low enough because of the size of the case that it isn't entirely clear you get much of a benefit to turning the second core on. We ran our own numbers and [in] some of the use cases we've seen, having a second core is actually a detriment, because of the way some of the people have not implemented their thread scheduling."Intel is powering Android smartphones from Lenovo and Motorola.How Microsoft and Yahoo are selling politicians access to you &gt;&gt; ProPublicaJules Polonetsky, a former chief privacy Officer at AOL, and now the director of the Future of Privacy Forum, said political targeting has grown more aggressive in recent years.Polonetsky recalls conversations within the online ad industry about "not wanting to do things like targeting users based on donor history" because "all of that was considered far too sensitive and likely to alarm users and set off privacy concerns.""Today, those barriers have been leapt over with abandon," he said.Google and Facebook don't sell access to details of users' political alignment, though Facebook will allow campaigns targeted at predefined groups of voters.Would data protection laws stop this in Europe? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for initial pointer.)Online privacy: Home Office to write blank cheque for 'snoopers' charter' &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe bill will be published in draft form for the first time today (Thursday). Tin hat time.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Here comes Thursday – any gaming planned today?
What are top-level domains?TLDs are the part of an internet address – before the first single slash, and after a full stop (such as .uk in www.guardian.co.uk) that tells you what sort of site you are visiting. There  are about 250 country-level codes - such as .uk, .us or .de for Germany - and 21 "generic" TLDs (gTLDs) that go across the net – such as .com or .org. The proposals unveiled by Icann on Wednesday would expand that by at least 1,000. So even if a quarter of the 1,930 applicants are rejected, the number of TLDs will expand fourfold.Q How are they acquired?Only Icann – the internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers – can create new TLDs, whether country or generic, because only it has the authority to change the "root zone" – the computer file which authorises new TLDs. In effect, the root zone is the most authoritative telephone directory for the net; if a top-level domain isn't in its list, it doesn't appear.Q How do you get a site on a new TLD?Once authorised by Icann, a TLD is run by a single authority – a registrar – which can delegate the authority to register new websites to other companies. Ultimately, each TLD's registrar is responsible for keeping order in its internet space, including solving disputes over ownership and making sure that sites are visible to the rest of the net.What is Icann, and why is it so powerful?Icann is a non-profit company set up in California in September 1998 to  take over the assignation of numbers (internet addresses) and domain names from the American government, which had been in charge of the job until then.Icann is American-dominated, in part because that's where the internet originated; but as the net has become more international, there have been pressures – so far resisted – for its control to shift outwards to other countries. Icann says you can only have one organisation in charge of TLDs or the internet would become an unmaneagable mess, with competing versions of the same TLD pointing to different locations online. And it suits the US government, which generally takes a hands-off view, to keep the topmost levels of the internet free from direct government censorship.Q How do they decide what becomes a domain name?With difficulty. Previously, the list of six gTLDs (.com, .org, .net, .gov, .mil, .edu) had been joined by a series of others, such as .museum, .aero and (most recently) .xxx, for sex-related domains. None has had a dramatic effect so far. In deciding between the new applications, iCann says it will look at public comments made about applicants in a seven-month period that opens now, plus how credible it is that an applicant will be able to function effectively now and in the future as a registrar for a domain. (Of course, in some cases the applicant may not allow other sites inside the space; HSBC bank has applied for .hsbc, and probably won't want anyone else in there.The toughest one will be .app, where both Google and Amazon and 11 other organisations have applied to be registrar; Icann will have to demonstrate Solomonic wisdom to assign that one, which could be key to the internet's future (or might just be a damp squib). Previous attempts to create gTLDs such as .aero and .info have mostly failed; Icann says this is because it was trying to assign them, rather than letting commercial and community wishes drive them.Who has made bids?Google and Amazon have been the busiest: the search engine has applied for 101 TLDs (including .baby, .love, .android, .are, .blog, .boo, .book and .buy) while the online store has applied for 76 – in many cases the same ones as Google, putting the two in direct contention. Watching to see whether Icann consistently awards contended TLDs to one or the other – and whether that provokes lawsuits – will be a fascinating spectator sport.Others who have applied include the Vatican, which has applied for .catholic in English, Russian, Arabic and Cantonese script; organisations interested in acquiring various geographical applications including .nyc and .london; electronics company Samsung, which has applied for its name in Roman and Korean script; and a number of companies which have applied to run .sucks – seen by others as a "blackmail" gTLD, where companies will pay to register the site so that opponents cannot.• the BBC, which has applied for .bbc (as has ABC for .abc)• consumer electronics company Apple, which applied for .apple.Q What happens next?The 1,930 applicants next have to take part in what has been dubbed a "digital archery" contest – perhaps the first time ever that a serious business regime has been decided by what amounts to a game.Icann calls it a "batching process": the plan is to split the applications into four groups of 500. Each batch will be considered in turn, taking between 18 and 20 weeks – so the difference between the first and last will be at least 18 months.So how do they get chosen? Essentially, applicants have to log in to Icann's system and state which batch they want to be in, and then try to log back in as closely as possible to a "target time". Miss that, and you miss out.The attraction of getting a spot in the first batch rather than the fourth, with that precious 18 months' lead time, has meant that third-party companies are already offering to get would-be registrars into the first batch – at a price.Pool.com is charging $25,000 to get people into the top batch,and $10,000 for the second batch (which will follow about five months later).There's no point in any of the 17 African applicants applying; they get automatic entry to the first batch.Q What happens to those who don't get the domain they wanted?They get a refund of the $25,000 they deposited during the application process.
They can cost more than a house, but recession has not dented demand for Nokia's jewel-encrusted Vertu phones. Now the Hampshire subsidiary that makes them could be sold to a private equity group for €200m (£160m).Nokia could announce the deal with Guernsey-based private equity group EQT this week, though the sale may fall through owing to the difficulty of carving the unit out of its Finnish parent company.Having slipped behind Apple and Samsung in the smartphone race, Nokia lost its crown as the world's largest seller of mobile phones this year. The company is hoping to sell Vertu as it seeks to raise money from non-core ventures.Vertu phones, handmade at workshops in the ancient Hampshire village of Church Crookham, can cost up to £200,000 apiece. The independently managed subsidiary was launched in 1998 to tempt the super-rich with status symbol handsets to match highly priced watches or handbags. The handset cases are cast in gold and platinum, with gemstones for buttons. They come with their own concierge service and ringtones exclusively recorded by the London Symphony Orchestra, but the technology is behind the times.The first touchscreen Vertu handset did not appear until late last year, and the phones run on the out of date Symbian operating system, which Nokia dumped last year for Microsoft's Windows Phone. Annual revenue for the Vertu business has been estimated to be between €200m and €300m, with dedicated counters selling Vertu phones in upmarket department stores such as Selfridges in more than 60 countries around the world.EQT, which is based in the Channel Islands but has its roots in the Nordic region, owns the Candyking chain of sweet shops and eyeglass maker Carl Zeiss vision.Fellow buyout group Permira was reported to have been in talks to buy Vertu but did not make an offer.Nokia declined to comment and EQT did not respond to requests for comment.
Apple's announcement at WWDC earlier in the week that it has paid out $5bn to iOS app developers since the launch of the App Store in 2008 provides a fertile starting point for some market analysis.Technology blog Asymco has published anexcellent postcrunching the numbers, noting that the App Store currently generates 49.5m app downloads every day, and has a run rate of $4.3bn a year. That's revenues from sales of paid apps and in-app purchases on iOS alone, although it excludes advertising and other revenue streams (plush toys, hardware accessories and so on).Still, apps are hugely lucrative, right? Well, for some developers. For many more, they're not at all. Industry analyst Canalys has beenconducting its own research, with senior analyst Tim Shepherd making a sobering claim:"We estimate that up to two-thirds of the apps in leading consumer app store catalogues receive fewer than 1,000 downloads in their first year, and a significant proportion of those get none at all."So tell me something surprising, many app developers and publishers will be saying to themselves while reading Shepherd's words. There are lots of lucrative success stories in the apps industry, but many,manymore abject failures.A bedroom coder releasing an app developed in their spare time may not be financially troubled if that app does badly, but the suspicion remains that larger app publishers are losing their shirts left, right and centre – spending significant sums making apps that sink without trace once released.Which sounds very negative, at a time when investment is still pouring into app-focused startups, when hits are still being made on the various app stores, and when brands are sinking significant resources into commissioning apps – not always to high-quality effect, as skewered by the causticCrap BrappsTumblr blog.The Wall Street Journal thinks the industry is heading for a fall: it has just published a piece calledTin Pan Alley: The Coming Shakeout for App Makers, in which it finds developers and VCs unwilling to entertain the prospect, yet compares the apps market to the early Tin Pan Alley days of the music industry, and songwriters:"These inventors and wheedlers, dreamers and hucksters, were making the all-powerful software apps of their day: popular songs, sold then as widely distributed sheet music and phonograph records. They even had something of an addictive "Angry Birds" app back then: Irving Berlin."Irving Berlin as Angry Birds? It's a stretch. Yet the polarised views on whether apps are going to continue their explosive growth or crash from a height distract from the real picture. The vast majority of apps fail. A tiny proportion make a killing.But between those two poles, there's a healthy middle class of apps and app developers building sustainable businesses, and refusing to get carried away with the hype or the doommongering.There will undoubtedly be crushing, public falls from grace for some app developers in 2012 and beyond, which will be pored over by journalists, analysts and investors. But that – along with Angry Birds-level success stories – only offers a partial picture of what's going on.
Somehow, Lord of the Rings is simultaneously the most surprising and most inevitable franchise for the Lego developers to explore. Surprising because of its darkness and epic scope; inevitable because it is so astronomically successful. Peter Jackson's movies, to which this game doffs its cap, are still among the highest grossing films of all time, and will no doubt be passed down through family DVD collections for years to come. And let's face it, this adventure is not short on exciting set-pieces, ripe for action adventure conversion.From the very start of our E3 demo, this feels like a modest but significant evolution for the Lego series. Visually, it is much sharper and more mature; while the cute Lego characters are still oh-so cute (even Gandalf), the environments have a naturalism to them that contrasts with the cartoon look of the earlier Lego adventures. And with seven characters in your party, it's the largest selection of player figures in a Lego game so far.It looks like the structure will differ from the Star Wars, Indiana Jones and Batman games, too. While those titles were built around central hub areas, Lego Lord of the Rings is a linear quest, following the plot and the geography of the books. Indeed, developer Traveller's Tales has taken Tolkien's original maps of Middle Earth and used these to build a reproduction of the entire kingdom, which they say will seamlessly stream in as the player explores. Everything is here from Hobbiton all the way over the Misty Mountains and beyond – and if you stand on Weathertop, you can see vast tracts of the landscape in every direction.Each level in the game takes plays in a successive environment on the novel's route. On the way, however, the dev team is planning a number of side-quests as well as including hidden characters and items from the books that may not have made it into the movies.In an effort to accentuate the adventure feel of the game, each character has a backpack, accessible on the Xbox 360 by holding the X button, which can hold up to eight quest and treasure items. Sam, for example, has a tin box in which he cooks food for the rest of the party (apparently there are mini-quests where he has to go off and find sausages and other food stuffs to keep the group happy), while Boromir has the slightly more imposing Horn of Gondor, which temporarily stuns enemies.There is also a sense of progression for each warrior. Legolas the elf, for example, starts out with a standard bow, but during the game is given the more powerful bow of the Galadhrim, which shoots faster and does more damage. It's also possible to visit an elven blacksmith to forge custom magical items.To add to the sense of authenticity, Traveller's Tales has cleverly added dialogue from the movies into the cinematic sequences, so these squat Lego characters speak with the voices of their filmic counterparts. It's quite something to hear Ian McKellen's booming "You shall not pass!" from a teeny plastic toy.Indeed, the usual irreverent humour of the Lego series is retained here (apparently with the full blessing and understanding of the Lord of the Ring licensors, the Saul Zaentz Company), via clever parodies of Tolkien lore as well as plenty of knockabout slapstick. You can, for example, pick up dwarf Gimli and chuck him at things – often to solve environmental puzzles, or just because you're into politically incorrect physical comedy.Naturally, the game contains many of the legendary battle scenes, with players having to defend the fortresses of Helm's Deep and Minas Tirith from the invading hordes, smashing down siege towers and ladders. Gigantic cave trolls and other beasties also crop up, some of them based on Lego's new range of LotR playlets and figures, and all scaled down in terms of physical horror.Of course, the Balrogs crop up – but not before the Traveller's Tales artists actually built one out of Lego (a process they go through with all vehicles and monsters in the games); apparently it's now sitting on one of their desks.Other recognisable elements of the Lego series are present, including the ability to buy and play as a huge range of characters (Nazgul, the orcs, and the witch-king can all be discovered). But, Lord of the Rings has its own spin on the familiar recipe: while Clone Wars dabbled with RTS elements, this latest adventure is infused with light RPG conventions, including inventories and customisable weapons to enhance the sense of an epic quest.It makes sense, and in our demo hints at an entertaining romp through classic Middle Earth moments. Certainly, Traveller's Tales shows few signs of losing its passion for these little bricks and the adventures they promise.
More than 1,000 new internet "top level domains" – such as .app, .kids, .love, .pizza and also .amazon and .google – could come online beginning early next year, with the potential to radically change the face of the web.But the move by Icann, the US-appointed company which decides what new domains can be added to the web, has been criticised by some as allowing a commercial landgrab of the internet.Documents released by Icann on Wednesday show that Amazon and Google have made dozens of applications to control hundreds of domains – including .shop, .book, .love, and .map and .mba.The most applied-for domain is .app, which 13 organisations have staked a claim to own, including both Amazon and Google. Only one entity can own a top-level domain.The next is .home and .inc, with 11 applications, .art with 10, and then .book, .blog, .llc, and .shop with nine each.Those put in charge of allotting such domains will have complete power over whether a company or individual can apply for a website or domain name within them – so that if Amazon was to control .book, it could deny a rival such as Waterstones the chance to create waterstones.book.The new top-level domains, or TLDs, will start to come online in the first quarter of 2013, said Rod Beckstrom, the chief executive of Icann, who unveiled the list of 1,930 applications for 1,700 different new TLDs at a press conference in London."This is an historic day for the internet and the two billion people around the world who rely on it," Beckstrom said."The internet is about to change forever. Through its history the internet has renewed itself through new ideas; we're on the cusp of new ideas and innovation which will give rise to new jobs and ways to link communities and share information."Companies, individuals and communities were able to apply for the new TLDs, which cost $185,000 per registration. But the cost of registration and the complexity of filling out the 250-page forms appears to have dissuaded applications from Africa, which produced only 17 of the 1,930 applications.By contrast, North America produced 911 applications – although Amazon's 76 applications have been made through its Luxembourg office, almost certainly for tax reasons. Google has made more than 100 applications, including .android, .baby, .blog and others.Guardian Media Group, which publishes the Guardian and Observer newspapers and the guardian.co.uk website, has applied for five, though it faces a contest for the principal one, .guardian, which has also seen an application from the US-based Guardian Life Insurance company, which also owns the worldwide guardian.com domain.Icann will have to resolve hundreds of such conflicts, which will see a combination of trademark disputes and arguments about which companies or organisations will be appropriate owners of TLDs.It reckons that it will be able to process the applications in batches of about 500 each, taking between four-and-a-half and five months each. That means it will take about 18 months to process the entire set.The applications from Africa, however, are guaranteed to be in the first tranche considered, and so should go online first if they succeed in the selection process.Alexa Raad, chief executive of Architelos, which provides consultancy services to businesses looking to run domains, said: "It's like the difference between owning a flat in an apartment, and owning the whole apartment block. If you own the block, you can decide who gets in and out of it, you can decide on the behaviour in there."For Amazon, it could decide to reward its most loyal customers with a '.amazon' email, for example, and it will know that that email is never going to go away. People are focusing just on the names but it's not the name that's important, it's the business models that will lie behind them."
