The runaway success of online song swap service, Napster, captured the attention of world business leaders today at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Having declared the internet start-up phenomenon dead on Friday, business leaders resurrected it on Monday by marvelling at the number of users and the loyalty inspired by Napster.Addressing the gathering today, Microsoft chief Bill Gates said services such as Napster were responsible for an "explosion" of young people using their PCs to talk and share music."In the past year there's been an explosion in real-time communication" such as the exchange of music over the internet fostered by Napster, Gates said.Other corporate leaders on a panel at Davos - including major companies that own the copyright to music being shared for free on the internet - documented the growth of the phenomenon. The head of Sony said it represented a "danger" to legitimate companies.Napster is the ultimate internet success story. Begun in 1998 by a 19-year-old student, Shawn Fanning, it quickly distributed its software across the globe to millions of committed users.Mr Fanning's software allows people to share music without paying copyright fees - a development that terrifies many industry chiefs. Under the same principle people could share videos, movies and even books in digital form.Business leaders may respect the unprecedented pull of Napster, but the recording industry leaders are trying to sue the upstart company out of existence.Only two recording companies have broken rank to embrace Napster: the giant publishing firm Bertelsmann and Edel Music, an independent German label. Bertelsmann is working with Napster to establish a system of membership charges that will give copyright owners the money they are demanding.But whether Napster itself lives or dies, a host of free song-swap services, such as Scour.com and Gnutella, are ready to take its place."The internet is a kind of power shift," said Nobuyuki Idei, chief executive of Sony, which has extensive music copyright holdings. "Now the consumer has more power than the company."     Mr Idei said companies needed to rethink how to survive in the Napster era.Jean-Marie Messier, head of Vivendi, which last June acquired the Universal movie and music studios, said Napster's key to success was "community and free access".Thomas Middelhoff, head of Bertelsmann, which has been working with Napster to assure payments to artists, said the internet upstart already has 56m clients, with 1.6m exchanging digital music at any time. Napster expects further growth to be rapid, he said.While the recording industry struggles with Napster for supremacy, Mr Gates sees the benefit to anyone involved in software and hardware manufacture. He said that the flexibility of the PC made possible the Napster phenomenon of "peer to peer" communication.Napster could only happen because the PC is so widespread, said Mr Gates.Related articles09.01.2001: MP3.com seeks broader review03.01.2001: Napster masters harmony with leading indie label21.05.2000: 'Mom, I blew up the music industry'Useful linksNapsterWorld Economic ForumMicrosoftScour.comGnutella
The ones with the red dots have lost their jobs. Those with green dots may be able to help them. Those with the yellow dots couldn't care less. But the colour to remember at these events is pink.The Pink Slip party - for those given the pink slips that mean their e-commerce company has no further use for them - has arrived in San Francisco.The growing ranks of people made redundant as their start-ups grind to a halt are finding solace in the most fashionable parties in the Bay Area.Next month's event at Club NV in the SoMa (south of Market street) area promises to be the biggest yet, with hundreds of twenty- and thirtysomethings gathering to find comfort and perhaps a new job, too.Patty Beron, the founder of the parties, said she dreamed up the idea late last year when three friends were laid off and had such a good time in a bar commiserating that they decided to make it an event.Ms Beron already ran a website called sfgirl.com, which lists everything from social events to housing and job information, and employers were already asking her to point job seekers their way.What better way to introduce job seeker and employer than at a party, she said. She then posted the event on her site and a new form of partying was born."We were amazed at the response," she said, sitting in Haight Street's People's Cafe, which doubles as her office. "We had no idea so many people would come."Most of the partygoers had been laid off by companies begun in the past few years, renting costly SoMa office space and imagining a fortune was there for the making.Although such dreams may have faded, the mood is far from morose. "People are very upbeat at the parties, even though they may have lost their jobs. The atmosphere isn't dreary at all," Ms Beron said.Those sacked are given a red dot to wear, those who can offer jobs a green dot, and those who just want to party - the laid back rather than laid off - get a yellow dot.Some people have already found work at the parties."Some of the recruiters were aggressively walking up to people and saying, 'What are you looking for?' But more often it was more subtle," Ms Beron said, adding that the only ones who did not mix were those who had lost their jobs that day and stood dazed at the bar drinking.The parties are now held monthly, entry is free, and the bars in which they are held charge redundancy-friendly prices: $2 (&#163;1.35) for a pint of beer or a martini cocktail.Their success has not gone unnoticed, and they are now backed by two sponsors, one a recruitment agency. Since such companies can spend as much as $10,000 to headhunt an employee, Ms Beron says the parties are good value for sponsors' money.What's more, by ending at 8pm the parties avoid having too many sacked staff weeping into their beer.Despite the dismissals - ExciteAtHome paid off 250 workers this week, mainly in the Bay Area - Ms Beron said most people planned to stay in the city and find other work.For those who head home another site, craigslist.org, aims to help ease their way.The site has just launched a new section for selling furniture: this week it featured Chinese chairs and Afghan rugs.If all else fails, Positively Haight Street, opposite the People's Cafe in the former hippie district of Haight-Ashbury, is looking for an assistant to help it sell Bob Dylan cookie jars and Janis Joplin posters to tourists who remember when the city was famous for turning on rather than starting up.
The plotters would meet several times a month in different locations across White City. And from tiny acorns huge oak trees grow. Throughout 1999 a small cabal of strategists had been given a simple task by then-Director General, John Birt - to work out how the BBC could turn the plethora of new technologies emerging at the time into cool, hard cash.BBC insiders knew of the the group, but few were privy to their ideas. The plotters organised a series of clandestine conferences, all code-named 'Hever' and which were attended by some of the brightest brains advising the corporation. Their conclusions were fed back directly to Birt.Auntie was nervous about what would happen if Hever's results leaked into the public domain. They exposed huge rifts at the heart of the BBC. In one corner was the old guard, opposed to an increasingly commercialised BBC. In the other was the younger contingent, who viewed the corporation as a fusty relic urgently in need of an overhaul.Numerous plans were dreamt up. A free internet service provider was one option. But by the time the corporation got round to looking at launching a service, electrical retail giant Dixons had blown competitors out of the water with Freeserve. Then there was the proposal to float off the BBC's internet division on the stock market. But by the time Auntie had squared the move with her public service conscience the value of tech stocks had crashed and the move was dropped. 'The BBC has got the right idea but it's always been following the field. It takes a long time for it to make decisions and they all have to be given policy spins,' said one Hever source.But some Hever plans are now finding their way on to the desk of Greg Dyke, the BBC's commercially savvy new sheriff, who is charged with finding Auntie an extra &#163;400 million to meet the costs of programming between 2002 and 2006.'John was always trying come up with   a theoretical model to explain why we could do something commercial,' a BBC source said. 'Greg is much more, "f *** it, let's see what we can get away with".'Last week it became clear just how far Dyke thinks he can go. The BBC admitted that it was studying a plan to display advertising on a yet-to-be built international news website, BBCNews.com. The announcement sent shock waves through the media world. Commercial rivals are screaming that what will start out as a bit of banner advertising on a website aimed at overseas internet surfers will quickly spread to all of the corporation's activities.'This is the thinnest edge of the biggest wedge you could find. It cuts across all the things the BBC stands for,' said Angela Mills, director of the British Internet Publishers Association, the trade body that lobbies on behalf of online firms and which will argue its case at a Department of Culture, Media and Sport select committee meeting later this week.The BBC's charter bans the corporation from allowing advertising on its television and radio stations but it is not clear about its position regarding new media. 'It's a grey area, and the BBC is exploiting it,' Mills said.The commercial media's theory is that as the internet is quickly assimilated into all forms of media - chiefly television, mobile phones and radio - the corporation will have its cake and eat it. While it rakes in billions of pounds a year from licence fees, Auntie will also    earn lots more from selling advertising on its new media - all the whizzy technologies that will allow viewers to watch favourite episodes of  East Enders whenever they want.This may seem a long way off, but the technology to merge the internet and television, known as broadband, is practically here. And by 2003, 21 per cent of European households will have broadband access, according to international media analyst Screen Digest.The commercial firms fear that the BBC won't stop at advertising on its news sites. 'What are they going to do next? Sports? Entertainment?' Mills asked.The commercial radio stations, which have increased their share of total UK advertising spend from 2 per cent to 6 per cent in the past five years, are up in arms at the prospect of seeing their revenues pour into the BBC.'The BBC benefits from &#163;3 billion of public money every year,' said Paul Brown, chief executive of the Commercial Radio Companies Association. 'It's a rampaging elephant and this could put the commercial sector at a huge disadvantage. There's only a limited amount of advertising to go round.'The print media too, already angry at the shameless way the BBC has plugged its various magazines on its television channels, fears the consequences if Auntie's plan goes unchecked. 'I'm scandalised,' said Hugo Drayton, managing director of Hollinger Telegraph New Media, a division of Conrad Black's   empire. 'It's down to weak government. They haven't done anything.'The prospect of the Government stepping in to the row soon is seen as bleak. 'Chris Smith has indicated that he's prepared to conduct a review of the BBC's internet strategy,' Mills said. 'But you've got to be realistic. With a general election coming up, the Government doesn't want to take the BBC on. Chris Smith was always saying that he'd reduce the power of the governors, but the White paper did nothing to neuter them.'BBC insiders argue that it makes sense for the corporation to commercialise its overseas operations. 'At least half the internet server traffic to BBC sites comes from overseas,' one source said. 'It's being subsidised by people in the UK, and that's not fair.'But this would still hit UK firms. 'Half of Telegraph.co.uk's audience comes from outside the UK. The whole point of new media is that it reaches audiences you can't reach in print,' Drayton said.Significantly, those who attended the Hever conferences believe that the fledgling plan for BBCNews.com to take ads is a red herring. The source said: 'The plan was for news and education elements to always be free of advertising. But everything else would be commercial outside the UK and take ads. I think this is some of the old guard trying to stop the plan by raising concerns about what it could mean to news, which has always been seen as sacrosanct.'These plans have frightened everyone in media land - even Auntie herself.
Lastminute.com, the beleaguered e-tailer, is feeling the heat from the scores of new online competitors that have emerged to attack its market share in the past 12 months.Figures soon to be released by global internet research firm Jupiter MMXI show that over the crucial Christmas period Lastminute failed to expand what is known in the industry as its 'reach' - the company's share of the total   internet population.The company's website attracted more than 500,000 visitors last December, 200,000 more than in the same month the previous year.But as more and more consumers have ventured onto the internet over the last year, Lastminute's reach has remained static. Jupiter's research shows that the company's share of the internet population in December was 4.2 per cent, only 0.1 per cent up on its position the previous Christmas.Alternative figures released by Nielsen/NetRatings show that in June last year Lastminute was attracting more than 485,000 visitors - but this had fallen to 354,000 by December.Nick Jones, senior analyst with Jupiter, said: 'The good news is it hasn't gone down. That would have been very disappointing. But the question is what group are they targeting?'It was popular with early   adopters but can it go mass market? Maybe it has already reached that segment of the market it will ever reach.'Jones said Lastminute's failure to expand its market share was a result of fierce competition.'There are more people online now, but there are also many more purchasing options,' Jones said. 'All the traditional retailers are online now; you don't have to visit Lastminute.'Earlier this month the    company told  The Observer  it was happy with its Christmas trading figures and would give a fuller update at its next set of results.However, concerns over whether its business can permeate the mass market, crucial if the company is ever to justify its once-massive &#163;500 million valuation, continue to linger.The company has seen its share price slide from a year high of 555p to 79p now.
Rule one: Always assume that politicians know nothing about technology and even less about the net. Then the only surprises you get will be pleasant ones.A couple of years ago, Dutch television viewers were treated to the sight of their prime minister sitting in front of a PC. He was seen to stare at the mouse, pick it up with a puzzled expression and wave it about while clicking its buttons. After a time, the penny dropped with his audience: he thought it was a remote control! It was clear that he had never in his life used a computer.Readers with long memories will recall a similar episode when George Bush Senior was campaigning in a New Hampshire primary and found himself in a supermarket. Photographers and film crews asked him to process a few items though the checkout and were astonished to find the future President staring bemusedly at a barcode scanner which kept beeping.   It was clear that he had never seen such a thing before.Now spool forward a few years and meet one John Hutton, an obscure minister in the Department of Health who happens to be responsible for child protection. Moved by the hoohah about 'internet adoption', Hutton decided to add his own two-pennyworth to the pot by announcing his determination - in the words of the  Guardian report - to 'clamp down on adoption over the internet by warning British-based service providers that they face criminal prosecution for relaying material which infringes British adoption law'. It seems the Government is 'keen to be seen acting strongly', and that Hutton believes his stern   move against ISPs 'could provide a lead for the EU and G8 to crack down on child-broker websites'.Note that Hutton is not just calling for UK-based child-brokering sites (if such exist) to be shut down by the ISPs which carry them. He is instructing ISPs to desist from 'relaying material' from such sites, no matter where they are located.If this is really what he has in mind, he is either certifiable or entirely ignorant of how the internet works, because the only way of achieving it would be to monitor the clickstreams of every single UK user of the net - and not even Jack Straw believes he can do that.Meanwhile, the unelected president of the US has moved into the White House. A quick inspection of the presidential website on his first day in office suggested that the lights were on but there was nobody home. Links to the text-only pages - designed for visually impaired visitors or wretches   with low-bandwidth connections - were broken. And one eagle-eyed US surfer noticed that the left-hand menu bar sported the legend, 'Insert something meaningful here', just below links to biographies of the Pres. and his lady.All of which would be funny if Bush wasn't accompanied by a bunch of reactionary technophobes who view the net as a sinister haven of freaks, hackers, paedophiles, terrorists and pointy-headed intellectuals, which should be made safe for wholesome corporate pap and Disneyfied values.In part this is a reflection of their ideological antecedents, but it stems mainly from the fact that nobody in the higher echelons of the new US administration has any experience of information or computing technology. 'If you think the Clinton/Gore crowd struggled with the technology, wait till you get a load of these people,' a  Washington Post reporter told Jon Katz of the Slashdot 'news for nerds' website. 'They think the net is another planet.'Just like our own dear minister of health and his colleague, the minister of the interior. Looks as though New Labour will get on just fine with Bush &amp; Co.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
The FBI is investigating a damaging computer assault on Microsoft after hackers overwhelmed the company's connection to the internet, leading to the closure of several popular websites such as MSN.com and expedia.com.The attack comes after a difficult week for the Seattle-based company. Its services, used by millions of people and businesses, also broke down for two days this week because of a technical error, prompting complaints from across the globe. Microsoft said the two problems were unrelated.The company called in the FBI yesterday when it realised that its system was the victim of a "denial-of-service" attack on Thursday. Hackers had managed to overwhelm the company's extensive network with so much fake traffic that legitimate users were blocked. This increasingly common form of hacking is described as similar to hundreds of people calling one telephone line.The company said in a statement: "It is unfortunate that an individual or group of individuals would engage in this kind of illegal activity."Microsoft blamed its earlier problems, which knocked out its main corporate site and its MSN.com portal, on employee error. Complaints flooded in after the company's websites started producing unexpected results. For example, the central clock on Asheron's Call, a multiplayer role-playing game hosted on Microsoft's gaming zone, started to go backwards.Microsoft said a technician made a "mistaken configuration change" to the computers that guide web surfers to its sites.The Seattle-based company was subject to a daring hacker assault last October. Although the case is still under investigation, it emerged that the unidentified intruders had been able to study Microsoft's network unobserved for six weeks. Using stolen passwords, they then used Microsoft's Hotmail service to send snippets of the company's source code to an email address in Russia.
The internet revolution was pronounced dead at the World Economic Forum yesterday as industry figures downgraded the net to the status of a business tool that is not immune to old-fashioned economic realities,  writes Peter Capella.Tim Koogle, chief executive of Yahoo!, one of the   most consistently profitable internet ventures, said large companies would survive and there would be space at the other end of the scale for small, niche-based, companies provided they did not rely on borrowed capital, but "nothing in-between".Hasso Plattner, chief executive of SAP, the world's largest enterprise software maker, said: "We've seen too much greed, including from ourselves. People thought that a 30% profit on investments was easy and 100% was possible."The downbeat assessment was in stark contrast to euphoria at last year's forum.
Software giant Microsoft admitted late last night that it was the victim of hackers who left millions of customers without access to popular services like Hotmail and Expedia for most of Thursday.Yesterday marked the third day running that Microsoft web sites had been down, though the company said site failures on Tuesday and Wednesday were due to an error made by a company technician and not a hacker.The company has asked the FBI to investigate Thursday's incident, which Microsoft described as a denial-of-service attack. These attacks happen when hackers flood a network with useless traffic so that it cannot respond to normal requests from users.The company said that normal access has now been restored, and added: "It is unfortunate that an individual or group of individuals would engage in this kind of illegal activity. Microsoft has made the FBI aware of this situation."Similar attacks caused problems for companies like Amazon, CNN, eBay and Yahoo! last year. Last week, a 16-year-old Canadian boy known as "Mafiaboy" pleaded guilty to 56 charges of mischief in connection with some of those attacks. Ten other charges were dropped.Microsoft, which prides itself on providing reliable internet access, was quick to point out that none of the site failures had anything to do with its software."This was an operational error, and not the result of any issue with Microsoft or third party products nor the security of our networks. Microsoft regrets any inconvenience caused to customers due to this issue," said a statement on the company's website.Related articles25.01.2001: Microsoft 'mystified' by website failure02.01.2001: Net tightens around the hacktivists08.02.2000: Yahoo swamped by hackersUseful linksMicrosoftMSNExpedia
Maksim Kharchev just can't keep away from the Cybiko lab. On a freezing January afternoon in Moscow when the 18-year-old should be dozing through another dull lecture in his law course at Moscow university, he is instead ensconced on the fifth floor of a plush new business centre in the east of the city clutching a day-glo green gizmo."I've been coming here every day for about a month," he recounts, his gaze fixed firmly on the small LCD screen in his right hand. Like teenagers everywhere, he has trouble looking you in the eye when hypnotised by a computer game.The room is filled with some 60 Muscovite teenagers having great fun. What's more, they get paid for it. All of them are sending each other messages via the hand-held toys, or playing games and making notes.Behind them, a gang of older website designers are perched at desktops drawing fantasies. On the two floors below them another 150 programmers and engineers are beavering away round-the-clock, producing instant computer games for posting on the web or new software for their pride and joy.Welcome to the wacky Russian world of Cybiko. The   $100 handheld gizmo combines the functions of a Game Boy, a personal digital assistant, and a wireless communicator all in one.It might be marketed in America and made in Taiwan, but the brainpower is here in eastern Moscow, with a bunch of young boffins, graduates of the elite cybernetics schools of the old Soviet military-industrial complex, quickly adapting to the new world of virtual entertainment, taking on the Sonys and Nintendos of this world, and emerging with a winner.Kharchev and his mates are installed in a room echoing with giggles, whoops,and whistles as he and his chums put the new Cybiko games through their paces and make notes on the new games before they are released on to the web. There they are downloaded free of charge by the armies of American teenagers snapping up this year's must-have accessory."The response is amazing," says Alexei Logoshin, the Cybiko production manager who flits between Moscow and Taiwan, while his boss and Cybiko's creator, David Yang, divides his time between Moscow and Bloomingdale outside Chicago."We get around 40,000 messages on the website every day. At Christmas when all the American kids got their new Cybikos, we got   143,000." But the teenage testers in the Moscow lab cannot buy themselves a Cybiko. The wireless networks operate on radio frequencies whose use would land them in jail in Russia."Besides," says Logoshin, "the market here is too small. It's targeted at teenagers, but there's not many Russian teenagers who can afford $100 for a Cybiko."But Kharchev and his pals are extremely willing mice in the Cybiko lab and there's no stopping the infectiously enthusiastic cyberfreaks.Downstairs a bunch of hardware engineers are producing prototypes for a new model."Slimmer, smoother, and cooler," they say, proudly displaying their work.It's all a rare and cheering triumph in a Russia more noted for its collapsing infrastructure and technological backwardness than a cutting edge entertainment industry."Russians are great engineers and great scientists, but they need a lot of help turning good ideas into successful products," says Vaidyanathan Sivakumar, a Moscow-based Indian fund manager.He put together a consortium last year to plough more than $16m into Cybiko, gaining 23% of the company in the process."We are very happy with our investment," he says, not ing that the company expects to sell more than half a million gizmos in North America this year after 300,000 since last September.The brainchild of David Yang, 32, a Russian of mixed Armenian-Taiwanese parentage, Cybiko appears to be going from strength to strength, spurring hopes that Yang can become a role model for other budding Russian entrepreneurs."I don't see a trend yet. David Yang is unique," says Sivakumar, who keeps a close watch on the Moscow market for promising investment opportunities. Logoshin   ascribes Cybiko's success to "Russian brains and American management. That's a good combination."The Japanese-sounding tinkling from the device, the creator's surname, the made-in-Taiwan label on the back of each handset,and the Cybiko name itself (Japanese for cyber-girl) do not exactly parade the fact that Moscow's elite Institute of Physics and Technology is the alma mater for the creators of Cylandia. That is where the Soviet Union's brightest perfected the computer systems for inter-continental missiles."The advertising supports   the traditional perception of the origins of such products," says Anton Tyurin, product management director, sitting in a plush office with leather sofas and English books on 21st century management. Translated into plain English, he is saying that Cybiko is mock-Japanese."They don't exactly hide the fact that Cybiko's Russian," says Sivakumar. "But let's say, they don't highlight it either."With a growing community of Cybiko afficionados thriving on the net, accessories provided for free, and a new free game available daily on the web, the Cybiko culture appears refreshingly low-budget and democratic while technologically advanced.The relative lack of money involved means that American anoraks are designing their own games and posting them on the website. "We've got 5,141 game designers registered on the site," says Vadim Sytnikov, director of the large applications department. "Their average age is 24. Some are so good that we end up employing them and paying them for their games."Maksim Kharchev briefly looks up from his immersement in Kamikaze Highway and grins the satisfied grin of a contented laboratory guinea pig. "It's much better than Game Boy. More functions, changing games, no contest."Cybiko specificationHardware11MHz Hitachi S8H 32-bit Risc processor512K working memory512K Flash memory for storage59 x 40mm LCD screen with four level grey scale and 160 by 100 pixel resolution30 channel digital radioSerial communications port68-pin expansion slotRechargeable batteriesSize: 5.7 x 2.8 x 0.9 inchesWeight: 4.3ozSoftwareCyOS 1.2Scientific calculator, spellchecker, Spanish- English dictionary, multilingual phrasebook, time planner, address book, alarm clock, calendar, notebook, journal, photo viewer, and games.
After the revelation that you can buy twins on the internet, we have perhaps come a step closer to the day when everything will be available online, allowing each of us to purchase our heart's desire without being restricted by tiresome moral implications. But what sort of dodgy stuff can you buy over the net these days, and how do you go about finding it? You might be surprised.Can I buy weapons online?Yes. Sadly, but rather predictably, the Kalashnikov e-shop website is entirely in Russian, butKalashnikov USA Midwestdoes offer Saiga 420s and plenty more to anyone who has a federal firearms licence on file. The siteMilparadeis selling a subscription to the online version of Russia's Arms 2000 brochure, "the catalogue of Russian modern export-oriented weapons", which includes the Tochka modernised tactical missile system and the RPG-7V1 handheld antitank grenade launcher.The internet is packed with sites offering guns, ammo, grenades, knives etc, mostly from US-based companies. The online ordering systems are generally quite primitive - "Call Jim", says one - but this may have something to do with the fact that the international shipment of deadly weaponry remains bogged down in legal red tape.I can buy cheap cigarettes online, though, can't I?Yes and no. It's perfectly legal to purchase tobacco, but only if UK vat and excise duty has been paid by the seller, which would hardly make it cheap. Without the duty being paid "the goods are liable to forfeiture by customs at the postal depot", according to HM customs and excise's spoilsport website.What about academic work? Say I need an essay on Ben Jonson's Volpone "for reference" by, say, 2:15 this afternoon?Apart from pornography, this is one of the few areas in which the internet comes into its own. Although there is a published disclaimer stating that all essays are for research purposes only,Termpapers on filehas a six-page term paper titled Ben Jonson: Envy and Virtue in Volpone (bibliography lists six sources), at $9.85 (&#163;7) per page. There are cheaper sites, even free exchanges, but with essays you probably get what you pay for.Can I buy drugs over the internet?Most certainly. A large portion of the web seems to be devoted entirely to the sale of Viagra, and sites such asRX Palaceofferfungal oint ments, allergy medications, Zovirax and other pharmaceuticals, all ready to be shipped worldwide.No, I mean drugs ... you know.I see. This is an interesting question. The auction siteeBayhas from time to time played unwitting host to people trying to sell large consignments of marijuana and cocaine, but these are thought to be hoaxes and are deleted as soon as they are discovered, in spite of the enthusiastic bidding that accompanies them. Likewise, most of the kidneys you find advertised are the work of pranksters. Users of online auctioneers sign an agreement promising not to post illegal items for auction, and monitors stalk the sites removing guns, drugs, organs and other contraband.Well, there go my hopes of getting some uranium ...Actually, you can buy uranium at eBay. A 2lb chunk of autunite uranium ore, boasting a level of radioactivity "greater that 5,000cpm on a gamma-ray scintillation counter", was going for about $18 (&#163;12.35) at time of writing. It is for educational and scientific use only, of course.So apart from drugs, weapons and kidneys, you can get just about anything on the net?Not really. It is virtually impossible to purchase whale meat, although I eventually tracked down a number to call (in Norway) for fresh whale come the summer.Likewise, my efforts to obtain a live cheetah came to nought. I did find a site, the Cheetah Conservation Foundation, which said that I could privately adopt a cheetah, at   $45 (&#163;30) for an adult rising to $135 (&#163;92) for a female with two cubs. However, on closer examination I realised they were only going to send me an adoption certificate and a photograph, plus some stickers. So I pay the money and they keep the cheetah. It just shows how careful you have to be with some of these online hucksters.I guess a lot of these websites aren't what they seem.Too right. The extremely promising web page headed Corpses For Sale was actually selling models of decaying cadavers, albeit very realistic ones ("Each corpse is hand-crafted and is very durable in construction"). The home page for DigiCrime, "formed in 1994 to meet the needs of a growing criminal element around the world" appears to be an attempt at satire.Are there any sites that do exactly what it says in their URL?Thankfully yes. The explicitly namedUrine for sale, for instance, sells urine and nothing but urine, guaranteed to be 100% human and untainted by any trace of illegal drugs, alcohol or nicotine. Even its slogan, Urine So Pure It Could Easily Pass A Urine Drug Test, is frank, to the point and admirably free of hyperbole.Every sample is fresh ("the order is filled the day it is put in") and comes pre-packaged in a "hi-tech delivery system". It even includes a certificate of authenticity and a transfer of ownership, "so you can say in good conscience 'this is a clean sample of my own urine'".There ought to be some sort of award scheme for this kind of open and honest online trading.
The battle for the hearts and wallets of home internet users heated up yesterday with the launch of a cut-price unlimited access service.Freeserve - owned by French internet service provider Wanadoo - kicked off its new package offering 24-hour web access for individuals for &#163;12.99 per month, making it some &#163;2 cheaper than similar available packages.John Pluthero, Freeserve's chief executive, said that "&#163;12.99 is a profitable price point for us. In the telecommunications industry scale is everything, and because of our size and number of users we get telecoms prices that nobody else in the UK can get".Freeserve - which boasts 2m subscribers - accounts for as much as 15% of local UK telecoms traffic, according to Mr Pluthero. He expects 100,000 to 200,000 users to sign up to the new service.The Freeserve Anytime package undercuts unmetered packages costing &#163;14.99 a month from AOL, launched last September by the US internet service provider, and is likely to be below a similar   service to be announced by BT within the next week. Unmetered access offered by cable firm NTL through its NTLworld package has recently risen from &#163;10 to &#163;15 a month.Freeserve had announced the unmetered service at the start of December last year, but negotiations with BT delayed the final launch. "Knowing when it would arrive with certainty is a black science with BT," Mr Pluthero said.BT could retaliate as early as tomorrow with its own BTinternet Anytime package, which sources say would also be priced at &#163;14.99 a month.&#149; Germany's T-Online, the internet arm of Deutsche Telekom, paid the price of flat-rate net access yesterday when it announced a &euro;125m (&#163; 79 m) loss for the year.The losses were slightly better than analysts' predictions, however, and T-Online's earnings soared 86% to &euro;797m for the year from &euro;428m in 1999.The healthy revenues were not enough to keep analysts happy, however. Investment bank Merrill Lynch said late in the day it was downgrading its recommendation on Europe's largest ISP from "accumulate" to "neutral".
The battle over the fate of the internet twins bcame a four-way fight yesterday after the babies' real father was granted custody by a judge in their home town, St Louis, Missouri.Circuit judge Jack Garvey granted the custody order, effective until the court's next hearing on February 14, to Aaron Wecker, father of the girls and former husband of Tranda Wecker, who "sold" them twice over the internet.Mr Wecker, who has custody of the couple's three-year-old child, joins the battle against his ex-wife, who says she wants them back, and with the two couples who paid a California-based agency to adopt them.Kimberley and Belinda, were first given to a California couple, Richard and Vickie Allen of San Bernardino, then handed over to Alan and Judith Kilshaw, by Ms Wecker after they agreed to pay more.Court papers filed by Mr Wecker last Monday allege that Ms Wecker neglected the twins by trying to sell them twice, according to the St Louis Post-Dispatch. He also accused her of "failing to report to me on the whereabouts of the children for weeks at a time, subjecting the twins to illegal activities and underhanded doings." The pair divorced before the twins were born last June.The order in favour of Mr Wecker has no immediate effect because the twins remain in foster care after being taken from the Kilshaws by Flintshire social services. The Kilshaws adopted the twins in Arkansas, although the adoption may be invalid because Ms Wecker has admitting lying to get around the state's residence requirements.The twist is another complication for Mr Justice Kirkwood, the high court judge who took over the case last Tuesday. He has promised a decision soon on the twins' future.Allan Levy QC, a child law expert, said the real father might emerge as the right person to give them a home. "If he's the natural father and he's OK, the sooner they go there the better."Ms Wecker said on Tuesday that she wanted the babies back. "I have a job. I have family and friends that will help me take care of my children," she said. "I miss my girls very much."Audio report23.01.2001: Helen Carter at the high courtRelated articles24.01.2001: 'Internet twins' to stay in care24.01.2001: Judgment Days: Joanna Moorhead on perfect parents24.01.2001: Where did the parents go wrong?Useful linkSt Louis Post-Dispatch report on custody case
A former computer hacker who was sentenced to four years in prison for a series of crimes including changing the credit rating of former German chancellor Helmut Kohl to zero emerged as a white knight for the troubled e-tailer, Letsbuyit.com.Kim Schmitz, a 27-year-old German who in the late 1990s confessed to hacking into the computers of companies such as US phone group AT&amp;T, has agreed to provide the bulk of a 4m euro (&#163;2.5m) emergency fundraising through his investment vehicle Kimvestor to secure Letsbuyit's short-term future.Last night he told The Guardian that he was prepared to pump further money into the firm, which is in administration with debts estimated well in excess of 40m euros."Letsbuyit is a great company and I would not invest in something I was not absolutely sure of because I don't gamble my money," he said."I hope to put in much more soon. The accounts as they are don't matter. Christmas trading figures out soon will be amazing and show how healthy this company could be. With new management Letsbuyit can be great again."Mr Schmitz said he agreed to provide the funds after being approached by Letsbuyit founder and friend John Palmer. Mr Schmitz said he was hopeful that German media company Pro Siben, which is a large shareholder in Letsbuyit, will also inject further cash.It is thought that the company needs 40m-80m euros to reach profitability.Mr Schmitz was given his prison sentence in 1996 after turning himself in to the authorities but was required to serve only three months' probation. "That is all a long time ago now. I am a free man with a white coat," he said.His wealth has largely come from the sale of an 80% stake in the internet security business Dataprotect he set up after going "legit" in the late 1990s to German credit agency Tuf.Mr Palmer, last night de scribed Kimvestor as "a large venture capital and start-up company based in Munich with a large fund". He claimed that a "huge amount" of investors are now showing interest in Letsbuyit - which is thought to need a further 30m euros within a few weeks.Heidi Fitzpatrick, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, questioned the company's ability to generate revenue growth and contain its burn rate - estimated by the trustees to be at 10m euros a month."They still need a considerable sum to take the company to break even," she said. "This is going give them a bit of extra time but that is all. They are not off the hook yet."The company, which has been in crisis since it applied to the Dutch courts for protection against its creditors at the end of last month, has been the subject of a damning report into management practices by the trustees, describing it as "deplorable".It accused senior executives of appearing to have "no notion" of the "financial obligations of the company" and said it would take three or four experienced accountants a month to make sense of the financial records.Shares in Letsbuyit ended up 36.84% yesterday at 26 cents. This is still 94% below its 6.45 euro high on its first day of trading in July.
Despite the relentless backlash against the dot.com sector in some sections of the media and on the markets, many of the world's leading corporations are showing no signs of giving up on the internet as a new way of doing business.The key area where major bricks and mortar companies are hoping to make huge savings and improve the efficiency of their international businesses is through new B2B (business to business) e-commerce exchanges.Although many exchanges have already sprung up, a lot of them have no ties to the big industry players and are struggling to enrol suppliers.Typically, old economy corporations are portrayed by dot.com commentators as slow, lumbering technophobic dinosaurs. But the actions of companies such as British Airways, Tesco, Marks and Spencer, Kingfisher and Safeway explode those stereotypes. These companies are clearly waking up to the possibilities of B2B e-commerce."I think the reason why the corporates are in a good position to make exchanges work is because they can push a big volume of trade through the exchanges," says Neil Cameron, Andersen's head of e-business. He points out that non-industry B2B exchanges, which do not have established relationships with suppliers, are struggling to get buyers and sellers trading online. "There are very few levers they can pull to get   them into the exchange."One of the leading retail B2B exchanges is theWorldwide Retail Exchangewhich can be accessed through a standard internet browser. It went live earlier this year and its members include retailers from Africa, America and Europe. From the UK, Tesco, Marks and Spencer, Safeway and Kingfisher have all signed up and are now working to make the most of the opportunities provided by this radical new way of trading with their suppliers.In August, Tesco held its first auction for its corned beef supplies and reportedly saved many thousands of pounds. The offline process of ordering corned beef and seeing the suppliers agree the necessary specifications would normally take months. Through the exchange, it took about an hour.Barry Knichel, Tesco's    supply chain director, who was instrumental in setting the exchange up, emphasises that the auction was far more open and clear than the traditional behind-closed-doors bids. Galvanised by its initial auction, the UK's leading supermarket chain is now considering which   other contracts it can put out to an online auction.Meanwhile, suppliers are growing extremely nervous about these new online B2B developments. Many fear that major retailers are ganging up in exchanges to beat them down on price. But Knichel insists that trading through the exchange is not compulsory for Tesco's suppliers. "We are not saying you must pay this price and you must work in this way. It's not something we are going to make a condition of trade," he explains. "If we have a long-standing good working relationship with a supplier, it's unlikely that their contract is going to go through an auction. But we are certainly encouraging people to join."British Airways has joined a B2B exchange for the aviation industry calledAirNewcoalong with other leading companies including Air France, Swissair and American Airlines. In October last year it was announced that AirNewco was going to merge    with MyAircraftwww.myaircraft.com, a B2B exchange led by aerospace manufacturers. The new expanded venture is scheduled to go live early this year and will link buyers and sellers in key aviation operational areas such as fuel services, maintenance, engineering and catering. With headquarters in Washington DC, the new aviation exchange will offer exchange members supply chain management tools and auctions as part of its online services.Paul Alexander, procurement manager for British Airways, believes the exchange will reduce the number of aircraft spares that are created each year because manufacturers will have clearer and easier access to what the market is actually demanding. But he denies the exchange is just about price transactions and argues that the web will promote greater collaboration and faster product innovation. "We think it will enable us to interact more efficiently with our suppliers."For example, designing aircraft seats can take up to 18 months from the drawing stage to being installed on a plane. But this could be significantly speeded up by doing the design work online. Alexander points out that the web will enable greater visibility right up the supply chain as the airline, design agency and the manufacturer will be able to log on to the same web pages to approve specifications and monitor the progress of design work.One of the most startling   developments of industry-sponsored B2B e-commerce exchanges has been the level of cooperation between different retailers. Long-standing arch rivals such as Marks and Spencer, Safeway and Tesco have been sitting down together and discussing the way ahead. Such behaviour in the private sector would have been utterly inconceivable in the past."It is amazing," admits Barry Knichel. "But we are not talking about any issues which the customer sees." Conversations mostly range from back office systems and product catalogues to facilitating the efficient functioning of the exchange. Knichel adds, "There are things we can do collectively better than we ever could individually."A constant issue for corporates is deciding which technology to invest in as it is changing so rapidly. One of the latest fashionable ideas emerging from Silicon Valley is the possible 'Napsterisation' of B2B. The idea is that companies will be able to use the same technology Napster uses to bypass central B2B exchanges and exchange information directly with one another. At the moment   peer-to-peer networking technology is not sophisticated enough to handle complex business transactions on the web but it could soon be ready and would mean that companies would not have to pay the fees that central exchanges charge.Inevitably, software companies, whose business models are based on supplying platforms to centralized B2B exchanges, are defensive about the possible impact of new Napster-like technologies. "Functionality within centralised exchanges is continually improving," argues Nick Mayo, head of e-markets for Clarus, a B2B software company. "If transaction fees were high, there would be an economic incentive to find a way around that. But transaction fees are likely to come down."Meanwhile, players like Tesco are open to the possibility of the Napsterisation of B2B. "We believe exchanges are a good way forward," argues Knichel. "But we are not precious about that." He adds that if new types of software effectively challenge that model and can improve it then Tesco's will want to be one of the first companies to take it up.The corporates, who do not have short-termist venture capitalists breathing down their necks, have had a taste of what exchanges can do to their bottom lines and they like what they see. Like Tesco's, many of them are now clearly in a mood to do whatever it takes to make B2B e-commerce work for them and their suppliers.
Ex DavosEcountries is covering the World Economic Forum in Davos, which started yesterday, in a section on its website atwww.ecountries.com/davos. It will also be publishing a daily email newsletter, The Davos Agenda.Bush watchThere's a new man in the White House, and "leading advocacy groups" such as Greenpeace and the American Civil Liberties Union are watching just how far he will go in his first 100 days. The site atwww.transitionwatch.orgwill keep people up to date with what is going on in the new administration,   supplemented by a twice-weekly newsletter.Safe surfWith the Department of Health donning its jackboots to try to block access to websites for adoption seekers, it may be a good time to experiment with "safe surfing" servers.Safewebseems to be the best at the moment. It masks your address and encrypts content so that even your ISP (internet service provider) cannot see which sites you are visiting. See Grant Jeffrey'swww.pacarras.demon.co.uk/privacy.htmfor links to more privacy tools.Jakob watchSad to say, the competition to redesign Useit, the stylistically provocative website run by Jakob Nielsen, the web's usability guru, does not seem to have attracted any entries. The deadline was January 17 but, it admits, "nothing much happened" (Seedemon.co.uk/privacy.htm).Never mind. There is still Untickalong, which links to anti-Nielsen humour atwww.untickalock.com/jakob/and it is still possible to rate one of Online's favourite gurus atAm I Goth Or Not?.  Go towww.useit.comfor the real thing - especially the column about the death of the mobile phone (seewww.useit.com/alertbox/20010107.html)Video veriteFlyOnTheWall.comis a British site that is offering video clips captured by "a swarm of Flycasters" attending celebrity events. The site has three sections: swinging London, sight-seeing London, and links to global webcams. These range from the elephant cam at Indianapolis zoo to Big Brother in Switzerland.Ginger snapThe secret invention codenamed Ginger may only be a powered scooter, but it will be really something if it moves as well as its namesake, Ginger Rogers. The inventor,Dean Kamen, has already come up with one brilliant device, a wheelchair that climbs stairs (Seewww.usatoday.com/life/cyber/tech/review/crg154.htm). This was code-named Fred Upstairs after Ginger's partner, Fred Astaire. Seewww.gingerhype.comand, for a less reverential view (with thanks to The Register),www.idleworm.com/spoofs/ginger.htm.Hello, AudleyAudley Harrison, the Olympic boxing champion turning pro this week, has a personal website atwww.audleyharrison.comand at the moment he's still enthusiastic enough to answer email personally. I wouldn't bet on that idea surviving the inevitable flood. The site is in the usualAthlete's Directstyle. Other stars featured range from Anna Kournikova to Joe Montana.Ask auntieThe BBC is building on its enviable reputation for useful exam revision sites with ASGuru, aimed at the 800,000 kids embarking on the new AS levels this year. The BBC says it contains 6,500 files of advice.Ad busterLavasoft has launched a new version of its free Ad-Aware program, which detects and removes so-called "spyware" software such as Adware, Aureate, and the loathsome Comet Cursor. Go towww.lavasoft.de/aaw.For the recordCitizens and genealogists now have somewhere to start their investigations: the Public Record Office's Family Records Centre atwww.familyrecords.gov.uk. This would be a fantastic resource if it had any records. Still, at least it tells you where to find paper records for lots of documents ranging from birth certificates to wills.New &amp; noted&#149;  The hidden history of the Cuban missile crisis exposed atwww.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/nsa/cuba_mis_cri&#149;  Someone had to do it eventually:www.nakednews.com&#149;  The poptastic Pepsi top 40 chart:www.networkchart.com&#149;  Is it time to dump the dickshunaris?www.freespeling.com&#149;  Photographic reflections on life:www.jezebel.com/mirror&#149;  Not quite Rorschach but mildly amusing:www.eblots.comSix of the bestWeb appsOnline PIMwww.visto.comGroupwarewww.egroups.comDatabasewww.bitlocker.comWeb officewww.freedesk.comOne stop shopwww.yahoo.comLink heavenwww.mygo.com/webservices.html
Britain might be about to wave goodbye to the venture capital pickup club First Tuesday, but in the meantime Silicon Valley is saying hello to the Pink Slip party, the new bash of choice for the dot.com unemployed.Outside a trendy little nightclub in the SoMa (South of Market Street) district of San Francisco, at the epicentre of the dot.com revolution, the queue of ex-marketeers, managers, designers and the occasional programmer is stretching up the street. They are waiting - in the biting wind and driving rain - for a chance to party, and find themselves a new job.Inside the Glas Kat, DJ Spoon is spinning out some fashionably obscure European dance music while recruiters (they are wearing the green badges) and hopefuls (they have got pink) shuffle round the tightly packed   dance floor, giving each other the once-over to determine their orientation before moving in with their line, and a firm handshake. "Hi - you looking for a job?" and "Hey - you recruiting?" are the chat-up lines de jour.While there are cheap drinks ($2 a pint) and cool sounds, there is no buffet and free goodies are few on the ground, bar a few t-shirts and caps from the evening's sponsors. A lot has changed since the glory days.Patti Beron, one of the night's organisers and editor of community site SFgirl.com, sums up the change in atmos phere. "SFgirl.com had ridden the internet wave, listing all the launch parties and events, and built up this audience of people in the industry," she says. "But suddenly all the talk on the notice boards was of 'hey, I'm losing my job' or 'we've had layoffs here'."And then I had a bunch of friends who were laid off and we were all sitting around drinking on the day they lost their jobs, and thought these parties would be a good idea."Boom time in Silicon Valley had brought with it some unexpected benefits. For Marcus Ronaldi, web developer and another leading light in the San Francisco social scene, the good times meant he didn't need to spend very much on groceries, or drink."Looking back on the, you know, the parties were just amazing," says Ronaldi, founder of the SFbayhappyhour.com party listings. He stares into the middle distance as he recalls the heady days when dot.coms were awash with venture capital - and full of great ideas on how to spend it. "It   was just phenomenal - I didn't go out at the weekends because the weekdays were so busy," he says."You would go to these launch parties and there would be fine food - lobster, bay shrimp, only the best. And the swag! There were T-shirts, of course, but they were also giving away things like Palm Pilots and digital cameras."The scene hit its high with a do thrown to celebrate the renaming of what is now Acteva.com. Acteva was a new e-commerce operation with a vague purpose - a "marketplace for activities" - but a very clear desire to party in a fashion which was, even by 1999 standards, lavish. The entire crowd was bussed to a barracks and treated to a spectacular night's entertainment, complete with ice sculptures with shots of spirits running through them, and a presentation to the staffer who had come up with the name Acteva - he was given a Porsche.Dot.com staff were valued then. "At that time," says Marcus, "it was easier to find a job than get a parking ticket".But then, as it had to, the bubble burst. Stock values plunged - dot.com bell wethers like Yahoo! lost over over 80% of their stock market value, and many smaller ventures which had ridden the wave of high-tech hype were wiped out."The statistic I've heard is that a dot.com dies a day," laughs Debbie Bonacci, a relentlessly cheerful partygoer who sports a pink sticker but who hasn't had to clear out her cubicle yet. This, she says, is a preemptive strike; she and her colleague Kimmaiie Baran are both graphic designers at a dot.com being taken over by its main rival."We just want to find out what recruiters are looking for right now," she explains. "I've acquired some skills since I was last looking, so I'm just looking around to see if I can find my niche."But behind the cheerful exterior, there is caution. "It could just be that dot.commers know how to party," she says, examining the smiling faces surrounding us. "I wouldn't work for another dot.com. I moved here from New Jersey about a year and a half ago, wanted to experience the dot.com industry, and now I have." She is plotting a return to the east coast, and a move into old fashioned advertising.For Catherine Edwards, another pink dot, the business of finding a new job is a little more urgent. She was laid off just before Christmas from her job at an education startup serving primary-school age children - one of   30 people told they were no longer needed as the cash-starved business changed direction in a bid to survive.Edwards, who had previously worked for two years at what was then Andersen Consulting, had expected more stability from her privately-owned startup. But it turned out even it was not immune to the shake-out, or Silicon Valley's now ritualised redundancy procedures."It was humiliating," says Edwards. "You feel that you've gone from being part of this small, internal family of a company to feeling like you're a criminal, being asked to clear your desk within an hour."Thirty of us went on the same day, and because it was an education startup there were a lot of teachers working for us. They were very passionate about what they did - to them it wasn't just another dot.com selling something on the web. There was a lot of heartfelt emotion involved. It was a very mission-driven company."People were upset, and wondering what they are going to do next. There are very few companies in that space which are doing well."Like many others at the party tonight, Edwards is now looking for a job outside the dot.com world. "My top priority is finding a stable company - stability is key," she says."It is doubtful I would work at another startup. It would depend on what state they were in... I'm taking a   much closer look at business models and funding this time round."It's a weird sort of night. If you think about it, half this crowd has been laid off in the recent past and that is a kind of depressing thing, but clearly the drink is flowing and it's working well. It's a good idea. But I'm meeting a friend here later on who was laid off today. It's going to be a little harder for her."The youngest person I speak to is 26-year-old Dave Rhee, who finds himself unemployed for the first time. He had been in a specialised job - building a proprietary risk model for a real estate firm. "But they restructured their business and the part of the business I was responsible for became nonexistent. It just wasn't important in what they are trying to do now," he says, in a matter of fact way.Dave, whose girlfriend Felice Gibbs is here tonight as a recruiter, is calm about his unemployment. He has some cash in the bank to live on while he searches for the right job. "It's not as traumatic for me as, say, this would have been for my parents," he says."I think you would have to pretty naive to join a job in this area and not realise there is at least a 30% chance you'll be looking for a new one in a few months' time. If you accept that going in, it's still a shock to be laid off because you don't expect it now, but you are better prepared for it."But, he says, there are no hard feelings. "I'd work for another dot.com in a heartbeat. It's just a great learning environment. You do so many things and get a great perspective. If I had followed the traditional path at my age I'd be in business school now."And, of course, if he had followed the traditional path he would have missed out on one heck of a party. It is just a shame that everyone is having to buy their own drinks these days. But, as organiser Ronaldi laments, "If your company's stock is trading at $1, then your budget for feeding the masses isn't really there."
Ups and downsThe UK video games and leisure software market was not too bad last year. More than 39.5 million units were sold, which is 16% more than in 1999 and 32% up on 1998. However, falling prices meant the market was only worth &#163;934m, only 2% more than   in 1999. The average price of a Sony PlayStation game, for example, fell from &#163;32.58 in 1998 to &#163;22.30 last year.The home computer software market struggled. Last year, the number of units sold increased by 6%, but the value of the market fell by 6%, compared with 1999.The games console market was boosted by the success of the PlayStation 2 and, particularly, Nintendo's Game Boy Color, which enjoyed a 160% increase in software sales.The best selling games were Gran Turismo, James Bond: Tomorrow Never Dies; Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, WWF Smackdown 2, and, on the Game Boy, Pok&eacute;mon Red, Blue and Yellow.The figures have been   released by the European Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa) based on Chart-Track data from sales in more than 5,000 stores.Rights fightIn the US, Daily Radar, a games news site, has dropped its Nintendo coverage after its parent company, Imagine Media, was hit with a Nintendo lawsuit alleging copyright and trademark infringement in The100% Unofficial Pok&eacute;mon Trainer's Guide). The site protests that using things like screen shots and titles has always been considered "fair use". Daily Radar's Michael Wolf says: "Frankly, we feel    betrayed by this lawsuit. Here we've been, drooling publicly over Gamecube, talking animatedly about the Game Boy Advance, going home and playing each and every new   Nintendo game with the same excitement we felt as kids, and Nintendo's response is to sue us over publishing some screenshots and for using the word Pok&eacute;mon."Out soonThe post-Christmas lull seems worse than usual - and there is not much to look forward to. If you like driving games, however, tomorrow's releases include Driving Emotion Type-S and F1 Racing Championship, both from Electronic Arts for the PS2, budget re-releases of Colin McRae Rally and Ridge Racer for the PlayStation, and 4x4 Evolution for the Sega Dreamcast.Due on February 2 is Mechwarrior 4: Vengeance, reviewed here last week. So not much change at the top of the charts, except for the outstanding SSX snowboarding game - one of the best games published last year.
Colin McRae Rally 2.0PC	&#163;34.99  Codemasters	*****If you like to floor the accelerator and go screaming off down the road like a boy racer, this game is not for you. Colin McRae Rally 2.0 requires more skilful use of the brakes, and the trick is to slide round corners without hitting anything. Well, not too often, anyway.The other thing that sets it apart from most racing games is that you need to be sensitive to the road surface, which may of course be gravel, mud, sand   or snow. Realism is the thing. CMR2 is reasonably forgiving, so even if you run straight into a tree, the car is not totalled, and you can continue after a second or two.On the other hand, the cars do take - and show - damage, which has to be repaired between races. Also, if you hit more than a couple of things, you may not finish high enough to earn a new track. This makes winning hard work. Without the co-driver who calls out the corners it would be even harder.In the latest version, the graphics are superb, and there are the expected new cars and extra tracks. CMR2 offers five different racing views: behind the car (near and far), a cockpit view, from the bonnet, and (road only) from the front bumper. The last is the most   exciting way to play. It is also the hardest to win. If it is not enough to pit yourself against the elements and the times recorded by unseen opponents, CMR2 provides for both network and online play. There's also an alternate-play championship mode. For people who buy rally games by mistake, there's also a new arcade mode, which lets six boy racers go wheel-to-wheel round eight looped circuits.Unfortunately, the simulation does break down eventually. Even if you win the World Rally Championship at the highest level, there won't be an agent round to offer you &#163;5m a year to drive a Ford Focus. However, you will be able to earn bragging rights by uploading your high scores to the web.  (JS)Gunman ChroniclesPC CD-rom	&#163;19.99 Valve/Sierra Studios	***An "all-new action experience powered by the Half-Life engine!" proclaims the box. Sorry, box, but I have to take issue with that "all-new" bit.Certainly, the story and characters are new. Well, newish: instead of sharpshooting scientist Gordon Freeman, trying to stop an alien infestation wiping out the human race, you now play a sharpshooting soldier, at some indeterminate point in our future, trying to stop an alien infestation wiping out the human race. And in a nifty little addition, you can   now commandeer vehicles to use against your foe. Well, you get to climb into a tank. Twice.Another minor difference: whereas Half-Life had a nice, easy learning curve that cranked up the difficulty level beautifully, Gunman Chronicles rather throws you in at the deep end (against a tank and a fortified gun turret). Once that's out of the way, though, things don't get an awful lot harder.Mastering the controls may be a problem, thanks to the only real innovation - your arsenal. There are about as many different weapons available as in Half-Life, but this time they are "customisable" - that is to say, each has up to 32 different configurations. Which means that in the later stages of the game, you'll have well over 100 firepower options to choose from. While it sounds   impressive, selecting the correct weapon and the ideal configuration in the heat of battle is about as easy as taking candy from a 22-stone wrestler with a sweet tooth.These points aside, Gunman Chronicles will give all Half-Life fans a serious case of deja vu. The graphics are identical, right down to the endless list of video card compatibility issues. The gameplay is still frustratingly (and yet ingeniously) linear. The credits sequence once again takes place on a monorail accompanied by a PA system, and there are even little creatures that leap out at you from the shadows.Most first-person shooter fans would be well advised to wait for Half-Life 2. For those who can't, however, Gunman Chronicles (aka Half-Life One and a Half) is a passable way of killing 20 hours or so. (AB)Resident Evil 3: NemesisSega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99  Virgin/Capcom 	***Never mind zombies and ghoulish adversaries, the scariest thing about Resident Evil 3: Nemesis is that Capcom has released it at all. It's not that this is a bad game   - although it is the weakest of the series - but releasing it on the Dreamcast is pointless. The reason? Code Veronica.Released last year, this Sega exclusive was the fourth Resident Evil game but, crucially, the first in proper 3D. Now your characters could interact with all their spooky surroundings while the processing oomph of the Dreamcast ensured no loss in graphical quality.It was a runaway success and effectively raised the bar for survival-horror games. So,   it's odd then, that the game's markedly inferior prequel - albeit a hit on the aging PlayStation - has now made its way to the Dreamcast.Of course there have been plenty of additions, right? Er, not really. The graphics, 2D backdrops and all, have been slightly cleaned up while heroine Jill Valentine gets additional costumes to wear. Not exactly compelling reasons for Dreamcast owners to rush to the shops, then.However, it's not all bad news. If you haven't played it   before then this is the best version available and, like all RE games, it has the addictive power to keep you going from dusk till dawn. This instalment also has more violence and fewer puzzles with the constant threat from the Nemesis himself an absorbing accompaniment.Still, minor enhancements or not, this is no match for the eight-month-old Code Veronica and is only recommended if you haven't played the PlayStation version. (GH)
Hard disk TVWhile hard disk video recorders are in their infancy in the UK, in Japan it will soon be difficult to buy a consumer electronics product that doesn't include one.Panasonic has become the first manufacturer to add a hard disk video recorder to a TV set by announcing the March launch in Japan of the TH-36DH100. This 36in high definition set comes with a 30 gigabyte hard disk drive which, according to the maker, can store up to 25 hours of analogue video or five hours of digital video.The set can also pause live TV and play back a programme that it is recording.It features an i.Link (IEEE 1394) port to connect it to other digital AV components such as D-VHS digital VCRs and DV-format camcorders. It also sports a slot for an SD (Secure Digital) memory card, which viewers   can use to store images from the screen as Jpeg files.If Japanese home cinema fans don't fancy chucking out their existing TVs just yet, in March they will also be able to buy a stand-alone hard disk video recorder, the Panasonic NV-HDR1000.JVC has an S-VHS/hard disk video recorder on sale in Japan, while Toshiba is selling a DVD-Ram/hard disk recorder.TriumMitsubishi's Trium has teamed up with some of the big names in the PC world in a move to outsmart rivals Ericsson and Nokia in the mobile phone stakes.   The Mondo, due in March, is a phone/PDA that is powered by an Intel 166MHz processor running Microsoft's PocketPC software.The large flat-screen phone offers the traditional selection of PDA features (diary, address book etc) but also sports "pocket" versions of Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel, and Internet Explorer. The Mondo also inlcudes Windows Media Audio software for music playback, and an e-book reader.The phone is compatible with both the current GSM and forthcoming GPRS   (General Packet Radio Service) networks. Trium suggests the faster download speeds and higher bandwidth offered by the always-on GPRS network will add functionality such as secure e-commerce facilities and the ability to view video clips.The Mondo will retail for around &#163;300.www.trium.net.Neo jukeboxThe storage capacity of hard disk personal audio players has just got even larger. Neo, a US company, is about to break the current record by   introducing a player that can hold up to 20 gigabytes of music in one portable player. The $699 Neo Jukebox 2200 can store up to 600 CDs in the MP3 format, and even more if music is stored as WMA (Windows Media Audio) files. Other features include a built-in FM radio, compatibility with both PCs and Macs, a five-minute anti-shock buffer, and a USB connector.Neo is also selling a version of the player without a hard drive for $400. This enables buyers to use the hard drive from their current notebook    PC in the player. More information is available atwww.ssiamerica.com. (AN)Palm brainA Palm handheld computer can be used as the brain of a small mobile robot which costs $299, partly assembled. Acroname, which also sells Lego robots and a Rug Warrior range, based the Palm Pilot Robot Easy on technology licensed from Carnegie Mellon University. The company admits that is not of much practical use, but it may be educational and entertaining. Seewww.acroname.com/robotics/parts/c_Kits.html.Mobile moviesMGI Software is targeting Palm OS users with a "mobile edition" of its PhotoSuite software, which enables users to store, view and share still photos and video. The package comes in two parts. The Mobile Organiser software for Windows PCs lets users capture and edit images before transferring them to their handheld. The Mobile Album software runs on Palm, Handspring and Sony handhelds with both colour and greyscale screens. The package will be available in the UK at the end of next month.  (JS)
Were you Moonfruits or fruit cakes giving up good jobs for a dot.com?We definitely think we are Moonfruiters not fruitcakes! Even though it has been a rollercoaster trip there is a great sense of adventure in the company. A period like this in any economy will sort the wheat from the chaff and Moonfruit is wheat!Has the business changed?We had to execute the second phase much more quickly to secure a revenue stream and cost base to break even this year. We had trailed the first online site building software from January 2000 to prove how easy it was. Armed with the response fromconsumers and requests from portals and ISPs to licence it, we turned the business on a sixpence and extended our first application to support an ASP (Application Service Provider) model -Moonfruit II, a multi-media web building application for non-techie users we are now licensing.Where is the dot.com world going?As with any industry there are large numbers of entrants followed by a shake down.We have had to restructure the business twice in one year. It was hard making positions redundant, while recruiting new skill sets. New businesses will learn from predecessors' mistakes.What should the government do?The best thing is to nurture the new technology infrastructure within the UK - making good their promises for school and public sector networks, roll out of DSL lines, and encourage investment for R&amp;D.Why aren't there more women?Partly time and partly the need for women to be pro-active at all ages.There are more in the USA and Asia where it has long been acceptable for girls to excel in science. Women are good at business and at management. We have fast rising good women managers. We have a woman of 59 who is our mentor. Far fewer women than men enter into technology at university. This leads to fewer women in IT. The perception of most young women is that the internet is "geeky". This will change. Most networking events are male dominated despite a few notable exceptions.Whither the web post-Napster?Charging is inevitable but everyone is waiting for the first person to jump. We have already integrated a charging mechanism into our application. The basic philosophy of the net will keep it free but to support this there will have to be elements where charging is possible.Your introduction to computers?Sitting with my dad, playing with punch cards! He was in a lab while he was studying computer science in 1974 (my mother is a data warehousing consultant). Computers and the net are second nature. It was to make this accessible to the public that made me decide on Moonfruit.Favourite sites?www.google.com(great search engine) andwww.streetmaps.co.uk!www.shockwave.comis great for games and music andwww.tvgohome.comfor rude satire.Must-have gadgets?My mobile is at the top, followed by my Yves Saint Laurent, Touche Eclat (it's got a cool clicky action).
Bill Gates has one. So do Al Gore and many of the movers and shakers on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley. It is called a BlackBerry, and if you haven't heard of it or seen one yet, you will soon: its makers plan to roll out the device in the UK later this year.A wireless handheld device roughly the dimensions of a pack of cards and about one inch thick, the BlackBerry lets you send and receive emails 24 hours a day, without dialling up.It has been dubbed "a pager on steroids" by Fortune magazine, but that doesn't really do it justice. Unlike a pager, it can receive lengthy text messages, and it is synchronised to your main office or home email account. And with an (albeit fiddly) Qwerty keyboard, Intel 386 processor, 2MB of memory, and the ability to run for as much as a week on a single AA battery, it is more like a pager, a Palm and miniature laptop rolled into one. Of course the price tag- in the US, between $400 and $500 depending on model- reflects that.For Mike Lazaridis, the silver-haired founder of Research In Motion (RIM), the Canadian company behind the device, the success of the BlackBerry is not a surprise, but the end result of a lot of hard work. The 39-year old has been a   serial entrepreneur ever since dropping out of university a month short of graduation in the mid-80s to tinker with new network and wireless technologies. But it wasn't until the BlackBerry was unveiled in early 1999 that RIM had a hit on its hands."Back in the early 90s, we realised that there was a strong correlation between those who used email and those who were often away from their desks. If we could create something to &#91;connect the two&#93;, they wouldn't be able to do without it," says Lazaridis at RIM's headquarters in Waterloo, Ontario, about an hour outside Toronto. So it seems: the device has been dubbed the "crackberry" for the addictiveness with which people take to it, whether covertly checking their email under the table in three hour sales meetings or ducking into the toilets at a client dinner to do the same.But RIM's success also got the attention of Motorola, the mobile phone and pager giant. In the mobile phone market, Motorola had lost its lead to Nokia, its Finnish rival, and is in no mood to see it happen again,   especially not to a competitor a hundredth its size.RIM's revenues were an estimated $180 million last year, but despite spectacular growth, profits - which were $10 million in 1999 - proved elusive in the face of rising product development costs.Motorola struck back last autumn with the release of its Timeport 935, a BlackBerry-like device, which sells for about $400, and which offers similar features, albeit in a less elegant design. Until now, RIM's jump on the competition - and the BlackBerry's cultish must-have status among peripatetic professionals - have given it the edge over Motorola.'Idon't know how cults begin, but the buzz about &#91;the BlackBerry&#93; is very strong," admits Allan Spiro, marketing manager for Motorola's messaging group.How long RIM can continue to generate this buzz, and compete with Motorola's deep pockets and marketing muscle, is a different matter. Like RIM, Motorola has struck deals with AOL for email and messaging. But unlike RIM, it does not need to rely on sales deals with larger companies such as the   PC manufacturers Dell and Compaq, who sell the BlackBerry.Nonetheless, it too is trying to capture some of its rival's chic factor. In an iMac-inspired move, Motorola has produced a more basic version of the Timeport in translucent blues and greens, and is flogging it to kids for around $200. This is a lucrative niche that is part of a larger consumer market that BlackBerry has avoided up till now by targeting primarily business users.But if Lazaridis is worried about the threat from Motorola, he isn't showing it. "Competition is an extreme   form of flattery," he quips, "but we've been leading &#91;the field&#93; since 1989."A share offering last November netted RIM almost $400 million to invest in further R&amp;D.But most analysts agree that RIM is going to have a tough time when it expands into Europe later this year, and comes up against wireless heavyweights such as Nokia and Ericsson.At the moment, RIM is engaged in field trials in the UK with BT Cellnet using GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) technology."BT Cellnet's decision to invest early in GPRS technology will pay dividends as customers recognise and embrace the potential of the wireless internet," trumpeted Lazaridis when the trials began last summer.But even if it is at the vanguard of GPRS developments, will Europeans - who are addicted to text messag ing on their mobile phones - go for the little black devices?"I think it's going to be difficult to start with. The BlackBerry has been a success in the US as PDAs are so popular, whereas here, people are geared more to mobile phones," says David Hall, a technology analyst with Datamonitor, a UK-based research group."It does not yet have mass appeal &#91;for Europeans&#93;."And while the BlackBerry continues to frustrate rivals with its cult appeal and always-on convenience, the impending arrival of all-in-one voice and email mobile phones, and the wider introduction of GPRS, "will offer a whole new level playing field," says aToronto-based analyst who covers RIM.And it will be on that field that Lazaridis's self-proclaimed goal to create the "coolest wireless internet appliance" will face its stiffest test yet.
As yet another former dot.com darling crashes and burns into cyber-oblivion, many must be experiencing a certain guilty Schadenfreude. Just as people had suspected, it seems the multibillion dollar new economy behemoths were as full of nothing as the zeros in their improbable valuations.But to confuse the frothy, headline-grabbing excitement of e-business and its egregious if entertaining cast of characters with the real achievement of the internet would be a tragic mistake. For the rise of the net as an open, universal communications medium has created another kind of wealth that has nothing to do with share options and initial public offerings (IPOs).In contrast to the hype and self-promotion of the e-commerce sector, thousands of selfless individuals have been quietly working away, steadily putting together the internet's best-kept secret and greatest gift: free software.Some prefer to call it "open source", but all those involved agree that anyone should be able to take these programs, copy them, use them, and modify them in any way, without having to pay a penny. All that is asked in return is that anything built on the work of others must also be freely available and able to be modified.If this sounds quaintly idealistic but hopelessly irrelevant in the early 21st century, consider the fact that this free software not only made the net possible in the first place, but keeps it running to this day. The Bind program, software that ensures that the billions of pieces of data routed over the internet's wiring every second reach their correct destination, was written nearly 20 years ago,   and given away. Sendmail, created by Eric Allman around the same time, is responsible for delivering over three-quarters of all email sent across the internet. It has always been freely available, as has Apache, a program that runs nearly two-thirds of the web's 25 million public sites.And it is not just the internet that is built on free software: e-commerce itself   would be unthinkable without it. For example, two of the top internet business sites, Amazon.com and Yahoo, depend for their rich user experience on a programming language called Perl. Like the others, Perl was given away by its creator, Larry Wall, from the moment it existed.Free software has a deeply symbiotic relationship with the internet: it gave rise to it but also depends critically on   it. Behind its creation lies no army of programmers in cubicles, as in conventional software companies, but a loose, net-based confederation of self-styled hackers - not to be confused with the malevolent "crackers", who break into computer systems.This novel way of crafting programs has little in common with the traditional, hierarchical approach based on centralised teams working   in a directed way. Instead, free software builds on the fact that its underlying lines of programming - the source code - are always freely available for all to inspect and improve.As a result, anyone can contribute improvements to any part: all that matters is the quality of the code. This Darwinian dynamic allows free software to progress in a uniquely efficient way. The   fact that nobody gets paid to work on the code turns out to be an advantage. Since hackers tend to work on areas they are passionate about, they generally produce better code than unmotivated software grunts ordered to work on a product feature they may have little sympathy for.Moreover, the free software approach scales: it can tackle ever-bigger and more complex projects without the managerial overhead that eventually brings conventional software production to its knees.The ability to focus on code quality, and the lack of corporate agendas that so often override engineering considerations elsewhere, means that free software possesses a reliability that is second to none. One reason that few people are aware there are programs running the internet is that they never crash in any significant way: the free software underlying the internet is reliable to the point of invisibility.This reliability, combined with zero cost, poses a serious challenge to commercial outfits trying to sell their often bug-ridden programs. No one is more affected by this dichotomy than Microsoft, the most successful company ever built on the traditional software model.Microsoft's flagship product, Windows 2000, not only has a direct competitor but a serious rival in GNU/Linux, a free clone of the commercial   Unix operating system (see below, left). Earlier this month, Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's generally upbeat chief executive officer, publicly acknowledged this for the first time: "I'd put the Linux phenomenon really as threat number one," he said.The motives for developing free software vary enormously. Some, like Richard Stallman, who started the GNU project which forms the framework for GNU/Linux and who drew up what amounts to a constitution for the free software world (see above, right), are driven by lofty ideals. For them, writing software for anyone to use and modify is about liberty - one reason why this wing prefers the label "free software" to "open source".Larry Wall, the creator of Perl, sees a religious dimension. Originally trained as a linguist, Wall had intended to become a Christian missionary in remote parts of the world before food allergies made that impractical. Instead, he started writing software and giving it away, in part so that others might have   a similar opportunity for generosity by passing on their own improvements to his work - an effect that Wall has no qualms about describing as "theological". Many other hackers believe the sharing and sense of community engendered among users of their programs is a crucial facet.Hackers also seem to agree on one other key factor that drives their work. Within their world, the highest praise for code is that it is "cool", that it possesses a kind of hacker beauty. One of the free software patriarchs, Donald Knuth, has spent the past 40 years of his life on a monumental series of books called simply The Art of Computer Programming. More recently, the colourful open-source spokesperson Eric Raymond, a neo-pagan with a black belt in Tae Kwon Do, is working on The Art of Unix Programming.This passion for cool code, for art and beauty, combined with the strong ethical component of many hackers, helps explain why free soft ware is starting to outpace proprietary rivals. For unlike commercial software vendors and their dot.com brethren, which at most can promise often evanescent material rewards, the free software projects offer something much more enduring and valuable on a human level, if more intangible. Tapping into the best that is in people, it calls forth the best. As such, it stands as a crucial corrective to any cynicism about the net's power and potential.&#149;  The Rebel Code: Linux and the Open Source Revolution, by Glyn Moody, is published today by Penguin. Readers can order a copy for the special price of &#163;9.99 by calling our Guardian book ordering service on 0800 3166 102. To read the first three chapters for free visitwww.penguin.co.uk.GNU/Linux - how it all beganWhile the free software that lies behind the internet remains something of an insider secret, one open source project, GNU/Linux, is breaking into the mainstream. In part this is down to the charisma of the young Finn Linus Torvalds, who leads the project that bears his name.The story of Linux - strictly speaking, this refers only to the kernel, the very heart of the operating system - is emblematic of the free software world. In 1991, when Torvalds was 21, versions of Unix, the operating system of preference for hackers, were expensive and hard to come by. While he was looking around for an alternative, Torvalds realised that some code he had been hacking on in his Helsinki bedroom   was tantalisingly close to a key element of Unix.Torvalds decided not only to extend his ambitions for the code, but to post it online for others to download freely. This apparently trivial move allowed the nascent Linux (not its original name: Torvalds had   intended to call it "Freax") to enlist the support of first dozens, and later thousands, of hackers worldwide eager for the chance to contribute to just such a "cool" project.Linux arrived at the right moment. In 1991, PCs were powerful enough to run   Unix and yet cheap enough for even hackers to afford them; the internet was just taking off, allowing global collaboration; and the framework for a complete Unix clone had already been put in place over the preceding seven years by Richard Stallman, perhaps the greatest hacker of them all. Stallman's GNU project - a typical hacker name that stands recursively for GNU's Not Unix - lacked only a kernel, which Linux was able to provide.The resulting GNU/Linux operating system may have arisen in an entirely contingent way, but it has progressed to the point that last year IBM announced it would be offering it on all of its hardware - from the simplest PC to the mightiest mainframe.Copyleft, not copy rightGiving away software is not without its pitfalls. If users are granted total freedom, they can sell it as a proprietary package with no copying allowed - and negate one of the key points of free software.To avoid this situation, Richard Stallman devised the GNU General Public Licence (GPL). Although drawing on copyright for its enforcement, this "copyleft", as it is often known, takes quite a different approach from traditional software licensing schemes which typically seek to limit the rights of a user. The GNU GPL, however, guarantees a user's rights.Software released under the GPL must be freely available (though it can be sold), and users must have the right to modify the underlying source code. In return for these rights, the licence imposes a duty: to pass on exactly the   same rights to others.The GNU GPL is not the only licence employed by free software but it is by far the most important, and enshrines its central principles. Bruce Perens, one of the key players in the open source world, and an expert on software licensing matters, has no hesitation in declaring the GNU GPL "one of the revolutionary documents of our century."
A Russian handheld computer is sweeping the American market, and should reach the UK before Christmas. But this is only the first part of a plan for world domination. The Cybiko "inter-tainment computer" may be aimed at teenagers, but an adult version is planned. Palm may not know, but it faces a stiff challenge.The Cybiko is a small, cheap ($99.95), plastic handheld computer: its looks give no indication of its potential impact. Its real power only emerges when you flip up the aerial on the back and find yourself in immediate contact with up to 99 more Cybiko users. The handheld's built-in two-way radio makes it a digital walkie-talkie. You can swap text messages with other users, and play games.Since it is based on short-range radio, text messaging is instant and free. That makes the Cybiko much more attractive than a mobile phone.Games are free, too. Cybiko Inc puts a new game on the web every day, and there are already more than 200. If you have a PC, you can download games and copy them to your Cybiko. If you don't have a PC, you can get someone else with a Cybiko to send them to you using the built-in radio.While a Cybiko is connected to a PC, it can also pick up electronic mail, although it is clearly not practical unless the handheld also has a $19.95 memory module plugged into the expansion slot on the back. Other plug-ins on the way include an MP3 player, an FM radio, a GSM phone, and a wireless modem.The Cybiko was developed in Moscow by Cybiko Inc, which was founded in 1999 by a young Chinese-Armenian, David Yang. He was already    running a successful software company,Abbyy, which develops artificial intelligence products. He came up with the Cybiko when stuck in hospital, he   says, "and for the first time in my life, I had nothing to do."Yang researched the idea in six countries including the UK. "Originally, we were targeting people about 20-30 years old," Yang says, "but we found the highest interest was in the 13-17 range. We decided to go for that market because it is huge - 200m kids - and they don't have anything today. I invested my own money, my father   invested, my company invested_" Today, Cybiko Inc also has investment backing from Sun Technology and its subsidiary, Vesta Capital Partners, which are owned mainly by the Khemka family, from India. America Online's AOL Investments is another backer, and AOL will provide Cybiko with access to its proprietary instant messaging systems.With Cybiko   computers being made in Taiwan for the US market, the Russian company is already operating globally, though the software and hardware development is still done in Moscow.The Cybiko is now spreading across the US like influenza. Launched in April,"full-scale commercial sales" began in September with a shipment of 42,000 units. That has now climbed to 500,000.The growth pattern follows   from the Cybiko's limited range, which in the US is only 50-100m indoors, and 100-200m out of doors. If you have the only Cybiko for miles around, its uses are limited. However, once a few people have them, there is a strong incentive for their friends to get them as well. And as with mobile phones, once critical mass is reached, almost everyone has to have one.The free chat facilities and continuous supply of free   games could make the Cybiko a "must have" accessory for teenagers in many schools.Better still, the Cybiko also has the ability to "hop" signals. Two Cybiko owners can thus communicate via a series of intermediate machines, owned by other people, in a peer-to-peer network. Yang says: "It will be able to go over up to 10 hops. In big markets, we already have enough density to cover the whole of Manhattan."In Europe, things should be better still. Yang says the European system will use a different radio frequency, and local laws allow more power. This will give Cybikos a range of up to 1km outdoors."For the adult market, we have different usage scenarios," he says. The Cybiko already synchronises with Microsoft Outlook 2000, and the new hardware will be more like an organiser than a games machine. "And," says Yang, "not only will we provide Cybiko computers, we will also provide cartridges for Palms and PocketPCs like the &#91;Compaq&#93; iPaq." Rival devices will thus be absorbed into Cybiko networks.Cybiko Inc also offers "a wireless internet gateway to connect &#91;handhelds&#93; to the local network in your office," he says. "When you are walking across the car park, or going up in the elevator, you will already be reading your email and checking your messages." The CyWIG software - which is free and runs on a PC - is also being tested in shopping malls in America. (Seewww.cybiko.com/download/application/cwig.asp).The fact that Cybiko communications are free is a big incentive for companies to use the system. Yang says people don't want to pay $30 or $40 a month to a mobile phone or pager company for connectivity in their own homes and offices.Of course, many companies are already planning to install systems that perform the same functions as the Cybiko, using Bluetooth and standard Wi-Fi wireless networking (seewww.wi-fi.org).Yang says: "The second generation Cybiko will be Bluetooth-compatible, but Bluetooth has several disadvantages for us: the range is only 10m, and it does not do peer-to-peer networking." Basically, he thinks Bluetooth devices will add to the appeal   of Cybiko networks, not replace them.Wi-Fi wireless networking offers more serious competition but Yang says it has the disadvantage of requiring a base station. Also, wireless networking with handheld computers such as Palms and PocketPCs is more expensive than with Cybiko's proprietary system, which is already available in a device that costs less than $100.Yang says Cybiko Inc considered using an existing operating system before writing its own. However, Palm OS was not up to the job, which required multi-tasking and multi-processing, while Microsoft's Windows CE, used in PocketPCs, needed too much expensive memory. Cybiko's operating system has a 30K core and the whole thing only takes up 70K.Bluetooth is the agreed standard for personal area networking: it is expected to become ubiquitous once it has been reduced to a single cheap chip and the software drivers are included in things like Windows. Wi-Fi is the agreed standard for wireless local area networks, and for connecting PCs and handhelds to internet networks: it could become ubiquitous by the same route.But the Cybiko is hard to resist, and at the price, it should sell by the shed-load. Whether the system will still be around in 10 years is another matter, but it will be fun while it lasts.
What a wasteWhy, as well as "permanently on" computers, doesn't Roger Houghton (Feedback, Online, January 18), advocate never turning the car engine off to save it having to warm up, or keeping the hot taps running? All energy use leads to pollution somewhere, so let's make a good job of it, eh? All that stuff about lagging your loft, buying high efficiency light bulbs or VDUs that conserve energy is just for wimps, isn't it? C'mon, it's all good for business in the Thatcher generation, let it all hang out and dump it on the environment. Yours, in tropical kit with the heating full on.Peter Rowlandpeterrowland@compuserve.comApple visionYour correspondent argues Apple will not create a new market with iDVD because it is only available (so far) on the top-of-the-range G4.How much was the Apple II when first released in the late 70s? Did that not create a new market? Apple has just slashed the cost of producing DVDs by around 75%. They also claim that with the G4 they have cut the encoding time for MPEG-2 from 25x the original footage to just 2x. This is extraordinary if true, and opens up the possibility for all kinds of video content to appear on DVD. Who doesn't want their wedding video, or their kids growing up, to be preserved on an optical disc?Apple also released DVD Studio Pro, which is to iDVD what Final Cut Pro is to iMovie. Once people get used to the idea of video on disc, they might realise that the el cheapo option, VideoCD, is well within reach.These are all empowering technologies in the Apple tradition, and surely the most exciting thing Apple has done for years.Robert McMinnrobert.mcminn@jigsaw24.comShare it outI was pleased to find Victor Keegan discussing the need for internet companies to charge for services (Second Sight, January 18). But why did he duck the fundamental problem? The internet is basically socialist: each offers what he has and takes what he needs. What a nice chance from capitalism, where each is out for himself!But without responsibility, this socialist system will be abused. Charging would moderate demand thereby helping efficiency. But how could it be arranged?As the net has computers at every turn, charges for time for exclusive facilities and bytes for shared ones could easily be computed and billed by users' ISPs. But to avoid the undercutting Keegan rightly fears, this must be agreed by all. And to avoid profiteering, it must be monitored. Then individual links and sources could compete on quality.Wouldn't a rational charging system be better than flooding the net with advertisements or allowing it to grind to crawl most of the time, like the road system? Or is collective action too hard even though it is central to socialism and society?GCA TalbotWatfordFax fixI got quite excited when I read the letter in Online regarding fax for Windows 98 (Ask Jack, January 18) as I have been looking for a solution too.Unfortunately some PC manufacturers no longer supply a Windows 98 CD with their PCs. Instead you just get a bootable recovery CD which will rebuild the OS and bundled software back to the state in which it left the factory. You can't, however, search the disk or install individual programs.This will impact on many of the suggested fixes to problems and is a tendency, in my opinion, to be deplored.R Edwardsredwards57@hotmail.comNo chequesGrant cheques, Sean? (Students can stay at home now, Online, January 14). If only! Your anachronism forgiven - nice article.Nigel Coultonnigelcou@globalnet.co.uk
One of the greatest side-effects of the dot.com bust has got to be the revitalized interest in cool, weird, and
    artsy technologies. Wall Street will always be Wall Street, and devotees of the Nasdaq pyramid will continue to
    understand technologies in terms of their speculative potential. But real human beings with more human
    concerns have got over the tech-spec narrative, and begun to poke around the datasphere in search of
    something fun to do.This is a terrific moment. I feel like I did back in high school, when football season would finally be over and
    everyone turned to those of us who never got on the team (or even wanted to) for an alternative source of
    amusement.Yeah, we were the artsy kids. Theatre people and comic book writers. The geeks. The freaks. Well,
    we've been sitting here all along at our own table in a forgotten corner of the high school cafeteria, and have
    some stuff to show you.Go toApple.comand download iTunes, their new MP3 player. It'll do everything from stripping CDs to burning
    DVDs. Best of all, it has a graphics engine that turns Pink Floyd (or any music you choose) into a visual acid
    trip. Without the drugs.These are some of the best and fastest rendered visuals I've seen on a home computer.
    And it is only the beginning. As an invitation to user collaboration, the program has room for plug-ins made by
    anybody.Apple's stock may be in the cellar, but its new equipment and software is better than ever. Inexpensive
    flat-panel displays, G4s with write-able DVD drives and, of course, the new titanium laptop. Even Microsoft has
    got into the act with the best release of Word since 5.1, as part of its Office 2001 package.What's that? You
    don't have a Mac anymore? Don't worry, we'll let you back in the club. This is the freaks' table, remember? All
    are welcome.The quality of Apple products is as good an indication as any of the health of the counter-cyberculture. True,
    Apple is a Nasdaq company like the rest, but it is "our" side's corporation, if for no other reason than we
    consider it as such. And, these days, we'll take what we can get. 
    See, here in the States it is Bush time again. And while we may weep for the welfare of the nation, George W's
    literal and figurative reinstatement of the patriarchy will only stimulate energetic creativity from the unruly
    freaks. It's the pressure-cooker effect.This, coupled with the failure of all those traditional top-down media strategies enacted by e-commerce and
    other dot.com businesspeople, is leading inevitably to a resurgence of do-it-yourself culture, media, and
    experiences. If Amazon.com really isn't going to change my life, then what else can I do with this little machine
    and the network it's attached to? Take pictures? Make a web site? Create my own movies? (Yet another area
    where the Mac is ahead.)And this is exactly what all the artsy freaks were after in the first place: self expression, a bit of
    collaboration, a few trippy experiences, and a way to disseminate some alternative points of view. 
    Computers - networked or not - have never been good at generating mainstream media experiences.That is not
    what this medium is about. No, it is a tool that allows us, at the very least, to customize our media experiences
    and, at its very best, to create them. Like we say at the freaks table, it allows you to 'roll your own.' 
    Disenchanted with 'the big game' and the obsolete, competitive values it espouses, freaks develop their own
    sets of experiences.These are the kids who were enjoying fantasy role-playing, trying to form a band, shooting
    home videos, writing weird poetry, arguing about Hegel (without truly understanding him) or planning the perfect
    party. 
    These are the same experiences on computers and web sites today. Ultima Online and other "massively
    networked" games are now attracting women as much as men, who enjoy creating a universe collaboratively and
    on the fly.Blogger.com, an online journal tool and website, is the first internet application that realises the
    promise of the original world wide web - its user-participants self-publish, cross-post, and comment on one
    another's work. 
    And people like my Great Aunt Sophie, who just last year told me she'd never get involved with computers
    because she wasn't really interested in "online trading," is now flooding the family with email containing digital
    photos of everyone's new babies.She even used a photo retouching program to paste little angel wings on one
    of them. Cool, Sophie. Welcome to the freaks table.
New ways to stop internet chat rooms being used by child sex abusers to meet and "groom" children are being considered, the Home Office minister, Lord Bassam, said yesterday.Measures include the improved supervision of chat rooms and "hotlines" so that children could make an official report when they felt they had been the target of an "inappropriate" approach.The proposals follow talks between the internet industry, police and the government. Addressing an Internet Watch Foundation seminar yesterday, Lord Bassam said that there was a difficulty in outlawing the early stages of contact between a potential abuser and a child."Initial exchanges between a child and a potential abuser online might amount to no more than harmless chat about pop-groups or football, but may be more serious and a prelude to a meeting prior to abuse."It has been suggested that, in these circumstances, the intentions or motives of the person seeking to become involved with the child should be taken into account. This is something we need to think carefully about. We have to be careful to avoid the creation of 'thought crime'," said Lord Bassam.It is expected that the in ternet industry will be asked to adopt the safeguards.Ruth Dixon, deputy chief executive of the Internet Watch Foundation, said she hoped internet service providers would ensure there was proper supervision of chat services aimed at children.The annual report of the IWF published yesterday showed that it received more than 8,000 tip-offs last year about illegal or offensive material. This was more than double the number in the previous year.The IWF was set up by the internet industry in 1996 to combat criminal content on the web. It advises British internet service providers to remove access to sites that contain illegal material - usually child pornography but also extreme forms of adult pornography and racist material.Last year 7,681 of the items on which the IWF hotline received complaints were judged to be potentially illegal, and UK internet service providers were asked to take down 2,498 items from their servers.Only 121 of these items were found to have originated in Britain. The figure for the number of items removed from British internet servers was smaller than in 1999 when more than 10,000 items were removed after being reported by the IWF.The IWF said that the fall was a sign of the success of its operation and those of the police in arresting British paedophiles active in chat rooms. Many of the complaints it was receiving had shifted from these chat rooms to websites originating in eastern Europe.Special report on free speech on the net
The internet twins at the centre of a complex custody battle will remain in temporary foster care, a judge ruled yesterday during a hearing held in private.Sitting at Birmingham high court, Mr Justice Kirkwood succeeded in effectively silencing Alan and Judith Kilshaw, the adoptive parents from north Wales who have been in the public eye for eight days.The judge received a solemn undertaking from the couple during the short hearing that they would not discuss any of the arrangements for the twins with anyone not involved with the court. He said if anyone was foolish enough to publish information relating to the hearing, they would be in contempt.On their way into court, the Kilshaws had been as vocal as ever. Mrs Kilshaw, 47, said: "We are going to go for it. I am not giving up. We are fighting for everybody that has had children taken off them by social services. British people should listen to me and my husband and help us and support us."Her husband, Alan, 45, added that he would be happy for the children to be made wards of court.More than four hours later, after promising not to discuss the case, the couple left the building."No comment," said Mrs Kilshaw, as she was followed by a scrum of journalists, photographers and camera crews. She was heckled by passersby who called her a witch, following reports at the weekend that she had dabbled in witchcraft.The judge ruled that the six-month-old baby girls should be the subject of an interim care order and remain under the care of the court. But they were not made wards of court.Mr Justice Kirkwood said: "It is not just English law that I have to consider, but the position also in one, two or perhaps three states of the United States of America."In human terms, there are obviously various conflicting interests and claims. I am sure that everybody understands that the court's task is to do its best to find the right solution for the twins. It is their welfare that really matters in all of this."He said it had become perfectly clear that to get the right solution some calm, responsible research was needed. He said he had asked the official solicitor to assist the court, because he would be able to participate in the necessary research in Britain and the US with entire impartiality."I do not intend to allow this research to take a very long time," he said. "We must make haste but we must do so carefully and conscientiously."While that is being done, it is absolutely imperative that the twins, who are presently being well looked after, are left in peace."He said the social workers, the people looking after the babies, and the lawyers should be left to do their jobs.The judge's ruling replaces the emergency protection order obtained by Flintshire county council last Thursday.The twins were taken into care by police and social services late last Thursday and placed with temporary foster parents while the Kilshaws were staying at a hotel in Mold.The Kilshaws had urged the local authority to allow the babies to stay with them while their future was decided.The couple bought the six-month-old twin girls from a Californian baby-broker in December last year and adopted them in Arkansas.Yesterday it emerged from the Legal Services Commission that the Kilshaws would automatically be entitled to legal aid to pay for their costs because of the nature of the proceedings. No legal aid application had been received.&#149; Bailiffs arrived at Mr Kilshaw's home in Buckley, north Wales, yesterday to repossess a touring caravan, alleging the finance had not been kept up. At the same time a speeding charge against him was adjourned in his absence at Flintshire magistrates' court. Mr Kilshaw is alleged to have driven at 46mph in a 30mph zone on the A 541 at Mold.More net news
Anti-fur protesters hacked into Chanel's website yesterday and accused the French fashion house's designers of being murderers.Shortly before the morning showing in Paris where Chanel unveiled its spring-summer collection on the catwalk, gory images of animals were posted on its website by campaigners."We had a hacker," a Chanel spokeswoman said. "We closed the site and are going to conduct an investigation."There was no fur on display on the catwalk when the Chanel show was opened by the designer Karl Lagerfeld. At the launch of Christian Dior's collection in Paris on Monday, fur accessories by the British designer John Galliano were on view. Guests including the actress Liv Tyler, French news reader Claire Chazal and Heini Al Fayed, wife of the Harrod's owner, saw items including racoon hats and fox fur stoles.France has more hunters than any other EU country and Britain's agonising over whether to ban fox hunting is regarded with puzzlement.
Britain is enthusiastically embracing the "techno" revolution at an astonishing pace with the rapid spread of the internet outstripped only by the explosion in the use of mobile phones, according to this month's Guardian/ICM opinion poll.The survey showed that in the last 12 months the internet had become a true mass medium in Britain with nearly half all adults now enjoying on line access at home or at work. In two years internet access had risen from 29% of all adults in January 1999 to 49% now, confirming that the internet was growing at a far faster pace than any previous technological advance, including radio and television. The spread of the internet was accelerating. The 8 percentage point rise in adults online in 1999 was followed by a 12 percentage point increase last year.But the ICM poll showed that even this impressive record was being outstripped by the spread of the mobile phone. Some 63% of all adults said that they now used a mobile phone to make and receive calls.The real success story has been the explosion in the use of mobile phones to send and receive text messages. Some 43% of the entire adult population said they used a mobile to send and receive text messages. This rose to an astonishing 76% of all 18 to 24 year olds who said they used text messaging.It was not just a teenage thing either. Among those up to the age of 35, 68% said they used the service. Over 35, and the figures started to drop sharply with only 41% of the middle aged using text messages and 10% of the over 65s.But while the poll revealed the extent of the explosion in the use of all this new technology it also confirmed that there was still a disturbing "e-gap" developing between the young and old, the rich and poor, and the north and south. It also showed that half the population was worried about the health hazards of mobile phones. One in four owners of modern video recorders admitted they did not know how to set its "videoplus" facility to record a programme while they were out of the house.The ICM survey showed that the rapid growth of internet use had been matched by the rise of multichannel television. Some 45% of homes - about 9m - now subscribed to Sky, Ondigital or cable television. The fact that the 11% of homes with Ondigital now also faced the choice of accessing the in ternet via their television rather than through a personal computer started to raise the prospects of "convergence" in the digital age.The great marketing flop has been the Wap phone, which gives access to the net via your mobile. Only 4% of the population said they used a Wap phone.There remained a big gap in terms of who had access to all this new technology. When it came to those who were online the rich and more affluent were much more likely to be   on the net (73%) compared with the poor and unemployed, of whom only 21% had access. Fifty-four per cent of men and 44% of women said they had access to the net. Sixty three per cent of those under 35 were on the web but only 13% of the over 65s.Forty three per cent of northerners were hooked up, compared with 54% in the south. When ICM asked how enthusiastic adults were about it all, 68% said they "very" or "fairly" enthusiastic. Only 30% said they were not enthusiastic.As could be expected, the younger generation and men rather than women tended to be more excited but even 54% of the over 65s said they were happy to embrace these new developments.One of the greatest worries is the possible health hazards of mobile phones which nearly half the population said they are concerned about. When ICM asked if they were worried enough to put them off buying a mobile phone or to use their existing phone less, some 21% said it had affected their behaviour.&#149; ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults aged over 18 by telephone from January 19-21. Interviews were conducted across the country and results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.
The American twin girls "bought" via an adoption website will remain in the care of social services for the time being, a high court judge ruled today.The six-month old girls - named Belinda and Kimberley by the British couple who adopted them - will carry on being looked after by foster parents until the high court in Birmingham makes a final decision about what is best for them.The couple, Alan and Judith Kilshaw of Buckley, north Wales, were seeking to regain custody of the children after police and social workers obtained an emergency protection order and took the girls away in a late-night swoop last week.Announcing the ruling at the high court in Birmingham, Judge Andrew Kirkwood said: "It's become perfectly clear to me that in order to get the right solution, some impartial, responsible research needs to be done." The Kilshaws could no longer discuss the case with the media, the judge ruled.Judge Kirkwood said a final decision could be made within the next few weeks.The Kilshaws brought Belinda and Kimberley to Britain from the United States after paying 8,200 to an online adoption agent in California. A Californian couple, Richard and Vickie Allen, also claim custody of the children, saying they paid 4,000 to the same agency and were in the process of adopting the girls when the Kilshaws took them.The twins' natural mother, Tranda Wecker, has said that she wants her babies back.The issue explainedAdoptionRelated articles22.01.2001: Things get worse for 'bizarre' Kilshaws21.01.2001: If they'd kept quiet, would they still have the twins?19.01.2001: Worldwide extent of net baby sales emergesUseful linksFlintshire county councilAdoption information lineCalifornia legislative informationHome Office immigration &amp; nationality directorateDepartment of Health: intercountry adoption
The government forged ahead yesterday with attempts to block access to foreign adoption websites despite protests from British-based internet service providers that the intervention would backfire.John Hutton, the health minister responsible for child protection, defended his decision to warn the UK Internet Service Providers' Association of possible prosecution if its members continued to relay advertisements for adoption services illegal under British law.His action, disclosed in the Guardian yesterday, was part of the Department of Health's response to the furore over the adoption of US twins by Alan and Judith Kilshaw, the north Wales couple who bought the babies through a child broker advertising on a Californian website.The Kilshaws will today face the first round of a battle at the high court in Birmingham where Flintshire social workers will seek to make the girls, Belinda and Kimberley, wards of court. Mrs Kilshaw said she believed her family was right over the adoption issue. "We are still fighting for our children because they are our children," she said.Mr Hutton said the government was not "shooting at anyone" in haste to close a loophole allowing British couples to arrange adoptions overseas without the vetting that is a precondition of legal adoptions within the UK."We have very clear legal advice about the implications of the Adoption Act in terms of internet service providers and simply tried to relay that information," he told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme.The 1976 act made it an offence to publish an advertisement offering an adoption service by an agency that had not been approved by a local authority. "The recent high court litigation in this country has confirmed that when an internet service provider becomes aware of illegal material on their server they do need to take action to deal with that."We are not saying to all the UK &#91;internet providers&#93; that they must go and check all material on their servers. That would be completely unreasonable and we are not unreasonable."The government, a local authority or member of the public could inform a provider that it was carrying a website that contravened the act."We would of course expect the UK internet service provider to take action. I don't think that is unreasonable. We are simply saying that this is the legislation, it does impose obligations as it does on newspapers, radio, TV and other broadcasters," Mr Hutton said.Richard Clayton of the service provider Demon, said: "This is a row about the sort of adoption law we want in the UK. To see it as an internet issue is not so much shooting the messenger as hunting out the manufacturers of cleft sticks." Blocking foreign-based internet sites was possible, but difficult and more costly every time it was tried.David Kerr, chief executive of the Internet Watch Foundation, said the warning letter appeared to be outlawing adoption material stored by internet providers rather than the access they provided to overseas websites."The outcome depends on whether ministers are prepared to talk about how this can be sensibly implemented or whether they feel political and media pressure is so acute that they insist on a quick diktat that will not work," he said.
The fact that First Tuesday, the corporate matchmaking club, may have already held the last of its flagship monthly meetings is certainly something of a symbolic event in the brief, traumatic life of British e-commerce, if not a seismic one.First Tuesday, like so much of the dot.com world, shone brightly at the height of net mania in 1999, with an incredible, buzzing atmosphere which made the onlooker feel like a little bit of Silicon Valley had been brought over to central London.But First Tuesday quickly fell victim to the dot.com greed it helped to spawn. By this time last year venture capitalists (VCs) - the monied half of the First Tuesday equation - were beginning to complain that good ideas were thin on the ground at the monthly networking meetings. A regional network of meetings, after a bright start, failed to recreate the kind of buzz found at the London events. From its estimated peak value of 36m last summer, the company is now reportedly up for sale again, for 2m.By that time word had spread the nation over that First Tuesday was the place to sweet talk some city whiz kid into handing over millions for your half baked dot.com idea. Likely lads descended; there were tales of people even pretending to be VCs, out to steal the latest hot dot.com ideas.At the same time technology stocks were plunging, venture capitalists were taking fright, and the party fell flat, not helped by attempts by First Tuesday to grab a little bit of the money itself by charging a levy on VC payouts.But we can safely ignore some comments from unnamed VCs that, as deep into net history as 18 months ago, they felt it was all a bit naff - that would place us in mid-1999, when First Tuesday was in its heyday. The first balmy Tuesday evening in August that year saw the event - held at Home House in London - thrice over-subscribed. The money men were flocking in, lured by the promise of a fast buck.Perhaps the most attractive, most net-like aspect of the First Tuesday concept was its apparent democracy: the notion that any decent idea could be a goer, given a sharp enough line in sales patter and a bit of luck in meeting a willing VC. The mystery was being removed from venture funding, always more scarce in the UK than in the US.The businesses those nights spawned, however, reads today a bit like a who's who of so what: ClickMango, which went bust last autumn after barely mustering the turnover of a corner shop, was one of the most obvious failures. Others - like music site peoplesound and ihavemoved.com - the site that tells your friends you've moved - have yet to prove they have anything to offer that will allow them to stand out. Moreover.com, the news aggregator, is perhaps the shining alum of First Tuesday - and it was started by the club's co-founder, Nick Denton.In these austere days, with their multimillion pound judgements being proved wrong again and again, we should expect the VCs to feign casual indifference towards First Tuesday. But let's not forget they were looking pretty keen in 1999, in the middle of the feeding frenzy. Then, the plan was to get some funding, build that brand and then get to market - all within six months, and never mind the profits. Chaotic First Tuesday was the perfect breeding ground for such fast living start-ups.If it is going belly up, we should salute it as a symbol of the remarkable times it helped create, and which it ultimately fell victim to. A bit like some look back with fondness to Glastonbury festivals of yore -  we'll grow to love its memory, forgetting that it was a bit sweaty, many were ripped off, and that it was probably never as good as it was cracked up to be.Email:neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.ukRelated articles17 January: First Tuesday comes back to the market6 January:  Parent's woe hits First Tuesday20 November 2000: First Tuesday to restructure after job losses21 July 2000: Accidental millionaires sell First TuesdayUseful linksFirst TuesdayMoreover.compeoplesound.comihavemoved.com
Favourite sites?bbr.com(Berry Brothers &amp; Rudd). It's a friendly and sophisticated site which allows you to build and maintain an online wine cellar. I can update my stock and organise a delivery whenever I want. It's a very secure way to collect and store wine.Last online purchase?A weekend skiing break. Being able to put together a holiday package from the net was great.Most recent technological faux pas?My Wap phone has been the most disappointing piece of technology. It's very big, people stare at it, and it's not very useful.Main news source on the web?BBC Online and CNN, but I only check the web for breaking news.Most persistent spam emailer?I've somehow managed to avoid being on any spam lists.Time spent on the web?I spent 12 hours over two days looking for a holiday, but otherwise it's about half an hour a day at work.Next boo.com?Customer service is the biggest factor in deciding who remains. My bete noire at the moment is iglu.com. I tried to book a skiing trip with them but I couldn't do it online. I phoned, had to leave a message and they never called me back. If you   don't get an instant response, you'll click off and go somewhere else.Least useful site on the web?waitallday.comIt's a wonderful misuse of a server. People sit there all day waiting to be connected to something and don't realise it's a spoof.Most useful site?Probably Railtrack. It's the only efficient part of it. It's easy to find out travel information and is a huge timesaver.Which screensaver do you use?I don't use one and it's struck me that our company should have one for security.Most irritating thing about the web?The lack of good advice. In other media there's a lot more guidance and judgment. You're on your own with the web and sometimes you need expert advice. For example, when I wanted to book a skiing holiday, I could have saved so much time if the information I needed about hotels and flights was compiled on one "best of" page. It would have saved so much time rather than checking out individual sites.Do you bother with old media?Yes, particularly for news. I like snuggling up on the sofa with a newspaper. It's important to have something tangible, especially if you're working online.&#149;   Jonathan Turpin is the CEO ofFish4.co.uk
If Judith and Alan Kilshaw thought the worst was over, they were wrong. Not only have their adopted babies been removed by social services, but every day brings fresh revelations about their unconventional lives from former colleagues, neighbours and relatives.Bizarre allegations of magic rituals and amateur artificial insemination in their front room were splashed across yesterday's papers, fuelling concern about their appropriateness as parents - to their sons Rupert and James, as well as the twin sisters.The couple are preparing to fight social services in court on Tuesday for custody of the twins, Kimberley and Belinda, who they adopted over the internet from an American single   mother. Keith McDonogh, director of education and children's services at Flintshire council, said: "We are aware of reports which are beginning to focus on the situation of the boys... we are monitoring the well being of all the children."Tabloids yesterday claimed that Mrs Kilshaw, 47, had threatened to use magic to get the twins back, although she denied the claim. Former business partners and tenants said she had issued death threats following rows.Her daughter Louisa from her first marriage, claimed the couple had begged her to act as a surrogate mother. When Louisa said she was already pregnant, her mother apparently told her to get an abortion and charged her &#163;50 a week to live in an unheated caravan. Mrs Kilshaw said yesterday that she would never speak to her daughter again.With her instinct for making a bad situation worse, she told a reporter that she had had argued with her husband. "We nearly came to blows. I was saying to Alan that he hadn't defended me enough."In another statement likely to invoke the local authority's wrath, she said: "I will not be sending my two sons to school tomorrow because I'm afraid they'll be bullied."Yesterday's stories would seem incredible if any other family were involved. But the new claims seem run-of-the-mill for the couple. Alan Kilshaw, a 45-year-old solicitor, is as eccentric as his wife. He was the home affairs spokesman for the hard-right Democratic party. He happily confirmed that he was encouraging Hollywood to turn their story into a film and is allegedly trying to recoup some of the &#163;24,000 spent getting the girls out of the US.The couple's former childminder said their farmhouse in Buckley, north Wales, was "covered with dog muck", but the couple said the only problem was that it was haunted. They allegedly called in paranormal investigators.Their self-belief seems to have blinded them to the impression they are creating. Mrs Kilshaw herself told a paper that she had impregnated a female friend using Mr Kilshaw's sperm. Little wonder that, as she complained this weekend, she says, "I am going to have to live with this for the rest of my life".
The government's intention may be good, but the news that the Department of Health has told internet providers they could be prosecuted for relaying information that breaks British adoption rules was last night greeted with scepticism and cynicism.Leading industry figures and experts believe that the nature and scale of the internet, as well as the status of those who provide access to the web, will make it impossible to enforce the rule.They also point to a European directive, expected to come into force in Britain in the next two years, which defines internet service providers (ISPs) merely as conduits for information who cannot be responsible for content. This rule would seem to contradict the warning.The Department of Health also came under fire for failing to consult the industry properly before sounding its warning and it is bound to be heavily criticised by civil liberties campaigners who will see the development as another attack on free speech.ISPs have three main functions. They provide access to the web, so theoretically they could stop particular sites being reached. But they say that would not be feasible as it would require almost unlimited resources. And banning a site would give it notoriety prompting many more people to look at it. The British government also cannot try to shut down a foreign website at source because it would have no jurisdiction to do so.The second main function of the ISPs is to provide "hosted web space" for websites. ISPs do have more control here, but even a small website may have 20 pages. So if an ISP hosted just 100 websites, it would have 2,000 pages to monitor.Third, the ISPs provide news groups, or bulletin boards where articles can be posted. An article posted with an ISP's news group - for example, on adoption - will be picked up by linked news groups run by other ISPs worldwide. Checking everything on the news groups would be impossible.What will particularly annoy the ISPs about the government's warning is that they are considered world leaders in self-regulation. ISPs are not licensed and do not have to register anywhere. But about 130 internet firms in the UK are members of the Internet Services Providers Association, which has been at great pains to provide a code of practice aimed at addressing the problem of illegal material. Formed in 1996, the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) also works with the internet companies, the police and government, to tackle problems such as child pornography sites.There appears to have been little consultation between the Department of Health and the industry. The IWF heard about what was afoot only when officials from other government departments began ringing it late last week.Both the IWF and ISPA believe that the Department of Health's approach is flawed.David Kerr, IWF's chief executive, said: "I think it's been generally accepted by ministers and the police that internet service providers don't and can't be expected to know what's on their servers. The department seems to be ignoring this basic point. This tactic is very unlikely to work and will put the department in conflict with the industry in the UK and in the rest of the world."Mr Kerr said the industry had tried to stop material appearing on the web which would be illegal to publish in other forms in the UK - for example, child and extreme adult pornography. Although ISPs cannot monitor all the material passing through, once they are told about such material, they can remove it.But another huge complication is the status of the ISPs. Many argue that they are not publishers but facilitators. The possible counter-argument, that they are indeed  publishers because they own the servers carrying the material, has not been explored in the courts.There are few precedents. Last year a New York lawyer sued the net firm Prodigy after an impostor sent obscene messages purporting to come from his 15-year-old son. The state's highest court threw out the claim, arguing that "an ISP, like a telephone company, is merely a conduit", and was backed by the supreme court.Here, however, Mr Justice Morland decided in the high court that the internet company Demon Internet was liable for defamatory comments published about the physicist Laurence Godfrey - whose argument was that the ISP had become a publisher when it did not remove the comments.Campaigners for free speech point out that some British ISPs now remove a comment, however fair and legitimate, as soon as they get a complaint rather than risk being sued.Speaking after the Godfrey case, Mark Stephens, a media lawyer and vice-chair of the IWF, anticipated a flurry of litigation unless the laws were clarified. "In America ISPs have immunity over the content they provide access to and   that must be the situation here. Otherwise, you'll have a legal free-for-all with libel writs flying left, right and centre."He was right. A radical gay magazine's website, an anti-censorship site and one which highlighted miscarriages of justice, have all fallen victim to the uncertainty. Some have moved sites to the US rather than risk prosecution here.One leading industry figure said: "It sounds as if the Department of Health has leapt into this without thinking the thing through. A lot of people in the industry are going to be puzzled and angry."Special report: babies for sale
Scandals have always been more effective in driving forward social reform in Britain than research and active pressure group campaigns. In less than a week since the international adoption battle over the "internet twins" broke, ministers have committed themselves to accelerating the reform of UK regulation of overseas adoptions - and will seek to end internet adoption sales.Health officials confirmed yesterday that by April, new regulations which will protect overseas babies from being adopted by an inappropriate British couples will be in place. All UK couples hoping to adopt overseas babies will be required to undergo an assessment by accredited adoption workers.About time too. Overseas children deserve the same safeguards that British children already enjoy. Bringing in adopted children before assessment will be made a criminal offence subject to a &#163;600 fine and three months in prison. The fine sounds too low, particularly given the thousands of pounds that couples are   ready to spend on overseas adoptions, while the prison sentence is unnecessary. Quashing the adoption should be punishment enough. Controlling internet sales will be much more difficult but should be explored.As control of overseas adoptions is tightened, delays to the equally important reform of our domestic adoption laws continue. Even the involvement of the prime minister seems to have failed to push through a change over which Tory and Labour ministers have dithered for far too long.The extra baby adoptions, which the reform will achieve, have been exaggerated, but it should speed up the main bulk of adoptions, 96% of which are with over-fives. The public has been shocked by the news that the internet twins have had four separate lots of carers in six months. About 15% of all adopted children currently have had six separate placements. This indecent, long-drawn-out and harmful cycle should have been ended long ago.
The government is to clamp down on adoption over the internet by warning British-based service providers that they face criminal prosecution for relaying material which infringes British adoption law, it emerged yesterday.The extraordinary move by the Department of Health, which came as the controversy concerning the case of the couple who adopted twins on the net continued to gather pace, was immediately attacked as unworkable.Industry leaders argued that the nature and scale of the internet meant that it was impossible for ISPs to check all material being accessed by their customers. There was also concern that the warning from the health minister John Hutton seemed to go against the spirit of a European directive on e-commerce. Moreover, it would put a great strain on the authorities who would have to try to police the ISPs.The government, however, is keen to be seen acting strongly following the case of Alan and Judith Kilshaw, who bought baby twins Beverley and Kim berley from a Californian adoption broker they found on the internet. Even before Mr Hutton's initiative emerged, the government had announced that parents who adopted from abroad without undergoing the proper checks would face up to three months in prison and a fine of &#163;600.Regulations on inter-country adoptions had already been under discussion following a private member's bill passed in 1999 but it understood that they were not going to come into force until January next year. They will now be introduced in April.The developments coincide with increasingly lurid allegations about the Kilshaws. One newspaper alleged yesterday that Mrs Kilshaw had said she would use witchcraft to regain the twins, who were taken into care on Thursday, though she denied making such a threat.Mr Hutton, the minister responsible for child protection, believes his move against the ISPs could provide a lead for the EU and G8 to crack down on child-broker websites.Government lawyers have advised that the adoption internet sites are a clear in fringement of the 1976 Adoption Act. Although they are powerless to close down sites based outside British jurisdiction, they have advised ministers that ISPs offering a route for the material to be accessed by people in Britain are open to prosecution.The 1976 act makes it an offence for any advertisement to be published indicating that a parent or guardian wants their child to be adopted, or that a person wants to adopt a child, or that any person other than a local social services authority or voluntary adoption agency approved by the secretary of state is willing to make arrangements for the adoption of a child.Mr Hutton wrote late on Friday to Ispa, the UK Internet Service Providers Association, which represents 130 companies and organisations, and the Internet Watchdog Foundation, which works with the police and the government to crack down on illegal material on the internet, pointing out it would be an offence for such material to remain available to British subscribers.A senior Department of Health source said: "We have a good relationship with Ispa and we will be working with them to get this issue resolved so that UK internet service providers do not end up getting prosecuted."But Nicholas Lansman, of Ispa, said a European directive spelling out that ISPs should be regarded as "mere conduits" for information until it is shown that they are carrying illegal or defamatory material was expected to become British law within a couple of years. He said: "This does not sound like joined-up government."Special report: Babies for sale
The great thing about software is that it's pure thought-stuff. Anyone can create it: all you need is a computer and some programming tools, many of which are freely available on the Net. After that, the only limits are those set by your own ingenuity. That's why teenagers such as Shawn Fanning, the guy who invented Napster, are capable of moving mountains.Some people have a gift for programming, in much the same way as Mozart had a gift for musical composition. They can hack out computer code which has the power to overturn industries - and distribute it over the Net before its hapless victims even know what's happening.Hackers can also take things apart, with equally embarrassing results. Consider the case of Digital Convergence, a Texan company which has to date given away more than a million barcode scanners called CueCats to computer users across the US. The company plans to   hand out 39 million more of the gizmos by this time next year. Given that they cost around $10 apiece this adds up to a lot of dosh. So why are Digital Convergence doing it? Answer: because the company plans to make money by selling information about the users' purchasing habits gathered by the scanners.It works like this. Scanning the barcodes on a packet of breakfast cereal, say, will send the user's internet browser to the manufacturer's website. (Let us leave to one side the question of why anyone in their right mind would want to visit such a site.) Each CueCat comes with a unique serial number. When installing its software, the user is required to register personal details   such as name, email address, age, sex and postcode. This data can then be correlated with information gleaned by the CueCat about the products scanned by the user. The hope is that if enough people use CueCats, the accumulated consumer information will eventually be worth far more than the $400 million it will take to get a critical mass of scanners out there.Now to some people (there is no accounting for tastes) a barcode scanner is a desirable object, especially if it is free. And it seems that some hackers, passing by the CueCat display in electronics stores, were unable to resist the temptation. From a geek perspective, however, the CueCat had two undesirable features. First, its software runs under Microsoft Windows, which in these circles is regarded rather as the spawn of the devil. Second, the scanner was designed to send personal data back to corporate HQ. Heap bad karma.You can guess what happened. Geeks took their Cue Cats home, got out their screwdrivers and opened the lids. Inside they found the usual circuit board, EepRoms (erasable, programmable, read-only memory) and related devices.The first thing to do was to 'neuter' the CueCat by disabling its serial number. There were two ways of doing this: by physically disconnecting one pin of a programmable memory chip, or (more elegantly) by resetting the serial number to zero. Either method deprived the device of the power to link individuals to CueCats. Step two was to write software to enable Macintosh and Linux users to use their free (now unencumbered) scanners without their consumption patterns being reported to corporate databases in Dallas.Needless to say, the Digital Convergence suits were not amused. Lawyers were consulted. Cease and desist letters were dispatched. Licences were invoked. Vague threats were made about infringement of intellectual property and the like. All of which have had as much effect as a sermon in a whorehouse - and detailed autopsies of CueCats flourish on the Net. There's a lesson there somewhere.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
A power struggle is raging in California where there is not enough electricity to keep the lights on, but more than enough blame to go around - even if a bickering array of politicians, financiers, environmentalists, consumers and technology moguls cannot agree on who or what sparked the energy crisis that has plunged large areas of the state into darkness.One thing everyone can   agree on is that the crisis, officially a state of emergency in what would be the world's seventh-largest economy, can only get much worse. The rolling blackouts are already reverberating through that economy - threatening everything from milk supplies to petrol deliveries. There is dark talk now of long queues and higher prices at the pump - and of recession.'California is getting to the point where it's going to have a crisis that's a helluva lot bigger than the one it already   has on its hands,' says Bill Greehey, the chief executive of Valero Energy, which supplies about 10 per cent of the state's petrol. 'It's going to be disastrous for our economy.'Two-thirds of Californians polled by the Los Angeles Times say they expect a recession this year, and some Wall Street analysts have gone so far as to predict bank failures, chaos in the bond markets and a drying up of business lending, as well as job cuts.So who is to blame? Most point to what they say is a    greedy group of power generators cashing in on the state's now discredited deregulation scheme - and the politicians who passed the laws. The scheme forced utility companies to buy in electricity at soaring market rates but pre vents them from passing those costs on to consumers. Now the companies are just a filament away from bankruptcy - and no one wants to sell them any more electricity for fear they cannot pay their bills.There is also the weather -   a hot summer and a significantly colder winter - and drier than usual conditions in the Pacific North-West, limiting supplies of hydroelectric power to the US's most populous state.Then there is the powerful   environmentalist lobby, now taking heat for an array of green-friendly regulations, which have made building new power plants in California next to impossible. And, of course, consumers, who do not see why they should ever have to turn off a light when they leave a room.And now there is a fresh target for the wrath of the newly powerless: the internet. Silicon Valley is accused of overloading California's power infrastructure.A recent study suggests the internet now accounts for 8 per cent of national electricity consumption - and could come to consume between 30 and 50 per cent of it in 20 years . This statistic has been seized on by President George W. Bush as he seeks to justify an energy policy that will allow oil drilling and coal mining in the pristine wilderness of Alaska - but the figures are spurious, say some analysts.The internet, after all, was supposed to conserve energy by making businesses run more efficiently - and it was widely believed that computers and wireless devices use much less energy than refrigerators or washing machines.Not so, say the two free-market conservative analysts powering the blame-the-internet movement. Mark Mills and Peter Huber of the 'Digital Power Report' and the coal industry-funded Greening Earth Society, insist a Palm Pilot uses as much energy as a refrigerator - citing invisible 'back-end' network and telecommunications infrastructure such as routers, servers and digital transmission systems for the surge in electricity use. Power consumption in Silicon Valley, they say, has been growing at three times the rate of the rest of the California's - with Oracle, Intel, Sun Microsystems and the like using the same mega-wattage as 'a steel mill'.But others say that's simply 'ridiculous'. Steven Taub, an analyst with Cambridge Energy Research Associates says: 'It doesn't take a lot of steel mills shutting down to offset increased demand from computers. You just can't blame my Palm Pilot for this crisis - it runs on two triple-A batteries! But the tech economy behind those devices has led to an unprecedented economic boom - and that means bigger houses, more appliances, more offices - and more demand for electricity.'Jonathan Koomey, a scientist and the group leader of   the End-Use Forecasting Group at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories in Berkeley, says the blackouts are not related to any such rapid increase in demand. He cites statistics from the California Energy Commission showing only a 2 per cent growth rate in electricity demand in the late 1990s at the height of the e-boom, compared with a growth rate of 3.3 per cent in the late 1980s.'The people who want to build power plants would like everyone to think that there is huge growth in demand so we can reduce environmental regulations,' says Koomey. 'I think we have to build power plants, yes, but I also think people are trying to create a sense of urgency to make it easier for them to argue for their interests.'Intel chief executive Craig Barrett is among a growing group of tech billionaires now pushing for the construction of new power plants as they try to avoid 'blue screen death' - the loss of millions of dollars whenever power fluctuates, even for a fraction of a second, because the chips being manufactured can be ruined. Intel, which has been operating under what Barrett calls 'mood lighting' between 4pm and 7pm when the company turns half its lights off voluntarily to conserve electricity, has already threatened to move some operations to Oregon, Arizona, New Mexico and even Israel and Ireland - unless, that is, new power plants get built, and fast.Other giants such as Sun Microsystems, MCI WorldCom and website host Verio have resorted to diesel generators to keep their businesses humming - a trend now so pervasive that environmental regulators fear that diesel exhaust could soon add significantly to pollution.Last Thursday, California lawmakers approved a $400 million plan to turn the lights back on. The bail-out will allow the state to buy power on the open market and provide it to the near-bankrupt utilities - Pacific Gas &amp; Electric and Southern California Edison - at low cost. But the money won't go far. State Senate leader John Burton said: 'We can only see it getting worse.'With no end in sight to the crisis, Californians stocked up on flashlights, candles and firewood, while hardware stores were swamped with requests from small businesses for generators.Useful linksPacific Gas and ElectricitySouthern California EdisonCalifornia Public Utilities Commission
US internet search company AltaVista said today that it would lay off 200 employees, or about a quarter of its staff, in reaction to a persistently weak online advertising market.This is the third round of job cuts at the company in two years. In September, AltaVista laid off 225 employees after cutting 40 jobs earlier in the year."AltaVista has not been immune to the softness in advertising," Peter Mills, an executive adviser to the company said in a statement.Most of the job losses will happen at company headquarters in Palo Alto, California, with few employees in Europe affected. The move leaves AltaVista with approximately 600 employees worldwide.Despite the popularity of its internet search engine, AltaVista has been dogged by trouble over the last year. Last week, the company pulled its IPO plans for the third time, and the former chief executive, Rod Schrock, left the company in October, saying it had suffered from neglect and under-investment.AltaVista, majority owned by Internet development company CMGI Inc - is increasingly focusing on its search software business - which licenses its technology to other companies.But the company said that the consumer search business remains a core part of its operation.Earlier this week, AltaVista UK was in court defending itself against a 215m breach-of-contract claim still pending from its abandoned plans to provide an unmetered internet access service last summer.Related articles16.01.2001: AltaVista in the dock15.09.2000: AltaVista to lay off staff21.10.2000: AltaVista must find new chief30.08.2000: AltaVista UK boss quitsUseful linksAltaVista
Oftel's decision  to force BT to break up its monopoly of the local telephone network is good news for everyone - except the beleaguered telecommunications giant itself.The debate over bringing "broadband" telecommunications links into the home goes back at least 15 years - but it still hasn't arrived. In the mid 1980s the government decided to leave it to market forces rather than authorise BT to go ahead with a massive investment in fibre optic cables in exchange for being allowed to deliver "entertainment" (mainly video) down the line.The trouble was that BT was left with a virtual monopoly of the profitable "local loop", the last mile or so of wire that connects the home to the local exchange. Understandably, from its own point of view, it wants to hang on to these monopoly profits as long as possible - so it hasn't exactly been busting keen to open up the local loop to competitors who have been complaining bitterly about BT dragging its feet.Competition in the local loop would almost certainly have accelerated the introduction of broadband.BT has been under pressure from the government and the regulator for some time to allow competitors to deliver a broadband (high capacity) telephone line into homes so it isn't just the preserve of businesses.The government is concerned that slow access doesn't become an issue in the general election campaign.BT's response was to start opening the loop in less densely populated areas which obviously are not as attractive to competitors as the built-up areas.Yesterday Oftel announced an agreement to accelerate the existing timetable for unbundling the loop which ought to bring access quicker to densely populated areas.The widespread availability of broadband access to the internet is vital if Britain is to be at the leading edge of delivering films, video, conference vision and other digital products to the world's exploding internet population.Those countries that are early adopters of new technologies are in a good position to enable their own businesses to piggyback on their success by selling their expertise abroad.Although BT has been dragging its feet, Britain is still doing reasonably well on adoption of broadband options like ADSL compared with most countries on the Continent. BT claims that Britain will be out among the leaders when the local loop is finally opened up.However, the concentration on densely populated areas, while attractive to the companies involved, raises the danger of opening a "digital divide" between richer and poorer parts of the country.BT claims that there isn't much point in providing broadband access, at enormous expense, to outlying areas that won't use it much and which could obtain access to the internet through their television screens or mobile phones.Britain's approach - relying on market forces goaded by the regulator - is in marked contrast to the policy adopted in Singapore where the government decided to build fibre optic connections to most homes, a task that has largely been accomplished.Useful linksBritish TelecomOftelPhonebills.orgRelated articles19.01.2001: BT unbundling speeds up after first phase flop19.01.2001: Big bond issue raises 6bn23.11.2000, ZDnet: Oftel allows operators to snoop on BT
John Palmer, founder of the troubled online retailer Letsbuyit.com, reacted angrily yesterday to reports that the trustees were planning to claim in court today that the company had been deplorable and chaotic, and should be closed down.The Dutch court-appointed trustees, Van Doorne, are reported to have said that boardroom squabbles were among the reasons for Letsbuyit's demise, with estimated liabilities of 20m euros (&#163;12.8m).A furious Mr Palmer said the trustees' claims of management problems were inaccurate but did not surprise him. "They wouldn't have a clue," he said last night.He added that he had not given up hope of persuading them that Letsbuyit, which pools consumers in order to buy goods in bulk at low prices, was a viable business and could survive if given time.Van Doorne said in a statement: "The coming two weeks up to January 31 will be key factors in determining up to what extent creditors .. will be settled." Letsbuyit's largest creditor is thought to be US technology support company, Sykes, which is owed a total of 7.5m euros (&#163;4.8m).Other major creditors are understood to include Hewlett Packard, Icon Media and WinEasy, as well as several marketing and hardware companies.Shares in Letsbuyit all but evaporated yesterday, plummeting 43.48% to 0.26 euros (&#163;0.17) after a trading suspension was lifted by the Frankfurt Neuer Markt. Trade in the stock had been halted on Wednesday when Van Doorne announced it was filing for bankruptcy.This gives Letsbuyit a market capitalisation of just 4.6m euros (&#163;2.9m) compared with a high in July last year of 115m euros (&#163;74m).Although Van Doorne has been collaborating with Mr Palmer in an effort to attract a rescue bid for Letsbuyit, the stage now looks set for a showdown between the the trustees and management at the district court in Amsterdam this morning.
Oftel yesterday moved to head off the growing sense of crisis surrounding the break-up of BT's monopoly of the local telephone network.At an emergency meeting with BT and a number of rival operators, the Oftel director general, David Edmonds, won agreement to bring forward the existing timetable for the so called "unbundling of the local loop".The meeting was called after the first 25 of BT's local exchanges opened for competition attracted only a derisory response from rivals hoping to compete with the erstwhile monopoly. Competition in the local network sector is seen as a vital ingredient for the deployment of high speed internet access in Britain.Orders for space were placed in only 14 of the 25 BT exchanges, with an average of only one or two operators per site instead of the anticipated seven or eight.At yesterday's meeting it was agreed that the original timetable for unbundling would be scrapped and that access to BT's most popular exchanges in wealthy urban areas would be accelerated.Oftel also said it had started an investigation into the prices charged by BT for storing its rivals' equipment in its exchanges.Anne Lambert, Oftel's director of operations, described the meeting as "constructive". She said: "All who attended were keen to solve the problems that have arisen so that the unbundling process can proceed according to the agreed timetable."The 25 exchanges that had a deadline for orders of last Friday were part of an original 360 on offer to rivals in the first wave of unbundling. Another 360 in more densely populated areas were to have been in a second wave. Orders for the second tranche can be placed next month.A BT spokesman accused Oftel of trying to appear the "ringmaster" by calling yesterday's meeting."We offered to bring forward the timetable last month and it was turned down, so there was no problem in agreeing to this. BT has hit every deadline and every milestone throughout this process."The proces of loosening BT's grip over the "last mile" from exchanges to the home or businesses has been plagued throughout by controversy.Oftel had hoped the telecoms industry would agree terms for co-location in BT exchanges but was forced to intervene in the autumn.The government had promised "widespread availability" of competition by July this year.BT's competitors have blamed the low level of demand on the wide dispersion of the chosen exchanges around the country, making it difficult to make business plans. There is also uncertainty about the cost of taking space in BT's exchanges.Competitors will be able to install DSL equipment, which upgrades the old copper analogue network for high bandwidth use, including fast internet access.Firms that have expressed an interest in taking space include Energis, Thus and Kingston Communications.
Bandai, the Japanese firm that gave the world the Tamagotchi electronic pet, has come up with a different breed of cyber-chick: the virtual girlfriend.Chatty, coquettish and guaranteed to return your messages, the new brand of computer-generated lover has won the hearts of more than 30,000 men, who have signed up to the Love by Email service.Using internet-capable mobile phones, the men pay 300 yen (about &#163;1.70) each month for a relationship with one of seven "fantasy" women, who include a teacher, a barmaid and a nightclubbing student.Each day, the men exchange up to three emails with their partner in an attempt to chat her up. The women's responses - determined by computer program - alter according to the time of day, the season and the kind of questions asked.Declarations of love after just a few emails are dismissed with contempt, while any discussion of sport gets short shrift. But ask the right question at the right time and the girlfriend melts into intimacy."I'm sorry, I didn't get back to you sooner, but I was in the bath. You should see my tub. It's enormous and there's a big window in front of it. Message me soon," writes cabin attendant Katsuko Shinjo.There is never any hanky-panky. Progress is measured on a chart that shows how many of the woman's 52 secrets the man has been able to uncover and what percentage of her heart he has won.At the end of the relationship, which can last from one to three months, a successful lover will be given an everlasting commitment of love. An insufficiently attentive suitor is dismissed as a creep.Bandai says Love by Email is one of its most popular mobile internet games with a strong following among men in their 30s. Some customers have become so enamoured, that they have called the company asking for their electronic lover's phone number."Men don't get as many emails as women so they appreciate this service, which ensures that there is always an interesting message in their in-box, even if it is from a virtual companion," said Toru Itabashi of Bandai Networks.He said a version launched last month for women -My Prince Charming - fared less well, attracting only 1,000 subscribers in its first three days.Such businesses are an offshoot of the explosive growth of the mobile internet in Japan. Thanks largely to the popularity of NTT DoCoMo's i-mode service, about 30m people have an internet-compatible cellular phone.Such phones enable users to buy airline tickets andbuy shares online, but most consumers use them for games, fortune-telling and exchanging emails with friends - both real and virtual.
Fruit producer Fyffes has become the latest company to slip on the e-commerce banana skin.Worldoffruit.com, which offered "24-hour secure online trading and the latest industry news and views" on the global fresh fruit and vegetable market, is scaling back operations a year after launching.Trading apples and pears online or bidding for boxes of bananas in internet auctions has not caught on in the way the company had hoped.Offices in the UK, France, Holland, Spain and Italy will be closed and plans to open outposts in South Africa, South America and Asia have been abandoned.Worldoffruit.com, which once employed 40 people, will be maintained by a staff of 10 from a small office in Dublin. Last year Fyffes spent &euro;15m (&#163;9.6m) on the project which claimed to have 500 registered users in 35 countries."Expenditure going forward will be significantly below that envisaged in the company's original business plan and staff numbers have been reduced accordingly," Fyffes said in a statement."It is expected that Worldoffruit.com will continue to operate, but on a significantly reduced scale, and costs in 2001 are not expected to be material in a group context."The cost cutting exercise underlines the difficulties business to business internet exchanges are encountering.Worldoffruit aimed to make the trade of fruit more efficient and competitive through a centralised marketplace. It estimated that 20% of the world's fruit would be bought and sold over the internet by 2004.However, it failed to deliver on the promise still posted on its website last night: "Reality has now replaced a lot of hype in e-commerce, and we believe that Worldoffruit.com will survive and prosper as a result of the dedicated and streamlined service we provide."
&#149; Licensing link Media group AOL Time Warner announced yesterday a licensing agreement with mobile phone maker Nokia to provide an internet browser for wireless devices. Under the multiyear agreement, AOL will develop and market a Netscape-branded version of the telecommunications equipment maker's existing browser, known aswap, for use across a variety of mobile communications devices. AOL Time Warner also said Jim Bankoff would replace Jim Martin as president of Netscape Communications .&#149; Net job loss Provider of search and directory, content and e-commerce and entertainment services NBC Internet has said it will cut its workforce by 30% as the result of a revenue shortfall due to a softer advertising market - the latest online media company to cut jobs in a sector that is struggling to turn a profit.&#149; Successful search Software maker Bright Station has signed two new partners for its WebTop search subsidiary - games portal Media and Games Online Network and monitoring group Vigil Technologies .
Leading US technology companies provided some much-needed cheer for sector investors last night with quarterly results which either met or exceeded expectations.Microsoft met already reduced earnings expectations and beat revenue estimates for its second quarter. John Connors, the group's chief financial officer, welcomed "strong customer demand" in the period before adding: "We re main guarded about the near term economic outlook and its impact on PC demand and technology spending."In spite of such short term caution, the market welcomed the record results as a sign that personal computer sales were not slowing quite as sharply as feared. Shares in Microsoft rose almost 10% in after hours trading to almost $60 (&#163;41). But even at this level, the company is still valued at almost half its record high of a year ago after being crushed by its   legal battles with the US government and signs of a sharp economic slowdown.The company also said that it expected third-quarter revenues to be between $6.3bn to $6.4bn, with earnings at between 42 cents and 43 cents a share, slightly below estimates after an accounting change.The market enthusiasm for Microsoft's earnings was topped by its welcome for those of EBay. The online auction site announced fourth-quarter earnings of nine cents a share, or $23.9m, almost five times the level of a year ago. Analysts had been expecting more than seven cents a share.Shares rose 17% in after-hours trading after the results were announced as EBay offered an upbeat assessment of the current year.Meg Whitman, company chief executive, said that revenues could reach $665m this year, compared with $431.4m for 2000 as a result of more members with a broader range of goods to barter.Some 3.5m new members were added in the three months to the end of December, bringing the total number using the services of the company to 22.5m. EBay also expects revenues for the first quarter of 2001 to approach $150m. Faye Landes, internet analyst at Sanford Bernstein, told CNBC: "These numbers look very, very strong."EBay refused to revise its earnings expectations for the current quarter in spite of the better than expected revenues, stating that it intended to reinvest in the company.Sun Microsystems, the server and workstation group, also announced quarterly earnings up 8% last night, in line with expectations. However, the company's revenues were slightly below expectations of $5.3bn after increasing 6% in the year.The company offered some cheer by announcing a 32% increase in orders and its shares rose 8% in a buoyant after-hours trading.
Alan and Judith Kilshaw's best hope of keeping the six-month-old twin girls they "bought" over the internet is to stave off any court hearing into their case for as long as possible.In a string of cases, the courts have allowed couples who brought foreign-born children into Britain in questionable circumstances to keep the children.By law, the court's first consideration is the welfare of the child, and once a young child has become settled with a family the trauma of removal generally outweighs any other considerations.So if Flintshire county council, which covers the north Wales area where the Kilshaws live, has doubts   about the couple's fitness as parents, it will need to act quickly.Keith McDonogh, director of education and children's services, said: "We are awaiting clarification from the Home Office, the Foreign Office and the national assembly on the international implications of this case."We have also requested from the family copies of the American adoption documentation and we would   expect them to provide us with this as soon as possible. If it is not presented to us, we will be seeking legal advice on how to obtain it."The council's most likely route if it decides to act is to take care proceedings, arguing that the children have suffered or are likely to suffer emotional damage.They were looked after for two months by Richard and Vickie Allen of San Bernardino, California,   who claim the babies' birth mother, Tranda Wecker, originally placed the twins with them before the Kilshaws agreed to pay more to the facilitator who advertised the children over the internet.The Kilshaws have had the twins since December 1 and adopted them in Arkansas on December 22 after a journey from California to St Louis, Missouri, for their birth certificates and another   drive to Little Rock, Arkansas.Ms Wecker said yesterday that she had lied to get round the 30-day residence requirement for an Arkansas adoption by giving her aunt's Little Rock address as her own.But even if fraud or irregularities were proved, the adoption would not necessarily be set aside.In one case, a struck-off solicitor sentenced to four years in prison for mortgage fraud succeeded in adopting a child from El Salvador by concealing charges then pending. The couple supported their application with a private home study report, which did not include a police check on the applicants.A high court judge approved the adoption although he held that the parents had contravened adoption law.Allan Levy QC, an authority on child law, said that if    he acted for the Allens, he would advise them to make the children wards of court in England as soon as possible. That would enable them to get a quick court hearing and get investigations started. If they had custody rights in California they could also take steps under the Hague convention to get the girls returned to them under reciprocal agreements between participating countries, he said.Related stories18.01.2001: Leader, Shopping for babies18.01.2001: Social services take internet twins into care18.01.2001: Blair demands law on internet baby trade17.01.2001: The route to adoption17.01.2001: Difficulties parents faceOnline debateTalk about itUseful linksABC Adoptions: online adoption  resourcesAdoption-Net.co.ukBritish Agencies for Adoption and FosteringIntercountry adoption: Department of Health
Early legislation to prohibit the "deplorable" practice of trading children for adoption was promised by Tony Blair yesterday after the case of the British couple who bought American baby twins through an internet site run by a Californian child broker.The prime minister said a bill in the current parliamentary session would remove bureaucratic obstacles that were hindering adoptions in this country and stop parents bringing in children adopted irregularly abroad."I think everyone feels it is absolutely deplorable that children are traded in this way. Adoption should always be about the interests of the child first," he told MPs after the issue was raised in the House of Commons by the Tory leader, William Hague.Mr Blair also promised to implement the Adoption (Intercountry) Aspects Act. The act was passed in 1999, but was not brought into force. It could be used to refuse recognition to adoptions conducted abroad in countries that do not comply with the Hague convention which gives protection to children in these circumstances.The prime minister's spokesman said: "He thinks the whole business is disgusting and shares people's horror that you can buy and sell children as a commodity and end up in a situation where you have got two sets of people who claim to be these children's parents."Alan and Judith Kilshaw, the couple who paid thousands of pounds to adopt twin baby girls they found on the internet, said Mr Blair's criticism of their behaviour was unacceptable as they had not broken any laws.Mrs Kilshaw stormed out of a television studio in the middle of a live interview for ITV at lunchtime.She pulled out her earpiece leaving her husband Alan behind. When asked: "Where do you go from here?" she replied: "I go home and clean my house, clean my carpets, get a duster and give it a good Hoover and go through the place." She then stood up and said: "Last comment. I'm not doing any more for you," before walking away.She is understood to have been responding to newspaper reports that her farmhouse in Buckley, north Wales, is dirty and unkempt.Mrs Kilshaw already has four other children - two girls Louisa, 22, and Caley, 18, from her first marriage and James, seven, and Rupert, four, from her second marriage.The prime minister's intervention caused a flurry in Whitehall among officials who did not expect adoption legislation until after the election and were still consulting on proposals in a white paper published in December.Adoption charities were puzzled as to why Mr Blair thought legislation was needed so quickly. It is already an offence to trade children for adoption within the UK and the government can refuse recognition to adoptions conducted abroad in countries with slacker standards.Felicity Collier, chief executive of the British Agencies for Adoption and Fostering, said the big political problem was whether to derecognise adoptions in the US. "The government has to decide: are we going to take the US off the designated list of countries whose adoptions we accept if they do not ratify the Hague convention," she said.The FBI is carrying out what   is described as a "preliminary inquiry" into the adoption, according to a spokeswoman. The inquiry, based at the bureau's Los Angeles office, is likely to focus on the exact circumstances in which the children were handed over and to examine who paid what and to whom.An FBI spokeswoman said that the issue of internet adoption was not the subject of the   inquiry as many firms now use the internet to advertise their services in this way.The inquiry comes as concern is being voiced by children's organisations in the US about the growing practice of internet agencies offering babies for adoption.The babies offered are usually from a small group of countries which still have loose adoption laws. They   include Guatemala, China, Russia, India and Vietnam. Within the US, there are varying standards on how adoptions are undertaken with some states, such as California, enforcing strict policies of checking that children have not been sold while other states, such as Arkansas, have less stringent laws.Social services in Flintshire, where the Kilshaws live,   launched an investigation as soon as they heard of the adoption. On Tuesday, social workers unsuccessfully tried to contact the couple, who were holed up in a hotel near Cheshire giving interviews to journalists.Yesterday, two social workers conducted a preliminary assessment of the children.Related stories18.01.2001: Leader, Shopping for babies18.01.2001: Social services take internet twins into care18.01.2001: Blair demands law on internet baby trade18.01.2000: Once children are settled, welfare considerations may ensure they stay17.01.2001: The route to adoption17.01.2001: Difficulties parents faceOnline debateTalk about itUseful linksABC Adoptions: online adoption  resourcesAdoption-Net.co.ukBritish Agencies for Adoption and FosteringIntercountry adoption: Department of Health
Online civil rights watchdog,HateWatch, has closed down, saying that the organisation has achieved its goal of focusing public attention on the activities of hate groups on the internet.The founder of Boston-based HateWatch, David Goldman, said that hate groups have failed to use the internet to increase their numbers or advance their causes. When the organisation launched in 1995, Mr Goldman feared that the internet would give hate groups a powerful new tool, but he said the opposite has happened.He explained: "The internet put these groups in the spotlight, and put them under a scrutiny they have not had to deal with before. The internet takes away the mystery and the fear that the unknown generates."Mr Goldman's assessment contrasts sharply with the findings of the European Union's racism monitoring unit, which found that hate sites on the internet are proliferating.In their November report, EU researchers said that more than 2,100 racist and anti-semitic websites had sprung up, mainly in the US.     In Germany alone, the internal security service recorded the existence of 300 registered hate websites in 1999, up from 200 in 1998."Movements which were in decline in both Europe and the US have received a new lease of life thanks to the sites they have created," the report said.Mr Goldman disagrees: "There has not been a proliferation of hate groups on the net. If you look at the types of groups listed in the EU report, they are not hate groups. There may be more ultra-conservative groups or pro-gun, 2nd amendment groups, and those may be troubling, but they are not hate groups."Even so, he does not think all is rosy with civil rights on the internet. With HateWatch dissolved, Mr Goldman will now focus his energies on changing civil rights legislation in the US and Europe.This week he launched a new civil rights organisation, Paragraph175. It takes its name from a section of the German penal code - no longer in force - which made lesbian and gay sex an imprisonable offence and was the legal basis for the deaths of thousands of homosexuals in Nazi concentration camps.Through Paragraph175, Mr Goldman hopes to make legislators take issues like cyber terrorism more seriously."The increase of racist cyber terrorists is the most troubling thing happening on the internet," he said. "There are individuals who would not normally go out into the real world to commit hate crimes but are emboldened in front of a computer."Goldman wants to see governments actively combatting cyber terrorist activities such as denial-of-service attacks on the websites of civil liberties groups or the stalking of individuals online due to their race, sex or sexual preference.Paragraph175 will also be tackling burgeoning moves in Europe to ban hate groups from the internet, such as the recent case in which a French court forced Yahoo! to block French citizens from accessing a Nazi memorabilia auction site."If my experience at HateWatch has taught me anything, it is that banning these groups will only exacerbate the problem," Mr Goldman said. "It is better to have their activities out in the open where civil rights groups and law enforcement can scrutinise their activities."Related articles24.11.2000: Internet giving race-hate groups new lease of life, EU watchdog says21.05.2000: Fear and loathing on the internetUseful linksHateWatchParagraph175.orgEuropean commission against racism
