TheNetMedia Awardsare open again.
Something is happening atMoxi Digital, the multimedia home gateway company, but it is not clear what....
CNet has put together what the inky-fingered call a package about the multi-billion dot.com disaster known asExcite@Home, formerly America's biggest broadband provider, which officially went out of business on Thursday.
Drug gangs are making increasing use of the internet and exploiting the lack of cooperation between international law enforcement agencies to improve their operations, a new UN report claims.The report from the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) also draws attention to the problem of smaller scale drug dealers using chatrooms to sell their goods.It highlights the ease with which internet users can find websites which give step-by-step guides on how certain drugs, especially amphetamines, can be manufactured.The report, entitled Globalisation and New Technologies, says that drug traders are discovering ever more sophisticated ways to use the internet.They are improving the efficiency of distribution networks by using the secure, instant communication offered by the   net and protecting themselves by employing "IT warriors" to launch cyber attacks on law enforcement agencies. The gangs are storing information such as bank details, contact numbers, grid co-ordinates of landing strips and recipes for the manufacture of drugs in encrypted form on computers and pocket organisers.Some of the problems being faced by law enforcement agencies emerged after American and Colombian agents captured 30 suspected drug traffickers.Security experts were amazed at the technology the gang members were using. The chat rooms they communicated in were protected by firewalls which officials found impossible to penetrate.The suspects also had access to highly sophisticated encryption technology. One US official said it took some of their best computer experts 24 hours to crack a 30-second   transmission, making the exercise largely pointless.Significantly, the gang fed information about its daily activities into a computer housed in a ship off the Mexico coast. Raiding the ship would have caused all sorts of jurisdictional problems for prosecutors.Even basic uses of services on the internet can help the traffickers. In Australia, for example, traffickers have been known to have used the facility offered by courier services which allows clients to track shipments on a website. If there is a delay - which could indicate that the shipment is being investigated - the gang can take appropriate action.Aggressive use of the internet is also becoming common. Colombian and Mexican cartels have intercepted communications between investigators and collected personal information about investigators.The Chinese authorities   reported a case in which criminals used hackers to penetrate a customs database and alter the details of a freight consignment containing drugs.In Italy heroin smugglers managed to put the authorities off their scent by setting up bogus websites which were difficult but not impossible to penetrate. While the authorities wasted time collecting information from the bogus sites, the smugglers continued their trade using genuine sites.The creation of global money markets and the introduction of "virtual casinos" helps the gangs launder money quickly and with little fear of detection. Narcotics police in Hong Kong say following drug money has become much more difficult because of the advances in electronic commerce and internet banking facilities.The INCB report expresses concern that not enough is being done to coordinate efforts to clamp down on drug traffickers.While countries like the UK the US and Japan are taking the problem seriously, many   others are doing little to tackle internet crime.A fear is that some less developed countries may become "data havens" where gangs can base their IT system with little fear of being prosecuted.Alan McGauley, a senior lecturer in social policy at Sheffield Hallam University, said: "A major problem all law enforcement agencies have is that the cartels have so much money they can get the very best experts who can help them stay a step ahead."The way smaller scale dealers are finding customers using the internet is also highlighted in the INCB report. Drugs paraphernalia and items such as cannabis seeds have long been offered for sale on the web but there is increasing evidence that dealers are offering drugs through chatrooms.A quick surf of the internet yields hundreds of chatrooms where drug taking is being discussed. Some sites give users the chance to record details of where they bought drugs, how much they paid and the quality. One entry by a Luton user spotted on the web yesterday read: "Marijuana: skunk crossed with haze: &#163;20-25: Quality: mind blowing, especially through a water or electric pipe. Availability: grown local, so only available in season."Another trend which is concerning the INCB is the proliferation of web sites containing recipes for making drugs. While in the past recipes were kept secret, they are now readily available to anyone with internet access.It is easy to find websites which give a step-by-step guide to making drugs. Many carry warnings which claim the recipes are not meant to be a practical guide but published for "informational purposes"only.The INCB said the likely consequences of this trend were "alarming". It led to the creation of "drugs clubs" whose members encourage and assist one another.David Wall, of the centre for criminal justice studies in Leeds and one of Britain's foremost experts on cyber crime, said he found this trend particularly worrying. He said: "People have always been able to find out information if they really want to but the internet does make it more easily accessible."Potted guide to world trendsAfricaInjecting heroin is becoming more common, a trend which is contributing to the spread of HIV/Aids. The abuse of crack cocaine is growing faster than the abuse of any other drug in South Africa because it has become cheaper. Cocaine abuse has also increased significantly in Angola and Namibia.AmericasDrug traffickers in Colombia are diversifying, supplying substances like ecstasy as well as cocaine and heroin. In Canada and the US cocaine use appears to be stabilising but heroin is on the increase.AsiaOpiate addiction rates in Iran and Pakistan continue to be   among the highest in the world. Amphetamines are becoming more popular in Indonesia, Thailand and Japan. Ecstasy, virtually unknown in the region 10 years ago, is also widely used.EuropeRemains the major source of illicitly manufactured synthetic drugs such as ecstasy. Illegal poppy cultivation has been discovered in Albania.OceaniaMore Pacific islands are becoming offshore financial centres which could provide opportunities for drugs traffickers to launder their money. The number of labs manufacturing amphetamines is increasing in Australia.
Unless something changes dramatically, the MPEG-4 streaming media format is starting to look as good as dead, and Microsoft will own most of the streaming media market (except in the even more unlikely event that RealNetworks beats Microsoft).Oh, for Streaming Out Loud!tells the story so far, which hinges on the system's patent holders charging not just for encoders and decoders but putting a tax on streamed media. Given that Microsoft's system is or soon will be better than MPEG-4, consumers will have the choice of using that for nothing or paying more for an inferior result. It is a safe bet that almost no-one will choose MPEG-4 except the ones who are not given a choice -- people with mobile phones, perhaps, who are used to being ripped off, and are paying enough for the MPEG-4 tax to be subsumed into their connection charges.
The BBC has also reviewedRez, one of the games featured in yesterday's Online. The game has an official English-language Web sitehere.
Microsoft boss Bill Gates is still theworld's richest man, according to Forbes magazine, though he is $6 billion worse off than last year. He is also, by a very long way, theworld's biggest philanthropist.
More security holes in open source software: about a million Web sites are vulnerable because ofa hole in PHP, usually running on Apache servers, and there's afirewall bugthat affects Linux.
Britney Spears is dangerous -- not the "perky pop star" (in Reuters' phrase) but theworm.
DoCoMo of Japan is looking forEuropean partnersfor its i-mode phone service,
The internet has finally enabled the realisation of the impossible deathbed demand of JMW Turner, arguably the most brilliant and eccentric of all English artists.When Turner died in 1851 he left the nation a staggering bequest and a daunting injunction: hundreds of paintings, and thousands of drawings and watercolours, all to be kept together in a special gallery built for the purpose.The gallery was never built, although a late 20th century extension was added to Tate Britain to house the collection and display a fraction of it.However, today over 30,000 drawings are accessible to any member of the public, as the entire Turner bequest goes online at the Tate gallery website.The drawings and watercolours are so sensitive to light damage that only a handful are ever displayed at a time, and then only for a few weeks.The drawings online include 300 of his distinctive small square sketch books, in which he scribbled lightning impressions of anything that caught his eye on his travels.Some of the drawings online have never been displayed, and others can be seen better online than with the naked eye, through an enhanced viewing mechanism, designed by the Tate with the University of Northumbria.Turner's death led to years of legal argument. He never married, had no recognised children, and ended his life in a cottage in Chelsea, in the guise of a retired sea captain, having virtually abandoned his grand Harley Street town house and the gallery where priceless paintings ended up blocking broken windows.His relatives were not best pleased with the first provision, that his entire fortune, &#163;140,000, should be spent on an institution for "poor and decayed male artists born in England". The relatives got the money in the end - and the nation got everything in his studio.The Turner archive is atwww.tate.org.uk/collectionswith an introduction at Turner Highlights.
Sorry about a lack of updates today... Blogger has been struggling. We hope to resume normal service soon...
The big prizes may have gone to old favourites, U2, to young New York singer Alicia Keys and to depression-era blue grass music, but perhaps it was words rather than music that may linger in the memory from the 44th Grammys ceremony in Los Angeles.Michael Greene, president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, whose 13,000 voting members chose the winners, used the occasion to launch a broadside against internet piracy, which he described as "a life and death issue" for the music business.In a controversial address, Greene claimed that "the most insidious virus" of piracy was now out of control on a "world wide web of theft and indifference." He warned that many artists, including the newer ones, were in immediate danger of being "marginalised out of business." Some members of the audience booed him but there was applause as he called for government help to stamp out international piracy. Another war seems in the offing.The main business of the evening, however, belonged to U2 who walked off with the record of the year for Walk On and gave a series of rambling acceptance speeches for their four Grammys until drowned out by the orchestra.Singer Bono told a friendly Staples Centre crowd that it was a relief to win after being nominated for eight awards. "Being Irish, if you got eight nominations and no awards, they wouldn't let you back in the country," he said. "So this is a public safety issue."The young chanteuse Alicia Keys was the big solo winner of the night, winning both the best new artist and the song of the year awards. She was finally rendered speechless when she won the latter award with Fallin', one of her five Grammys.But perhaps the most surprising triumph came for those behind the album that accompanied the Coen brothers' film, O Brother Where Art Thou?They took five Grammys, including the album of the year, for which they beat both U2 and Bob Dylan. The 75-year-old banjo picker Ralph Stanley won the male country vocal for O Death, a song from the album, his first Grammy. Producer T Bone Burnett saw the awards as a triumph as many country stations have ignored the album.For Britain, there was success for Sade who won the best   pop vocal album with Lovers Rock, for Fatboy Slim with best short form video for Weapon of Choice, and, perhaps most spectacularly, for Sir Colin Davis and the London Symphony Orchestra who won both the classical album and opera album categories with Berlioz's Les Troyens.Eric Clapton won the best pop instrumental performance for Reptile, and Jeff Beck the rock instrumental performance for Dirty Mind.OutKast were the main winners in the rap categories, with Stankonia winning best album and Jackson winning the best performance award.Lenny Kravitz won a fourth consecutive Grammy for male rock vocal, beating Eric Clapton and also Bob Dylan, though he picked up the Folk award.In the spoken word awards, George Carlin won the comedy album prize and Quincy Jones the album category with Q, his autobiography.There were also wins for some names who might not immediately be associated with the event: Mel Brooks won two awards for his hit musical The Producers and novelist Walter Mosley shared the album notes Grammy for his sleeve notes to Richard Pryor's compilation album.As with all public events in the US these days, echoes of September 11 were never far away.Tony Bennett and Billy Joel sang New York State of Mind and country star Alan Jackson performed his anthem about the attack, Where Were You When The World Stopped Turning?Security was tighter than ever. But compere Jon Stewart did manage some jokes on the issue, claiming there had been a security alert backstage when ZZ Top, the Texan band famous for their exotically long beards, were mistaken for the Taliban.The winners are ...Record of the yearWalk On - U2AlbumO Brother, Where Art Thou? - various artistsSongFallin' - Alicia KeysNew artistAlicia KeysFemale pop vocal performanceI'm Like a Bird - Nelly FurtadoMale pop vocal performanceDon't Let Me Be Lonely Tonight - James TaylorPop performance by a duo or group with vocalStuck in a Moment You Can't Get Out Of - U2Pop vocal albumLovers Rock - SadeFemale rock vocal    performanceGet Right With God - Lucinda WilliamsMale rock vocal performanceDig In - Lenny KravitzRock performance by a duo or group with vocalElevation - U2Rock albumAll That You Can't Leave Behind - U2Alternative music albumParachutes - ColdplayFemale R&amp;B vocal performanceFallin' - Alicia KeysMaleR&amp;B vocal performanceU Remind Me - UsherR&amp;B performance by a duo or group with vocalSurvivor   - Destiny's ChildR&amp;B albumSongs in A Minor - Alicia KeysRap solo performanceGet Ur Freak On - Missy 'Misdemeanor' ElliottRap performance by a duo or groupMs Jackson - OutkastRap albumStankonia - OutkastCountry songThe Lucky One - Robert Lee Castleman (songwriter)Country albumTimeless - Hank Williams Tribute - Various artists
Intel has shown off a4GHzversion of thePentium 4processor -- almost twice as fast as the current top-of-the-range chip -- and will add hyperthreading technology that makes one processor work as two. Intel chips are getting faster at a rate of25MHz a week, and one day it should be 25MHz per day. Other changes to PC design are being proposed in theTideWaterdesign. (This week, Intel is having one of its regularIDF conferencesfor hardware and software developers.WinHEC, the real Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, will be held in April in Seattle.)
You can now read Onlineonline.
Where would you like yourchip implant?
Danni Ashe is a somewhat incongruous figure at internet conferences. It's not the coiffured blonde hair and cleavage-hugging suits that raise eyebrows, as women are hardly rare in this business. What does cause surprise is the subject of her speeches: how I made a fortune selling nude photos of myself.Ashe is something of a pioneer: a porn star who has crossed the wire. Although known in internet circles for some time as that rare breed - a profitable e-entrepreneur - other dot.com executives were initially reluctant to welcome the porn model into the fold. But as other companies struggle to emulate her success, Ashe has found herself in demand as a technological consultant and keynote conference speaker.She is not alone in using net porn as a springboard to business success. Dario Betti, an analyst at e-commerce consultancy, Ovum , says several adult websites in the US now offer consulting services. Despite a few failures in the dot.com shakeout of the past year, it's an unpalatable fact that porn is still the internet's big success story.The Online Computer Library Centre's annual review found 74,000 adult websites last year, accounting for 2% of sites on the net, and    together they bring in profits of more than $1bn. Though many are small scale, with half making $20,000 a year, even that figure is the envy of many mainstream brands.Betti says: "Adult sites made money with streaming media after learning people did not want to sit and watch long two-hour films on their computer but that short films worked well. They use lots of teasers to make people want to see more and were the first to recognise the need for tight security and to offer personalisation tools."When Ashe is not posing naked on her site, Danni's Hard Drive, she has a growing list of business engagements. Last year these included speeches at the Streaming Media Asia seminar in Hong Kong and the Internet World Conference in Sydney, and Ashe has twice testified before US congressional committees on child protection and internet-related issues.Among other sites queueing up for her advice are medical, film and wine companies, as well as other porn sites. This work, hived off through subsidiary company DHD Media, is expected to account for 50% of Ashe's revenue within three years.  Still smarting from Napster, the music industry is also keen to replicate Ashe's subscription model.Ashe has also developed her own streaming technology, DanniVision, which eliminates the need for RealPlayer or any other plug-in.  Ashe said she started the business after teaching herself HTML and, after six years, she expects to make $7m or $8m profit this year."There has been a shift in attitudes in the business community and we are being recognised as a serious player," she says. "Companies are still wary of overt links with porn sites and I couldn't name any of the ones I have been a consultant for, but there are more and more of them."Of course porn is not quite the golden egg it once appeared to be and sites have been subject to the downturn as much as other online businesses, with some going to the wall. The problems have been exacerbated by a glut of smut from enthusiastic amateurs keen to post porn for free, to the chagrin of charging companies such as Playboy.com. Wired magazine reports that Playboy has lost $50m in two years on its online operations, and it has been aggressively asserting its market dominance.Having bought up a number of smaller sites, it is now looking for new material and formats. The company now plans to offer a mobile phone picture service, Mobile Playmate of the Month, and hopes for    more than a million subscribers in the first year. That probably depends on how many users upgrade to the new generation of 3G phones and video-enabled terminals. Ovum believes mobile streaming could reach the mass market by 2005.Consolidation across the internet means smaller players are being squeezed and Wired magazine recently reported that anyone looking to make a fast buck breaking into the online porn market is likely to be disappointed. But, they add, that is not to say there is no money in it. Porn is still the biggest earner on the net and several well-established companies such as Cybererotica and Sex.com generate several million dollars a month.Arguments about whether porn should be banned from the internet have been overshadowed by the figures which indicate a strong demand. Now the question is how to contain it. An announcement by a relatively obscure telephone watchdog that went largely unnoticed in the weeks before Christmas, points to a growing acceptance that porn is too easily available to push back into a ghetto. The Independent Committee for the Supervision of Standards of Telephone Information Services (Icstis) announced it may scrap its Top-Shelf Rule - restricting    adverts for premium-rate sex lines to adult magazines and newspapers - because internet porn is so widespread it makes the rule obsolete. The rule was introduced in 1994 after a spate of reports that children had run up huge bills calling the lines."Several companies asked us to look again at this rule because times have changed," said Suhail Bhat, a policy adviser at Icstis. "The internet has made pornography more easily available and we can't regulate the whole net." The watchdog received    more than 800 high bill complaints from consumers last year, with 50% of those resulting from unauthorised use of adult internet services. If porn becomes available on mobile phones - where 20% of new handsets are bought by children - the problem could escalate dramatically. Icstis has appealed for suggestions as to what can be put in its place to stop children having access to adult services.It is a major problem. A study by social psychologists at the London School of    Economics last year showed that nine out of 10 children, aged 11 to 16, had viewed pornography on the internet. Many had stumbled across it after putting in search requests for pop groups such as Boyzone. And a US government report said porn sites commonly use the brand names Barbie and Disney in hidden code to ensure they crop up in general searches. Last November, the EU's economic and social committee called for legislation and vigorous action by governments, ISPs    and Interpol to define harmful material, require adult signatures for downloads to premium lines and provide mechanisms for monitoring and dealing with suspicious behaviour by children.The German federal government has proposed a handful of draconian measures including limiting the distribution of pornography to a time slot between 11pm and 6am, making ISPs liable for internet content, and forcing larger content providers to employ control officers to ensure compliance with the law. But technology research company Forrester  believes the global web will defy enforcement and say regulators should focus on educating parents and children and developing self-regulation bodies, such as the UK's Internet Watch Foundation. While there is a clear consensus that children should be barred and protected from porn, a British Social Attitudes survey last year found that most adults were happy for over 18s to access soft porn.Comedian Jo Caulfield spends a lot of time looking at porn on the internet as a writer for Graham Norton's successful Channel 4 TV show, which features a range of bizarre websites. She believes the availability of porn has not made sex seem any less naughty or funny."It does fulfil a need even if it's just for people to laugh at," she says. "There is no end to what people are into. One man we featured got sexually excited by muddy shoes so he had lots of pictures of women standing in puddles. It's a British tradition that sex is funny, naughty and harmless."There is a clear distinction between soft porn and hardcore material which many people find offensive. But despite stories of individuals setting up their own websites and chatrooms to make money for themselves, the soft porn industry still has victims and exploitation.  This, and the fear of children stumbling across it, means there is a degree of hypocrisy about mainstream business dealings with porn groups. Ashe readily admits that companies are still wary of having overt link-ups with porn sites and the experience of Yahoo! last year can hardly have helped.A public outcry greeted its announcement last April that it was to sell hardcore pornographic videos on its US site, and within days the company had dropped the plan. Though, of course, porn can still be accessed via its portal. Concerns about porn's pernicious influence means Ashe and her innovations may be helpful to other net businesses, but they present watchdogs with new worries too.
At last. BT's decision to slash broadband internet access by &#163;10 a month to &#163;14.75 (at the wholesale level) is just the tonic a shattered telecoms market needs. Let's forget that it should have happened years ago and concentrate on the positive.For the first time it opens up the prospect of a mass market and, hopefully, it will give a strong signal to content providers that it is worthwhile developing services - from games and education to health provision and video conferencing- that    maximise the potential of broadband.  The only serious drawback is that BT is increasing its connection charge by 40% to &#163;210. Why has the cost of connecting the same gear suddenly gone up?Unless part of that is absorbed by internet service providers - in the same way that mobile phone operators absorb the costs of handsets - the initiative could prove stillborn. For more than 15 years BT has been talking about delivering broadband to the home but it simply has not happened except for a minority of devotees opting for connections through an expensive BT ADSL connection (asymmetric digital subscriber line) or through their cable TV links. And remember, ADSL is not real interactive broadband (ie capable of delivering video quality pictures in two directions).It is much faster at downloading than uploading, but the download speed is not enough for TV quality video. The point about broadband connectivity is instant access to the internet and email, which alone justifies getting it - even without the tailor-made applications that have been slow to arrive because developers have not been convinced of the imminence of a mass market.Initially, the main applications will be online gaming, betting, porn, video telephones, sport and exchanging films. But in the medium term, the applications for healthcare and education are awesome. Patients will be able to get a preliminary diagnosis from home, consultants can operate or give advice remotely, sons and daughters will be able to keep an eye on infirm parents from their homes, and so on and so on.It is obvious that eventually every internet connection will be broadband, just as virtually every television set is now a colour one. But the countries that install it first will be better placed to develop and sell the products and equipment that go with it. BT's announcement suggests that the new top management is at last thinking long-term and strategically. Glory be, what next?The announcement has come at what may be the nadir of the fortunes of the telecommunications companies. Most of them can't sink much lower without falling off the face of the Earth. Energis, set up as a rival to BT, has lost 99.5% of its stock market value and is fighting to avoid bankruptcy.Nearly all of the "alternative" telcos, set up to challenge the monopoly telephone utilities, are in a similar state.   Broadband is everywhere in abundance - except where it is needed, in the final mile to the home. Most of the alternative telcos have constructed huge broadband (fibre optic) trunk routes that are grossly underutilised and at a time when prices were falling very sharply. It is one of the biggest feats of oversupply ever recorded.They have failed to get it to the consumers at an affordable price. BT's rivals, including the cable companies and the likes of Freeserve, will welcome the lower charges because they believe it will expand the whole market for broadband and generate the services and products needed for people all over the country to sign up for it.The fact that the low price is being offered by BT's wholesale arm means that service providers can sign up and become champions of broadband as well. If BT continues with this kind of thinking then it may make a comeback from the   debt-ridden depths.Only a few weeks ago the feeling was growing that broadband was dead and that the national carriers were as good as dead as well. But everything has changed. Broadband is back in the arena, while the alternative networks and the cable companies are fighting for their financial lives. Analysts are beginning to reappraise the national carriers as being a better business paradigm than they had thought. Whether there is still time for Tony Blair to fulfill his vision of "broadband Britain" by 2005 remains to be seen. But BT is talking of getting a million users hooked up by next summer, and of one in four in four years time. This compares with less than 150,000 now.Once penetration rises above 25% broadband could start benefiting from network effects as happened with mobile phones and fax machines. There will come a time when not having broadband will make people feel they are missing out.  To expedite that happy moment, BT ought to reduce its connection charges or make sure that its self-installation kits are cheap and easy to use. Otherwise it might shoot itself in the foot yet again.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How much does your work depend on the use of a computer?Like most novelists, I embraced the computer fairly early on. In the old days, my manuscripts weighed about 20lb apiece, larded, as they were, with staples and glue. Now they're sleeker and cleaner by far. As for my life, email has entirely reshaped my idea of correspondence. Fifteen years ago, I still wrote and received letters: now I rely almost exclusively on email. My friends and I spent hours writing crazy letters to one fictitious person from another fictitious person.What computer/laptop do you use?These days I'm using a new Dell Dimension 8200 with a flat-screen monitor and a Pentium 4 processor. Very snazzy - and it isn't that boring beige, it's black.Do the copyright implications of the net concern you?They should probably concern me more than they do. Rip-off artists do scan stories, even entire novels on to the net, and there must be some people who go through the bother of downloading them and printing them out. It sounds like the most tedious way of reading a book, which is why I'm not too bothered by the phenomenon. Also, I like the sort of wild west aspect of the internet: that there's so much stuff out there, that all kinds of expression are allowed, and that part of the point is that it's all supposed to be free!Is there enough done to control what content children have access to?I think so, yes. Parents can filter out everything they find objectionable, and their children can then hunt for new outrages. This is how it's supposed to work, isn't it?Do you have your own website?My website exists mainly for amusement in the form of sniffy appraisals of my book written by my oldest friend and alter ego, Putney Tyson Ridge, the chairman and only member of the department of popular culture at little Popham College, in Popham, Ohio. Putney really lays it on the line, let me tell you. He knows where all the bodies are buried, too.What's the strangest thing you've encountered online?This is easy - Manbeef.com. This site purports to sell steaks and chops cut from the corpses of human beings. The whole thing is done absolutely straight-faced. They claim to obtain their meat from "cadavers," and offer reassurances that they will not ship their product anywhere the consumption of this material is forbidden by law. They also say that it tastes really, really good!&#183;HarperCollins publishes Peter Straub's novel, Magic Terror, in paperback on March 4.
The other sideAnother.com's Steve Bowbrick (Charging for the web, February 21) is right to be pleased that 1,000 users have chosen to pay £15 on Another.com's first day as a subscription service, but with so many free services still out there, how many "new" users does he expect to sign up?I shall not be paying for my Another.com account because I already have numerous other free accounts to which  I can redirect friends.The first 1,000 subscribers must be a hardcore who have too many contacts to make changing their email address worthwhile. But will they pay a second year's subscription or simply redirect all their contacts to a free service over the course of this year?The future of subscription on the net must be with ISP's and content providers (Another is neither of these) so you could have me@freeserve.co.uk or me@ft.com and access to a wealth of news and financial information. I think that £15 is a bit steep for the distinction of having a whacky address such as   me@harveynixwhore.co.uk, which is all Another offers.James Haleyjames@glorious.co.ukPodium pestsAs a follower of IT matters in Online and other journals for some years, I am used to the ludicrous hyperbole that sometimes appears, but a grey, dull Thursday was given some much-needed hilarity by Mike Anderiesz's assertion (Working the web, February 21) that there has been "talk of" Olympic recognition for online gaming!  I amused myself for several minutes trying to visualise a 15-year-old nerd standing on a podium being given a gold medal for his efforts at Quake. Why, I myself am thinking of trying to gain recognition for snakes and ladders. Anderiesz definitely needs to get out more, but before he does, could he tell us exactly where, and by whom, recognition for online gaming was being "talked of"?Stephen Bowyerstephen.bowyer@btinternet.comSquare smileI was most disappointed that internet-only bank Smile received a cursory mention in your article on online banking (Step by step:online banking, February 21). Smile was the first internet bank in the UK and has won numerous industry awards. It has 400,000 customers and is, therefore, a serious player in the sector. As a customer I can confirm that Smile is easy to use, fast and offers excellent customer service and support.In particular I would have thought that Smile, which is part of The Co-operative Bank, was of particular interest to Guardian readers as it is the only internet bank underpinned by an ethical policy in which its customers have a say. The Guardian has frequently bemoaned the dominance of the big four high street banks and argued that the resulting oligopoly is bad for consumers. People's reluctance to change their bank is well documented and the high street banks are able to exploit their "first mover advantage".Therefore, it is rather galling that the Guardian should offer free advertising to HSBC, Barclays and LloydsTSB. Smile offers far more competitive interest rates than these banks and is more in tune with the ethos of Guardian readers. It's a shame your article served merely to reinforce the status quo.Paul Jacklinpaul.jacklin@lshtm.ac.ukPsay no moreBob Hare's answer (Feedback, Online, February 21) to preserving one's Psion's agenda as history is fine (and works for Apple Macs too), but does not deal with the memos that one often attaches to agenda entries, which are not normally printed with the items.  Does he or anyone else have an answer to this?David Barnardjoan_barnard@onetel.net.ukStrictly legalI was slightly amused to see the caption "illegal software for sale" (Online, February 21) on an image showing, among some illegal-to-copy proprietary software, Red Hat Linux.It is certainly not illegal to copy Red Hat Linux, or indeed any brand of Linux.   In fact, Red Hat themselves positively encourage copying by making the ISO CD-Rom images a free download from Redhat.com.  I see Open Source software, like Red Hat Linux, as a key driving factor in the widespread adoption of computers throughout the world, avoiding the crippling licence fees that proprietary software attracts.  Indeed, this is why I have recently been setting up the http://worldwide.kde.org web site, a source of information for international users of KDE (www.kde.org), a free, open source desktop for Linux and Unix.Chris Howellshowells@kde.org
Early this month, the government moved a step closer to its dream of pushing the majority of its public services online by 2005, with the launch by the Lord Chancellor's Department Courts Service of a debt recovery service.Money Claim Online enables consumers, small businesses and solicitors to sue debtors for claims below &#163;100,000 and engage the services of a county court bailiff from the comfort of their living room.Users can register or, and by creating a user ID and password can securely pay court fees online with a credit or debit card. The LCD estimates that 25,000 claims will be made by year's end. Claimants fill out an on-line form with details of their claim, the name and address of the debtor, and the amount owed before paying their court fee (starting at &#163;27) and any solicitor's costs.  A statement of truth must be "signed" by typing in the claimant's name before the form can be submitted.The claim is then forwarded electronically to the county court's case management and document production systems based at the County Court Bulk Centre in Northampton, from where it is issued in the name of Northampton County Court.  The claim is examined by a county court judge, who can also make a judgment online, once the defendant admits to the debt or fails to respond to the claim.Defendants have 14 days to respond to a judgment, after which a warrant is issued and the bailiffs can go in to recover the money. Creditors can track the progress of their claims online, receiving regular updates. There is also a help desk at the County Court Bulk Centre. For users who need additional support, the helpline is 0845 601 5935. According to Michael Wills, the minister for courts at the LCD, the service is part of the government's drive to promote alternative ways of dispute resolution. "Court   should always be a last resort."However, if an online claim is disputed, the claimant will still have to go to court.  According to figures from the LCD, county courts in England and Wales handled more than 1.6m claims for money owed in the form of unpaid debts, hire purchase payments and rent arrears, in 2000. Although the vast majority were uncontested - only 36,000 went to trial - someone still had to turn up at the court office to obtain and file several copies of a claim form, and pay the court fee, during working hours. More recently, claimants have been able to print the forms from the court service web site, but still had to return them to the court.The system was developed for just over &#163;2m by EDS, the company responsible for much of the government's technology modernisation strategy, including the Inland Revenue's online service for self-assessment tax returns.The LCD will also pay an annual service charge of &#163;885,000 for Money Claim Online's maintenance.  The Consumers Association has welcomed the idea in principle, but with a few reservations."We carried out research on small claims and access to the Court Service site is used by relatively few consumers," says Edward Hobson, a senior policy adviser. "It is still very much a paper-based process; therefore you have to question how useful it is immediately."Reticence to use the site could also stem from issues of awareness. "Are you going to be happy settling these things over the web? You might actually find people aren't willing to file for such large amounts of money online." But for Bill Thomas, managing director of EDS UK &amp; Ireland, making the service available online was trivial compared to the modernisation it brought to the criminal justice system as a whole.
Pat Moorhead is a man with a mission. As the vice-president for customer advocacy - silly title, serious task - at AMD, the silicon chip maker, Moorhead wants to persuade the PC-buying public that clock frequency, the measure of a computer processor's pulse-rate and the prime gauge of chip performance over the past 20-30 years, is no more relevant today than MS-DOS.He's got a task on his hands: for years, that frequency - measured in megahertz and more recently gigahertz - has been a key factor for millions of consumers when buying PCs. The higher the number the better, goes the rule of thumb.Apple began to popularise the phrase "the megahertz myth" last summer after being stung by criticism that a member of its PowerPC processor family was much, much slower than Intel's rival Pentium line. Apple's argument: that the chips' different architectures makes such comparisons invidious. Just because a chip has a higher megahertz - or even gigahertz - rating than another, doesn't make it the faster product.For many years, the number of times a computer's clock - PC's "heart" to its processor's "brain" - ticked each second was a direct indication of how many calculations a processor could perform. One clock tick, one instruction, was how the design rule ran.However, with chip designers' attempts to boost performance not only by making the processor run faster (more ticks per second) but to perform more calculations in parallel (more instructions per tick), clock speed is no longer the be-all and end-all of chip performance.Here is why. Any processor runs a program by taking the code's building-block instructions   and performing the task it describes in the right order. Instructions are fetched from memory, decoded, the action performed and the result stored. At low clock speeds, this basic, four-step instruction "pipeline" - fetch, decode, execute, store - is an efficient way of processing a program. Each stage takes one clock tick, but since with every tick you bring in a new instruction - up to a maximum of four, one per stage at any given time - you effectively get one instruction processed per tick.Beyond certain speeds, however, it begins to break down. Yes, the more ticks, the faster it goes, but the chip will still handle only four instructions at once. The solution: segment the pipeline into more stages. The downside is that it takes longer to get one instruction through the pipe (the more steps the more ticks it takes) but designers trade that against a greater number of ticks per second.Different designers have different views on how that balance is struck. Fully aware of the megahertz myth, Intel believes higher clock frequencies matter most, which is why the Pentium 4 now runs at 2.2GHz but needs a 20-stage pipeline to get there. Apple's PowerPC G4, by contrast, has just seven stages and maxes out at 800MHz. However, because instructions take less time to negotiate seven steps than 20, it can complete some tasks more quickly than the Pentium 4.If something breaks the sequence, the chip has to start over. With increasing parallelism has come clever circuitry to predict what instructions are coming and fetch them ahead of time. Other tricks include adding cache memory to hold frequently used instructions.   But if the data you want isn't there, the process stalls. Refilling a seven-stage pipeline takes roughly a third of the time it takes to refill a 20-step one. But if the latter has three times the clock speed, there's little gain.Making this complex sequence of instructions operating in parallel run smoothly depends a lot on how well the instructions are sequenced, which is why, for many tasks, the 2.2GHz Pentium 4 will outperform the 800MHz G4. As Apple's chief hardware engineer, Jon Rubenstein admits, performance "depends on what your code looks like" - another reason why the Mac scores more highly with the optimised-for-PowerPC Adobe Photoshop.Still, Apple needs to drive up clock speeds and it is why its recently released 1GHz Power Mac has a new G4 with an 11-stage pipeline. AMD's Athlon XP processors, meanwhile, have 15-stage pipelines and have yet to exceed 2GHz. But while AMD's engineers may be happy with the balance they have struck, the company's business brains aren't so keen. They know that while their top-of-the-range processor runs at 1.67GHz, Intel's runs at 2.2GHz - and too many buyers assume it is much faster.Independent tests show the Intel chip is only a few percentage points faster than its rival, but how can AMD convince buyers?Enter Moorhead with a new processor naming scheme, and what might have been dubbed the Athlon XP   1.67GHz is now the XP 2000+. Why "2000+"? Because 2000MHz equals 2GHz, and the chip is faster than 2GHz processors. To stay within the law, the comparison AMD makes is with the previous generation of Athlon, but make no mistake. It wants buyers to have Intel's figures in mind.Moorhead is convinced they are doing so and that without that performance comparison, the Athlon XP's first three months would not have proved as successful. Certainly AMD's market share dipped a fraction in the last quarter of 2001, but not enough to say whether it has struck a chord with the "victims" of the megahertz myth - consumers. Ultimately, it may not matter. Moorhead admits that the naming scheme is a "bridge metric" to fill the gap until the company can come up with something more meaningful.Even then it may not prove a viable solution. Users essentially need a way of indicating how much faster their real-world applications will be, but that's as much a product of many other PC components, such as memory and the motherboard chipset, as the processor.Standard tests require standard configurations, and that is hard enough to do in the PC market, let alone across Macs, Unix workstations and more.The initiative will only succeed if the whole industry buys into the scheme, and with 80% of the market in favour of the status quo, that seems unlikely. Who owns that 80%? Intel. And it's very happy with the megahertz myth, thank you.
Tattoo youWhat is the connection between Mike Tyson, Chairman Mao, Che Guevara and Arthur Ashe? Answer: the first has tattoos featuring the other three. Celebrity Tattoos    is an amazing illustrated database of what it says, and although most of the afflicted are pop stars, actors or models, there are also a few surprising names.BoschBasing an adventure game on the life and works of the painter Hieronymous Bosch is a fascinating but not, perhaps, the most commercial idea, but it has worked well for the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. In spite of    some hideous user interface features, the site won a EuroPrix 2001 in December. It offers a lot more than a Shockwave game, of course, but that is what could make Bosch accessible to people who would not normally be interested in a medieval painter's visions of hell.What countsHow many times has the number 65,536 been used on the web, and why? That is the sort of question you can ask at the Turbulence.org site, by clicking and typing in the number. The number of numbers on the web is displayed in graphical form using a Java applet, so you can see how things change. Some numbers are used far more than others for obvious reasons: 2000, for example, is a common year, while 916 is an American area code, a Porsche and a Ducati. The site's associations sometimes fall short - for example, Turbulence misses the fact that 65,536 is the number of bytes in 64K of memory - but the results are fascinating.Yak fodderIf you remember playing Attack of the Mutant Camels, Sheep in Space and similar fast action games on the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga, head for The Plodding Ox, a weblog started by games programmer Jeff Minter. The Yak is planning to relaunch his Llamasoft label, perhaps at the end of next month. The new blog continues the story from The Grunting Ox, which stopped last month after he was dumped from the troubled Project X/Nuon project (VM Labs went into Chapter 11). And if you fancy a blast from the early 1980s, you can download 8-bit Commodore versions of Yak games to run on an emulator.Soft mapsMicrosoft is going into the mapping business with MapPoint, and if you live in the USA, it may be pretty good. Pick Europe, however, and you can only search for a place, not an address. Worse, if you search for a place that has the same name as lots of other places, you have to go through all of them. A company with products such as Autoroute and Pocket Streets could certainly do better than this feeble effort. However, MapPoint is just the first step, and the more interesting direction is MapPoint.net, which delivers mapping as an XML service. People who want to create mapping applications for their websites can download the MapPoint.net software development kit from the MapPoint.net beta website.Snap hereIf you are thinking of buying a digital camera - and who isn't? - then Miss Pixel is ready to help. Miss Pixel does not exist, of course, even in virtual form, but Internet Cameras Direct has attached her image to a comparison shopping page. The database has details of 76 cameras, and you can compare up to 10, sorting by whichever feature is most important to you. Most cameras already have a couple of reader reviews, and there are links to expert reviews off-site. One of the few things it does not do is offer a price comparison against other online camera sites.Kick offNow the Winter Olympics are over, you can expect a flood of promotions for World Cup sites. The battle for mouse-clicks has already started with a joint site from Sportal and Sportinglife, but it faces tough competition from BBC Sport, Soccernet, and other established players. There are also official sites from Fifa and the organising committees in Korea and Japan.
People keep love letters and emails for years, but are always making the tough decision of which SMS (text messages) to delete to make room. Fittingly, perhaps, an Italian company, Buongiorno, has come up with a solution for saving those sweet nothings.Called SmSpark, its service lets users "park" their text messages. Users forward any SMS they want to keep to a mobile number, which routes it to a secure site on the internet. They can park as many as they want.The service is popular in Italy, where it was launched in partnership with Telecom Italia Mobile. At the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes last week, Mauro del Rio, founder of Buongiorno, said that three French operators will offer the service from this month.French GSM mobile users will be able to save messages by sending them to a short code number for 3p. A PIN    should arrive by return text message, enabling the user to retrieve the SMS from a personalised web page.Buongiorno is in talks with UK operators and hopes to launch here before summer. But there are other ways of keeping text messages. Joe Cunningham, telecoms strategy director at Logica says: "Some operators store SMSs for as long as four years. Letting mobile users look up old messages on their SMS servers wouldn't be hard." Solutions for storing multimedia messages, which take up more space because they include combinations of pictures, text and sound, were also announced at Cannes. Logica has teamed up with Xdrive Technologies to enable users to store multimedia messages on a logical disk drive, accessible from anywhere via the net.In the future, users might also want to store multimedia game scores. The Cambridge intellectual property com  pany TTPCom demonstrated the Hugo and the Evil Mirror game using a mobile design it has optimised for Game Boy Advance games. This has been licensed by several far eastern manufacturers and the phones will be in production in June, says Ga&#235;l Rosset of TTPCom.The phones have a score screen that can show the top three scores of the phone's owner as well as the scores of three friends. These can be    transferred to a website, so avid gamers can compare their performance with other game-phone owners. Camera-mobiles, too, can store information on the web.At the Nokia stand, the company took photos of visitors with its latest phone, the 7650, and texted them from the mobile to a website shown on a huge monitor. Microsoft's planned Smartphone will also create new storage requirements. Ben    Waldman, vice president of mobile devices at Microsoft, showed a working prototype of a design developed with Texas Instruments (TI).The mobile, to be made by manufacturers including Sendo, HTC and Samsung, enables users to look at email services, such as Hotmail or company email, and attach documents to messages. They will also be able to browse the internet. However, it will be possible   to synchronise the phone with another device, such as a PC or laptop, so that the mobile's memory does not get too full. An alternative might be to use a personal digital assistant (PDA) running Microsoft's PocketPC software.For example, a large postage stamp-sized slot in the top-left corner of some PDAs can be used to add a one gigabyte card to their memory and, in time, the same card could include a high-speed data modem. Waldman also expects his company's alliance with chip giant Intel to lead to mobiles with bigger memories. This year's 3GSM World Congress showed that the market is now big enough to support niche products, from MP3 music download phones to fax machines that can text messages (like Sagem's) to digital radio phones, such as Panasonic's prototype.
It's always the conceptual artists that grab the headlines. Recently, we have had the news that Turner prize-winning painter Chris Ofili, who famously uses elephant dung in his artworks, is to auction one of his paintings for the benefit of the elephants at Whipsnade Wild Animal Park who provide the raw material.They have also provided the material for the huge row between Ivan Massow, former head of the Institute of Contemporary Arts, denouncing conceptual art as: "pretentious, self-indulgent, craftless tat". Remember the last Turner prizewinner, Martin Creed (he of the light going on and off), being somewhat upstaged by Madonna's presentation speech?Art is one of mankind's oldest forms of expression; you only have to look at the famous cave paintings at Lascaux. Today, as a hobby, painting is amazingly popular. Although criticised as lowbrow, Rolf Harris's show, Rolf on Art, attracted 6.8m viewers - the highest    TV ratings for a UK arts programme. See how Rolf paints Monet and some of the other Impressionists. Meanwhile, Awash with Colour, presented by Irish artist Dermot Cavanagh and the amateur competition Watercolour Challenge have almost a cult following among their daytime audience of students and the retired.It has to be said that the soothing tones of both programmes are immensely relaxing if you happen to be at home on a sickie, but they have also inspired many to pick up the brush, either for the first time or, like myself, those rusty dabbling daubers who have hardly done any painting since school. Though hopefully I'm now slightly better than when I scraped through O Level art, and definitely better than at primary school where one teacher remarked in my report for art and craft: "Gary gets more paint on himself than on the paper."A quick search on the internet gives the impression    that just about every artist in the world has a website where you can not only buy their work, but also several books and videos. However, there is a lot of free advice out there: from buying materials to technique and composition. A good place for the absolute beginner is Frank Clarke's Simply Painting. American Ellen Fountain's website  also has many useful tips for artists of all levels.If you want more practical, hands-on instruction take a look at www.artcourses.co.uk , which lists details of arts classes and painting holidays throughout the UK. Also useful is www.wetcanvas.com, billed as the "largest community for visual artists on the internet", where you can post your pictures for criticism, look at other works, seek out advice, plus more links than you can shake a mouse at.If you want to buy paintings or prints or sell your own there is www.art-agent.com , another massive site that allows artists to display their works for sale and the public to buy them. And you don't   have to go to art school if you want to become a professional artist. Dermot Cavanagh from Awash with Colour was an electrician who turned his hobby into a successful career.In fact, one of the most popular artists in Britain, Jack Vettriano, left school at 16 to become an engineer in the Scottish coalmines. For his 21st birthday, his girlfriend gave him a set of paints and he taught himself, eventually exhibiting at the Royal Scottish Academy's annual exhibition and Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy in London. His work, The Singing Butler, is the bestselling fine art print of recent years: it's the one with a couple dancing with a maid and butler stood on either side holding up umbrellas.However, even if you are terrible, someone somewhere will still love your work. A growing pastime, especially in America, is the collection of bad art obtained from thrift stores, garage sales or even out of skips. A fine example is the Museum of Bad Art. Though I must warn people of a nervous disposition or overly sensitive nature that some of this stuff can be pretty frightening.I'm still having nightmares about Jerez the clown.
Annethe Ahlenius spends eight hours a day poring over hardcore child pornography. Her computer is filled with thousands of sexually explicit emails and photographs , meticulously organised into folders depending on the activity depicted . But for this mother of two, it's all in a day's work.Ahlenius is an inspector with the Swedish National Criminal Intelligence Service and her role is to identify paedophiles using the internet to distribute child porn. Her Stockholm-based team is leading a pan-European effort to combat child pornography. It's a daunting    task: Unicef estimates that 80% of paedophile-related investigations involve more than one country, and 90% involve the internet. "Historically, there has been a lot of duplication because we aren't sure what officers in other countries know," says Ahlenius. "We want to give everyone access to the same information."At the heart of the initiative is a library of 300,000 images seized from computers and websites around the world. The library started life during Project Cathedral, a 1998 joint effort between 12 countries to tackle internet child pornography, and has been growing   since. "Officially, we stopped the library after the project, but people kept sending us images, so we're now working with Europol to formalise the process," says Ahlenius.The library is integrated with a search system that compares images and rates them according to similarities of colour, shape and pattern. The software focuses on details such as wallpaper and furniture rather than faces.When new material arrives at the child protection unit, each image is scanned into the library and checked. Within seconds, a series of thumbnail images appear, ranked according to similarity   to the new image. "Although it's different children," she says, "we can tell it's a repeat offender, and his face is visible in one image."Ahlenius would like to upgrade the system to include a module that searches video footage, but is struggling for funding. "Video is a growing problem as more people have broadband, but people would rather fund more policemen on the street than some software," she says. " Knowing we've rescued one child would be enough."Sally Whittlewww.europol.eu.int
Killer HotmailA friend has recently had his Hotmail account summarily removed by Hotmail for alleged "spamming". At the very least he needs access to his mail and folders so that he can fulfil back orders on books and work out how much he is due to send to the charities he supports.Paul GriffithsJack Schofield replies:Hotmail takes spamming very seriously. Although not many people read its terms and conditions, they say: "Microsoft will immediately terminate any account which it believes, in its sole discretion, is transmitting or is otherwise connected with any spam or other unsolicited bulk email." And it does. Further, the terms include the threat to charge users $5 for each spam message they send, "otherwise you agree to pay Microsoft's actual damages, to the extent such actual damages can be reasonably calculated," though I have never heard of it trying to collect the money. The T&amp;Cs also say: "Unless otherwise specified, the MSN sites/services are for your personal and non-commercial use," and "you will not advertise or offer to sell or buy any goods or services for any business purpose".Any plea that mentions "fulfilling back orders" is therefore unlikely to find a sympathetic ear. In fact, people can now get their Hotmail deleted for doing nothing. Last month, MSN instigated a new policy of deleting all the information in an account if the user failed to log on for 30 days. The only way to prevent this is to pay to upgrade to an MSN Extra Storage account. Unfortunately, it is no longer economic to offer free email to hundreds of millions of users. Many suppliers are either    closing free email services, like AltaVista, or making users pay for them. Finally, even if you pay for a service, it is not a good idea to store information online. A good rule of thumb is that unless data is stored in at least two places - eg a hard drive and a back-up CD or tape - it does not really exist.ConverterI have folders of Lotus WordPro 97 documents. Is it possible to open these in Microsoft Word 2002? I no longer have the WordPro program.Stephen BlockJS:Word has many converters, which are not always installed, and you candownloadextra ones. Unfortunately there does not seem to be a WordPro converter. You could either borrow or buy an old copy of WordPro, load your files, and save them again in a format Word can read, or spend about &#163;75 onDataViz'sConversion Plus.Reading upI'd like to get into basic PC maintenance and also have some guidance on how to fit    new bits - sound/video cards etc. Can you recommend a good book?Paul TurnerBradfordJS:There is no substitute for visiting a good bookshop and having a browse. However, you could try Haynes Computer Manual, Upgrading &amp; Fixing PCs for Dummies, 5th edition  or Que's Upgrading and Repairing PCs, 13th edition.Backchat&#183;D Harrison wanted to send a web page by email. Steve (tamour@ntlworld.com) asks: "Why not just click the Mail icon in the browser's toolbar?" I confess I had forgotten the Send Page option was there. I avoid it because it sends each element that makes up the page as a separate attachment, which may add up to a dozen items, often more. Saving pages in Web Archive (mht) format combines all the elements into a single file. However, the Mail icon is a quicker and more convenient way to send a page.&#183;Last week, Deb Wilson wanted to find recent news sorted by date. Gary Price, a librarian who runs The Virtual Acquisition Shelf and News Desk, suggests two further resources:NewsNowandAllTheWeb. "NewsNow also offers a live feed that turns your computer into a virtual news ticker, which auto-refreshes every five minutes." Finally, the US version ofYahoohas a great advanced news search with several limiting features including dateline and byline."&#183;Jean Jones asked for a directory of the fonts available in Microsoft Word and Publisher. Charles Foster, editor ofDesignTutor, says: "Microsofthas a list of all the fonts loaded by each of its products.  "Unfortunately, the fonts are not categorised or illustrated. After requests from readers, we published an annotated list of more than 80 core fonts in issue eight. This has been posted as a downloadable file on our website." Meanwhile, Sara Brown found apageillustrating fonts.&#183;While you can view the index.dat file in the Cookies folder (February 14) the result, says David Hall, looks like hieroglyphics. The problem: it is a data file, not intended for human consumption. However, Ray Summers has foundSpider, a small, free program that extracts a neat log of the contents.&#183;William Allen from Oxshott has also found a way to delete the Cookies index.dat file without resorting to the old DOS disk operating system. It is intended for programmers, and involves using Notepad to create a two-line file, as follows:  &#91;rename&#93; nul=C:\WINDOWS\ COOKIES\INDEX.DAT Save the file as WININIT. INI in C:\WINDOWS then restart your PC. For further details, search Google for Q140570
RezPlayStation2	&#163;39.99 Sega/Sony	*****In one sense, Rez is a shoot-'em-up in the grand tradition of Space Harrier, Lylat Wars and Panzer Dragoon Saga. And its visual aesthetic draws on influences from Battlezone and the film Tron, to William Gibson's novel Neuromancer and the paintings of Kandinsky. But the experience of playing it is like nothing else.You control a wireframe humanoid, attempting to hack through various computer firewalls to get to a digital Eden. The systems are   represented in skeletal architecture, with tunnels racing past and enormous towers hazy in the distance. Meanwhile, robotic defences dance in front of you, building walls or firing at you with huge tentacles. Everything must be shot down.The music for each level    starts with a spare, clubby beat. Destroying more enemies brings extra timbres and riffs into the mix. Every sound effect for your actions is musical. But it's not freely interactive, for a very good reason: it would sound awful.   Instead, every hi-hat or clap that you induce is cunningly shunted to sit nicely at the nearest semiquaver.As the music becomes lusher, light explodes around you and your progress through the system speeds up. As power-ups are collected, the wireframe visuals are filled in, becoming solid geometrical forms and finally organic landscapes, so that the game repeats the history of 3D videogame representation, in a riotous blaze of symbolic play.There are only six levels, but they are so vast and deep that you'll want to play them again, and again, to perfection. In its extraordinarily sensual, hallucinatory intensity, Rez does for the PS2 what the WipEout games did for Sony's first machine.  (SP)MaximoPlayStation 2 £39.99 Capcom/Eurosoft ***If you remember the days when games came on tape and     Sony stuck to personal stereos, then you'll remember Ghosts 'n' Goblins. Released in the mid-1980s, GnG was a 2D     platform game in which players starred as a knight with a graveyard full of lumbering zombies and precarious     ledges for company. Released tomorrow is Maximo, a 3D platform game full of lumbering zombies and precarious     ledges. The dimension may have changed and the visuals are massively improved, but this is a blatant imitation.Luckily, it's mostly a good thing. Jumping around and hacking at the incessant undead is a mindless treat, with     sharp reflexes crucial to success. Forget puzzles and lengthy cut-scenes, Maximo offers scant opportunities for     breathers, with someone or something always out to chip away at your health. If you get a moment, you'll notice     that the graphics are crisp and cartoony, in keeping with the off-beat humour of the game. And there are some     other nice touches borrowed from GnG, such as repeated hits causing your hero to lose his armour and fight in his     boxer shorts. Unfortunately, the save system is a relic from the 1980s.Instead of being able to restart     regularly, Maximo only allows limited saves, causing frustrating repetition of the harder later stages. Add this to     an exceedingly high difficulty level - though thankfully not quite as insane as Ghosts 'n' Goblins - and you've got a     real challenge. Less patient and able players needn't bother, but for those hardy gaming veterans of the Thatcher     years, Maximo offers a welcome blast of nostalgia. (GH)Capitalism IIPC £29.99 Enlight/UbiSoft **The original Capitalism was loved by deep strategists but avoided by everyone else, thanks to the ponderous     attention to financial detail and relatively slow gameplay. Although aimed at a broader audience, the game does     itself no favours by using a tweaked version of the same engine.C2 is all about making money - primarily by buying property, building commercial ventures on that land and then     maximising your returns. There are two main campaigns, the first (Entrepreneur), a series of training levels to     get you acquainted with the baffling interface, and the second (Capitalist), to build and maintain your empire. It     also supports a multiplayer campaign where up to seven players can compete against you.The main playing window looks like a prettier version of SimCity 3000, scrolling smoothly and displaying your city     in a pleasant pseudo 3D. Unfortunately the rest of the game is hidden behind a plethora of icons, sub-menus and     charts controlling every aspect of sales, marketing, acquisition and promotion.With more than 60 commodities to     choose from and a large number of potential businesses and factories, achieving your financial targets and     keeping the banks happy is a full-time occupation. You can hire and pro mote chief executives and marketing     managers to assist you, but even they will have to be monitored.Other parts of the interface show their age more readily and rarely exceed Amiga quality. The mini-map is     laughably crude and most of the menus filled with confusing bar-charts and forecasts.C2 does exactly what it says on the box, and in this respect is a marked improvement on the original. However, it     is hard to see who will relish this much micro-management apart from business graduates or chartered     accountants. Even they might be frustrated by the simplistic logic. (MA)
If, like me, you have been slightly wary of the striking look of the new Apple iMac since its launch last month, I can prescribe the perfect cure: sit the machine on your desk and watch it go.For a start, once you are sat in front of the thing, many of the ballyhooed design elements - the chrome arm supporting the flat panel display, the dome housing the drives and other innards - are hidden from view. The user is left with a bright, clear 15-inch display, framed in clear plastic that begs you to fiddle around until it is at the perfect angle and height.Underneath that, you might choose to have the two good-sounding external speakers arranged next to the   screen or further away.The two points of the user's physical interaction with the machine - keyboard and mouse - are much better than on previous iMacs. The arrival of a full keyboard and decent ball-free mouse are certain to please long-suffering users of the dreadful "puck" mouse and cut-down keyboards of earlier incarnations.But enough of aesthetics. What can the new iMac do? The first important point is that the new iMacs all come with OS X - Apple's new operating system - as standard. OS 9 is still lurking in there to run your old applications and devices, but it is much more convenient to run OS X-native programs.And OS X looks good - very good - on the new iMac, with menus appearing in an instant and the system's flashy graphics looking pin-sharp. Even better, for the four days I had this Mac, it didn't crash once.The arrival of OS X means there's lots more memory on Macs now. Only last year Apple were still selling Macs with just 64MB built in (even though 128MB was the mini mum needed for OS X). How things have changed. The iMac I tested, the top-end SuperDrive version, had 256MB, the minimum for this model. You can increase this to 1GB (1000MB), but even the standard amount seemed ample for cutting together video clips and burning a DVD.I was carrying out those tasks on the excellent iMovie and iDVD packages, which come free with the machine, and which make compiling decent-looking short movies remarkably simple. In an evening, from a standing start, I had created four short videos totalling 25 minutes, set them to music, and burnt them on to a blank DVD-R disc complete with menu.My only experience of iMovie had come from tinker ing with it on a Power Mac G4 running at 866MHz, and it was interesting that although the PowerMac was, on paper, only 66MHz faster than the iMac, the difference in performance in some tasks was noticeable. The iMac's lag was particularly obvious in the most processor-intensive tasks such as importing video from a camera, and preparing special effects.That's not to say the iMac is under-powered for the job Apple wants it to do - it is still easily powerful enough for home use that includes occasional video editing and   DVD burning - but it does make it clear that Power Macs are still the choice for those wanting to do lots of video work, despite a similar processor speed in the low-end Power Mac G4.For everyday use, however, the iMac has plenty of power. Setting up an internet connection is now very straightforward, and running Internet Explorer 5.1 on my broadband connection was something of a revelation: web pages appeared in a flash.Gripes? Well, if the "puck" mouse was the form-over-function flaw of the last iMac, the positioning of the plug-in ports are the Achilles heel of the new one. All - bar one free USB port on the keyboard - are round the back, which makes access tricky when you're trying to get round the screen and its arm.It makes for a tidy, clean look from the front, but given that the last iMac made such a show of easy access to its ports, it seems a little disappointing that we're returning to fumbling round the back to plug in cameras or external drives.But this is a minor complaint for a machine that looks good on your desk, performs admirably and - unusually for Apple - represents cracking value for money, especially at the top end of the range. The machine I was testing - the   SuperDrive model - costs &#163;1,599 including VAT, remarkable given that until now, DVD burning has been something available only to businesses and the richest home users.The range will eventually start at &#163;1,149 for the basic 700MHz model, although that version will not be around until next month. Waiting times at the Apple Store for the two more expensive models currently available are five to six weeks, although some independent dealers might have some in stock. My recommendation, if it's within your budget, is to go for the SuperDrive version, unless you're entirely confident you'll never own a digital camcorder or camera.One tip. If you buy the DVD-writing version, shop carefully for the blank DVD disks, unless you want it to be a very expensive hobby. My local PC World charged me &#163;35 for three DVD-R disks, while Apple Store is asking &#163;20 for five.
Apple is getting aGrammyfor its long-standing contribution to the music industry. The irony missed in the CNet article is that in 1989,Apple was sued by the Beatles'Apple Corps for violating a secret agreement signed in 1981 saying that it would only use the trade name on computer products.
Microsoft is planning to beta test awireless home networkingsystem.
AOL is being suedin the US for allegedly sending users goods they did not order and taking the money from their bank accounts.
The ultimate fan,Mr PlayStation 2?
Following on fromyesterday's postabout BT lowering its wholesale charges for broadband connections... one reader asked if this meant broadband "in the outback". Well... maybe, is the answer. BT claims 60% of the population is served by an ADSL equipped exchange, although anyone who has ever tried to get hooked up will tell you that is only the first hurdle you have to overcome. Line quality, distance from the exchange, your star sign... all seem to have an impact on your chances. But BT said yesterday that the new lower price will also be backed by a drive to get more exchanges set up for ADSL. So, if you live near (within four miles) of a non-urban exchange, you might be in luck... sometime. Usethis pageto find out if you can get high-speed internet over your telephone line.
Ebay, the world's largest online auction site, is hoping to crack the Chinese market by acquiring Taiwanese company NeoCom Technology.Ebay - which sells everything from antiques to cuddly toys - has paid £6.7m for NeoCom in an attempt to grow its international operation.NeoCom operates two of Taiwan's largest auction sites - Bid.com.tw and Ubid.com.tw - and eBay will use the two brands as a basis for a Chinese launch.At the same time, eBay is abandoning is Japanese operation because of strong competition and poor market conditions.Ebay's success has been founded on persuading its millions of users to pay to list and sell items online.However, analysts suggest the company could find this approach difficult to implement in Asia.The nascent Chinese market, for example, has no established method of allowing users to make online payments.Ebay's international sales accounted for 18% of the group's turnover during the fourth quarter of 2001 and overseas sales are growing at twice the rate of revenues from the US.The company recently signed a deal with Sotheby's to enable users across the globe to participate in auctions over the web.
BT hasannouncedit is cutting the charge it makes to other telcos who want to offer fast (broadband) internet services over its lines. The cuts should mean BT and its rivals can offer broadband at around £25 a month - about the same price as cable companies charge for similar services on their networks. Funnily enough, it's likely the move will be welcomed by the cable companies. The head of NTL's broadband division told me last year they were desperate to have BT's marketing muscle behind a drive towards broadband - all would benefit from heightened awareness and resulting increase in demand. BT appears now to be playing ball. They say they want one million broadband users in the UK by summer 2003 - up from around 200,000 (including cable) today.
Oh dear, hasn't someone told columnistDavid Courseythat it is now politically incorrect to tell the truth?
The Register, the IT news site which has appeared to be in some decline for a few months now, has just launched aUS version. This maybe explains why the site appears to have lost so much of its sparkle of late, although that could also be down to themgetting ridof more than a third of their editorial staff just before Christmas.
According to anunconfirmedreporthere, Sun plans to charge for the next version of itsStar Officesuite for Windows and Unix, which it obtained by buying the small German company, Star Division. The last version was priced at roughly what the software was worth -- it was free -- but testers report that the forthcoming v6.0 is a huge improvement. Users who do not want to pay can still use OpenOffice, the open source version. Corel dropped out of the Linux office suite market when it found there was no money in it.
Microsoft has fallen to fourth place in Fortune magazine's list ofAmerica's Most Admiredcorporations. Intel came tenth. TheComputers/Office Equipmentcategory was headed by IBM (7.51), followed by Dell (6.05), Apple (5.77) and Sun Microsystems (5.76). Compaq did spectacularly badly (3.94). The Top Ten -- which is voted separately from the industry rankings -- was topped for the fifth year in a row byGeneral Electric.
Odd spam of the day: "My name is ChenHua, and I'm writing on behalf of the China-Lutong mechanical company. Located in the south east of China, we specialize in hydraulic heads for the VE distributor pump. We can supply standard, good quality units at a very competitive price. The following types are available..." Sex sites, yes. Get rich quick, yes. Pyramid selling schemes and Nigerian money scams? Yes. Hydraulic heads for pump equipment? Eh?
Some 10m customers of Microsoft's Hotmail service will be able to email money to each other by next month as part of a new service to be offered by Egg, the internet bank.The facility will be one of the main products introduced this year by Egg, which yesterday disclosed that it moved into profit in the last two months of 2001. Paul Gratton, the chief executive, said he was now confident that its UK business would be "sustainably profitable" in the future.In the financial year to end-December, Egg made losses of &#163;88m but said it met its promise to investors to break-even in the fourth quarter.While the business, spun out of Prudential which still owns a majority stake, started by offering market beating savings rates, its main way of attracting customers now is through credit cards.In the fourth quarter, the credit card operation helped to reverse a decline in customer numbers earlier in the year and overall attracted 147,000 new customers in the three months to end-December. Egg now has 2m customers and the rise in business has led to an increase in the provision for bad debts from &#163;37m to &#163;68m.Mr Gratton indicated that Egg, which is toning down its quirky advertising campaign, would not be introducing many more financial products this year. He pointed to new facilities for customers, such as aggregation services which allow them to view all their financial products at one time.He said visitors to Egg's website with Microsoft email accounts would soon be able to email money securely from their bank accounts into other people's accounts.Egg, which floated on the stock market at 160p, is planning to expand in France where it is waiting for regulatory approval to take over Zebank. Its shares gained 3.25p to 143.25p.
Eric Knorr (below) is of course correct in seeing Microsoft attempting to take over the centre of the chess board -- exactly like Sun and IBM. What I found more interesting was hisconclusion: "If you ask me, Sun should bite the bullet and join [the WS-I] now." TheWeb Services - Interoperabilityalliance already has more than 50 members including IBM, Oracle, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Fujitsu-Siemens and Intel, as well as companies such as Ford, Reuters and United Airlines. None of them are Microsoft pawns. It is in everybody's interest for Web services to interoperate, and it doesn't make any sense not to participate in a group trying to ensure that they do. OK, too bad for Sun if it lets itself be isolated, but it is no different from Sun's use of theLiberty Allianceto try to isolate Microsoft's Passport. If the boot is on the other foot this time, tough. As Sun's boss Scott "Motormouth" McNealy likes to say:Get over it.
Eric Knorr onZD Net: "As I sat there daydreaming through video testimonials on .Net's excellence, I finally experienced sympathy for how Sun must feel: Microsoft really is bent on taking over the world, and all this Web services hokum simply provides the convenient means to do so. Like a crafty, relentless chess player, Microsoft never stops fighting for the center of the board."
You will soon be able to dance with acyber-Britney.
The president of the internet's governing body yesterday made a recommendation almost unthinkable in dot.com circles: he wants to see more direct government involvement in the development of the world wide web.Stuart Lynn, the president of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), has recommended a major restructuring, saying the goal of leaving the internet in private hands has proven unworkable.Icann was set up in 1998 to provide independent management of the internet's development, taking over the job from the US government as the web became internationally crucial.The body is in charge of coordinating the internet's addressing policies, including those for domain names such as .com and .gov.Mr Lynn has recommended a new structure that would see governments nominating one-third of a 15-member board."I am now convinced that the original desire to avoid a totally governmental takeover ... led to an overreaction - the choice of a totally private model," he said.He said the private model is unworkable "because it leaves Icann isolated from realworld institutions - governments - whose backing and support are essential."Icann has faced questions about its legitimacy from the beginning.Longtime internet users accuse Icann of being beholden to corporate interests, while administrators of domain names around the world have refused to recognise Icann's authority.The proposal, which came during a weekend closed-door retreat, is likely to face significant opposition from public-interest groups, particularly for eliminating direct participation by internet users.Under the new plan, the board would consist of 15 members: one-third nominated by governments, one-third through a committee process and the rest consisting of Icann's president and appointments by four policy and technical groups.Michael Froomkin, a University of Miami law professor who runs an Icann watchdog site, called the proposal misguided and said it would reduce "to even greater impotence the people who ask troubling questions".     Currently, five of the 19 board members are elected by the general internet community.Icann's next public meetings are scheduled for March 10-14 in Accra, Ghana.
MIT'sTechnology Reviewhas an interesting piece on railway technology in the United States. But I wonder how many Brits reading this will, like me, wonder ifanyof the technologies mentioned here are being used on Britain's creaking railways?
Compaq has announced an iPaqMiniCD/MP3 music playerin Australia.
Hitachi has produced a next-generation palmtop -- not a PocketPC -- based onWindows CE.net and an Xscale processor.
The Enron Voice Mail System, 2002(needs Flash)
