A year ago, my local computer shop built a new computer for me with Vista. Recently I had a message which told me to "get an up-to date version of Vista Ultimate as you have a beta version".Bryn ReesA beta version of Vista should no longer work, so I asked you to run Windows Explorer, click on Help, select About Windows and tell me the version and build number. You said it was Version 6.0 Build 6001, which indicates Vista with Service Pack 1 installed (or Server 2008), not a beta version. The message therefore looks like a Microsoft bug, and it has affected other people. A technical support professional posting as Skriker has madethe same complainton the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) forum.
A friend would like to use one of the free email providers such as Yahoo or Google mail but has concerns about fully closing the account when it is no longer required.David J JonesFree email accounts cost suppliers money, so they have no interest in keeping email around if the user no longer wants it. Most provide details of how to delete an account, andNSpeak has linksfor the big three services.Some people worry about someone else using an account with the same user name, and therefore hang on to accounts they don't want. However, many people have the same name, and this may deprive them of something they would value. Also, anyone can "spoof" (forge) an email address even without having access to the account; hanging on to an address doesn't prevent that.
Does it pick up the cuttings too?PARDON? YES, IT'S OUR BIPEDAL LAWNMOWING ROBOT! NOISY, BUT IT'S COOL! EXCEPT WHEN IT FALLS OVER! WHAT? A SHEEP WOULD DO THE JOB? MORE QUIETLY? Oh..Next time it'll be a cake, SteveAdmit it: you've often felt tempted to pelt Steve Ballmer with eggs. A Hungarian student did this week, apparently angry over the imposition of Microsoft products via a state contract.In 10 years, it'll be an earringThe evolution of the mobile phone, from huge brick to tiny gewgaw. Fascinating. (Sorry about the music. Try watching it with the sound off - you won't be missing anything.)Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
Orange has signed a three-year deal with Nokia to bring the Finnish phone maker's mobile maps and games services to its customers in nine European countries, including Britain, this year.The deal, to be announced today, is a step back for Nokia, which had threatened the position of mobile phone operators with the launch of its own suite of mobile services under the Ovi banner last year.Ovi was seen as a direct challenge to the power of the big mobile operators such as Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile which are trying hard to persuade customers to do more than talk and text.But today's deal, under which Orange will share revenue with Nokia, will see the latter's mobile maps co-branded with the operator's name.The two companies are aiming for 10 million Orange customers using Nokia's mobile maps by 2010. The deal is not exclusive and Nokia already has other partners.While Orange and Nokia will sell their own games under their own brands, most significantly the deal does not include Nokia's music service, which caused consternation among mobile phone companies when it was unveiled last year.They saw the service as a direct challenge to their relationship with customers and Orange said it would not let its users access the Nokia music store.Anyone buying one of the 10 new Nokia handsets from Orange in the second half of the year will  have one-click access to Orange's music store, which has about a million tracks.Kai &Ouml;ist&auml;m&ouml;, Nokia's head of devices, said the perceived fight between the company, and the rest of the industry was more "a public image rather than a reality".
In 1999, the South African-born Mark Shuttleworth sold his internet company, Thawte, which provided digital certificates for websites, for more than $500m (&pound;254m). After spending $20m on a trip into space, he started the Ubuntu project - named after an African word meaning "Humanity to others", or "I am what I am because of who we all are" - which has since become the most popular GNU/Linux distribution.Technology Guardian: To what extent did your space trip feed into Ubuntu?Mark ShuttleworthGoing to space and seeing the Earth from a distance makes it very clear just how interdependent we are. So I wanted to do something that was really global; free software is a phenomenon that is truly global.TG: What are the implications of choosing that name?MSThat this is a platform for people. Linux has come from a tradition of being a platform for specialists. We articulated the challenge for us very clearly in our name: "Let's make this something that we can proudly give out to people who are not passionate about technology."TG: How does your company, Canonical, fit into this?MS[Ubuntu] has its own release cycle. It has its own governance structures. Canonical plays a significant role in those, and we are the largest underwriter of all the work that gets done. We make sure that it releases on time; that it's available globally; that it meets criteria; that it works across a certain portfolio of hardware that third parties have asked us to certify. But we don't take credit for all of the smart thinking that happens in Ubuntu. In fact, in almost every release there's been an idea that came from volunteer participants that turned into a profoundly important feature in that release.TG: I gather that you had a rather unusual way of picking the people you originally employed at Canonical.MSI simply read a large amount of correspondence between the developers on one of the projects that is key to the way we do Ubuntu, the Debian project. It's amazing how much jumps out in terms of the way people think, the depth of their experience. So open source is not only a great way to develop your own talent and skills, but it's also a great way to get a job, and a great way to go looking for people.TG: What's the business model for Canonical?MSOur business model is entirely based on services around our software. Because Canonical plays such a key role in Ubuntu, even though it doesn't monopolise access to it, we're a preferred partner for Ubuntu. Whether it's technical support, which we think people are more likely to buy from us than from anybody else, or whether it's engineering, customisation, or the enablement of the platform on particular hardware, Canonical has a privileged position.TG: How close are you to breaking even?MSNot close. It will require time and ongoing investment. We've positioned ourselves for what we see as the future of software - unlicensed software, people having access to the software that they want at the time that they want it. The service ecosystem around that software will fund it. And if we are the company that has best anticipated that future, then we will be best positioned to benefit from it.TG: How did the deal to put Ubuntu on Dell PCs come about?MSWe found out about it after it was a fait accompli. [Dell are] very much a numbers-driven company. They asked their users what they wanted to see. They had a lot of data and that data pointed to us. That was a little unsettling, because we didn't have a relationship. But it was a significant step up in our corporate profile. It will be very interesting to see what we're able to do with companies like Dell, which are aimed at a wider audience. That's my number one challenge: how to make the Linux desktop something that you want to keep on your computer.TG: Will you be coming out with a tailored version of Ubuntu for the ultraportable sector?MSWe're announcing it in the first week of June. It's called the Netbook Remix. We're working with Intel, which produces chips custom-made for this sector.TG: Do you think that GNU/Linux will ever become a significant force on the desktop?MSI think that depends on how people define a desktop. If people continue to define a desktop as the thing that they run Microsoft Word on, then Windows will retain its position. My sense, though, is that people are increasingly defining the desktop as the thing that they get access to the internet from. In that case, there's a real possibility that we're able to shift people onto different platforms. I think it's the emergence of the internet as the killer application, the thing that describes what you want from the computer, that opens the door to us.TG: Recently you publicly criticised the ISO for the way the way it handled the voting on Microsoft's OOXML; how seriously do you think ISO's credibility has been damaged by that episode?MSVery seriously [for] anybody who is passionate about open standards. The ISO process has traditionally worked very well; it's quite an academic, considered process, but it really wasn't designed to handle a case with very, very vigorous corporate lobbying and an enormous amount of money being spent to try to get a particular outcome. And with hindsight, there were a number of very serious flaws in the process.TG: As Ubuntu gains in importance, do you feel that you have an increased responsibility to speak out in this way?MSI think we all have a responsibility to contribute to the public discourse. I have a level of economic independence, which is perhaps a good and a bad thing, but at the very least my opinion can't be bought that easily.Curriculum vitaeAge35EducationUniversity of Cape Town, Bachelor of Business Science, 1996Career1995-99Founder and chief executive, Thawte Consulting2000Founded HBD Venture Capital2001Founded the Shuttleworth Foundation2004-presentChief executive of Canonical Ltd, founder of the Ubuntu project,FamilySingleHobbiesTravel, technology, internet, science fiction, snowboarding
Technology is responsible for most of the world's noise pollution; planes, cars, amplified music and sirens are the uninvited soundtrack to modern living.Perhaps noise-reducing headphones are technology's way of redressing the balance. This is how they work: each earpiece features a mini-microphone that picks up the ambient noise (next door's barking dog, the roadworks outside your front door) and generates a sound-cancelling signal to block it out.I was tempted by the promise of the sound of silence when my neighbour's sullen offspring decided to share their "music" with me at levels that would drown out the Notting Hill carnival. The obvious solution would be for them to wear headphones so they could blast their own ears into premature tinnitus. But the situation was non-negotiable - I ended up with the headphones.My first noise-busting earpieces showed promise. But the sound-cancelling signal was accompanied by a lot of hiss, and they fell apart within a year. I upgraded to Audio-Technica's QuietPoint Headphones, the ATH-ANC7. At &pound;129.95 they are not cheap, but the price tag reflects a better build, more refined electronics and high-quality audio.Audio-Technica claim the headphones reduce background noise by up to 85%. The close-fitting earpieces muffle a good amount of external noise, but for the full effect you flick a switch on the headset and the noise-cancelling electronics kick in. Even without music the difference is noticeable, cutting the sound of the rumbling fan on my computer and traffic sounds from the streets.Wearing the headphones in an office, the chatter, clatter and chorus of ring tones is distant and significantly less distracting. The headset is better at eliminating lower-pitch noise than shriller sounds, but add some music and you are in a womb-like world where you can work in an open-plan office without ever having to overhear another water-cooler moment.Are noise-reducing headphones the 21st-century answer to the earplug? Well, you need to adjust them precisely to make sure the earpads are comfortable, and if they are not switched off when you finish using them, you will constantly be replacing the battery (an automatic standby mode would be a bonus). And I'm not sure if I should be living in a silent world interrupted only by my chosen soundtrack. But it's deeply preferable to enduring my next-door neighbour's music.Pros:Built to last; can aid sleep on long flights; nice carrying caseCons:No standby mode; needs precise adjustmentatheadphones.com
First, some very good news. Civil servants revealed last week that the British government has begun work on a system to make  all the geospatial data it holds on the natural environment available for free inspection and re-use. Now the bad news. In this context, "free" means we will still have to pay to download much key data, especially if it is to be published or otherwise used commercially.The proposed "national geoportal" would create a single point of entry on the web to data held by public bodies such as local councils, Ordnance Survey (OS), the British Geological Survey and the Environment Agency. It is being considered as Britain's contribution to a Europe-wide geospatial data infrastructure to be created by 2019 under the EU Inspire Directive.New ways of sharingFor the Free Our Data campaign, which argues that data created and maintained by public agencies as part of their everyday task be made available to all comers with neither costs nor licensing strings, Inspire is both a breakthrough and a threat. It will make possible new ways of sharing crucial geographical and environmental data, but may also entrench current practices of licences and charges.Over the past month, the international and national teams responsible for making Inspire work have given the first public glimpse of their thinking. Inspire, passed last year with the grudging support of the UK government, aims to improve the ability of governments to act together against pollution and disasters such as floods. Katalin T&oacute;th, of the European Commission's joint research centre in Ispra, Italy, says that cross-border efforts are often jeopardised because neighbouring countries hold data in different forms, and make it available under different conditions.Inspire is "a legal and technical instrument for accessing spatial data for environmental purposes in a coherent way," she says. "It will replace single-purpose data with data that is collected once and used many times." Eventually data collected by all public authorities will be interoperable and shareable, making it possible for example to map air pollution against cancer cases across many different European countries. The directive requires member states by 2019 to set up a cross-boundary spatial infrastructure covering 34 spatial data "themes".The British government has until May 2009 to "transpose" Inspire's measures to UK legislation: the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) is leading the work. In a culture where public agencies jealously guard the intellectual property in their databases, and often have to recover the costs of running them, the new regime may face some opposition."It is clear that Inspire will require organisations to collaborate better," David Lee, one of the Inspire project team at Defra, said at the Public Sector conference in London last week. He revealed that the department is considering creating a geoportal, which would allow anyone to track down any geospatial data set, regardless of who owns or maintains it. "The vast majority of transactions to members of the public will be free," Lee said.However it is not quite as simple as that. While the Inspire directive requires "metadata" (machine-readable data about data) to be provided free of charge, access to the databases themselves may be charged, especially if it is for commercial use.However the whole thrust of Inspire's spirit is that charging should not create obstacles. The directive's wording on this point was insisted upon by the British government, to protect the interests of trading funds such as OS. It also says that the directive should not affect the existence or ownership of public authorities' intellectual property rights.No licence to profiteerThe wording does not give public bodies a licence to profiteer. It specifies that: "Where charges are made, these shall be kept to the minimum required to ensure the necessary quality and supply of spatial data sets and services together with a reasonable return on investment, while respecting the self-financing requirements of public authorities supplying spatial data sets and services, where applicable."Since the directive was passed, a new debate (launched partly by the Free Our Data campaign) has begun around the fair meaning of "reasonable return of investment" and "self-financing requirements of public authorities".The Power of Information review published last summer calls on the government to require trading funds to make their "public task" data available for free. Earlier this year, a Treasury-funded academic study concluded that such a policy would create more economic benefit than it cost. It would also greatly simplify compliance with Inspire.Another complication is that the Inspire work will need to be aligned with the long-awaited national strategy for geographical information, awaiting publication by Ordnance Survey's Whitehall parent, the department of Communities and Local Government.A spokesman said this week that the strategy, originally scheduled for publication last year, would appear "shortly".  The delay is because "we have been working with a wide range of organisations to ensure the broadest support possible."The truth is that, even in an issue apparently as non-contentious as the use of geographical information to protect the environment, it may be impossible to please everyone all the time.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Does it pick up the cuttings too?PARDON? YES, IT'S OUR BIPEDAL LAWNMOWING ROBOT! NOISY, BUT IT'S COOL! EXCEPT WHEN IT FALLS OVER! WHAT? A SHEEP WOULD DO THE JOB? MORE QUIETLY? OH...tinyurl.com/59dvzsNext time it'll be a cake, SteveAdmit it: you've often felt tempted to pelt Steve Ballmer with eggs. A Hungarian student did this week, apparently angry over the imposition of Microsoft products via a state contract.tinyurl.com/4q2sqzIn 10 years, it'll be an earringThe evolution of the mobile phone, from huge brick to tiny gewgaw. Fascinating. (Sorry about the music.)tinyurl.com/5q3a7l&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple and buyers' rightsAs long as the purchased content is DRM-free, I couldn't care less what other services they might offer with DRM'd content, and I would still caution anyone thinking of using them of the limitations of DRM (How Apple is changing DRM, May 15). If the price for the DRM'd service reflects its much lower value due to the DRM, then maybe it's a nice alternative. I'll reserve judgment until something tangible is shown.p812.com/tireIt's looking more and more like analysts may be worrying too much about DRM, and not enough about whether music services were actually useful to customers. Apple's iTunes store rose to prominence despite selling DRM'd music, and it's grown even more dominant as competitors have started selling non-DRM'd music. If the market demonstrates that there's an interest in subscription music services, Apple's likely to dominate the market with its own DRM'd offering.podcastingnews.comMicrosoft is one of the largest sellers of DRM technology and has screwed it up badly. Microsoft purposely killed off Windows Media Player for the Mac in an attempt to lock out Macs and iPods from Microsoft's DRM as if they were the market leader. Making their own DRM not compatible with the iPod has proved to be a bad move.reelsmart.comLaptops and libertyI was just wondering: if you remove your hard drive from your laptop and store it in say ... a camera case ... do they have a the right to sequester it? (Taking your laptop into the US? Be sure to hide all your data first, May 15)Peter Zarglis,TorontoThis is sad. The continued erosion of liberty is amazing. I think we need to wonder how much longer we can expect the right to openly criticise bad government policy. It used to be the US government looked down on "Soviet bloc" spying on those visiting the country. That the leaders of the US have so abandoned liberty is very sad.investing.curiouscatblog.netYou know that things are really bad when a mainstream figure like Schneier is advising people on how to avoid and deceive their "protectors".ricardo.strangevistas.netApparently that whole needing-a-search-warrant thing doesn't apply to your laptop in an airport.bitteroldmann.blogspot.comThe society that will allow something like this to happen won't do anything to circumvent it. If you would, you would have kept it from happening in the first place. It could be worse, I guess. They could be doing random cavity searches at the grocery store.infosprite.comIt is us, as the general population, who allow these ridiculous and unacceptable laws to pass because of our cluelessness. We should take our governments for what they are - sly, conniving, manipulative groups of selfish individuals, and watch our backs.jamesburgess.co.uk/blogIt's all about contextControlling user data in the long-run is the key to getting to the top of the online world (Will Friend Connect see off MySpace and Facebook, May 15). Whoever puts out the best "must-have" application that integrates all of this open data from multiple sources, and present that information in a contextually meaningful interactive manner, will gain the most from the new openness.biz.penalicio.usThe muscle museumI live and breathe keyboard shortcuts, so to have to learn new ones is a depressing thought (Thanks, Microsoft Word, for all the (muscle) memories, May 15). I've been on a Mac for nearly half a decade, and I'm still learning new shortcuts, then having to unlearn them at work. The article is true when it says you mould your software to your needs.brightmeadow.co.uk&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to:Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone: 020 7239 9925Fax: 020 7239 9933Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
On a hot summer's day two years ago, members of the Washington police force arrived at a building in Arlington County to arrest a suspected paedophile. The detectives were met by an elderly woman who, it emerged, had nothing to do with the crime. The problem was her wireless router. The device was openly allowing access to the internet throughout her apartment building and it is suspected that one of her neighbours was using it to upload child pornography.A short walk with a Wi-Fi enabled phone or laptop will highlight that stealing wireless internet is easy. In a 2007 online survey of 560 people, more than half admitted to stealing Wi-Fi previously. To test just how easy it was, I recently took a short stroll with a laptop around my neighbourhood in Bristol. I found 127 Wi-Fi networks within a half mile of my home. Ignoring the dozen cafes and hotels, one-fifth (23) of them had no security.A further quick check at each also showed that all 23 still used the default password to access the administration area of the router - which would enable a cybercriminal to edit details, lock the user out or steal passwords. This is apparently a typical picture; the IT security consultant, Network Box, estimates that 13% of all home networks and 16% of business networks are unsecured. With 30m routers sold worldwide last year alone, that's a lot of access points capable of being exploited.There are several dangers associated with leaving the administration area open, says Graham Cluney of the firewall and antiviral software vendor, Sophos. "Different routers have different functions but you can generally change some of the [router's] settings and the way it works."If you know what you're doing you can make [the router] visit other sites. For example, you can redirect from Google to a replica site that uploads a keystroke recorder to the computer, which is capable of recording bank details."Under attackGunter Ollmann, of IBM's internet security systems division, agrees. He explained how easy it was to change the DNS settings, which translate a web address into something the computer understands. By doing this the attacker can dictate where the home user is browsing."Even just controlling the DNS addresses and ensuring that all internet traffic now passes through a proxy server that the attacker controls means that the attacker can capture all passwords and submission details their victims are using." It wouldn't matter that your computer's antivirus software was the best in the world, you'd be sending all your details through another machine monitoring every detail you sent.Gunter points out that an attacker could also modify settings to ensure the reset button no longer works properly, or just resets to the new operating system the attack installed on it.Identity theft is not the only problem. Susan Hall, a partner in the law firm Cobbetts LLP and a specialist in IT law, highlights the problem of piggybacking by organised crime, in effect laundering the true IP address of the criminal. Using someone else's internet connection means it is harder to link the act with the criminal, be it fraudulent activity or the viewing of illegal sites. The prosecution needs only to prove the communication came from a particular system. Once this is achieved the onus is on the individual to prove his or her innocence.As Hall points out: "We've had to argue this for cases of libel and had to try to track it back. It's not at all easy to show it didn't come from you." With it being "just too easy to do", Hall believes that the number of cases in which stolen Wi-Fi has been used for illegal activity will simply spiral.Following my initial walk with a laptop, I tracked down a user. With permission - because doing it without would be a breach of the Computer Misuse Act - I hacked into and altered my "reasonably tech-savvy" neighbour's router Wi-Fi settings; he explained that he simply hadn't been worried enough to spend the time setting up the security of a password.Only the router password and ISP (internet provider) login details were changed, preventing the machine from accessing the internet. My neighbour spent more than 40 frustrating minutes trying to access the internet - unsuccessfully.Simple securityKaren Hanley of the Wi-Fi Alliance, a global industry body, believes that network security should be made as simple as possible if it is to be adopted. It is currently placing its seal of approval on WPA2 encoding for wireless networks. The organisation also recommends changing both the router's password and name.The need for simplicity is slowly being adopted by the device manufacturers. Linksys' new LELA system, the company claims, will be as simple as selecting from a list of high, medium or low security.The question, though, is whether enough people will use it - and how you make sure that they change the default password.Setting your securityThe administration area of your wireless router can be found by typing the default gateway address (such as 192.168.1.1) into a web browser. To get the default gateway type ipconfig into a command prompt (start, accessories, command prompt on most Windows machines). On Mac OS X, go to System Preferences/Network.Say the address is 192.168.1.1 - type http:192.168.1.1 in your browser. You'll be asked for a user name (default is admin) and/or password - usually admin or blank. From this area, the system password can be changed and the level of encryption set. The network name (SSID) can also be altered to improve security further.The password you set should be unique, secure and very difficult to link to you. It should also be memorable. Several experts suggest selecting an abbreviated, meaningful phrase. For example: "my first holiday was in Wales 1984" becomes MfhwiW1984. Make sure it has no connection to any information placed onto your Facebook, Bebo or MySpace profiles.
PS3 owners have been licking their lips in anticipation of Haze, the first next-gen effort (and a rare PS3 exclusive first-person shooter) from Free Radical, the developer behind the TimeSplitters games. But while it's very enjoyable to play, it also disappoints somewhat. Its strongest point is a sumptuous control system that combines accuracy and responsiveness to stunning effect. Its story is good, too: set in a world dominated by the Mantell corporation, you begin as a Mantell trooper, hyped up on a drug called Nectar, but end up as one of the Promised Hand rebels, a duality that introduces subtle changes in gameplay. But that gameplay - combining shooting, Halo-like driving and a few cursory puzzles - never feels innovative, and the graphics are, frankly, awful. An innovative story-based multi-player mode should prove popular, though, and Haze is still undoubtedly the best full-blown FPS for the PS3 so far. But it does leave you feeling it could have been even better.
Knight gets Knight awardSir Tim Berners-Lee is one of the recipients in this year's $5.5m Knight News Challenge awards.tinyurl.com/6p93sy;newschallenge.orgVirtual Earth watchEuropean Environment Agency and Microsoft are building a Global Observatory for Environmental Change web portal.tinyurl.com/647hzkA patchy recordThe Business Software Alliance reckons the UK piracy rate has fallen to 26%, costing &pound;925m, but it's 82% in China.tinyurl.com/5lrak5Peer-to-peer rentingZilok, which started in France, is now offering UK users the chance to save or make money by renting their stuff.uk.zilok.comA stirring game?Glu's Get Cookin' game for mobiles will use motion sensing in Sony Ericsson phones for steak-flipping action.tinyurl.com/3edq4sWords for saleThe two University of Ulster, Belfast, graduate students selling words at $1 per letter say they have made $25,000 in two months.blog.thebigwordproject.comiStock wants your musicIt started with iStockphoto, moved into video, and now wants to sell your audio files for micropayments.tinyurl.com/5c563pYour online assistantPage Once, now in private beta, aims to help people manage all their digital accounts from a single page.pageonce.com
XP SP3, endlesslyI installed Service Pack 3 for Windows XP as instructed, but it somehow disabled startup, putting me into an on/off loop. Can I safely do without SP3 and, if not, do you know of a "fix" for the installation?Mark SherwoodJS:Microsoft says: "Windows XP Service Pack 3 (SP3) includes all previously released Windows XP updates, including security updates and hotfixes. It also includes select out-of-band releases, and a small number of new enhancements, which do not significantly change customers' experience with the operating system." In other words, if you use Windows Update, you will already have installed almost everything in SP3, and you won't notice the rest. (Surprisingly, SP3 doesn't seem to include Internet Explorer 7.) You can therefore ignore it while Microsoft continues to work on the installation routines. If you want to try again, Microsoft has published a useful guide: How to troubleshoot an unsuccessful installation of Windows XP Service Pack 3 (tinyurl.com/5vgyh2).SP3 on dialup?I regularly update Windows XP and it tells me the new SP3 is around 67MB, to be downloaded and installed. There must be many people like me who are not on broadband and face a 6-hour download. Would it be possible for my daughter to download SP3 and put it on to a CD for me?Brian ChalkleyJS:Microsoft does make downloads available for professional users who need to install things like SP3 on large numbers of machines and would prefer to download it only once. Your daughter could therefore download it for you fromtinyurl.com/4qvth5. However, this download has to include everything that might be needed, so it's much larger than the one your PC needs: it's 316.4MB. But since there is no particular urgency to installing SP3, you could just ignore it. If you use automatic updates, then I assume Microsoft will ship it to you at some point using its Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS). If so, you won't notice until XP tells you it has updates ready to install.Email terminationA friend would like to use one of the free email providers such as Yahoo or Google mail but has concerns about fully closing the account when it is no longer required.David J JonesJS:Free email accounts cost suppliers money, so they have no interest in keeping email around if the user no longer wants it. Most provide details of how to delete an account, and NSpeak has links for the big three services (tinyurl.com/4krylv). Some people worry about someone else using an account with the same user name, and therefore hang on to accounts they don't want. However, many people have the same name, and this may deprive them of something they would value. Also, anyone can "spoof" (forge) an email address even without having access to the account; hanging on to an address doesn't prevent that.Vista: beta or not?A year ago, my local computer shop built a new computer for me with Vista. Recently I had a message which told me to "get an up-to date version of Vista Ultimate as you have a beta version".Bryn ReesJS:A beta version of Vista should no longer work, so I asked you to run Windows Explorer, click on Help, select About Windows and tell me the version and build number. You said it was Version 6.0 Build 6001, which indicates Vista with Service Pack 1 installed (or Server 2008), not a beta version. The message therefore looks like a Microsoft bug, and it has affected other people. A technical support professional posting as Skriker has made the same complaint on the Microsoft Developer Network Forum (tinyurl.com/4tv242).BackchatMichael Feldman asked about paperclips in Outlook Express with AVG 8.0, and I inadvertently gave the answer for AVG 7.5. With AVG 8.0, right-click the icon in the SysTray and choose Open AVG User Interface (or run AVG). Go to the Tools menu and select Advanced Settings. In the left pane, choose E-mail Scanner, untick the box that says "Certify mail" and click OK.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
An elementary take on the epic series, Dragon Quest's latest offering - The Masked Queen and The Tower of Mirrors - is a simplistic slashfest. Moving away from the standard RPG experience, your Wiimote becomes a sword, immersing you in the game through a rare first-person view. This is an entry-level version of the DQ series that sees you follow a linear path as you make your way through your heroic - if rather short - adventure. The Wiimote is your sole controller, employing the D-pad for movement, while you battle by jabbing or slashing the "sword" in a variety of directions. Character control feels very restrictive, but thankfully swing recognition in combat is reasonably accurate. Although basic, the game is still enjoyable, if not highly challenging. It's an amusing game in short bursts.
Sometimes, when casually assessing the latest pieces of next-generation eye candy, it's easy to overlook the astonishing amount of work that goes into games these days. Take Race Driver: Grid from UK developer Codemasters, which I played last week at the company's offices. Due out at the end of this month, it's a sprawling, visually stunning epic, allowing gamers to drive everything from F1-style "open wheel" racers to stock cars and souped-up American muscle beasts.Each car takes around three months to design and build, starting as an orthographic blueprint based on manufacturer data, and ending as a fully textured 3D model. They're constructed like real cars; the artists work up visual representations of the engines, the exhaust systems, the axles and other key mechanical elements and then place chassis panels over the top. The game's damage system is so realistic that, in a crash, the car will deform with total authenticity, losing wheels, bumpers and other huge chunks of metal, amid a flurry of complex physics calculations. The damage differs depending on what the vehicle parts involved are made of - metal, carbon fibre, fibreglass; they all split, crumple and explode differently. It's a weird thought, all this mathematical and artistic genius being plyed into a simulation of something horribly destructive.But then, destruction is an intrinsic element of game design. We can't escape from it. No matter how much we'd like to transcend it, no matter how successful Nintendo is with its comfy cutesy family titles, a huge number of gamers just want to smash things, or shoot them, or smash them and then shoot them. Race Driver: Grid, and other racers like it, are built for us to revel in our darkest fascinations with automotive carnage. It's sort of the unspoken truth about racing game design. What we all want to know is, what happens when we lose control? Race Driver: Grid even lets you rewind your accidents, frame by frame, then once again attempt the tricky double-apex corner or crowded chicane that led to your car's demise. It's completely engrossing.Damage is now such a fundamental element of the driving game genre that to not spend many seconds of screen time dwelling over each and every prang is unnatural - the most common criticism aimed at the Gran Turismo series is its curious lack of damage modelling. In most racing games, the sheer effort and time and resources that go into building car models is belittled in the end by the mathematics of annihilation. We love complexity, because it makes destruction more fun. It's best not to think about it - just put your foot on the accelerator and hope for the worst.
A serious bug in the security software used by thousands of web servers went unnoticed for two years, but came to light earlier this month. In May 2006, open source developer Kurt Roeckx spotted a possible problem in the source code for a component called OpenSSL, widely used by computers running the Linux operating system. OpenSSL is a cryptography library, which does things like encrypting and decrypting data, and generating long random numbers that are used as security keys. When Roeckx ran the code through a debugging tool called Valgrind, it alerted him to what looked like weak coding practice with the potential to cause bugs. Puzzled, he asked the developers of OpenSSL whether he could safely remove the two lines of suspect code, adding: "I have no idea what effect this really has on the random number generation." Ulf M&ouml;ller from the OpenSSL project responded: "If it helps with debugging, I'm in favor of removing them." Roeckx did, and his slightly modified OpenSSL library was distributed with several versions of Linux, including Debian and Ubuntu.Unfortunately, the code was critically important. Without it, the library generated numbers that were not random, but from a specific range, now publicly known. Consequently, some traffic that was meant to be encrypted was actually easy for hackers to intercept. Furthermore, whenever users of one of these servers requested a digital certificate from a third party, the certificate they got back would be weak. This last point is an interesting twist. It means that even certificates issued by popular commercial authorities like VeriSign may be vulnerable, through no fault of the authority, if the request was generated on an affected system.The potential consequences are significant, according to VeriSign's Tim Callan, head of SSL product marketing. "Traffic which normally would be considered to be encrypted in an SSL tunnel would be extremely crackable. You could use the bad key pairs to create a level of spoof site that has never been done before. You could put a certificate on there with the right domain and site information."The implications are hard to judge. Colin Phipps, from the research and security company Netcraft, says "it won't have much effect" on the number of scam websites or spam emails.  But while the energy devoted to addressing and fixing the issue has been impressive, the way the bug was introduced and the length of time it persisted gives ammunition to those who consider that proprietary closed-source software is more rigorously controlled.&#183;This article was amended on Thursday May 22 2008. We misspelled the name of open source developer Kurt Roeckx, as Roelckx in the article above. This has been corrected.
It will almost certainly mean that many more of the One Laptop Per Child machines will be sold - but it's hard to see it really benefit the wider population as much as it will Microsoft.Instead, expect a generation of developing-world children to grow up accustomed to mystifying messages such as "Your current security settings prohibit running ActiveX controls on this page", while making it necessary to employ (or teach) a cohort of people expert in troubleshooting Windows, while also giving malware authors the opportunity to create botnets so vast that they will make ones like Storm look like a tea-party. But each one sold will put $3 (&pound;1.54) into Microsoft's coffers, and support, financing and malware are other peoples' problems, not the company's.The inclusion of Windows XP as an alternative operating system for the XO laptop looks like a capitulation - though one could also call it realpolitik - by the OLPC organisers. How can you build a low-cost laptop if you include software you have to pay for, rather than the readily available free varieties? Yet reports this week say that Nicholas Negroponte, chair of the OLPC project, had wanted to get Windows on the XO since its inception, and that this announcement follows a meeting with Bill Gates last year at the Clinton Global Initiative. The biggest hurdle for Microsoft was accepting that the XO will be dual-boot, with both Windows XP and the GNU/Linux operating systems available for users to choose between."We view it as a major opportunity for OLPC to expand and expand in a couple of ways," Negroponte said in an interview with CNet. "One is to have a broader acceptance in the community, and the other is to have more software and software developers available." The reality though is that some countries were demanding XP - such as Uruguay. Negroponte said that "When I talk to people and tell them we can run Windows, they are very impressed. You pass a sort of virility test."But is that the best way to decide what operating system to use for an educational product aimed at primary-school children? Any school administrator will tell you that children have a remarkable habit of clicking on links that they shouldn't, and the sheer volume of malware available for XP - which will only be mediated by XP's built-in firewall, unless antivirus companies with a charitable bent feel like joining OLPC too - makes a Third World botnet a distinct possibility if the XP OLPC is widely used.Until last week's announcement only 600,000 OLPC machines had been ordered, with Peru, Mexico, Rwanda, Uruguay and Cambodia among those ready for deals. The latter two are expected to be the first to take on the XP laptops.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday May 28 2008The labels were reversed on a graphic showing the fuel efficiency of petrol and diesel vehicles. Diesel vehicles deliver more miles per gallon than petrol vehicles, not the other way round as our graphic showedAs a school IT teacher and software developer living in Greenock, Scotland, Fraser Speirs is skilled in making spreadsheets with colourful charts. Prompted by the "unending pain of filling up my car" - a 1.9-litre diesel Renault Espace - he recently created one comparing the running costs of the Espace with a Toyota Prius, a "hybrid" petrol-electric car (which  uses energy-saving features like regenerative braking - the battery is charged while braking.) Why? To see how much cheaper it might be.The results surprised him: though the capital outlay is larger, a used Prius could be cheaper within months. "I've been tracking the development of the Prius since it was announced," says Speirs. "I looked at buying a Prius two cars ago, but it was just too expensive."Hybrid advantageSo why now? Simple: the cost of fuel. Filling the Espace costs around &pound;85 - compared to just &pound;50 when he bought it in December 2006. At 20,000 miles annually, the Espace will use (at present prices) &pound;3,740 worth of fuel.Note: the fuel efficiency of petrol and diesel vehicles in the middle graphic has been reversed.Assuming the Prius delivers 55 miles per gallon (mpg), that reduces to &pound;1,835 - thanks to a 25mpg fuel economy advantage. "I was really surprised to see that; if I was able to acquire a used Prius, I'm looking at six months before I'm winning," says Speirs. "There comes a tipping point beyond which the economic pressure starts to make hybrids make so much more sense."With the price of oil, and so fuel, only going up at present, it's worth asking: why hasn't fuel economy improved more? Compare the figures Speirs is juggling with those of a rather older car: the Ford Model T, introduced in October 1908. It generated 20 horsepower from its four-cylinder engine, had a top speed of 45mph - and a fuel consumption of 15.6-25 mpg (This is imperial - the US gallon is smaller than the UK one, so quoted figures in the US show it as 13-21mpg.)An improvement of less than 100% over a century doesn't sound much like progress. Modern cars do have many more comforts than the Model T, but in the US, the average fuel economy for cars and trucks nearly doubled between 1975 and 1985, but has been declining since, mainly due to increased sales of heavyweight 4x4 vehicles (tinyurl.com/3kqufa).In the UK, the average fuel efficiency of new cars improved from 29 mpg in 1978 to 37 mpg in 2002 - a 27.6% rise, but only 1.01% a year (tinyurl.com/3kfwcm). Between 1998 and 2002, average fuel efficiency improved by only 6% - the same 1.01 a year rise. So why hasn't fuel consumption improved more quickly?Prof Gary Hawley, director of the Powertrain and Vehicle Research Centre at the University of Bath, where he's involved in fuel-efficient diesel engineering, says: "That's easy. We've been adding weight to vehicles. More weight means more fuel."Think of the past 20 years as a pair of scales, he suggests. On one side, put the extra weight of vehicles from enhanced crash protection, added comfort, and better noise reduction. On the other, increased fuel efficiency, mainly from improved engine control and diesel turbocharging."We are making strides in increasing fuel economy, but it's like everything else - you have to run faster and faster to keep ahead of the game," says Hawley. "As a rule of thumb, for every 10 units we gain in fuel economy, five units or 50% will be taken by increasing weight." So what about the Toyota Prius? "If somebody says to me 'I bought a Prius to go green', I'm saying, if you were going to go green, you would have bought a diesel. The Prius wins on fuel consumption by a nose - it's not clearcut."His reasoning? The fuel consumption of the Toyota Prius 1.5 litre hybrid at 65.7mpg (combined) compared to a Ford Focus 1.6 diesel at 62.8mpg (combined). The Ford is around &pound;3,000 cheaper - but hasn't, of course, got the same green appeal.Cutting costsAlthough Hawley thinks that hybrids are a success story for systems integration and weight saving, they're not the only answer. So what's the best technology for future fuel economy? "It's got to be everything together. There is no one single dominant technology. Technology alone will not cut it."He has a novel suggestion to assist drivers. "Having a fuel-economy meter on the dash that reads, in real time, the amount of pounds and pence that your current driving style is costing you. If we adopt a more societal approach to our driving patterns and driving styles, everybody could probably save between 10% and 15% fuel."Some cars, including the Prius, already show miles per gallon achieved - either average, or instantaneous. But if you knew that at 30mpg with petrol costing &pound;1.50 a litre you were spending almost 23p a mile in fuel alone, would you think harder about the trips you take? Over the next 10 years, Hawley sees more legislative, technical, and social fuel-saving methods emerging. This may include the "stick approach" by the European Union on CO2 targets, along with smaller cars, more efficient engines, and weight reductions. There will also be more diesels, better hybrid batteries, and even the first diesel hybrids using a smaller engine.On the reboundBut something else also affects fuel economy - rebound. A driver who replaces a car with a fuel-efficient model may then take advantage of cheaper running costs to drive further and more often.Steve Sorrell of the University of Sussex wrote a report last year on the "rebound effect" for the UK Energy Research Centre. The phenomenon has undermined increases in fuel efficiency gained from lightweight materials, lean burn engines, and better aerodynamics. "Studies that have tried to measure the effects of driving further suggest that 10% to 30% of potential fuel savings are lost because we choose to drive further," says Sorrell.Are there any prospects for even greater fuel efficiency? Ricardo is a leading independent technology provider and strategic consultant to the world's transportation industries. It reckons that future improvements for cars will come from lower vehicle weight/size (less than 5%), reduced aerodynamic drag (3-5%), energy recovery in hybrids (20% to 30%), higher mechanical efficiency (10% to 15%),  higher combustion efficiency (2-3%), and optimised control (5-10%). For example, a more mechanically efficient gearbox or new engine control software might help optimise fuel usage.Speirs isn't waiting around for such improvements to catch up with rising fuel prices. He's now buying a secondhand Prius although, thanks to a sellers' market, his original spreadsheet was somewhat optimistic. Even so, the payback from the fuel savings after he sells the Espace will come by the end of 2009. And having originally viewed hybrid technology as too expensive, what does he think of it now? "It seems like the future," he says.
EA's long awaited collaboration with Steven Spielberg is a block-moving puzzle game that tries just too hard to be all things to all kids. The basic idea is to move multicoloured blocks from cartoon-style stacks to prevent them falling over. This can be done in any number of ways such as plucking, yanking, throwing and occasionally shooting. Some work better than others, with a fiddly camera and multiple uses of the Wiimote often breaking the continuity. Alas, the Dr Seuss-like Story mode is a surprising letdown given Spielberg's involvement. However, with 300+ levels, great animation and an entertaining 4-player mode, it's a lot more fun than Jamba. Boom Blox isn't perfect but it is another solid party game for the Wii.
A question increasingly asked is whether Google is becoming a dangerous monopoly. It is a very serious question. If we end up with one company controlling search - the gateway to information - it could be catastrophic if it abused its position. Google is already technically a monopoly with nearly 70% of US search and as much as 90% in the UK on some surveys. But it is highly unusual for two reasons. First, it lacks the typical symptom - charging excessively for its products. Nearly all of Google's products from search to document storage are free. What kind of monopoly is that?Second, Google is unusual in that unlike Microsoft, which controls over 90% of PC operating systems and associated software, or even Cisco with over 90% of enterprise routers, there are no insurmountable barriers for new entrants. It is true that Google makes vast profits from search-linked adverts that it exploits ruthlessly - and the more it appears as the default search engine on users' toolbars, the more it risks abusing its power. But even so, you only have to switch to another bookmark. For Yahoo, at least on my computer, simply type "Y" into the URL field and up it comes. If you tried Yahoo in a blind tasting, could you tell the difference? I can't. Type in part of a distinctive sentence from today's Guardian and see for yourself. Others, such as Microsoft's revamped Live Search and Ask.com, seem less good.So why is Google popular and is it dislodge-able? It all comes down to that frightful word "brand". But Google is unprecedented because it built up its brand without any paid advertising. We did it for them. It became a verb in record time. It became one of the world's most profitable brands in barely a decade. Think Coca-Cola versus Pepsi (leaving aside the hundreds of millions spent preserving their brands). The story is that Coke's ill-fated New Coke was planned to taste more like Pepsi which used to win in blind tastings - though Coke would win if samplers knew what drinks they were tasting. There is a fatalism shared by the likes of Wall Street's Henry Blodget that it is inevitable that internet companies gain market shares of over 90% because they are "natural monopolies". Piffle. New search companies don't have to spend hundreds of millions on marketing and branding as they would for a soft drink or an operating system.Google is more vulnerable than people think. It is brilliant at displaying the answers most linked to - but not if what you want is buried deep in the search pile. If a nimble startup delivers a more intelligent engine, people will soon change, as they did when they ditched AltaVista for Google a decade ago. Yahoo, Microsoft and Google have all been upstaged in video and networking sites by brand new startups. Why not search as well?Google could also be dented by paid-for adsor if it started abusing its monopoly enough to provoke coordinated opposition on sites such as Facebook. The company's "Don't be Evil" motto is part of its brand despite its failure to stand up to Chinese censorship. If it had, other companies might have followed its lead and eaten into Chinese obduracy.Google is still a one-product company with search-related ads generating nearly all of its profits. This could change if a better engine emerges or if it becomes the latest victim to Lord Acton's dictum: "All power tends to corrupt." If that happened I could retain all the Google products I treasure (maps, documents, Gmail etc) and spend a few seconds changing my default search engine. Is there a solution? Sooner or later, Google's founders will hand over their fortunes to a foundation. Americans do that. Perhaps, since its leaders still have voting control, they should do it now. It could carry on as a stock market company governed by an independent trust, mandated to ensure that "Don't be Evil" is never abused. Now where did I get that idea from?vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot; This article was amended on Tuesday May 27 2008. In the column above we implied that the controversial reformulation of the soft drink Coca-Cola introduced in 1985 was called Coca-Cola Classic. In fact, the new product was branded New Coke; Coca-Cola Classic was the name the Coca-Cola Company used to reintroduce its old formula several months later. This has been corrected.
In the past couple of weeks, two weighty reports have added to a mountain of literature analysing the grand campaign to computerise the NHS in England. One, from the National Audit Office, tells a familiar story: while lots of digital plumbing has gone in on time and on budget, the important bit - the electronic medical record - is running five years behind schedule.The other report (ucl.ac.uk/openlearning/research.htm) is harder to boil down into one sentence, which may be why the news pages largely ignored it. Bear with me, though, because it is one of the most thought-provoking analyses yet of the Blair government's infatuation with reforming public services with the help of big IT.Professor Trisha Greenhalgh and colleagues at University College London, were commissioned to evaluate a small part of the programme: the experience of the first primary care trusts making summaries of patients' medical data available across the NHS care record's "spine". It's an exercise charged with significance. The summary care record (SCR), which the IT programme's technocratic founders saw as a classic low-hanging fruit, has become the main bogey of the programme's critics.Greenhalgh discovered that the two sides were polarised. The IT agency NHS Connecting for Health made it clear that the evaluation would be used to "inform the wider rollout" of the shared care record, not to decide whether it should go ahead at all. The critics, meanwhile, wanted an answer to the question: "Should large amounts of money have been put into the programme in the first place?"As it happens, the 138-page report has ammunition for both sides. The IT programme is rapped for its obsession with implementing technology for its own sake, in a manner that flies against the structure and culture of the NHS. More significantly for critics, it recommends that patients be required to give specific consent for their information to be viewed across the electronic system. (The NHS has always insisted that patients can be presumed to have given consent when they register for services.)But critics get a hard time too. The one-sided focus and emotive language of lobbies such as The Big Opt-Out makes it "difficult to take these campaigns seriously". Professional groups are chided for trying to impose blanket rules about the electronic record's use.Both sides make polarised claims that are "simplistic, entrenched, moralistic and generate more heat than light".Has the summary electronic health record been of benefit to patients and the NHS? Not only is it too soon to say, the report concludes, it is too soon even to start constructing useful metrics of success. And here is the crucial point. The national IT programme is what's known in policy-making circles as a "wicked" problem. "It raises complex questions to which many people expect science to provide 'objective' answers, but which are actually questions about social priorities, and which therefore require citizens and policymakers to deliberate about ethics and values as well as about scientific and technological facts." (The same could be said of the national ID card programme and the ContactPoint children's index, of course.)Without such deliberation, we can't begin to draw up measures of success that are acceptable to all sides. Up to now, Greenhalgh says, the standard of deliberation has been dismal. It certainly hasn't been found in the press, which stands accused of contributing to "mutual demonisation" and a "lamentable lack of criticality" overshadowing sensible debate. As a journalist writing for a paper which has sometimes shown such faults, I can only agree.
This has surely done the rounds on Chatterbox, but I've been away on a press trip for three days, so I'll post anyway. The judge presiding over a misconduct case against lawyer and fervent anti-videogame campaigner, Jack Thompson, yesterday delivered a report which supports a guilty verdict on 27 of the 31 charges brought against him. FromArts Technica:These are not small offenses, as Judge Tunis recommended a guilty verdict for, among other things, "knowingly making a false statement of material fact or law to a tribunal," "using means that have no purpose other than to embarrass, delay, or burden a third person," "engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation," and "making statements that the lawyer knows to be false or with reckless disregard as to the truth or falsity concerning to the qualifications or integrity of a judge.The supreme court is still to make a ruling on these charges - that won't take place until September. However, it seems Thompson has exasperated the powers that be by submitting aseries of bizarre filingsseemingly including a self-penned picture book designed to 'explain' his point of view to the court. Images apparently included, "swastikas, kangaroos in court, a reproduced dollar bill, cartoon squirrels, Paul Simon, Paul Newman, Ray Charles, a handprint with the word 'slap' written under it, Bar Governor Benedict P. Kuehne, a baby, Ed Bradley, Jack Nicholson, Justice Clarence Thomas, Julius Caesar, monkeys, a house of cards..." Sounds like an average night on the town with Amy Winehouse.Naturally, the games community is revelling in this 'victory', but the report is fanning the flames of publicity that Thompson so obviously feeds on. I'm now thinking he could actually be a disruptive comic genius who's command of confrontational humour makes Andy kaufman look like Jimmy Cricket.What do you think?
Nintendo'sWiiwaredownloadable games service launched this week, with the undoubted highlight beingLostWindsfrom Brit developer Frontier. I had a chat with Frontier boss David "Elite" Braben and asked him about the game and the Wii in general.Why Wiiware and not Live/PSN?The idea for LostWinds dates from the time that the Wii was first announced privately to developers, when we were brainstorming design ideas that made good use of the Wii controls - LostWinds is one of many strong ideas we have built up over time, and it gathered a number of very enthusiastic internal advocates.So the game was designed from day 1 for the Wii, the whole point of the game is to allow the player to use the Wii control system in a coherent, intuitive, satisfying way with no compromises.As time went by and we saw the games available for Wii, we felt increasingly certain that LostWinds would satisfy a pent up demand from Wii owners for something innovative that delivers deep, involving, Wii-specific gameplay in a beautiful skin.When we heard about the service and its aims from Nintendo, it seemed to us like LostWinds was exactly the kind of game they were trying to encourage with WiiWare, something specific for Wii that innovated around the controller.So LostWinds on WiiWare came about through the combination of the right idea being in the right place at the right time - the opportunity to be a launch title was too good to miss, and the team worked hard to make it happen. We have no aversion to PSN or XBLA, but we have other game ideas that are probably better suited to those consoles and their audiencesIs the Wii audience ready to download games?We know Nintendo certainly believed the Wii would be an on-line machine from its first inception, and also that a significant proportion of Wii's are online - for example Nintendo wouldn't bother with their recent BBC iPlayer deal unless there was an online audience for it. I also don't see there is any reason to think that Wii owners have an aversion to on-line commerce - for example most of the games they play on their Wii were probably bought from play.com or amazon, they probably use iTunes, etc. We clearly believe they are ready to download, and we hope that LostWinds is the game that will entice them to make that step; it's a fresh, good fun, high quality Wii game in its own right, and on top of that you can get it immediately downloaded onto your Wii console from the Wii Shop Channel from the comfort of your living room.Lostwinds has more original features than most full-price Wii titles - does this prove that small teams are the only way to bring fresh gaming ideas?Thank you! I think the real issues are who takes the risk and how big that risk is. The great thing about digital distribution is that we can take the risk of development ourselves as there are no expensive discs to manufacture, ship and stock, so in that sense WiiWare made it easier for LostWinds to come out because we believed that it was a great idea, and a publisher may have been more skeptical about it.WiiWare and its like may perhaps lead the process - and will certainly be the home of the riskier ideas - but there no reason why disc-based games should not also innovate, it all comes down to the judgment of the people assessing how successful the new idea will be once implemented.Is this a return to the 8bit days of big ideas/small teams?It is amazing the nostalgic image people have these days of the 8 bit era! Many of the games around then were rubbish - but time has allowed them to fade into obscurity. We see something similar with pop music - looking back a few decades, you only remember the good music you enjoyed. Having said that, though, development teams were much smaller, so in a sense there is a throwback, but in those days a team of ten people or so was typically a huge, risky, publisher-funded project. Now that developers can afford this we will see a lot more innovation with smaller teams like this, I think, which is quite a contrast to the 80s.Do you expect Lostwinds to appeal to the new gaming audience attracted to the Wii?Yes, even though the truth is we wrote the game for ourselves, not some imagined audience. The genesis of LostWinds through Frontier's 'Game of the Week' forum (where all are free to put forward and debate game ideas, and where it gained a number of very strong advocates) means that we knew LostWinds was definitely appealing to the Nintendo 'hard core' (if we can be forgiven for describing them as such), as we have many representatives of this 'hard core' here at Frontier! But equally our experience with successful mainstream games like Thrillville and RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 before it has taught us that quality is key, along with accessibility. Great games are equally difficult to make for either 'hardcore' or 'casual' audience, needing the same level of love and dedication, so we try to focus on creating high quality gameplay and making it accessible, and by doing that we believe we will please a lot of people.If successful can you see Frontier creating further Wiiware games?Absolutely - the reaction to LostWinds has already been amazing, and we certainly are not short of good ideas.
FirstCooking Mama, nowCooking Guide: Can't decide what to eat?. Seriously, these Nintendo folks are hungry.I kid you not,this press releaselanded in my inbox today, and I couldn't help myself. I mean, how odd, yet how logical - an interactive cookbook that lets you searchusing your voiceand then speaks you through the steps. Lighter than a book and doesn't require one of those expensive cookbook stands either. More info:Once a decision has been made about what to eat, users can set about creating a culinary masterpiece with the Cooking Guide chef who will talk you through each step of the way. As your hands will be busy preparing and cooking the ingredients, simply speak into the Nintendo DS's microphone to progress through each stage of the recipe. Each step can be repeated as many times as necessary, so you can prepare your meal at your own pace.BBC food website- that treasure trove of new recipes - your days in my kitchen are numbered.
The British Board of Film Classification extended its official reach into games and online content regulation today by launching its new BBFC Online classification scheme. According toJemima(Guardian):The new online scheme features the eight familiar BBFC ratings symbols including U, 15 and 18 seen in cinemas and on DVD releases. ... Companies that sign up to BBFC Online will have to provide age verification tools as part of the scheme, reflecting steps taken recently by social networking sites to protect younger web users from inappropriate content.Parents will also be offered "gate keeping" systems to control their children's access to material.And according toDarren(BBC):The scheme could also be rolled out to include online services such as Microsoft's Xbox Live, Sony's PlayStation Network and Nintendo's WiiWare, all of which offer video and games for download.This move reflects the anticipated next step on the part of the regulation body after announcements earlier this year, and in response to the Byron Review published at the end of March. The games reviews are intended to work in conjunction with the existing classification system offered by the pan-European voluntary group PEGI.
If you're not spending $40 billion or more to buy a chunk of the search market, you have more than enough cash to target a subsection, such as shoppers. And this may be what Microsoft has in mind, according to Seattle-PI newspaper reporter Todd Bishop. He's given an "advance look" at the piece on his blog inMicrosoft to lure search users with cash. He says:Microsoft's "Live Search cashback" site, set to be unveiled Wednesday, promises to pay back a portion of the purchase price -- ranging from about 2% to more than 30% -- to people who use it to find designated products and buy them online from participating retailers. . The company has signed up a long list of merchants to participate in the program -- including the online sites of large retailers such as Barnes &amp; Noble, Sears, Home Depot, J&amp;R Electronics, Office Depot and others.He adds:The cashback program won't come as a complete surprise. Gates hinted at the possibility in late 2005. TheIDG News Servicequoted the Microsoft chairman at the time pointing out how much money Google makes from search, and saying that Microsoft might reward its search users with free software, or cash.Of course, people may well use Google most of the time and Live Search for five minutes' shopping a week, though that may not matter much. Advertisers really don't care where you do your searching: they only care about where you click on a link and buy something.Google has already tried to become the web's shopping engine, with what was originally called Froogle, and Google Checkout, its payment processing service. But Froogle,announced in 2002, was terrible and Google Checkout doesn't seem to have much traction.But while Microsoft may be able to hit one of Google's weaker spots, I don't think it will do anything to stop Google's march to a 90% share of the search market. It's a gimmick, not a game-changer.Charles Arthur adds:and (for the moment at least) it is - stop me if you've heard this one before - US-only. So let's see, that makes the Zune (remember the Zune?), the Amazon MP3 store, the Napster DRM store... for the 51st or 52nd state, we're not doing that well, are we?
We've devoted quite a lot of space to the Asus Eee PC mini-notebook: I coveredthe RM launchlast October and reviewed the machine inTechnophilein December, and we've tracked all the versionshere on the blog. The combination of size, weight and -- crucially -- price have made it a compelling product.Interest in the Eee PC has also given Asustek a new prominence -- the company was previously known here mainly as a motherboard supplier -- and according to a Digitimes headline in Taiwan:Eee PC helps Asustek become sixth largest PC vendor, says IDC. It says:Asustek Computer shipped around 1.4 million notebooks in the first quarter of 2008 and ranked number eight in terms of market share. However, if Eee PC shipments of around 700,000 units are included, the company's shipments jump to 2.1 million units, surpassing those of Fujitsu and Apple, to rank in sixth place, and closely trailing behind Lenovo who shipped 2.2-2.3 million units, according to a recent report from IDC.With the arrival of the new PC 900 version with an 8.9in screen, which shipped in the UK onMay 1(see Vic's reviewbelow), and the belated arrival of Windows XP versions, Asus could do even better.It won't be too much of a shock if this year's top 5 notebook PC vendors includes two Taiwanese suppliers -- Acer and Asus. However, maintaining that sort of position for five or 10 years is more of a challenge.
The search for the perfect light laptop that you can carry around anywhere goes on and on. When I reviewed the extremely cost-effective 199 Asus computer inlast week's Guardian TechnologyI was intending to focus on the newly released PC 900 version but it got delayed in the post and didn't arrive until a a day after we went to press. Which was a shame because the 900 is a big improvement in terms of use-ability . OK, it is slightly bigger, a little bit heavier and, yes, quite a bit more expensive at around 330/340 on the web but the advantages - a bigger and much more user-friendly 8.9 inch screen, a much better touch mouse pad, better screen resolution and a 1.3 megapixel web camera justify the extra cost. As with the basic Asus PC 2G at 199  it includes a stunning array of (open source) business, educational and recreational software including Open Office, spreadsheets, painting, typewriting, Skype, internet radio, WiFi etc) and remains stunning value for money. But if you are intending to use it intensively then it is worth paying the extra for the 900 model.There are only three serious downsides. Battery life of only two or three hours (depending on how you use it) means who can't leave the house without a charger, which adds to the weight. Second, the keyboard on the whole range is a fraction too small for effortless typing: which is another way of saying I made even more typos than I do usually - but practice makes it better. Third, all of the three models I tested had moody WiFi connections. Most of the time it was OK but too often it simply wouldn't connect despite repeatedly going through the procedures. This won't be much of a problem for geeks but to the extent that these models are aimed at the 30% of households that are still broadband-less it could be a problem.The PC 900 I tested came with a keyboard that was loose on the right hand side. If it hadn't been a press trial it would have been a bore sending it back. Otherwise this is -- subject to the caveats --  the machine I have been looking for that I can carry around without being too aware of the weight knowing I can lift up the lid and carry on working at the nearest (free) public or private WiFi hot-spot: the most satisfying small computer since the Psion series of fond memory. It looks like we are in for a whole new generation of cheap light-weight laptops (see news of the new version of the pioneering OLPC below) which can only be good news.
The veteran Texan tycoon T Boone Pickens has thrown his weight behind Carl Icahn's attempt to unseat the board of Yahoo by snapping up 10m shares in the internet company at a likely cost of around $250m (&pound;127m).Pickens, who celebrates his 80th birthday this week, said yesterday that he knew little about Yahoo except that Icahn, a fellow billionaire, was trying to make changes - and that he hoped the corporate raider would get Microsoft to buy the firm."Carl's a smart guy. He does great things for shareholders," Pickens told CNBC television. "It is being served up to Microsoft now. Are they going to step up and take it and go on down the road? I don't know what they're waiting for."Pickens's involvement means the openly insurgent element on Yahoo's share register is at least 20%. Those calling for a sale to Microsoft include leading investors Legg Mason and Capital Partners and the hedge fund manager John Paulson. Sources suggested yesterday that another fund, Third Point, had bought 5m shares and was backing Icahn.Microsoft is reluctant to play ball with the dissidents. It has resisted reviving its $31-a-share takeover offer and has instead put forward a proposal that amounts to a break-up of Yahoo.Under the arrangement suggested by the software company, Microsoft would buy Yahoo's search-related advertising business, which was valued at $21bn in a research note by Collins Stewart, and Yahoo would sell its interests in Asia, which include Yahoo Japan and a stake in the Chinese search engine Alibaba.com, raising a total of $10bn. The proceeds could be returned to shareholders, and Microsoft would take a minority stake in the remaining rump of Yahoo. The tie-up would prevent Yahoo from getting into bed with Google - a scenario feared by many in the technology industry."It actually could be a clever move," Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein, told the San Jose Mercury News. "It could be a face-saving way out for both sides."It may not be enough to satisfy Icahn and his growing band of malcontents. Yahoo's shares dropped 1.1% to $27.37 in early trading on Wall Street yesterday.Long-term followers of Icahn say that the last thing he wants is for his entire slate of nominees to be voted onto the board of Yahoo, as this would entail him actually running a complex technology business. His priority is simply to make a quick profit by forcing Yahoo to sell up.
Your leader (May 20) was right to identify the crucial nature of developments in fast broadband to the UK economy, society and consumers. This union's recent policy briefing, Connecting Britain's Future: The Slow Arrival of Fast Broadband, makes the case for next generation access (NGA) broadband. The government's renewed focus on fast broadband is welcome. The UK is falling behind and this will have serious consequences for our competitiveness. NGA presents exciting opportunities for the telecoms industry, for those who work in it, for consumers and for the wider commercial sector. Not only will businesses and consumers be able to carry out their existing internet usage over faster connections, but new services from both the public and private sector will evolve.There remain important debates on the appropriate balance of public and private sector responsibility, as the roll-out of NGA would clearly require a substantial level of investment, though this would not be disproportionate in comparison to other major infrastructure projects, such as Crossrail. It's clear that Ofcom will need to create a regulatory framework which leaves scope for innovation and security for investors. Regulation must also guarantee adequate protections for the consumer, the workforce and the environment. In addition, there is still some work to be done in closing the digital divide - the gap between the 50% with broadband and the 50% who are still without access.Adrian AskewGeneral secretary, Connect
Internet companies and security experts have reacted angrily to the prospect of a  government database that could keep a record of every telephone call, email and website visit made in Britain.Proposals in the forthcoming data communications bill show how the Home Office is planning to create a database that would allow officials to monitor all communications traffic. The bill would force internet and telephone companies to keep full details of every movement made by customers, with government agencies across Europe potentially able to access the information.The government's privacy watchdog, the Information Commissioner's Office, yesterday said that the prospect was cause for concern. "This would give us serious concerns and may well be a step too far," said the deputy information commissioner, Jonathan Bamford. "We are not aware of any justification for the state to hold every UK citizen's phone and internet records. We have real doubts that such a measure can be justified, or is proportionate or desirable."A report by the ICO last year suggested that Britain was "sleepwalking" towards a surveillance society.The Home Office said none of the plans for the bill was finalised, but that new powers were required to help anti-terrorist personnel keep up with new technologies.
This week we've been looking at the acquisition of CNet by CBS for $1.8bn, with the help of Tom Bureau, who used to head the European side of CNet (we wish he'd been bureau chief, but sadly nominative determinism failed).We're also looking at how robots are coming, with the insightful help of Noel Starkey, a robotics expert from the University of Sheffield.Plus of course all of the best comments by you from the Technology, Games and PDA blogs. Who's won the kudos this week?Get it nowor choose how to grab it...The podcast feed URLSubscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunesVisit our Facebook groupThe Tech Weekly archives
This week we've been looking at the acquisition of CNet by CBS for $1.8bn, with the help ofTom Bureau, who used to head the European side of CNet (we wish he'd been bureau chief, but sadly nominative determinism failed).We're also looking at how robots are coming, with the insightful help ofNoel Starkey, a robotics expert from the University of Sheffield.Plus of course all of the best comments by you from the Technology, Games and PDA blogs. Who's won the kudos this week?
Wade Roush writes: "I'm 'live blogging' from the One Laptop Per Child Foundation's day-long media event at the MIT Media Lab. The big news is that OLPC founder Nicholas Negrponte has just unveiled the design for the foundation's second-generation laptop, which isn't really a laptop at all but a double-screened, fold-up electronic book."Negroponte said the book-like design "comes from something we've learned over the past couple of years -- that the book experience is key."According to Roush, he is aiming to bring out the device by 2010 with a target price of $75.Update 1: Laptop hasa video of Negropontefrom the event, and adds:The design will provide a right and left page in vertical format, a hinged laptop in horizontal format, and a flat, two-screen continuous surface for use in tablet mode. "Younger children will be able to use simple keyboards to get going, and older children will be able to switch between keyboards customized for applications as well as for multiple languages," the press release reads.Update 2: Gizmodo has republished the press release, which says:Smaller Footprint - The XO-2 laptop will be about half the size of the first generation device and will approximate the size of a book. The new design will make the XO laptop lighter and easier for children to carry with them to and from school or wherever they go. The XO-2 will continue to be in a green and white case and sport the XO logo in a multitude of colors that allow children to personalize the laptop as their own possession. . Enhanced Book Experience - Dual-touch sensitive displays will be used to enhance the e-book experience, with a dual-mode display similar to the current XO laptop. The design provides a right and left page in vertical format, a hinged laptop in horizontal format, and a flat two-screen wide continuous surface that can be used in tablet mode. Younger children will be able to use simple keyboards to get going, and older children will be able to switch between keyboards customized for applications as well as for multiple languages. The dual-touch display is being designed by Pixel Qi, which was founded in early 2008 by Mary Lou Jepsen, former chief technology officer of One Laptop per Children and a leading expert on display technology.
Computers in some parts of Houston may be more bug-ridden than elsewhere. The "bugs" are crazy Rasberry ants -- named after Tom Rasberry, who appears in the Fox video above, who is trying to terminate them.According to theAP report:"They're itty-bitty things about the size of fleas, and they're just running everywhere," said Patsy Morphew of Pearland, who is constantly sweeping them off her patio and scooping them out of her pool by the cupful. "There's just thousands and thousands of them. If you've seen a car racing, that's how they are. They're going fast, fast, fast. They're crazy."And yes, there is a technology angle: "they, like some other species of ants, are attracted to electrical equipment, for reasons that are not well understood by scientists," says the story.They have ruined pumps at sewage pumping stations, fouled computers and at least one homeowner's gas meter, and caused fire alarms to malfunction. They have been spotted at NASA's Johnson Space Center and close to Hobby Airport, though they haven't caused any major problems there yet.In fact, there are even more rasberry ants thanrasberry ant stories, most of which fail to refer toPhase IV, let alone3D Ant Attack, an immortal Spectrum classic.
The single most pernicious threat to liberty today is humanity's naturaltendency to misunderstand the statistics of rare events. We're just not wired to have good intuition about things that happen with extreme infrequency.I'll prove it. If we were good at understanding statistics, then here's what would happen when you flew to Las Vegas. You'd step out of McCarran airport, stare down the Strip at all those glittering, palatial casinos and say to yourself, "Holy crap  think of all the suckers who must have lost everything to finance this place!" Instead, our foolish minds are filled with thoughts like, "Man, look at all the money in this town  I'm going to win big!" And another casino is built.The rare  and the lurid  loom large in our imagination, and it's to our great detriment when it comes to our safety and security. As a new father, I'm understandably worried about the idea of my child falling victim to some nefarious predator Out There, waiting to break in and take my child away. There's a part of me who understands the panicked parent who rings 999 when he sees some street photographer aiming a lens at a kids' playground.But the fact is that attacks by strangers are so rare as to be practically nonexistent. If your child is assaulted, the perpetrator is almost certainly a relative (most likely a parent). If not a relative, then a close family friend. If not a close family friend, then a trusted authority figure.And yet we continue to focus our attention on the meteor-strike-rare paedophile attack instead of protecting our children from the real, everyday dangers they face from the familiar. This has the twin effects of making our children less safe, and of making adults less free, because we are all subjected to scrutiny on the grounds that we may be hunting children.This is the same calculus that allows the fear of terrorism to take away our liberty: the statistically super-rare terrorist attacks present, on average, a much lower risk to our health, safety and person than, say, depriving us of our liquid medications, or of requiring us to leave our bags unlocked in flight so that sticky-fingered handlers can make off with our laptops and financial data and valuables.The everyday threat of having our goods stolen, our ability to travel and earn our livings curtailed, and our personal information harvested by every junior terrorist fighter who wants to see your ID before letting you doanythingis overshadowed by the one-in-a-billion confluence of someone with terrorist goals, the means to accomplish them, and the intelligence to bring them off (hint: you can't really blow up an airplane with hair-gel and iPods).Paradox of the false positiveOur innumeracy means that our fight against these super-rarities is likewise ineffective. Statisticians speak of something called the Paradox of the False Positive. Here's how that works: imagine that you've got a disease that strikes one in a million people, and a test for the disease that's 99% accurate. You administer the test to a million people, and it will be positive for around 10,000 of them  because for every hundred people, it will be wrong once (that's what 99% accurate means). Yet, statistically, we know that there's only one infected person in the entire sample. That means that your "99% accurate" test is wrong9,999 times out of 10,000!Terrorism is a lot less common than one in a million and automated "tests" for terrorism  data-mined conclusions drawn from transactions, Oyster cards, bank transfers, travel schedules, etc  are a lot less accurate than 99%. That means practically every person who is branded a terrorist by our data-mining efforts is innocent.In other words, in the effort to find the terrorist needles in our haystacks, we're just making much bigger haystacks.You don't get to understand the statistics of rare events by intuition. It's something that has to be learned, through formal and informal instruction. If there's one thing the government and our educational institutions could do to keep us safer, it's this: teach us how statistics works. They should drill it into us with the same vigor with which they approached convincing us that property values would rise forever, make it the subject of reality TV shows and infuse every corner of our news and politics with it. Without an adequate grasp of these concepts, no one can ever tell for sure if he or she is safe.
Wii Fit finally gets aUS launchthis week - for once Europe got a big game first - with reports suggesting high demand for Nintendo's innovative balance board. The game has battled with GTA IV for chart supremacy since release and assuming stock supply holds up I can see it outselling Take Two's epic in the long run. But I am beginning to wonder how much use the board will get once the novelty wears off. A few weeks in and my copy is already beginning to gather dust. I picked it up last night for the first time in 10 days and can't see myself rushing back too quickly. Any novelty in the Howson household has definitely worn off.Like exercise bikes, dumbells and dodgy celebrity weight loss DVDs the Wii Fit requires willpower. Having said that I'm not sure I'm the right audience anyway. Wii Fit is not the first thing I think of after a long run or gym workout. For sedentary Wii owners though, Fit will definitely help, at least with flexibility. And kids will enjoy too, though they'd probably bestignore those BMI figures. But for me? Once a week at best. Probably. So, anyone here still regularly using their Wii Fit?
Eight former executives of the unhappy dotcom merger between AOL and Time Warner have been charged with fraud for inflating the firm's online advertising revenues by more than $1bn (509m).US financial regulator the Securities and Exchange Commission has filed civil lawsuits alleging that between 2000 and 2002 the eight men had produced or contributed to financial statements that inflated advertising results.At the time, Time Warner had just been bought by AOL for $164.7bn and the newly merged firm was under pressure to prove its financial viability.The SEC, which began investigating the firm in 2002, also claims that AOL Time Warner used various "elaborate accounting schemes" to boost online ad revenue figures.These included so-called "round trip" transactions, where the firm bought extra adverts for clients including Sun Microsystems and Hewlett-Packard to try to boost figures further.The lawsuits claim that the AOL Time Warner executives "knowingly or recklessly engineered, oversaw and executed a scheme to artificially and materially inflate the company's reported online advertising revenue".Former AOL controller James MacGuiwin is one of four defendants to have settled the charges without admitting any wrongdoing. He will pay $4m and be banned from serving as a company director for 10 years.David Colburn, former head of AOL's business unit, will pay $2m and be barred for seven years; while two business affairs executives Eric Keller and Jay Rappaport will pay up to $1m each.The charges are contested by the remaining four defendants: former chief financial officer John Micheal Kelly, AOL's ex-chief financial officer Joseph Ripp, ex-head of accounting policy Mark Wovsaniker and senior executive Steven Rindner.They are facing SEC charges that the regulator claims are supported by emails and evidence including a note from Kelly to Wovsaniker in which he asks what "other round trips do you have coming down the line?".A lawyer for Kelly said he "flatly denies the SEC's claims and will vigorously defend himself in the courts".AOL Time Warner has already paid a $300m fine as a result of the SEC's civil fraud charges and $210m from a criminal securities fraud investigation by the US Justice Department, but did not admit any fault.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Napster saysit has launched "the world's largest and most comprehensive MP3 store atwww.napster.com/store"Pricing for download sales will remain at 99 cents for single MP3 tracks and $9.95 for most MP3 albums, Napster confirmed. The vast majority of the MP3 catalog, including all major label content, is available at a high-quality 256kbps bitrate, and downloaded tracks include high-resolution album art. Consumers can visit and browse the download store with no obligation or commitment, and can also choose to subscribe to Napster's on-demand streaming service, which is web-based and can be accessed from any Internet-connected computer without downloading software.Napster is certainly a well-known name: it dominated the music download landscape (with peer-to-peer file sharing) before Apple launched the iPod, and years before the iTunes Store. Whether it can compete with Amazon's existing DRM-free MP3 download service is another matter.Amazon is already offering better-than-iTunes quality for less-than-iTunes prices without iTunes's proprietary DRM (Digital Rights Management) software. The fact that millions of existing Amazon users (but in the US only) can buy downloads using their current account details also makes it the obvious first choice for more-aware consumers. Napster still has to get people to sign up, which is a significant barrier.On the UK site, Napster Light is offering the chance to "Buy tracks for 79p and albums from 7.95" which traditionally requires you to run Napster.exe, a Windows-only download (11MB for UK users. No, I didn't install it).
If you've got a fabulous idea for a game puzzle and are lacking an outlet, add it to the growing list of fabulous entries for theWikigame'sPuzzle Design Challengeandwin a Wii! We've extended the deadline from tomorrow toFriday, so put your procrastination hat away and grab your productivity sombrero. There'sconsoleup for grabs!The gamesblog has teamed up with EA to offer anextra special competition: send in your favourite game puzzle ideas viathis form* and if you're one of the top three, as judged by professional game designers and IF authors, you'll win a copy of the Steven Spielberg puzzlerBoom Blox. Grand prize is a copy of the game and a Wii!Boom Blox is an excellent little game that takes steady hands and lots of skill. I spent the weekend playing it and while my physio won't be too pleased with how much I've been using my volleyball-injured shoulder to throw bombs, baseballs and other virtually destructive elements, I've had an absolute hoot.There are loads of puzzle-solving activities throughout the game, and much more relevant, a vast Create mode, which challenges players to develop their own intricate puzzles for other people to solve.If you'd like to enter the competition, and are stuck for ideas, we're looking for people to contribute puzzles for theprimary plot. Specifically, we need answers to the followingquestions:* How do you fix the hole in the hull? * What do you have to do to get from your Quarters to the Generator Room? * What obstacles do you have to overcome between fixing the generators and getting to the hole in the hull? * What's blocking you from getting to the bottom floor of the ship?Head to thesynopsisfor some background.If you don't have your puzzle beret on and just want to fiddle with developing other parts of the game, we love to get your help on the following quick and dirty tasks:*Score Rankings: IF games usually give a rank to the player depending on their final score. Help us write ours. *Terminal Insanity: Our game features a malfunctioning computer terminal that randomly spews out snippets of garbled computer code. Help contribute with this.Many thanks to DennisChow for wrangling the weekly Quick Helps.If you'd like to help cavalcade and the other wikigamers wrestle with theMeta-Plot, headhereand dive into the debate about why we are who we are, and where we're going. Man.Get in on it the fun :)* to fill in the form, create an account with textadventure.org.uk and hit 'Edit' on the Puzzle Design Competition Page. Add the name of your puzzle in double brackets to the Entries section, indicate your name, copy the contents of the template and save the page. Then click on your puzzle name, hit edit, paste the template and design away!
A resumption of talks between Yahoo and Microsoft caused relief among investors and advertisers yesterday as hopes rose that negotiations on an internet search tie-up could lead to a full takeover.The two US technology firms confirmed late on Sunday that they were back at the table, prompting Yahoo's shares to jump by 1% in early Wall Street trading to $27.95 - their highest level since talks collapsed two weeks ago over a $47.5bn (&pound;24.4bn) buyout by Microsoft at $31 a share.This time, discussions are understood to focus on combining their search-related advertising to create a viable competitor to Google, through either a joint venture or a partial buyout by Microsoft."We remain open to pursuing any transaction which is in the best interests of our stockholders," Yahoo said.Experts believe that discussing a tie-up could be a face-saving route to a return to full takeover talks. In a research note, analysts at UBS wrote: "A near-term deal could act as an intermediate step that would go a long way toward testing the waters."Yahoo is under pressure to act quickly. The billionaire corporate raider Carl Icahn is rallying disgruntled fellow investors to mount a boardroom putsch at the company's annual meeting in early July by putting forward a slate of dissident nominees to replace existing directors.The advertising industry is keen to see a deal to dislodge Google's dominant position. In Britain, Google generates more ad revenue than ITV by controlling 85% of the online search market.Nigel Gwilliam, of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, said his members wanted a swift deal: "The longer they go through this protracted process, the better it is for Google because Yahoo aren't really focusing on their core business."Advertisers fear that without stiff competition, Google could extend its search dominance in the next phase of digital media, including mobile phone adverts, video-style display ads on the web and even sales of off-line adverts in newspapers and television. "Google's leadership is even more acute in the UK than in the US," said Gwilliam. "We very much want to see a viable competitor to Google."Sources say the latest talks began when Yahoo contacted Microsoft last week to see if it was still interested in a deal. Microsoft suggested a tie-up short of a takeover.Some are sceptical of such an arrangement. Henry Blodget, a former Wall Street analyst turned technology commentator, said in his blog: "Joint ventures in technology almost never work: too many cooks in [the] kitchen, too many competing goals/incentives, uncertain future ownership and strategic direction - the fatal flaw is different in each case."
Google is still interested in a tie-up with Yahoo in the lucrative internet search market, according to Google's co-founder Sergey Brin, in a move that would provide Yahoo with a white knight to see off the attentions of Microsoft.Over the weekend Microsoft and Yahoo admitted that they were talking about a tie-up in search advertising, after talks about a full merger collapsed this month. Since those abortive negotiations, the activist investor Carl Icahn has attempted a boardroom coup and is attempting to oust Yahoo's management at its annual meeting in July.During the takeover talks, Google ran a small trial of its technology on Yahoo's site in the US, which was widely seen as offering Yahoo's embattled boss, Jerry Yang, a way to escape Microsoft's clutches.Speaking at Google's Zeitgeist conference in Britain yesterday, Google executives said they were willing to work towards a deeper relationship with Yang.Asked how the trials had gone, Brin said: "Primarily we learned it was good to work with them again ... and they have a very similar story to us and things went very well with that test so we would be very excited to work with them again."Brin and his co-founder, Larry Page, were due to discuss the weekend's news and Google's response with the chief executive, Eric Schmidt, last night. The company is understood to have discussed a full-scale tie-up with Yahoo last month and there has been intense speculation that such a deal is back on the table and could be announced within weeks.A deal between Microsoft and Yahoo would present a big challenge to the dominance of Google in the online search market. When asked who Google's main competitor was likely to be, Schmidt admitted yesterday: "Eventually, I think it is obvious that it will be Microsoft, based on their actions."Google's dominance of the online search market has raised concerns about the sheer wealth of information that the company has about what people look for online. But Brin and Page both stressed that it is in Google's own interests to closely guard what its users do online, or they will stop using the service and its revenues will dry up."If we are not trusted, we have no business," said Page. "We have such a lot to lose, we are forced to act in everyone's interest."Brin added that the real concern was that companies who were not dealing with consumers on a daily basis, such as advertising agencies, could misuse information about what consumers were doing online. "There are a lot of things you can do in a creepy way that scares people," he said.Although he did not draw the connection, there have been concerns raised in Britain about the use of technology developed by the Aim-listed Phorm to track where people go online to serve them with better targeted adverts. Page said such information could be used to make the internet more relevant to consumers but it had to be carefully handled. "I worry we are missing, a little, the forest for the trees."In fact, when Microsoft first approached Yahoo, Google reacted with uncharacteristic force by warning that the deal raised "troubling questions" about the future of the internet. David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, said a takeover would also create a business with an "overwhelming share" of the online communications services of web-based email and instant messaging.Schmidt refused yesterday to comment directly on Microsoft's fresh attempt at a deal but said Drummond's pronouncement still reflected the "general" feeling of the firm.For advertisers, a combination of Yahoo and Microsoft in the search market would help ease their growing concerns that Google has become too dominant in the largest and most lucrative area of online advertising. Recent figures from Nielsen Online show that in Britain Google has seen its share of all internet search queries rise from just over 77% in March last year to nearly 80% in the same month in 2008. Second-placed Yahoo, meanwhile has fallen from 7.9% to 5.4% with Microsoft's MSN and Windows Live search sites accounting for 4.3% in March this year - slightly up on the 3.4% recorded last year. In some European markets, Google's dominance is even more pronounced: in Germany, for instance, it has 88% of the market.In the US, Google's share of search queries has risen from 53.7% to 58.7%, while Yahoo's has dropped from nearly 22% to 18.1% and Microsoft trails at 12%.Schmidt stressed that the online search market was only a smaller proportion of the wider advertising market and, despite its efforts, Google was still a minnow in other areas such as TV, radio and print advertising.
Charming Liverpudlian Peter Moore disappeared last year after leading Microsoft's Xbox 360 charge in the marketplace, whenhe quit to run EA Sports. Now he has re-emerged from his "self-imposed public exile". He's startedblogging for EA, and did a launch with Lennox Lewis, Sugar Ray Leonard and Ronald "Winky" Wright (above) at EA Canada in Vancouver.GamesIndustry.biz has now runan interview, where he talks about the Xbox and the console wars, and the attempt to make EA's sports games easier to play. He says:We used the analogy of a swimming pool, which people have mocked us for. But it's a good analogy. EA Sports was the deep end, right? You either jumped in, you sank or you swam, or you were intimidated and didn't go near the water. We needed to provide a shallow end. So things like All Play for the Wii, the Freestyle brand, provide that shallow end that you can get in and hopefully move down the pool, which we want you to do. But unless we do that, we're really out of position.He also makes an interesting comment about PC gaming, in the context of EA's approach to the sports market, saying:my goal is to grow EA Sports, and I need the PS3 to continue to gain momentum, I've got to readjust my brand on Nintendo Wii, I've got to look at what we do on PC. I'm hung, drawn and quartered in a lot of circles over some of the decisions, but the PC for sports has serious business challenges. We're continuing with FIFA and NHL on the PC because of strong interest and good business opportunities. But our consumers have moved to where they enjoy sports on their widescreen TVs and in their living rooms. It was purely a business decision -- we can't afford to lose money on PC franchises.Of course, this shift was one of the reasons why Microsoft did the Xbox years ago. As Moore says now: "We saw it as a way of being in the living room...."
Obama Girl loves her man, but the feeling isn't mutualThis is America's first YouTube election. Since the Orwellian anti-Hillary advertVote Differentappeared online in March 2007, the site has become a vibrant new political battleground where candidates' images are cheerfully reshaped via spoofs, sketches and songs. Ideas, not campaign dollars, are the crucial currency.One major downside to this innovation, if you're a presidential candidate: your every gaffe will be recorded, remixed and rewatched for months to come. Though there is a big upside: you don't have to generate your own campaign songs any more.In past decades, a US election song was the job of the candidate's team, producing such gems as Keep Cool and Keep Coolidge, Buckle Down With Nixon and, lest we forget, Get on a Raft With Taft. But this year the official songs are as unloved and irrelevant as Fred Thompson.All the important musical action is on YouTube, where self-penned ditties meet recontextualised oldies, and celebrity endorsements encounter amateur spoofs. Much of this is down to Obama, who has been granted his own jokey genre: Barack'n'roll. But YouTube is also good for providing perspective. Flattering or not, even the most high-profile video will be several million views less popular than shaky home movie footage of a baby laughing.Barack ObamaObama Girl - I Got a Crush ... on ObamaThe song that sparked the Barack'n'roll trend last June also made an internet celebrity of Obama Girl, aka 25-year-old actor Amber Lee Ettinger, aka E!'s number one hottest woman on the internet. Although advertising executive Ben Relles wrote it, Kevin Arbouet and Larry Strong directed it and Leah Kauffman sang it. It works for three reasons: a) it's a fiendishly catchy R&amp;B tune; b) it's genuinely funny; and c) Ettinger is a grandmaster at the art of tossing her hair around while wearing tiny shorts.Obama, the spoilsport, complained that it upset his daughters and said: "You do wish people would think about what impact their actions have on kids and families." Undeterred, Ettinger and co released several follow-ups, the latest of which urges Hillary to drop out. Erstwhile rival Giuliani Girl remains MIA.Sample lyric: "You're into border security / Let's break this border between you and me / Universal healthcare reform / It makes me warm"YouTube views: 8,286,788Will.i.am - Yes We CanPerhaps to atone for visiting upon an unsuspecting world the weapon of mass irritation that was My Humps, chief Black Eyed Pea Will.i.am enlists a crew of celebrity Barack-backers (including Scarlett Johansson, John Legend and Michael from Lost) to trill along to Obama's famous New Hampshire speech in January. Backed only by some sober acoustic strumming, its trump card is restraint.Obama, with his rhythmic cadences and stirring phrasemaking, is the frontman and everyone else his backing singers, halfway between a gospel choir and hip-hop hypemen. But it's hard not to compare Jesse Dylan's clip, with its tasteful black and white photography, plain backgrounds and John Legend's excellent cardigan, with a Gap advert. Yes, we can have tasteful, affordable knitwear. Since its February release, it has inspired a more self-congratulatory follow-up, We Are the Ones, and two McCain-bashing spoofs, john.he.is and No, You Can't. Definitely not to be confused with the Pointer Sisters' 1973 hit Yes We Can Can.Sample lyric: "Mm-hmm, mmmm, oh-oh-oh-oh, yes we can, yes we can, ooooohh-oooh"YouTube views: 5,162,864The Rockabelles - We Got the MoNever mind rhetoric, charm and policy commitments - what the Obama campaign needs is the adorability factor. Aged six, nine and 11, the Rockabelles come across like the Pipettes would if they had been blasted with a shrinking ray, singing peppy Clapping Song-style chants and stopping at nothing in their quest for words that rhyme with Obama. A shame they are too young to vote.A shame, also, that the Rockabelles have yet to tackle songwriter Jim Allyn's other political composition, The Colors: "As the smoke chokes out the sun along the cratered road / Another IED explodes." Come on, that would be the most adorable song about the occupation of Iraq ever.Sample lyric: "Never mind the old piranha / Woolly mammoth or iguana / Obama, Obama / We got the mo, mama"YouTube views: 28,900Ti$a - Vote Obama>Rappers are traditionally more inclined to bury politicians than praise them but, 24 years after Jesse Jackson's White House bid inspired Melle Mel to record Jesse, Obama is the first candidate to truly rock the hip-hop vote.While New York MC Jin's punchy Open Letter to Obama struggles with policy detail ("Gas prices are outlandish / Might I suggest higher fuel efficiency standards?"), Taz Arnold of the leftfield trio Sa-Ra plays safe with goofy charm. Aimed squarely at the multiracial hipster demographic, it's a damn sight more fun than Yes We Can, with its hectic, raved-up Isley Brothers sample, green lasers, garish animation, Day-Glo spandex, oversized sunglasses and cameos from Kanye West and Jay-Z.A surefire hit with DJs, people who work in Los Angeles boutiques, and anyone who remembers Deee-Lite's Groove Is in the Heart. Maybe not so much with the blue-collar workers of Pennsylvania.Sample lyric: "This is real and not for play / I'm a vote Obama way / We hood, we votin' / And throwin' it up!"YouTube views: 56,083Rick E Lewis - What Change Looks LikeAfter all the hip-hop and R&amp;B, at last there is one for the veteran liberals who still cherish their McGovern 72 badges (not many of them, judging by the tally of YouTube views). With his harmonica, gospel backing vocals and wry, conversational, Dylanesque voice, Lewis taps into 60s protest song nostalgia. He takes his lyrics, and title, from Obama's victory speech in Wisconsin in February: "This is what change looks like when it happens from the bottom up." The traditional DIY montage of campaign clips and stills ends on a strangely unsettling Photoshop melding of Obama and Uncle Sam.Sample lyric: "Now we've done what the cynics said we couldn't do / In lines that stretch for blocks around schools and churches and small towns and big cities / Our time for change has come"YouTube views: 718Hillary ClintonTaryn Southern - Hott 4 Hill>It was surely a bad omen when the first specially composed pro-Hillary tune to get attention was a tongue-in-cheek, sapphic response to Obama Girl. Former American Idol contestant Taryn Southern plays a sexy school teacher in why-Miss-Jones-you're-beautiful spectacles professing her love for Clinton: "I know you're not gay but I'm hoping for bi." (For the benefit of irony-impervious viewers, Southern informed CNN that she was, in fact, straight.) Finally, Hillary's face is Photoshopped on to Mount Rushmore, in a move sure to alienate hardcore Thomas Jefferson fans.Sample lyric: "Hillary I like your hair / The pant suits you wear / And the shape of your derriere"YouTube views: 1,383,021Cline Dion - You and IChosen in June 2007 after a month-long public vote (no superdelegates required), Clinton's official campaign song isn't a patch on Bill's boomer-friendly 1992 anthem, Fleetwood Mac's Don't Stop. This trite Cline Dion number was previously used to advertise Air Canada. Needless to say, it rhymes fly, high and sky.However, nobody flies high in the sky in the video, which resembles the world's most tedious tour movie. See Hillary speak in Iowa! See Hillary shake hands in North Carolina! Check watch. Make tea. See Hillary walk through the snow somewhere! Fall asleep on keyboard.Sample lyric: "You and I were meant to fly / Higher than the clouds we'll sail across the sky"YouTube views: 137,634The Clintons - Funny Love Song for Hillary Clinton"Your last name and our band name just happen to be the same / So I bet we hear the same jokes every day." Forming in Montana at the end of one Clinton administration, John Mayeresque MOR band the Clintons know a good PR opportunity when they see one, hence this deadpan love song, which could almost pass as sincere, as the band sombrely pace around in the snow and pull sensitive faces. Rumours that they might change their name to the Obamas in the coming weeks remain unconfirmed.Sample lyric: "And our economy will never grow / While our energy supply is shrinking / I'm not like congress baby, I'm debt-free / And you'll never find anything shrinking on me"YouTube views: 17,451Mary J Blige &amp; U2 - One HillaryScarcely recovered from its infamous YouTube mauling by a Bank of America employee who changed the lyrics to celebrate a merger with MBNA, U2's enduring anthem (via Mary J Blige) has now been dragooned by Hillary supporters. Although the song is often misunderstood, Bono's gloss on the lyric ("It's not saying we even want to get along, but that we have to get along together in this world if it is to survive. It's a reminder that we have no choice") is surprisingly appropriate to Hillary's message of grim, nuts-and-bolts pragmatism.The video operates a buy-one-patriotic-image-get-one-free policy: Iwo Jima, 9/11, soldiers, sharecroppers, disabled veterans, Sylvester Stallone in Rocky, etc. A montage of past female political leaders culminates in the somewhat apologetic slogan: "If not now, when?" Which is only marginally better than: "Hillary -- better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick."Sample lyric: "We're one but we're not the same / Well we hurt each other and we do it again"YouTube views: 5,899John McCainThe McCain Girls - Raining McCain>The Eurythmics ordered the removal of the McCain Girls' Here Comes McCain Again, so the Weather Girls must be either Republicans or not fussy. Having endured covers by RuPaul and Geri Halliwell, their 1982 camp anthem It's Raining Men dies screaming in the hands of three tone-deaf women who sing with the misguided gusto of a closing-time karaoke crowd - the extended cry of "McCaaaaaiiiin" sounds like someone throttling an ostrich.Among the video's myriad delights: employment of umbrellas that undoes all Rihanna's good work, fist-chewingly inappropriate clips of GIs yomping through the long grass in Vietnam, and multiple John McCains falling from the sky like a biblical plague. After initial responses were less than glowing, one McCain Girl posted a pithy filmed response, informing critics that "no one gives a crap about half-point-eight of what the fuck you have to say". John McCain, meet your future press secretary.Sample lyric: "I'm gonna go out and let myself get absolutely John McCain"YouTube views: 1,813,009Judd Kessler - Lead the WayThe vast majority of McCain-related videos are either jokes or attacks - most, in fact, riff on his gaffe of singing "Bomb Iran" to the tune of Barbara Ann - so you have to dig around for a sincere endorsement. Cue Maryland lawyer Judd Kessler, who sits at his piano to perform a self-penned rallying cry with all the pulse-pounding vigour of a rainy Wednesday afternoon in a Nebraska rest home.This may be a true reflection of McCain's fanbase, but not one that the 71-year-old senator is likely to embrace. Seemingly a decent cove, Kessler is frank about his limitations, saying: "As I do this I want you to imagine someone with a real voice singing it." If you also imagine a different tune and different words, it starts to sound really good.Sample lyric: "We know you fought and suffered / Not to have a hero's day / But because you loved America / And cherished freedom's flame"YouTube views: 2,140Ron PaulKing Solomon &amp; Roy Shivers - Ron Paul for the Long Haul>A 72-year-old congressman may be the most unlikely hip-hop hero since Phil Collins, but Ron Paul's libertarian, non-interventionist views strike a chord with rap's conspiracy-theorist wing, where no accusation is too outlandish to set to a beat.King Solomon and Roy Shivers' effort is a slick affair based around a snaking jazz trumpet riff, but the lyrics are barking: Giuliani is a puppet of the Illuminati, Clinton a tool of the Bilderberg group, and George Bush, perhaps more likely, "a cokehead retard".Of course, they all want to bomb Iran at the behest of oil companies and those mysterious global -bankers. Bolstering mushroom cloud footage with other apocalyptic imagery, the video seems to make the bold claim that Paul is capable of preventing not just nuclear armageddon but also asteroid collisions.Sample lyric: "Lady Clinton wanna manage a police state / Pan-American she bring death like cheesesteak"YouTube views: 121,618
Hundreds of videogame fans turned out in Birmingham at the weekend in the hope of booking a place in the finals of the world's biggest games competition.Teams from four big European cities gathered to audition potential members for the Championship Gaming Series (CGS), an international contest for professional computer gamers. Those selected for the tour are being offered the chance to compete for $1m (&pound;511,000) at the world finals in Los Angeles this summer.The championship, modelled loosely on an American sports league, features teams from around the globe competing against each other in games including football and rally driving simulations.More than 500 players and spectators were on hand at the &pound;4m Omega Sektor gaming centre, as the venue hosted the selection of teams from Birmingham, London, Berlin and Stockholm.Some of those in attendance had been part of the league's inaugural season last year, including Samantha Whale, 21, from Luton, who helped her team to third place in last year's world finals. "The experience in LA was so incredible I can't even describe it to you," said Whale, who plays for the Birmingham Salvo team under the moniker Ricochet. "I'd love to do it again, so that's why I'm here."Professional computer gaming has a big following in south-east Asia, with several TV channels dedicated to "eSports". The league's backers are investing heavily in it, including the recent construction of a specialised 1,000-seat arena for computer game competitions in Wuhan, China. But competitive gaming has yet to make an impact in the west."We're trying to treat it like any other sports entertainment," said Andy Reif, the CGS chief executive and commissioner. "In the past, it's mainly been a sport for the participants. We're trying to make it fun and exciting for spectators to watch."Among those putting their money and influence behind the series are the American television network DirecTV and the software giant Microsoft.Such backers allow the CGS to offer big prizes - there was more than &pound;27,000 up for grabs in Birmingham - but also concentrate on marketing itself correctly.Reif said the organisation recognised the difficulty of being taken seriously by the establishment, but he was hoping to emulate the success of extreme sports.Activities such as skateboarding and surfing were widely disparaged in the past but they have become a recognised part of the sporting world, earning millions of pounds in sponsorship and TV coverage.
VistaPerfection is an iPhone theme created by Spec Works.Just Another iPhone Blogsays: "It's a Summerboard compatible theme that gives your iPhone that unmistakable 'I'm a PC' feel -- and has a very complete set of customization elements." More pictures and installation instructions are atmodmyifone.com.Well, it could prove popular in the general area ofRedmond....
Millions of people now spend their time on teh interweb (sic) looking at pictures of cute little kittens decorated with captions written in misspelled baby-talk. The language of Shakespeare and Milton has been reduced to IM IN UR BRIEFCASE PEEIN ON UR MEMOZ.Still,I Can Has Cheezburger? ICHC, for short  has become astonishingly successful in a remarkably short time. It was founded in January 2007, when Eric Nakagawa and Kari Unebasami posted a picture of a cat with the caption "I Can Has Cheezburger?"  hence the name. According to chief executive Ben Huh, the site now gets about two million page views and 8,000 submissions per day. All the content is generated by users in the true Web 2.0 way.The site has just won two "people's choice" Webby Awards, made theTechnorati Top 10 blogs, and been featured in dozens of publicationsincluding The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Business Weekand The Guardian. Although it is not the original source of lolcats(from Laughs Out Loud in netspeak), it has become the poster child forthe cute revolution.ICHC is often written in lolspeak,which blogger Anil Dash has dubbed "Kitty Pidgin". It's a liberating dialect because nobody has to worry about getting it wrong. In fact, getting words "wrong" is almost obligatory, though some young people already appear to write it more fluently than English. (Mai hed hurtz.) There's aDefinitive Lolcats Glossaryfor people who care.And it's not all silly. For example, the thought experiment known as Schrdinger's cat is a running gag  a picture of two cats in separate cardboard boxes was captioned: "Schrodinger improves accuracy wif increased sample size". There are also geeky jokes about MicrosoftWindows, and some biting satire. Although ICHC has a 60% femalereadership, the site says: "Our male demographic has a heavy mix oftechnology workers."If you don't like a caption, you can try to do better. Click on Lolbuilder and you can pick from a wide range of pictures sorted into cats, dogs, other animals, news and objects. If you can't find one you like, you can upload your own.Next, add your lolspeak comment. The site provides three boxes that add text to the top, middle and bottom of the picture respectively. You can preview the image, and change the type until you like the result. You don't have to provide a name or email address. If you don't, your submission will be credited to "dunno source".Many people contribute by leaving comments and by voting for things they like. One picture on the front page ("Basement cat sends his minions thru ur drain") currently has 543 comments and 2,488 votes. Very few blogs attract that level of participation.Will ICHC last another 16 months or will it go the way of Dancing Hampsters (sic), I Kiss You!!!! and AmIHotOrNot? I expect it to last. ICHC is more than a collection of amusing pictures: it has become a community.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
FWA (Favorite Website Awards) has launched a Flash-basedvideo theatreto highlight "the most creative videos from around the world across a range of categories including: Hot Advertisements; Show Reels; Game Trailers; Motion - 3D - VFX; Animation; Virals &amp; Various; Movie Trailers, Exclusives &amp; Featurettes." In other words, it's aimed more at the commercial business than the typical YouTube scavenger. But if you want to watch an Iron Man trailer again, Coke's Happiness Factory advert, or Dvein's showreel, it's the place to go.Search doesn't work yet, but there are not so many videos that you can't scan the index.
