Victims of the biggest theft in bitcoin history tried to put the much vaunted anonymity of the currency to the test as they attempted to recover their stolen money. But instead, they were left out of pocket and with egg on their faces.In early December, Sheep Marketplace, a site which used bitcoin and the anonymising browser Tor to enable online sales of illicit goods,shut down. The site&apos;s administrator reported that a dealer had found a bug in the system which had been exploited to steal 5,400 bitcoins.But users smelled a rat: they reckoned Sheep had probably been holding far more than that amount, and had returned none of the excess to users.Former customers of Sheep banded together, and discovereda bitcoin wallet holding 96,000 bitcoinswhich seemed to be linked to the thefts. At the exchange rate at the time, that was worth a little over $100m.Follow the moneyWhat happened next was only possible due to the unique features of bitcoin. The money started to be transferred between accounts – and the users followed it.Bitcoin&apos;s approach to privacy differs markedly from the traditional financial system. The conventional privacy model works by strongly linking personal identities to transactions, and then sharing those transactions only with the two parties involved and trusted third parties – normally payment providers such as Visa and Mastercard.Bitcoin&apos;s decentralised nature means that all transactions are necessarily public, because they have to be verified by the peer-to-peer system. To counter that lack of anonymity, the network is designed to separate transitions from identities: users can see that one &quot;wallet&quot; - denoted by a string of random letters and numbers – has sent bitcoins to another wallet (another string of random letters and numbers), but can&apos;t easily find out who is behind those strings.For small transactions, that leaves anonymity largely intact, although there remains a risk that a particular pattern of transactions may render users identifiable; and if someone posts their address publicly, they are no longer anonymous. But when a block of 96,000 bitcoins moves through the network, the public nature of all transactions becomes more difficult to overcome.One member of the bitcoin subforum on Reddit wasparticularly tenacious in tracing the money. In a long series of posts on the subforum, &quot;sheeproadreloaded2&quot; detailed the many twists and turns the money took travelling through the systems.Small bitcoin transactions can be laundered using a &quot;tumbler&quot;, which takes money from multiple sources, mixes it all together in one wallet, and spits it out the other side. Someone following the cash sees it get split and recombined over and over, until it&apos;s impossible to separate from the money being tumbled by other users.But that plan falls apart when trying to launder $100m of bitcoin. What the bitcoin thief found was that the sheer quantity of cash they were tying to hide overwhelmed every other transaction being tumbled at the same time: 96,000 bitcoins went in at one end, and 96,000 came out at the other. It seemed like their money had been successfully traced to one final address where it eventually came to rest.But then, the edifice came tumbling down. Another user on the subforum noticed their own bitcoins being transferred to the same address.And then the truth dawned: far from being a holding account for the biggest bitcoin theft in history, the wallet was actually part of the internal workings of BTC-E, an exchanges where users can trade bitcoins for conventional currency.It turned out that for three days, the community had been following not the increasingly desperate attempts of a thief to cover their tracks, but the internal workings of a currency exchange.Dead endsAt one point, at least, the internet detectives were on the right track. Sheep Marketplace really did shut down, and bitcoins were stolen. Butrather than play a shell game to try and keep the money hidden, the thief appears to have done what any normal person would have: traded the digital currency for real money at the earliest opportunity.It&apos;s not the first time a bitcoin exchange has had its internal workings thrust into the spotlight. In November, a 190,000 bitcoin transfer (then worth $147m) made the press asthe largest in history. Speculation abounded as to who had moved the money, with the Zuckerberg-bothering, bitcoin-investing Winklevoss twins and the currency&apos;s mysterious creator Satoshi Nakamoto both being named as possibilities.But in reality that transaction was probably just the result of Bitstamp, a popular exchange,shuffling its own funds: most of the money came from accounts known to be used by the exchange, and ended back in similar accounts later on.Nor is it the first time a crowd-sourced manhunt on Reddit has gone awry. The site has such problems with its user base attempting to track down wrongdoers that it enforces a rule against posting personal information – known as doxxing – more thoroughly than practically any other rule it maintains.Even that didn&apos;t prevent userswrongly accusingSunil Tripathi, a missing student from Brown University, of being the Boston Bomber in April this year. Tripathi was cleared when the names of Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were released, but that wasn&apos;t in time to stop vigilates vandalising a memorial Facebook page and &quot;informing&quot; his family that he was a terrorist. Tripathi was found dead a week after the bombs went off.When it comes to Sheep Marketplace, the crowd is still working through the information. They think they&apos;ve found the former moderator of the site, who has givenan interview to the Czech Republic&apos;s biggest newspaper in an attempt to clear his name, and behind the scenes some users are trying to see if there are any other loose ends in the block chain.Sheeproadreloaded2 has left the scene, refusing to accept that they were wrong: &quot;You all stop [the thief] becoming the richest man in Europe in 20 years. I&apos;m going home. I&apos;m tired, I&apos;ve got no milk in the fridge,and I need to go back to my day job of driving about in a van, solving mysteries. I think bitcoin is real, because I sell it. Most of you only buy it and change it into weed. It&apos;s the sort of money which not only buys political power - its enough to bend the fabric of space/time itself.&quot;For the most part, though, things are back to normal. The second top post on the dying subforum is a review of some MDMA shipped by a vendor who moved to the Silk Road. &quot;Itjustmisses the mark as the best MDMA I have ever used… For the price, you can&apos;t beat it.&quot;•Bank of America predict that Bitcoin could be worth $1,300, giving the currency its biggest boost yet.
Manufacturing is undergoing a shift as3D printingreaches the British high street and can produce anything from guns to cars, metal or even food.Some key recent developments have furthered the &quot;second industrial revolution&quot;, making 3D printing more useful, expanding its possibilities way beyond simple plastic trinkets and putting it within the grasp of anyone with an interest.Metal 3D printing at home a realityContrary to common perception, 3D printing using metal has been possible for some time - but the price has limited its availability to industry rather than hobbyists.One of the techniques, direct metal laser sintering (DMLS), fuses metal powder into a solid part by melting it with a powerful focused laser beam. It is an expensive industrial 3D printing process often used to make prototype metal parts for the aerospace industry, but was recently used to produce a3D printed metal gun capable of firing 50 shots.Now an affordable,open-source metal 3D printercosting less than $1,500 in parts is in the works at Michigan Technological University. The printer, which has successfully printed steel objects including sprockets, uses agas-metal arc welderto lay down thin layers of steel which can be built up into complex geometric objects.The project, led by Joshua Pearce, is still in the prototype stage but rapid progress is expected now that the details of the machine have been publicly released as open-source to the 3D printing community. “Within a month, somebody will make one that’s better than ours, I guarantee it,” said Pearce.3D printed gun ban reinforcedOne of the more disturbing proof of concept developments of 3D printing has been the rise of3D printed gunslike theLiberator plastic handgun.Now the Home Office has updated the rules around 1968 Firearms Act, which already bans the weapons themselves, to prohibit the manufacture, sale, purchase and possession of complete guns or components unless licensed.“There is no evidence that they are in widespread circulation, but the coalition government has reviewed existing firearms legislation and made it absolutely clear that it is an offence to own or manufacture a 3D printed gun without a license,” said crime prevention minister Norman Bakertalking to Reuters.A 3D printer that builds itself3D printers can make almost anything, including themselves.The RepRap projectis “humanity’s first general-purpose self-replicating manufacturing machine”, which can print the components needed to build a fully-fledged 3D printer.The initial printing machine can be made from commonly-available components, building a basic machine capable of printing the more complex parts needed to build the full 3D printer.A few bespoke components, mainly the sensors and chips required to make the printer work, still need to be bought separately but the end goal is to produce an open design that can replicate itself at low cost.3D printed pizzaProducing objects is just one of the possibilities opened up by 3D printing. Nasa is currentlyexploring options for producing food using a 3D printer.A $125,000 grant has been issued to Texas-based Systems and Materials Research develop a 3D printer design capable of creating &quot;nutritious and flavourful&quot; food for astronauts.The printers will combine powders to produce food that has the structure and texture of normal food, including smell, using &quot;digital recipes&quot;, sounding like somethingstraight out of Star Trek.A pizza was chosen as one of the project’s first goals, demonstrating the printer’s ability to mix nutrients, flavours and textures.3D printers on the high streetNo longer restricted to the internet, or bespoke shops in the US, 3D printers are already available on the British high street in stores like Maplin Electronics.Similar to Ikea furniture, the 3D printers like the£700 Velleman K8200come flat packed and require construction before they can be used, with 1kg of the plastic printing material costing £30.Assembly takes around an hour or two, while printing something the size of a smartphone case takes around 30 minutes, putting 3D printing within the grasp of many more people.Affordable 3D scanningNow that more affordable 3D printers are making their way into homes, the next important step in the second industrial revolution is the creation of content.3D scanners are traditionally expensive, however projects likethe Rubicon 3D scannerare attempting to change that with kits costing around £200 or less, using a combination of bespoke parts and common computer components.The Rubicon 3D uses an off-the-shelf webcam coupled to a 3D-printed turntable and two lasers to scan almost any small object, producing high-resolution 3D models ready for printing or manipulation on a computer.3D printing as a serviceThe 3D printing revolution isn’t limited to do-it-at-home hobbyists. Asda,among other retailers, hasbegun offering 3D printing and scanning servicesin-store.Shoppers can walk into the 3D scanning booth in Asda’s York store and replicate just about anything bigger than a shoe, including people and pets.The object is scanned within minutes in-store. The model is then sent to a specialist 3D printing company, which produces a ceramic print in up to 6m different colours at various sizes for as little as £40 within a few days shipping it back to the store, ready to pick up with your next week&apos;s shopping.• In September, the LumiFold low-cost portable 3D printerexceeded its crowdfunding target
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a recently-introduced format change, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSHopster (Free)A growing number of companies have ambitions to be &quot;the Netflix for kids&quot;, including Netflix itself. Hopster is a UK-based rival that is well worth a look from parents, offering a catalogue of TV shows including Ben &amp; Holly&apos;s Little Kingdom, Paddington Bear and 64 Zoo Lane. But its appeal is just as much about the educational games that go with them, aiming to help children learn as well as watch. It uses a monthly subscription.iPadHeyday (Free)Apple is throwing its App Store marketing weight behind Heyday this week: an app promising &quot;effortless journaling&quot;. Is to journal a verb? It is now... The app stores your photos and videos while pulling in your location data to show where they were taken, offering a choice of layouts to organise everything. It&apos;s also capable of serving all this stuff up again when you return to the same place, as an aide-memoire.iPhoneEmber - Capture, Organize and Share (Free)More mobile image organising with Ember, launched by the developer behind slick to-do list app Clear. It&apos;s a way to organise your images, including photos, screenshots and pictures you&apos;ve seen on the web. Everything can be tagged and synchronised with other iOS devices and Macs, with plans for more (premium) features in the months ahead.iPhone / iPadPNP - Portable North Pole 2013 (£2.49)The Portable North Pole website has quietly become a rather big deal for many parents, who are ordering bespoke video messages for their children from Father Christmas – often (I suspect) in a last-ditch attempt to encourage good behaviour in the final two weeks before Christmas. The app version can be used to order and watch video messages, with a Kids section containing an advent calendar, countdown and map radar to pinpoint Santa&apos;s home.iPhoneStar Trek: Vulcan Harp (£1.49)In the earliest days of the App Store, a digital lightsaber app was all the rage. Fast forward five years, and here&apos;s the first Vulcan Harp for iOS. Well, the first official Vulcan Harp, anyway: developer Shiverware says this is fully licensed from CBS Studios. This virtual version lets you pluck at 15 strings with a variety of sounds, then share your Spockish compositions on SoundCloud.iPadCreaterria (Free)Is this an app or a game? It&apos;s certainly rather marvellous. Createrria is an app for creating and sharing your own games, from puzzles to platformers. It&apos;s a genuine sandbox, with careful touchscreen controls allied to a host of items, characters and scenery with which to piece together your mini epics. It all ties into a Createrria community to share your games, with the ability to &quot;play, like and comment&quot; on other people&apos;s too. Very intriguing, although the real value will come once people stretch its capabilities in the coming weeks.iPhone / iPadBlack Jack: A Moving NovelThis looks very exciting for anyone interested in how tablet fiction may evolve beyond purely apeing physical books. Billed as &quot;the world&apos;s first moving novel&quot;, it&apos;s the work of author AR Witham: a fantasy tale with impressive animations dotted throughout, as well as an ever-evolving map and the promise of the ability to chat with other readers, and the author himself. The first instalment is free so you can get a taste for it.iPadThe Wolverine - Second Screen App (Free)Various movie studios have been experimenting with &quot;second-screen&quot; apps designed to be used as an accompaniment to watching films (which may raise hackles, but less so if you think of them as the appy equivalent of director&apos;s commentaries, for use the second or third time you watch a film). This syncs up with the Blu-ray version of The Wolverine for all manner of extra stuff, complete with the ability to &quot;flick images to your TV screen&quot;.iPhone / iPadInbox Cube (Free)Mailbox currently reigns supreme as my preferred way of struggling towards Inbox Zero: it&apos;s like playing Fruit Ninja with your inbox. Inbox Cube is another email app that takes a different angle, using &quot;cubes&quot; as a way to organise your emails and attachments, as well as digging into your inbox by recipient. It works with Gmail, Apple&apos;s iCloud, Yahoo and AOL&apos;s email services.iPhoneBloomsbury Farm Activity (£2.99)Finally, something for kids from book publisher Bloomsbury: a digital activity book based around farmyard life, with a mixture of colouring, virtual stickers, puzzles and mini-games. It&apos;s a colourful mix of entertainment and light education for young tablet users.iPadBand Stars gets you to form your own band.GAMESBand Stars (Free)After a weekend in the company of social game Band Stars, I&apos;m properly down the rabbit-hole with its charms. The game is about forming your own band, training them up and aiming for the charts, mastering different genres and lyrical subject matter along the way. It&apos;s got similar addictive qualities to the games of Japanese developer Kairosoft – Game Dev Story being the obvious comparison – with in-app purchases not used too aggressively.iPhone / iPadSpace Hulk (£6.99)This game is a blast from the past for anyone who grew up with Games Workshop board and roleplaying games: a digital version of sci-fi game Space Hulk. Your job is to battle your way through an abandoned spaceship (the titular Space Hulk) while seeing off Tyranid Genestealers aliens along the way. There are 12 missions to work through plus more available as downloadable content, with multiplayer also supported.iPadThe Wolf Among Us (£2.99)Developer Telltale Games has been winning plaudits left, right and centre for its games based on The Walking Dead. Here&apos;s something new while we wait for its take on Game of Thrones (which is coming next year). Based on the Fables graphic novels, you play Bigby, the Big Bad Wolf of fairytale legend reinvented as a sheriff. Even a little way in, it&apos;s clear it&apos;s a well-crafted and engrossing interactive take on the original series.iPhone / iPadAssassin&apos;s Creed Pirates (£2.99)Another famous gaming franchise spawns a mobile sibling, with the piratical theme of the latest Assassin&apos;s Creed console game sailing onto mobile as a fully-fledged game in its own right. The game sees you exploring the Caribbean looting and plundering, while working your way through more than 50 missions.iPhone / iPadDr. Newton: The Great Brain Adventure (Free)Brain-training games arguably haven&apos;t been as big on mobile as they should have been, although the likes of Lumosity have proved very popular. The latest startup hoping for Dr Kawashima-style success is UK-based Brainbow, with its new Dr. Newton The Brain Adventure game. It&apos;s a familiar mix of mini-games and score-tracking, and very well done.iPhoneThe Snowman and the Snowdog Game (Free)Channel 4&apos;s decision to make a new freemium game based on The Snowman could be controversial, given its likely appeal to children. However, the £20 cap on in-app purchases is welcome. And the game itself? It&apos;s an endless-runner in the style of Temple Run, except (understandably) with the odd spot of flying. You control the Snowman as he makes his way across the UK towards the North Pole.iPhone / iPadZya (Free)Pitched as &quot;the ultimate music game&quot;, Zya is just as much a music creation tool, based around monkeying about with well-known songs by the likes of Lady Gaga, Outkast and Robin Thicke. You can tap out beats and add your own vocals – complete with Auto-Tune – before sharing them online. The game aspect comes as you unlock musicians, instruments and gear to refine your tunes.iPhone / iPadKingHunt (£0.69)Slicing things up is now a genre in its own right, apparently, thanks to Fruit Ninja. KingHunt wants to push things on a bit though: it gets you slashing away at a host of enemies, collecting power-ups (well, &quot;trinkets&quot;) as you progress through the game&apos;s 12 fantastical worlds. There&apos;s lots of fingertip-fun to be had here.iPhone / iPadFormula Cartoon All-Stars (£1.49)My four year-old has just fallen hard for Adventure Time – something that may land me in trouble given it&apos;s a cartoon for older children. Anyway, some of its stars appear in this racing game from Cartoon Network alongside their peers on the channel for a rip-roaring racing game. There are more than 75 tracks drawn from the various shows, with a focus on kart-building as well as racing.iPhone / iPadDouble Dragon Trilogy (£1.99)Does the name ring a bell? It will do for a couple of generations of gamers, for this is the 1987 beat &apos;em up (plus its two sequels) reconfigured for touchscreen devices. There&apos;s even a new, third difficulty level – &quot;mobile&quot; – to take into account the lack of buttons. That said, it works with gamepad controllers. Also fun: a remastered version of the soundtrack, or the original if you prefer authenticity to your rose-tinted gaming.iPhone / iPad•Read previous Best iPhone and iPad Apps weekly roundups
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.There&apos;s a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSSky Go Tablet (Free)BSkyB has been putting plenty of welly behind its Sky Go service this year, and this is the latest example: a proper tablet-optimised version for Android devices – at least those running Android 4.0 or later, with the odd launch gremlin for those running 4.4 KitKat. It&apos;s a way to watch Sky live over Wi-Fi or the mobile network, along with films and children&apos;s shows on-demand.Quip (Free)Quip is the startup launched by former Facebook chief technical officer Bret Taylor, aiming to shake up the way people collaborate on documents. That means a cloud-synchronised word processing app that runs across smartphones, tablet and computers, with an emphasis on people working together on files, including messaging about their latest updates.Cal - Calendar by Any.do (Free)More productivity here with Cal, a calendar app by developer Any.do that works in maps, contacts and social networks to ensure you&apos;re always up to speed on where you&apos;re going and who you&apos;re meeting. It also connects neatly to the developer&apos;s previous app, task-list Any.do, to ensure you don&apos;t forget to tick off your digital to-do list.Stevie (Free)The iOS version of Stevie has been getting a fair amount of attention at tech and television conferences this year, but now it&apos;s on Android too. It gets you to log in to Facebook and/or Twitter, then pulls out the videos that people are linking to, making them a stream of stuff to watch. Note: it&apos;s only as useful as your friends&apos; links are interesting.VSCO Cam (Free)Don&apos;t be fooled into thinking there isn&apos;t interest in new photography apps, despite the mobile popularity of established apps like Instagram. VSCO Cam is getting plenty of &quot;at last!&quot; reviews on the Google Play store, having transferred to Android as an impressively-slick app for shooting and editing your snaps. An in-app store of &quot;packs&quot; to tweak your images is how it makes its money.Pingdom (Free)A serious tool for people who run their own servers and websites, this, tying into the existing Pingdom online service. You can set push notifications to ensure you don&apos;t miss alerts, and the app does a good job of presenting complex information simply on a smaller screen, to help you quickly spot problems and respond.PNP - Portable North Pole 2013 (£2.31)The Portable North Pole website has quietly become a rather big deal for many parents, who are ordering bespoke video messages for their children from Father Christmas – often (I suspect) in a last-ditch attempt to encourage good behaviour in the final two weeks before Christmas. The app version can be used to order and watch video messages, with a Kids section containing an advent calendar, countdown and map radar to pinpoint Santa&apos;s home.Jamie Oliver&apos;s Countdown to Christmas (Free)And more Christmas countdown fare, this time from chef Jamie Oliver and some of the people he&apos;s recruited for his Food Tube multi-channel YouTube network. It&apos;s an advent calendar with videos that promise to &quot;get you in the festive spirit&quot;, including meal suggestions. Why all the yellow? It&apos;s a branding tie-up with mayonnaise-maker Hellmann&apos;s.myPill Birth Control Reminder (Free)Finally in this week&apos;s apps section, a tool to help women remember to take their contraceptive pill, with daily reminders, the ability to track any side-effects for future medical reference, and even a predictive feature to help plan holidays around periods.Heroes of Dragon Age for Android.GAMESHeroes of Dragon Age (Free)Acclaimed RPG series Dragon Age has a new mobile spin-off from EA this week, with all the party-building, monster-battling action that fans and newcomers alike would want. A few hours in, it&apos;s an engrossing game with plenty of scope for strategic tweaking, with the in-app purchases aspect not getting in the way as yet.Assassin&apos;s Creed Pirates (£2.99)Another famous gaming franchise spawns a mobile sibling, with the piratical theme of the latest Assassin&apos;s Creed console game sailing onto mobile as a fully-fledged game in its own right. The game sees you exploring the Caribbean looting and plundering, while working your way through more than 50 missions.Dr. Newton: The Brain Adventure (Free)Brain-training games arguably haven&apos;t been as big on mobile as they should have been, although the likes of Lumosity have proved very popular. The latest startup hoping for Dr Kawashima-style success is UK-based Brainbow, with its new Dr. Newton The Brain Adventure game. It&apos;s a familiar mix of mini-games and score-tracking, and very well done.Badland (Free)Badland is the latest well-loved indie game to make the leap from iOS to Android, as developers recognise the growing potential of Google&apos;s platform for games. It&apos;s a platform-adventure set in an eerie forest, with beautiful visuals, slick physics and plenty of exploration in store. I&apos;m also a big fan of the one-device multiplayer mode, which adds a dash of fun.The Snowman and the Snowdog Game (Free)Channel 4&apos;s decision to make a new freemium game based on The Snowman could be controversial, given its likely appeal to children. However, the £20 cap on in-app purchases is welcome. And the game itself? It&apos;s an endless-runner in the style of Temple Run, except (understandably) with the odd spot of flying. You control the Snowman as he makes his way across the UK towards the North Pole.Ravenmark: Mercenaries (Free)A good week for fans of fantasy-themed strategy games, with the release of turn-based wargame Ravenmark: Mercenaries. You&apos;re in charge of turning said mercenaries into a highly-tuned army, ready to wage war on AI opponents and human players alike. I&apos;ve barely scratched the surface of its tactics in my short time with the game, but it&apos;s accessible enough to appeal beyond just wargame buffs.Double Dragon Trilogy (£2.69)Does the name ring a bell? It will do for a couple of generations of gamers, for this is the 1987 beat &apos;em up (plus its two sequels) reconfigured for touchscreen devices. There&apos;s even a new, third difficulty level – &quot;mobile&quot; – to take into account the lack of buttons. That said, it works with gamepad controllers. Also fun: a remastered version of the soundtrack, or the original if you prefer authenticity to your rose-tinted gaming.Formula Cartoon All-Stars (£1.27)My four year-old has just fallen hard for Adventure Time – something that may land me in trouble given it&apos;s a cartoon for older children. Anyway, some of its stars appear in this racing game from Cartoon Network alongside their peers on the channel for a rip-roaring racing game. There are more than 75 tracks drawn from the various shows, with a focus on kart-building as well as racing.Savant - Ascent (£1.22)There&apos;s a decent amount of buzz around this Amiga-style action-shooter, as you reverse-plummet (is that an acceptable verb) up a tower, letting sundry enemies have it with your weapons. Music is a big focus, as are the power-ups unlocked as you play the game. It&apos;s tough, but a challenge keener Android gamers will relish.Micro Miners (£0.57)&quot;Where&apos;s my lemmings?&quot; asks the Google Play listing for this game by Noodlecake Studios, which wears its influences (er, Lemmings) firmly on its sleeves. Thankfully the results are fun rather than a tired homage, thanks to the work that&apos;s gone into the touchscreen controls as you dig out tunnels by tapping and swiping, so your miners can collect gold, silver and coal.Clash of Puppets (£1.83)Sounds like a Metallica song, but plays like something much more fun: a &quot;hack&apos;n&apos;slash platformer&quot; that takes its visual inspiration from B-movies. It looks very good, but plays well too, even if you don&apos;t have the MOGA game controller that it supports. The survival mode looks to have most long-term appeal, too, as you compare scores with friends.
On 11 December, Bafta is holding one of its regular video game Question Time events in which audience members get to pitch their own queries to a selection of industry insiders. This month, Guardian games editor Keith Stuart will be chairing the discussion, focusing heavily on independent developers and the next-generation consoles.Joining Keith onstage will be Thomas Was Alone developer Mike Bithell, Team 17 chief Debbie Bestwick, Bossa Studios co-founder, Roberta Lucca, CEO of Mastertronic and chairman of Ukie, Andy Payne, and Sony&apos;s indie developer guru, Shahid Ahmad, who has helped to bring so many smaller studios onto the PlayStation 4 roster. We&apos;ll be talking about the changes in the industry that have allowed independent teams and lone coders to prosper in the console sector – although with the audience in control of questions, anything could happen.If you&apos;d like to come along tothe event, which is taking place at Bafta&apos;s HQ on Piccadilly from 7pm, we have 20 tickets to give away. Simply email Bafta atevents@bafta.orgproviding your name and confirming that you are over 18. You can request up to two tickets, although please only ask for two if you&apos;re certain someone else can come along. Bafta will contact you on before Wednesday if you have been successful.Terms and conditions1. The Bafta Question Time competition (the &quot;Competition&quot;) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over. (ID may be requested at the event.)2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited (&quot;GNM&quot;), their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected to the Competition.3. Entry into the Competition is acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must email Bafta atevents@bafta.orgwith &quot;Bafta Games Question Time competition&quot; in the subject line.5. Up to two tickets per person. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to Bafta.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The Competition closes at12:00 on 10 December 2013. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. The winners will be chosen from a random draw of entries.9. 20 winners will each receive a ticket to the Bafta Question Time event. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize.10. The winners will be notified by email on or before 11 December 2013 and given details of how to claim their prize. If a winner rejects their prize, then the winner&apos;s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winners by GNM by 11 December 2013.12. Details of the winners can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Technology Desk, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.13. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.14. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.15. The winners may be required for promotional activity.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM for death, personal injury, fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person&apos;s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.20. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The Competition will be governed by English law.22. Promoter: Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
In video games the following rule should be accepted as a universal truth: if something seems too good to be true, it&apos;s probably going to break your console. Since last week, a supposed hack for the Xbox One has been circulating on forums and across social media. Claiming to unlock the new console&apos;s ability to play Xbox 360 titles, the button input sequence allows users to access the developer menu that every Xbox One machine has hidden away. However, what the six-step process actually does is lock your £430 purchase into an endless reboot cycle, effectively destroying it.Microsoft has confirmed that there is no hidden backwards compatibility on the Xbox One console – it simply will not play Xbox 360 games. Xbox One spokesman Larry Hyrb tweeted on Friday:To be clear there is no way to make your Xbox One backwards compatible &amp; performing steps to attempt this could make your console inoperable&mdash; Larry Hryb (@majornelson)December 6, 2013The prank is thought to have originated on the notorious 4Chan message board, an anarchic yet hugely popular forum originally set up as a discussion centre for Japanese comics and animation. However, the site&apos;s users have been responsible for a string of internet jokes, memes and hoaxes. This year they tricked some iPhone owners into believing that the iOS7 update would make their handset waterproof. It&apos;s not clear how many people actually fell for the hoax, although Twitter saw several angry and frustrated messages, seemingly from people with ex-iPhones.Fraud fiestaThis is not the first high-profile scam to hit Xbox fans since the machine&apos;s launch on 22 November. Nottingham teenager Peter Clatworthy wasduped into paying £450 for a photo of an Xbox Oneafter misreading a cunningly titled offer on the auction site. Ebay later said the sale broke its rules and that it would pursue the seller for a refund. Sensing a PR opportunity, however, Clatworthy&apos;s local branch of computer game retailer CEX laterpresented him with a free machine.An image of the Xbox One prank currenty doing the rounds of social media sites and forums.DO NOT FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONSThe 4Chan Xbox One prank, however, raises two interesting issues. First, the site&apos;s users clearly understand the demand for backwards compatibility among many gamers who don&apos;t want to keep both a new and an old console under their TV – or who are coming to a console series for the first time and want to play older titles that are usually better than the launch line-up for a fresh console. Neither the Xbox One not the PlayStation 4 are natively backwards compatible, although it is likely both will eventually make classic last-generation games available for digital download.Second, is the access to the Xbox One&apos;s developer environment. Microsoft has made a big deal of the fact that every one of its new consoles can also be used for developing games, meaning that smaller studios won&apos;t have to purchase a full official development kit, which can often cost around £20,000. However, the fact that non-developers can access the development environment with a sequence of button presses and then essentially brick their consoles, has led some to question the machine&apos;s security. Although, by the counter argument is that users probably shouldn&apos;t get as far as inputting a series of commands into their new hardware simply because the internet told them to.• Xbox One: lots of potential but ultimately a PS4 underdog – review• Xbox One: hands-on review - video• &apos;Waterproof iPhone&apos; ad hoax tricked users into destroying their handsets
From Candy Crush Saga to Instagram, developing mobile applications has never been more potentially lucrative. But how about learning to code on a smartphone?That&apos;s the goal ofCodecademy: Hour of Code, an iPhone app released this week by the founders of US education startupCodecademy, whose website teaches people to code in languages including JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Python and Ruby.The company&apos;s first mobile app is starting with a simpler goal: to help iPhone owners &quot;learn the basics of coding in under one hour&quot; through a set of quick demonstrations and exercises designed to be completed in short bursts throughout the day.&quot;Our app gets you started by introducing you to the basic concepts behind the apps on your phone and the websites you visit. You’ll learn to understand the basic structure of code when you see it,&quot; explains its App Store listing.&quot;Use your phone for what it’s good for - quick, fun exercises on the go. Program when you get home and stay fresh by reviewing on the go.&quot;Codecademy was founded in 2011 by Zach Sims and Ryan Bubinski, and has since raised $12.5m of funding to fuel its ambitions of demystifying programming. More than 450,000 signed up for online courses as part of the company&apos;sCode Year initiativein 2012, with more than 60% of its users now located outside the US.&quot;Codecademy was originally built for someone like me to learn how to code. Now, we want to help provide an easy way for people to get the programming skills they need to learn skills, start businesses, and find new jobs,&quot;Sims told The Guardianin October this year.&quot;We&apos;re all looking to make learning as interactive and fun as possible and to continue helping our users change the world. Most other programming instruction companies teach by using videos or text-based approaches. We think the best way to learn how to code is to learn by doing – to actually code.&quot;At the time of writing, Hour of Code has not been released for other smartphones, notably Android. It is possible Codecademy was waiting for the iPhone version to be approved by Apple before launching on Android though – an increasingly familiar pattern for smartphone apps.Codecademy isn&apos;t the first company to explore mobile apps as a way to teach people to program. A number of startups have launched apps in 2012 and 2013 to introduce children to coding, includingHakitzu Elite: Robot Hackers,Hopscotch,Light-bot,KodableandMove the Turtle.Another US startup, Play-i, has justraised $1.4m through a crowdfunding campaignon its website to launch two consumer robots, Bo and Yana, which children will learn to control by coding in their companion iOS and Android apps.•Learning to code: Q&amp;A with Codecademy CEO Zach Sims
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUX Critique &gt;&gt; TumblrUser interface/experience critiques of iOS 7. All good points. The strongest criticism is that it's not clear what is a button and what is "just" text.Demand Media: rise and fall of a content farm &gt;&gt; VarietyThe harvest is failing:Revenues for the most recent quarter were down year-over-year for the first time since that IPO. Co-founder Richard Rosenblatt is no longer CEO as of October, and the search for his replacement is under way. Demand and Rosenblatt declined comment.The chief exec's role will be tough to fill given how steeply Demand has declined over its seven-year run. Changes in Google's search algorithms have twice hammered the young company in recent years, leaving its few brands that managed to get significant marketplace traction, including eHow.com and Livestrong, haemorrhaging traffic.Now Demand's focus is on spinning off the only healthy component of its business — domain registration — while trying to motivate its content brands' rapidly eroding audience to spend money on its growing collection of unproven e-commerce ventures.The revenue from parked domains which people clicked onto is terrifyingly large.Bitcoin mining profitability calculator &gt;&gt; BitcoinxIncreasingly it looks like it's only worth doing if your electricity is free. How soon before organised crime is using the electricity that was used for growing marijuana for Bitcoin mining instead? Might be less profitable - but less criminal too.How profitable is AWS? &gt;&gt; Digits To DollarsJay Greenberg:Assume that through the magic of virtualization AWS can run 5 simultaneous users on that server. The figure could be much higher or much lower, but this is a reasonable average. And let's assume the server runs non-stop for two years, but is down for 20% of that time. This accounts for slack time vacancies or what have you, but is just a degree of conservatism for the model. Add all that up, and those $40,000 in costs are far outweighed by the $140,000 in revenue they generate.Is Marissa Mayer helping Yahoo — or hurting the struggling tech giant? &gt;&gt; Vanity FairBut a glittering surface often deflects attention from a messier reality, and that's true with Mayer and Yahoo. No one wants to sound as if they aren't rooting for Yahoo or for her, and because Mayer didn't cooperate for this article, even her friends were often unwilling to speak on the record about her. She's anything but easy to categorize, in ways that are both interesting and possibly troubling for Yahoo's future. "She is a confusing person," says someone who has worked with her closely. "It is a mistake to paint her as an angel or as a devil." Another executive who worked with her agrees that she is a hard person to understand. "There are some parts of Marissa World that are just inexplicably weird," he says. "It doesn't add up."A long read - make time for it.Slowly they modernize: a federal agency that still uses floppy disks &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comEvery day, The Federal Register, the daily journal of the United States government, publishes onits websiteand in a thick booklet around 100 executive orders, proclamations, proposed rule changes and other government notices that federal agencies are mandated to submit for public inspection.So far, so good.It turns out, however, that the Federal Register employees who take in the information for publication from across the government still receive some of it on the 3.5in plastic storage squares that have become all but obsolete in the US.Apple's App Store hits one million apps in the United States &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsApple has approved a total of approximately 1,439,451 apps since the App Store opened in 2008 and over the course of the year, has been creeping towards the million milestone. Of the 1 million apps available for download, more than half a million are available for Apple's iPad, and over 900,000 are available for the iPhone. The company has now paid out more than $13 billion to App Store developers.CVE-2013-6271: Remove device locks from Android phone &gt;&gt; cureblog Security BlogThe vulnerability described here enables any rogue app at any time to remove all existing device locks activated by a user. Curesec disclosed this vulnerability as Google Android Security Team was not responding any more about this issue.Affects all versions of Android from 4.0 to 4.3; (no vulnerability in 4.4). There's a downloadable APK on the page which you can use to test it; Google's package installer lets run without comment. And it will turn off all your device locks.Low-Cost tablets are the netbooks of the tablet category &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:I propose we look at low-cost tablets in a similar light as Netbooks. If you recall, a Netbook was in essence a truncated PC. It looked like a PC but failed miserably when someone bought it and tried to use it like a PC. Hence the astronomical return rates we saw in the early Netbook days. Netbooks were treated as second-class citizens to PCs by everyone who made them and by retailers. The term itself was invented to try and call these devices out separately as to not confuse consumers into thinking they were PCs.The same issue now exists with these low-cost tablets. Consumers who have bought them and tried to use them like higher priced tablets were disappointed. These devices are simply weak tablets in the same ways the Netbook was a weak PC. Both barely sufficed at a few tasks and were extremely limited in their use cases.…For those of us who track and count these things, the tablet market is more complex and filled with variety than many other segments we have tracked before.AT&amp;T follows T-Mobile by splitting phone cost from service plans &gt;&gt; BloombergAT&amp;T, bowing to pressure from smaller rival T-Mobile US, introduced a new line of service plans that it expects will save customers $15 a month on average by excluding device costs.The Mobile Share Value plan, which will roll out on 8 December, eliminates subsidies used to lower the price of phones. Users who either own a device or pay for one in installments can start at $45 a month for 300 megabytes of data, along with unlimited text and talk, according to a statement today. AT&amp;T's current price for a similar plan is $70, whether or not the customer already has a phone.The US discovers SIM-free contracts, though it's still gouging customers. $45 for 300MB?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The US supreme court is to rule on the divisive issue of what kinds of software are eligible for patent protection, in a case being closely watched by the technology industry.The court&apos;s review – which doesn&apos;t yet have a clear timetable – may prove key to deciding under what circumstances companies can be sued for using certain software in their products. It could also have far-reaching impacts on how some technology companies value their intellectual property, which often includes software-based patents.The courtsaid in a one-line orderthat it would heara case brought by Alice Corporation Pty, an Australian company which holds a patent for a computer system that facilitates financial transactions. The patent is challenged by CLS Bank International as part of a six-year legal fight. An appeal court hearing recently found that the method wasn&apos;t valid for patenting - but couldn&apos;t agree on why.The supreme court took no action on another case raising the same issue involving a patent dispute between WildTangent Inc and Ultramercial Inc.The deep interest that the software industry and patent experts have in what is a threshold issue in patent litigation was underscored by the number of companies and industry groups that asked the court to decide the issue.Interested partiesCompanies including Google, Hewlett-Packard, Facebook and Netflix had already signalled their interest in the issue by asking the court to hear the WildTangent case. Many also filed briefs in lower courts.The first US software patent wasawarded in April 1968, for a method of sorting data: its applicant, Martin Goetz, reasoned that the sorting method&apos;s &quot;inventive step&quot; – its special method of achieving its end – could be protected under patent law, but not by copyright law which would only protect the specific code he had written, but not the sorting method the code employed.Patents are only awarded if they include an &quot;inventive step&quot; and are non-obvious. In a brief analysis of the issue being considered by the US supreme court, the US patent specialist lawyers Kelley Drye &amp; Warrensaythat:The issue with computer-implemented inventions typically is whether the patent is simply claiming some broad mathematical concept, thought process or other basic tool of innovation. The concern is that giving someone exclusive rights to basic tools of innovation (mathematical equations) would keep others from using those tools, thus stifling innovation: how much progress would be made if only one person was allowed to use addition, subtraction or multiplication.They add:For example, a concern often is whether someone has simply claimed “do a mathematical computation that people have done before by hand or in their mind, but use a computer to do it instead.” The mathematical computation aspect concerns patentable subject matter issues, but the more visceral reaction often is that’s not an innovation given how obvious it would have been to use a computer to do the computation once computers were availableThe decision could have enormous impacts if the supreme court decides that some software cannot be patented, especially that which applies to carrying out mathematical calculations. A number of &quot;standards-essential patents&quot; used by smartphones for connecting to wireless and mobile networks in effect embody the implementation of a mathematical formula.If the court decides that those can&apos;t be patented, it would at a stroke wipe out substantial amounts from the intellectual property of a number of companies.Struggling to applyWith the rise of computer-based products in recent years, courts have struggled to apply patent law. Some legal experts, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties group, say that courts are too keen to uphold patents on ideas that are too vague to deserve protection.Such vague patents can be used against big tech companies, which say they are forced to spend money defending lawsuits instead of investing in research and development. Technology companies are particularly concerned about litigation brought by so-called &quot;patent trolls,&quot; defined as companies that hold patents only for the purpose of suing other companies seeking to develop new products.Companies differ over what type of patent protections software products should receive. While some, like Google,favour looser protections, others, like IBM, would prefer that most software be eligible for patenting.The US court of appeals for the federal circuit, which has primary responsibility for interpreting patent law, has struggled to adopt a test that judges can use to review software patent claims, with various judges reaching different conclusions.&quot;Hopefully, the case will accomplish at the supreme court what it could not at the federal circuit: greater clarity in the law,&quot; said Alice&apos;s attorney, Carter Phillips. CLS&apos;s attorney, Mark Perry, declined to comment.The legal question boils down to how innovative an invention should have to be to receive legal protection.Questions over the lawThe law in question is the US Patent Act, which states that anyone who &quot;invents or discovers a new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter&quot;, or an improvement of an existing one, can get a patent.An invention related to an abstract idea can be patented, but it must include a way of applying the idea.Mark Lemley, a patent law expert at Stanford law school, wrote in a brief filed on behalf of Facebook and others that the appeals court had left the law &quot;hopelessly confused.&quot;Lemley wrote in an email on Friday that he expects the high court to agree with the appeals court that the patents in question were not patent eligible.&quot;But the devil will be in the detail of the court&apos;s opinion,&quot; he added.Dennis Crouch, a professor at the University of Missouri School of Law who blogs about patent law, said he is amazed that courts have yet to determine once and for all that software can be patented.The confusion has led patent lawyers to play down the software elements of inventions when applying for patents at the US patent and trademark office, he added.&quot;My hope is that this case will be a vehicle for the supreme court to clarify the law so that we can get back to business rather than playing language games at the patent office,&quot; Crouch said.
It's Monday 9 December! How is everyone?
Price £13,995MPG 60.1Top speed 115mphNo one owns more Barbie dolls than Bettina Dorfmann (15,000); no donkey is taller than Oklahoma Sam (5ft&nbsp;1in), and nobody has broken more concrete blocks with their fist while gripping an egg than Joe Alexander (24)… Don't you just love  a winner? And their records are great because you just add up the numbers and… boff… there's your champion. So, surely, there is a clear-cut answer to the question: what's the world's best-selling car? Well no, not exactly.Fordand Toyota both claim the title.Earlier this year,Toyotastated that their Corolla was the undisputed champion, but then Ford got up in their faces by talking up their boy Focus as the winner. Bragging rights count in this game as both are vying for sales in developing markets, and being able to announce to a&nbsp;benighted market ignorant of your charms that you make the "world's best-selling car" has all the persuasive impact of being belted about the head by Freddie Flintstone's club. Who wants nuance when you can have clout?So whatarethe facts? Last year, Ford sold 1,020,000 Focuses, while Toyota sold 1,160,000 Corollas. So, it's Toyota… Whoa, this is where it gets a little hairsplitty, as not all Corollas are Corollas, some are Aurises. Eh? Same car, same maker, different name. But Ford's Focus is called  a Focus everywhere. Therefore, figures adjusted, Ford sneaks the nameplate title on a technicality!Anyway… both are phenomenally competent world-beating motors and you'll be very happy with either. This week, however, I have been driving just one of the million-plusFocusesthat have rolled out of a dealership somewhere on earth this year. The car has been a&nbsp;relentless, massive sales hit ever since the original Mk1 appeared in showrooms in 1998 – and this is now the third generation.Inside job: the clearly laid-out interior.Why it works so well for customers is no secret. It's well-made, efficient and reliable; it's arguably the best driving car in its class; it looks great; it's roomy; it's packed with hi-tech gadgetry and safety systems and… what else? Oh, yes, the clincher, it's cheap. The vast economies of scale that both Toyota and Ford bring to their prize fighters have pretty much closed the shop when it comes to the family saloon (except, of course, for VW's contender, the Golf).For a car with such universal appeal, the Focus has a remarkably distinctive shape. Often such global players sink beneath the waves of anodyne compromise, but this new model has dramatic triangular air-intakes at the front alongside bug-eyed spotlights. The side panels are both creased and scooped and the rear features sculptural tail lights and a flying lip on the roof. It has real presence, especially if you get it in Candy Red or Burnished Glow.The Focus wears its gadgetry lightly. The list of active and passive driver aids would soothe the brow of even the most anxious mother (Active City Stop, Lane Keeping Aid, Driver Alert and Forward Alert have all received the highest Euro NCAP awards). If you manage to crash a&nbsp;Focus you have exceeded the lowest expectations of Ford's safety officers.As you would expect there is a&nbsp;host of engine options to choose from, ranged to suit the driving styles of the languid (1.6-litre petrol) to the lairy (the 247bhp ST). The best of the new crop is the award-winning 1-litre EcoBoost turbo petrol, which is economical and brilliant fun to drive. For ultimate efficiency go for the ECOnetic model – which looks and drives like any other Focus, but delivers more than 80mpg and just 88g/km CO2emissions.If you like backing winners, should you buy a Ford or a Toyota? Might be easier to start collecting Barbies…Pagani Huayra: art, emotion, technologyHave a look atXCar's incredible tribute to the one of the most amazing Italian sports cars on the road. The words poetry and motion come to mind. Superb stuff… Though you'll need to wear shades to look at those interiors.Gripping stuffAs temperatures plummet and experts predict a harsh winter for the UK, Volvo invitedMade in Chelsea's Louise Thompson to test out the V40 and demonstrate the effectiveness of winter tyres for driving in snow. She had to drive up the icy slope at the Snowdome. No sign of Spencer anywhere and she managed to do it without crying!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Aldi is the latest retailer to leap into the highly competitive budget tablet computer market with its new £79.99 low-end Medion Lifetab Android tablet.On sale from today, the Medion Lifetab E7316 faces stiff competition from other 7in tablets, including Google’s £199 Nexus 7, Amazon’s £99Kindle Fireand Tesco’s Hudl, which retails for£119or less.While the 7in Medion Lifetab undercuts most of the competition by at least £20 – including Google’s Nexus 7 and Apple’s iPad mini – it does not compete so well on features, with similar specifications toArgos’ poorly received Bush MyTablet.Compared to therecently released Tesco Hudl, the MyTablet offers a lower resolution screen, half the storage, a less powerful processor and reduced battery life.Available black, the Aldi tablet has full access to the Google Play store and can run any of the 850,000 standard Android apps.The Lifetab will come pre-loaded a series of free Android apps including a media player app, a drawing app, a Microsoft Office compatible work suite and a 30-day trail of Kaspersky Tablet Security.In the first half of 2013, almost 6m tablets were sold in the UK and demand is expected to accelerate into Christmas.Nearly 230m tablets expected to be sold in 2013According to data provided by research firm IDC, tablet computers are set to overtake PC sales this year, growing to 229.3m units worldwide.Meanwhile, 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK in 2012, according research firm CCS Insight, and more than half of sales came in the last quarter of the year alone.&quot;When it comes to tablets, the intensity of competition between UK retailers is staggering,&quot; said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with CCS Insight.High street retailer Argos sold 1m tablets in the UK in 2012, and recently Tesco announced that it had sold 300,000 Hudl tablets since its launch at the end of September.Aldi admits that it is “by no means the first supermarket to launch a budget tablet” but that at £80 it is “still one of the most competitive” meeting consumer interest for low-priced technology gifts.&quot;Tablets under £100 have excellent gifting potential this Christmas,&quot; says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst with the research firm IDC. &quot;Parents looking to give gifts to children and teenagers are unlikely to spend £400-500 on a tablet, so tablets sub-£100 are less of an investment and more of an attractive disposable gift.&quot;The Lifetab E7316 has a standard-definition 1,024 x 600 7in screen and runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean. It is powered by a 1.6GHz quad-core processor, and has 8GB of storage as well as microSD and USB-host capability for connecting peripherals and storage.A front-facing VGA camera enables video chat, and a two-megapixel camera on the back will capture photos and video. A micro USB port provides PC connectivity and charging, while Bluetooth 2.1 allows connections to wireless headphones.&apos;Tablets falling out of cereal packets&apos;Analysts agree that low-end tablets come at a price.Wood: &quot;At £79 tablets approaching &apos;disposable technology&apos; levels with consumers barely pausing when they make a purchase. The sting in the tail is that price is obviously a key factor in product quality and consumers risk being disappointed by ultra low cost tablets.&quot;&quot;You can be seduced by the price, but be very careful what you’re getting – there are trade offs when you get down to this kind of price,” explained Wood, quipping that &quot;if it carries on like this tablets will be falling out of cereal packets.&quot;Budget tablet sales have been boosted by the demand for screens from children, says Wood, as parents use them as both education and entertainment tools.“The tablet has almost become the lazy childcare tool. It’s a kid pacifier – just pass the tablet into the back of the car to keep the children happy.”•Tesco’s Hudl tabletis aimed at people who wouldn’t ordinarily think of buying a tablet computer but offers a lot of Android for your money - if you can find one in stock
It is cluttered with bikes, skateboards and designers' models, but the ideas factory that sits at the symbolic heart of Apple's vast Californian campus is also the workspace of perhaps the world's most successful designer.It is here that Sir Jonathan ("Jony") Ive gathers his select team for twice-weekly brainstorming sessions around wooden project tables – the same kind found in Apple stores around the world – always beginning with barista-quality coffee.It is arguably at these three-hour meetings that the 46-year-old from Chingford, Essex, has powered the American tech giant to become the world's most valuable listed company, currently worth £305bn.Because Ive likes to work to the accompaniment of loud techno music there is an elaborate speaker setup, but the inner sanctum of his personal office has just a desk, lamp and classic 1976 Supporto chair.Rare glimpses into working practices at Apple have come froman unofficial biography of Ive, published last week. But getting behind the iron curtain of secrecy created by Apple's former boss Steve Jobs was not an easy task: that secretiveness has proved commercially valuable. The book's author, Leander Kahney, received an "apologetic" rejection from Ive when asking for co-operation, but a last-minute breakthrough with former colleagues has produced some previously unknown insights.The picture that emerges is that Apple's painstakingly detailed processes and famous perfectionism stems more from Ive than even the late Jobs – though the pair had an intense and close working relationship. At Jobs's funeral in 2011, Ive described him as his "best and most loyal friend", as someone who confided "dopey ideas" in him. "Sometimes they were truly dreadful. But sometimes they took the air from the room, and they left us both completely silent."Ive was also not afraid to berate his boss for taking credit for his ideas, and once warned him that the perception of Jobs as the engine of Apple's innovation left the company vulnerable.While stories abound of Jobs's ruthlessness, Kahney's assessment of Ive is quite different. "Very polite, even-tempered, no screaming and shouting, super easy to get along with, very attentive, very kind.  He would always take a bullet for his team. If anything went wrong, he would take the blame personally."The son of silversmith and educationist Mike Ive – who was a key figure in expanding design and technology in British schools – Jonathan's sense of design has brought him a $17m home on San Francisco's billionaires' row, a personal fortune of $130m, and a string of fast cars. In one, an Aston Martin DB9, he had a near-fatal crash, which prompted a big pay rise from Apple. "They realised how important he was to the company," says Kahney.Ive has been feted by former colleagues at school and college, where his commitment and talent stood out from early on, but it was his close relationship with his father that fed his interest in industrial design. Mike, says Kahney, was far from being a pushy father. "He was just nurturing his son's talent. Design was sort of the family business, and they were both obsessed with design – they loved to talk about it all the time."Kahney doesn't underplay Ive's talent, but believes things might have been different if he had ended up elsewhere. "There are a lot of potential Jony Ives out there, but they don't work in organisations that have the mindboggling resources of a company like Apple, or that commitment to enabling a design studio as the central R&amp;D lab of this gigantic company."Jobs was as obsessed with design as Ive's dad was, and they bonded over that and over this crazy obsession. They would move heaven and Earth to make the most perfect iPod, and the commitment to doing it – the years and years of work to perfect the product – both of them loved to do that. They just got a huge kick out of it."Kahney  compares Apple's design team of 16 to that of Samsung, which employs 1,000. "Samsung has designers all over the world, designing everything from TVs to fridges. But they're all siloed and on a product cycle, a product schedule that keeps cranking this stuff out, and they tend to chuck a lot of stuff at the wall."Ive was recruited by Robert Brunner, founder of the company's industrial design group, after a couple of unsuccessful attempts. Ive caught his eye as a student with an ambitious prototype phone. "What Brunner liked was that Ive had worked out not only how it would work, but how he would get it made in a factory," says Kahney. "Students don't go that extra step or think that far ahead."His 21 years at Apple have not been a litany of unqualified successes.His first project was the second-generation Newton tablet, which hasn't exactly gone down as a design classic. Kahney blames technological challenges and the engineering-led culture of the company at the time.The turning point came when Jobs returned to the company in 1996 and brutally cut 4,200 posts. "Apple was very engineering-led until Jobs came back. Ive had been there for five years, and he was about to quit because he couldn't take the battles with the engineers any longer," says Kahney. "When Jobs came back, he became Jony's enabler, his muscle. They flipped it around with the iMac, and that was the product that completely changed the engineering culture."Ive's team had been working on MP3 player prototypes for years before Jobs's return, but kept them behind closed doors until a tiny hard drive was available. It was not until 2001 that the iPod was first launched."The designers spend most of their time in the factories working out how to manufacture these things. And a lot of their big design breakthroughs have actually been manufacturing breakthroughs," says Kahney, who thinks the company will realise another of Jobs's ambitions – to have robot-driven factories in the US.That development is a fascinating hint at what Apple could roll out when the technology catches up with its design team, Kahney believes. "I know for a fact they've got TVs, wearables, all kinds of automotive technology. There's all this kind of stuff sitting there in the lab that they've developed, and they're waiting for the right go-to-market strategy for all of these products."
Providing an epilogue toTools of DestructionandA Crack in Time,Nexusis a bite-size version of the regular Ratchet and Clank games and has an understandably smaller scope. The core gameplay remains the same but with a prominent anti-gravity theme – Ratchet can jump from wall to wall in zero-G, create anti-grav pathways and Clank's "nether dimension" sections involve manipulating gravity's direction.Also new is the long-overdue addition of a jetpack, which successfully combines air-to-air gunplay and fuel management in a fashion that feels natural and will, with luck, become a series staple. Equally, while many of the weapons are derivatives of old designs, there are just enough new ideas to keep things fresh. Yet while there is innovation here, the game suffers from odd pacing and a sudden ending that emphasises its meagre (six- to seven-hour) length and while all the hallmarks of the series are present and correct, both depth and longevity are lacking.
Last year's strategy standout,XCOM: Enemy Unknown,gets a makeover with a good old-fashioned expansion pack for PC, also available as a "Commander's Edition" bundle on consoles. The already brilliant original game, which saw players take command of Earth's defence against an alien invasion, is tweaked here almost to perfection, packing a slew of new elements.Enemy Withinalso draws out the game's narrative themes, emphasising the moral tension engendered by the cybernetic development of your ragtag squad of commandos as they desperately try to stave off fearsome extraterrestrials.XCOM's brilliance really lies in how it uses narrative to make game features understandable. All the new elements here complicate decision-making in a very intuitive way, so it's never overwhelming. Instead,Enemy Withinrevitalises the game for old players and makes it better for new ones, turning an already great game into a masterpiece.
For many who come to playProteus, they may question whether it's a game at all, for here is a creation without explicit goals and where interaction is of but fleeting concern. Whether it is a game (indeed, whether it is in fact theanti-game) really doesn't matter, because definitions aside,Proteusremains a really rather lovely experience, one where the player is left without guidance to wander small islands, taking in the passing seasons. IfProteus, whose visuals hint at toddlers' first paintings, occupies any particular genre, it's that of an audio plaything. Moving around the game world, passing different plants, animals and terrain alters its delicately babbling soundscape with satisfying grace. It also courts a sense of mystery: to play is to try and understand what the game is – repetitive, placid, directionless – and those really areProteus's strengths. Video gaming's own version of a stroll though the countryside.
Amid the launch furore for the newiPad Air(lighter, faster, smaller), it was easy to lose sight of the fact Apple was now giving its creativity suite to users free with every new purchase. For those who did not splash out on it before, there are some nifty surprises.Pages,NumbersandKeynoteprovide effective alternatives to their Microsoft Office equivalents, with the ease with which documents can be shared over the cloud a particular boon.GarageBandandiMovieprovide basic tools for amateur musicians and film-makers respectively, but it'siPhotothat will be probably be the most heavily used.It may not have the depth of Photoshop, but for a non-expert user the photo-editing options – from erasing red-eye to removing unsightly blemishes from a selfie – are more than sufficient. And one addition is particularly welcome – the ability to order prints direct from the app. Simply click, choose the size, pay with your Apple account, and they'll arrive in the post in a few days later – individually, or in a lovingly crafted (on the iPad) album. It's great for less tech-minded users and could make Christmas presents for distant relatives in need of a reminder of familial phizogs that little bit simpler.
One of my favourite books is John Kenneth Galbraith'sThe Great Crash, 1929,which, with Keynes'sThe Economic Consequences of the Peace, is a great example of how an expert can write elegantly about something that is intrinsically complex. Galbraith wrote the (short) book as a diversion from working onThe Affluent Societyand it became one of his bestsellers. As one edition succeeded another, he added a series of prefaces, in one of which he answered a question that had been put to him by a friend: what was the point of going on and on about such a distant catastrophe? The answer, Galbraith replied, is that memory is the only known antidote to financial folly.Now spool forward to the present day. A startup called Snapchat, which has no visible revenues, recently turned down an acquisition offer of$3bn from Facebook. I can only think of three possible interpretations of this: the founders are idiots; the founders are geniuses who have a plan that will make Snapchat into a Really Big company; or they believe they can get a better deal from someone else.Then there'sTwitter, a company with much the same financial characteristics but that nevertheless achieved a valuation of$14bn on its IPOand is currently valued at $22bn (£13.39bn). In the old days, companies used to be valued on their price/earnings (P/E) ratio. Nowadays, nobody seems perturbed that there is no E. And the other day, in a nicely ironic development, theNasdaqindex nudged past the 4,000 mark, which was the level it reached when things went pear-shaped in 2000 as the first internet bubble burst.The bad news, therefore, is that we're in a new technology bubble. If you are impolite enough to mention this in Silicon Valley at the moment, however, then people will cut you dead.&nbsp;That's par for the bubble course. The folks who are caught up in one do not appreciate well-meaning attempts&nbsp;to rain on their parade. When&nbsp;the Celtic tiger was roaring in my beloved homeland, for example, a&nbsp;lone economist named Morgan Kelly&nbsp;dared to say that the tiger had no&nbsp;fur – and was roundly abused for his&nbsp;pains.The good news is that when the current technology bubble pops there will be less collateral damage than last&nbsp;time. This is largely because it costs so much less to start a technology&nbsp;company nowadays and thefunding models (and therefore the investment risks) are different. In the 90s, you needed $5m to get going, whereas $50,000 will do the&nbsp;trick now. And whereas&nbsp;in the late 90s&nbsp; you needed venture capital funding (with all the attendant downsides) just to demonstrate that you might have a viable business, nowadays you only go to a VC for the funding needed to scale up the enterprise into a proper company.The critical moment in any startup's life is making the transition from idea to commitment. It's the point where you and a mate decide to abandon the day job and work full time on the concept. And here, again, things have changed compared with the 90s, largely thanks toPaul Graham, a celebrated programmer, essayist and investor. In 2005, he and two colleagues came up with the idea for a startup incubator calledY Combinator, which would provide seed money, advice and connections at two three-month programmes every year. In exchange, Graham and co took an average of about 6% of each new company's equity. Thus far, Y Combinator has incubated more than 550 startups, 287 of which are cumulatively worth $11.7bn (£7bn) and include Dropbox,Airbnb, Stripe and Reddit. So Mr Graham has become even richer and the incubator model has spread to other countries, including the UK."When I graduated from college in 1986," he writes, "there were essentially two options: get a job or go to grad school. Now there's a third: start your own company. That's a big change. In principle, it was possible to start your own company in 1986, too, but it didn't seem like a real possibility. It seemed possible to start a consulting company or a niche product company, but it didn't seem possible to start a company that would become big. That kind of change, from two paths to three, is the sort of big social shift that only happens once every few generations. I think we're still at the beginning of this one."So maybe Galbraith was wrong: sometimes, we do learn from our mistakes.
In many ways this Range Rover Sport, based on the all-new, lighter, aluminium chassis of the regular Range Rover, is a brilliant car. A&nbsp;triumph of engineering, it&nbsp;oozes power, poise and presence. Much like this driver, you might say. Well, I might say. Sometimes you can just feel that a car is good, and this one feels brilliant. Basically, you can point it anywhere on the planet and it will go there, effortlessly, in a&nbsp;straight line, at speed and in style.Inside, it's a joy. This one is in extra luxurious Autobiography trim, with an "ebony and ivory" interior, meaning white leather and dark veneer, and also that it appeals to a&nbsp;broad racial spectrum. Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder, hop on in, together in perfect luxury. I've also got further extras: a&nbsp;super 1,700W audio system (for an extra five grand), dark windows, a TV, back seat entertainment and more.White leather, screens and opulence everywhere… this is how I&nbsp;imagine another Stevie (and another Scouser) – Gerrard – lives. Stevie G's home must be like a&nbsp;giant Range Rover Sport. Even more giant, I mean, because it's an enormous car, bigger than most people's houses. If I had a&nbsp;Range Rover Sport, I'd commission an oil painting of myself at the wheel and hang it in the back somewhere. There's plenty of room.But I wouldn't have a Range Rover Sport, however brilliant it is, and however rich I was. In truth, I hate it. More even than I hate a regular Range Rover, because a Sport is (even) less likely to require its (genuine) off-road potential, especially in Autobiography trim with white leather seats.I hate it for its ostentatiousness, and for its dimensions, for blocking up roads and supermarket car parks. If everyone had one, the country would grind to a halt. In my street, it doesn't fit inside the white parking line. For the first time, I&nbsp;actuallywanta parking ticket. Traffic wardens (I know you read this column) take note: if a Range Rover Sport's 22in wheels stick out of a space by 1mm, slap a&nbsp;ticket on it. Slap one on, anyway, just for being a Range Rover Sport.I hate it because it's like a massive mobile raised middle finger cruising the streets: fuck you, and you, fuck you all. I hate the horrid little kids in&nbsp;the back on the way to their horrid little prep schools. And (unless it is actually Stevie G, whom I love) I hate the driver, who doesn't care about you, probably hasn't even noticed you, because they're on the phone. They always are.Except I am the driver now.And as I said, from in here it feels right, brilliant, even… Quick, take it away, before it's too late. There, it's gone now. Replaced by next week's vehicle: a Slovenian moped called Tomos. Back to Earth with a bump. Not literally, I hope.Range Rover Sport SDV6 3 litre diesel AutobiographyPrice£84,445Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption37.7mpgCO2 emissions199g/kmEco rating3/10Cool rating5/10
A group of techno-activists have devised a way of sending CVs to multiple employers on the government&apos;s official jobseekers&apos; site, in protest at poor-quality adverts and &quot;the drudgery of work&quot;.Developed by &quot;a loose collective of people who identify as anarchists and work in the tech industry&quot;, the Universal Automation plugin,which was added to the Chrome web store in early December, mimics the action of a real-life jobseeker. After the user searches for a job, with one click, the plugin automatically sends a CV to every position advertised on the first page of the results.&quot;I&apos;m sure you applied for jobs on the internet before and you know it&apos;s the most tedious thing to do,&quot; said one of the developers, who has asked to remain anonymous. &quot;Most of time you&apos;re just sending the CV to as many places as you can and hoping that you&apos;ll get a response.&quot;With Universal Jobmatch it&apos;s even worse,&quot; the activist told the Guardian. &quot;The majority of postings on the site are spam. If they are not outright attempts at identity theft, a lot of them (and I mean a lot, I would say up to 90% on some queries) are third-party posts which are automatically reposted on the site and link to their websites.&quot;Now people who use Universal Jobmatch do so because they are forced to do so and they&apos;re also forced to apply to jobs posted directly on it, so that they can be monitored by job centres.&quot;More broadly, however, the collective is aiming to highlight the drudgery of work in general.&quot;We need to look at structural issues, such as role of unemployment in capitalist economy in general and also the particular condition of British economy at the moment. Basically most of work we do is at best socially useless and at worst actively harmful. Constant banging on about strivers, hard-working families, the squeezed middle and so on is only meant to obscure that,&quot; said the activist.&quot;At the same time people who do important work that makes this world a good place to live are a target of constant attacks as shirkers and scroungers and forced into destitution.&quot;When Iain Duncan Smith announced in December 2012 that the Universal Jobmatch website was to be mandatory for all jobseekers,fears were raised that the site would be flooded with bogus jobs.At the time, Duncan Smith said that only 6,000 jobs had been blocked as inappropriate, and 27 employers removed.The site requires jobseekers to explain why they have turned down a job, and are only offered a limited number of reasons. In December, Duncan Smith explained that &quot;if the adviser thinks they are pretty specious reasons, he may call you in and say, &apos;We think you should be applying for these jobs&apos;.&quot;Against that background, it&apos;s easier for jobseekers to just apply for every job going than exercise judgment over whether a particular application is worth their time – hence the creation of the Universal Automation plugin.&quot;The idea is so obvious it&apos;s a surprise no one has done that yet,&quot; its developer said. &quot;If anyone can use this extension to get their benefits for few weeks longer, to avoid being forced into workfare at Poundland, or to have a silent satisfaction of sticking a middle finger to Iain Duncan Smith or their job centre adviser, it&apos;s a victory.&quot;The Department of Work and Pensions was not available for comment.•How the Scaremail plugin makes all your email look suspicious to eavesdroppers
Blocky Roads' mountainous backdrops and cuboid clouds have the rugged charm of Minecraft, while its bouncy, physics-based driving recalls Trials Evolution, although nothing explodes when you drive past it. Winning races lets you progress and unlock outfits for your driver, along with the usual suite of performance enhancements that make your car faster, better at going up hills and less likely to flip over during one of your many airborne moments. You can also design your own vehicles if you feel like it, though the benefits of doing so are purely aesthetic and you'll soon discover just how hard it is to invent a car that doesn't look like the work of a pre-schooler. Progress through the game's levels and challenge stages is gently engaging and the quick fire upgrades take care of any tricky moments.
With only a preview of Kinect Sports: Rivals available, the job of introducing players to the joys of Kinect 2.0, falls to Fighter Within. It's a beat 'em-up in which you perform actual punches, kicks and dodges to control your character on screen rather than slumping on the sofa and letting your thumbs do the fighting. The idea is that you get a crafty bit of exercise shoehorned in with the fun. Even after downloading a 3Gb patch and painstakingly retuning the new Kinect, it just doesn't work. A fighter will routinely ignore your aerobic attempts to coax him  or her into action, mutely standing there while being battered into unconsciousness. This problem is lessened in two-player mode, but only because you're both equally hampered by Kinect's stubborn refusal to acknowledge more than random elements of your manic flailing. It's mystifyingly poor to the point of being  unplayable.
As well as feeble efforts at motion control, Xbox One's Kinect understands voice commands. Players have been finding out that it also eavesdrops on what's going on in the room, with any stray swearwords during matches inNBA2K14rewarded with technical fouls, and inFIFA 14, by stern letters of rebuke from your club's board. It's hard to imagine anyone finding this process fun. Games out this week includePac-Man Museum(X360, PS3), a compilation of maze-based eating from across the years; the splendidly namedAdventure Time: Explore The Dungeon Because I Don't Know!(PC, 3DS, Wii U, PS3), a slightly dull Gauntlet rewrite based on Cartoon Network's Adventure Time; andScribblenauts Unlimited(Wii U 3DS), which was originally due for release in February, finally arrives and proves just as gripping and creatively silly as it was nine months ago.
The instant-message conversations between Julian Assange and Chelsea Manning have been released by the army, buried in a tranche of files made public just before the Thanksgiving weekend in the US.Covering a period of time between 5 and 18 May 2010, they provide a new insight into the working relationship between Assange and Manning, as well as illuminate the pressures on Assange during the period of Wikileaks&apos; history when it was gaining notoriety.Iceland&apos;s bid to be a free speech havenThroughout the logs, Assange is occupied with his ongoing project to launch IMMI, the Icelandic Modern Media Institute. The project&apos;s aim was toturn the country into a legal safe haven for journalists.Manning: 2010-03-05 21:07:12hiAssange: 2010-03-05 21:07:49hiyaAssange: 2010-03-05 21:08:15I like debates.Assange: 2010-03-05 21:09:27Just finished one on the IMMI, and crushed some wretch from the journalists union.…Assange: 2010-03-07 07:19:51BTWAssange: 2010-03-07 07:20:12WE won the referendum - only 1.4% voted against.Manning: 2010-03-07 07:20:17i sawAssange: 2010-03-07 07:20:25How cool is that?Assange: 2010-03-07 07:20:54First referendum in Icelandic history, ever.Manning: 2010-03-07 07:20:56not sure how much influence you actually had... though im sure you had an impact of some kindAssange: 2010-03 07 07:21:13by &apos;we&apos; i mean everyone working towards itManning: 2010-03-07 07:21:20ah, been there beforeManning: 2010-03-07 07:21:28im wary of referendaManning: 2010-03-07 07:21:51democracy sounds good... until you realize you&apos;re a vulnerable minority...Assange: 2010-03-07 07:21:57but quite possibly swung it.. there was lots of stuff going on behind the scenes here.Manning: 2010-03-07 07:22:09case in point: proposition 8 in CaliforniaAssange: 2010-03-07 07:22:21Yes. This is democracy in the negative though, which is usually greatAssange: 2010-03-07 07:22:34indeed it isAssange: 2010-03-07 07:22:51i.e vetoing bills [go back and do it again!]Assange: 2010-03-07 07:23:32cali is bad, I agree, anyone with some $ has a syringe right into the heart of the state constitutionManning: 2010-03-07 07:23:40&gt;nod&lt;But even in Iceland, old habits die hard:Assange: 2010-03-10 03:48:24we now have the last 4 months of audio from telephones at the .is parliamentManning: 2010-03-10 03:48:29bblManning: 2010-03-10 03:48:35yes, you said earlierAssange: 2010-03-10 03:48:51it wasmightbeforeManning: 2010-03-10 03:48:55somebody&apos;s bad…=)Manning: 2010-03-10 03:49:11ttylAssange: 2010-03-10 03:49:16yup nixon tapes got nothing on usJulian Assange always wanted that movie dealAt one point, Assange apparently quotes someone else suggesting that a thriller be made all about WikiLeaks.Like that&apos;ll ever happen…Assange: 2010-03-10 06:04:02Wikileaks is looking for donations, but what its founders should do, is call upon script writers to make a, perhaps reality based, dramatized, thriller movie of one of the wikileaks cases, with corruption, infiltration, espionage, hitmen, sabotage, etc and call the movie &quot;WikiLeaks!&quot; I see great potential for such a movie, and massive money and advertising it would generate would establish them firmly. I&apos;d then support by seeing the movie Hollywood would likely support.How World of Warcraft train future soldiersOne odder digression sees the two discussing whether or not MMORPGs, video games like World of Warcraft, are evil.Assange: 2010 03 10 06:05:51sense deceptions to suck $ out of peopleAssange: 2010 03 10 06:06:06It&apos;s as old as lipstick and the guitar of course, but mmorpg are evil in a whole new wayManning: 2010 03 10 06:06:39voluntary matrix-style society?Assange: 2010 03 10 06:06:46yesManning: 2010 03 10 06:07:08hmmAssange: 2010 03 10 06:07:25might be ok in the endAssange: 2010 03 10 06:07:53mmorpg&apos;s that have long term users are incentivised to keep them profitableAssange: 2010 03 10 06:08:59but I imagine they&apos;ll merge into hybrid revenue modes, where congnitive tasks and free labor are done using sense deception incentivesManning: 2010 03 10 06:09:48like the &quot;video games&quot; from toys?Assange: 2010 03 10 06:10:12haven&apos;t seen thatAssange: 2010 03 10 06:10:34but it sure isn&apos;t a decade to be a gullible idiot:)Manning: 2010 03 10 06:11:24basic gist: retired general takes over a toy company, invests in video games for kids to &quot;play&quot;, but they&apos;re actually training to remotely use little toy sized weaponsManning: 2010 03 10 06:11:40former toy owner tries to stop himManning: 2010 03 10 06:11:52^companyAssange: 2010 03 10 06:12:11heh. that&apos;s the example I was going to use for mmorpg (with drones) but decided it was too grotesqueManning: 2010 03 10 06:12:47its not... its logical in frightening waysSource protectionAt one point, Assange becomes concerned about Manning&apos;s safety. He recommends the young marine get an encrypted phone, but Manning thinks better of it. Instead, Assange offers a phrase.Assange: 2010 03 17 22:54:03is there some way I can get a crypto phone to you?Manning: 2010 03 17 22:54:14not at this timeAssange: 2010 03 17 22:54:40actually...Assange: 2010 03 17 22:54:47probably best if you just order one?Assange: 2010 03 17 22:54:57or rather some friendAssange: 2010 03 17 22:55:14bit pricy thoughAssange: 2010 03 17 22:55:26hmmAssange: 2010 03 17 22:55:29actually never mindManning: 2010 03 17 22:55:38yes,i dont have access at presentAssange: 2010 03 17 22:56:35these things are good for urgent contact, but it&apos;s safer to avoid due to location tracking possibilitiesManning: 2010 03 17 22:56:47i know that very wellAssange: 2010 03 17 22:56:56although there is a satphone moduleManning: 2010 03 17 22:57:21forget the idea for nowAssange: 2010 03 17 22:57:45yes. you just contact usAssange: 2010 03 17 22:57:52but don&apos;t disappear without saying why for an extended period or I&apos;ll get worried;)Manning: 2010 03 17 22:58:03i wontAssange: 2010 03 17 22:58:16you&apos;ll know if something&apos;s wrongManning: 2010 03 17 22:58:39okAssange: 2010 03 17 22:58 57you can just tell me &quot;all the ships came in&quot;The bank documentsEarly on in the chat logs, Assange mentions getting hold of data for a major American bank.Assange: 2010-03-05 21:12:44Source here just gave me 10Gb of banking docs.Manning: 2010-03-05 21:13:10lb?Assange: 2010-03-05 21:13:11He leaked some before, was exposed by the husband of the wretch.Assange: 2010-03-05 21:13:27cross-bank, was an it consultant.Assange: 2010-03-05 21:13:39got arrested two weeks agoAssange: 2010-03-05 21:13:50Had is bank accounts frozen.Assange: 2010-03-05 21:14:02and has been offered 15 million kroner to shut upAssange: 2010-03-05 21:14:09/is/hisManning: 2010-03-05 21:14:26mmmAssange: 2010-03-05 21:15:04needed to offload them so they&apos;d stop going after himThose documents would go on to become one of the biggest missing stories in WikiLeaks&apos; history. In November 2010, Assange went public with the fact that he washolding &quot;tens of thousands&quot; of documentsfrom a major US financial firm, which he would release in early 2011. But that release never came. What was in the documents? And why were they never released?• WikiLeaks stafferSarah Harrison has criticised Pierre Omidyar, the eBay founder who issetting up a new journalism venturewith Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Jeremy Scahill, for his involvement inthe 2010 financial blockade against WikiLeaks
Anyone considering buying headphones for a young relative this Christmas, take care before splashing out the £150 or more that the most fashionable – the Beats, or Skullcandy, or Urbanears models – can cost.Each brand marks them out as one of a "tribe", regardless of sound quality. Whereas 20 years ago the most important thing for a teenager was the brand of trainer on their feet – Nike, Reebok or Adidas – now it's the brand covering their ears that matters.Beats headphones, with their red cord and large "b" on the earpieces, began appearing in music videos in late 2008, largely through the efforts of the company's co-founders, the rapper Dr Dre and the music entrepreneur Jimmy Iovine. That sparked rocketing sales to a teenage demographic looking for a new way to distinguish themselves out from their peers.In doing so, Beats' emergence showed that high-priced headphones would sell, becoming as much a fashion accessory as a gadget, commanding prices over £200 – a bracket previously reserved for the audiophile niche.A decade ago, the white tendrils of an iPod's headphones might have marked the wearer out as trendy; nowadays it makes them just one of the crowd, and Apple's in-ear headphones are too common to bother with. A teenager wanting to stand out needs something big – and bold."Companies like Beats and Skullcandy have realised that kids today want something that looks better, over questions of sound quality," says Sam Ruffe, who works at The Kinc, a marketing agency whose clients include Skullcandy.And those kids (or their parents) will pay: worldwide, the market for headphones will be worth over £5bn ($8bn) this year, with 284m units shipped, according to the consumer consultancy Futuresource; over-ear headphones grabbed half of sales. And Beats alone will grab around £1.25bn – while the total market is forecast to grow by 5% annually for the next five years.Skullcandy was originally designed for skiers and snowboarders, by Rick Alden, who got the idea on a chairlift in Park City, Utah. Starting in 2003, he managed to persuade skating and skiing shops to stock the product, which became known as an "extreme sports" brand.Urbanears, meanwhile, brought Scandinavian design and a flourish of colour to the burgeoning headphone market, releasing two "collections" of headphones a year in limited-edition colours.The continued success of Beats brought competition as these other brands began chasing the new demographic of people willing to spend money to wear their branding choice on their ears. Skullcandy moved off the slopes and into the high street. Now, they are more likely to be seen on the bus than on the piste.Audiophiles aren't impressed by the brigade of bolshy Beats products, which often pride bass and look over acoustic refinement. "I just bought a set of the Beats Solo HD headphones – it's a Christmas gift for my 13-year-old daughter," Chris Miller, a software engineer, told the Guardian, adding: "I think they are overpriced and you are paying a premium for the brand name. They aren't bad, but I have headphones that sound better for half the price that I paid for the Beats."Sound quality, though, isn't necessarily the point – which may have been missed by more traditional "audiophile" brands such as Germany's Sennheiser, the Dutch brand Philips and the American Bose, who were caught unaware that colouring the earpiece and cord green or red could affect sales as much as their sound quality.Andy Watson of Futuresource says you might struggle to tell some headphones apart at the factory. "With everyone owning the same generic-looking personal audio player or mobile phone, it's the headphones that do the differentiating. There is certainly cachet and brand equity attached to many of the brands, beyond their intrinsic value. Much of it is about positioning a lifestyle rather than a product."Yet the growing tribalism of headphone ownership has led to derision in some quarters – such as the blog "Long Way From Compton", which features pictures of people wearing Beats headphones, and measuring the distance from there to the notorious gang-ridden Los Angeles district from which Dr Dre emerged.It's in the canBeats StudioArguably one of the headphones that kicked off the large and colourful trend, the original Beats by Dre headphones drove appeal through product placement in music videos. Pushed by the music marketing powerhouse of Dr Dre (pictured above) and Jimmy Iovine, Beats brought big, aggressive bass-y sound at a big price and made it fashionable.Bowers &amp; Wilkins P5Proving that expensive, fashionable headphones could sound good, the Bowers &amp; Wilkins P5 ooze luxury and sound great, with excellent noise isolation and good range, which makes the equally pricey Beats sound downright mediocre.Bose QuietComfortThe commuter's favourite, Bose took noise-cancelling technology – which silences the outside world by blasting sound waves to cancel out the noise leaving only the music audible – and made it popular. On their third revision, the Bose QuietComforts are still the active noise-cancelling headphones to beat for many.Sennheiser MomentumLong-standing quality audio company Sennheiser was late to the stylish headphone game, but its Momentum series combines a sophisticated look with top-notch acoustics.StarckA collaboration between the French designer Philippe Starck and the&nbsp;Bluetooth specialists Parrot, Zik headphones are some of the best wireless headphones around, with intuitive touch controls, active noise-cancelling, and sound profiles and acoustics that can be modified with iPhone and Android apps.Skullcandy CrusherBattery-powered bass means that the Crusher gives real wallop to what otherwise might just be loud music. Cavernous earpieces (made of "soft touch" leather) also come with a&nbsp;powered mini-amplifier, foldable hinge (for storage) and a&nbsp;microphone and remote on the detachable headphone cable.CA and SG
A digital version of Raymond Briggs&apos; classic story The Snowman is tackling the red-hot issue of in-app spending this Christmas by introducing a cap on how much children can spend.The Snowman and the Snowdog is the first app to introduce this type of limit, following a government consultation earlier this year and a slew of horror stories about parents saddled with expensive bills run up by their children&apos;s mobile games.Launched by Channel 4 this week, the free game foriPhone, iPadandAndroiddevices is based on the popular Christmas film and is the sequel to a free game which topped British app store charts in December 2012.Avoiding &apos;parental bill shock&apos;Children can spend between £0.99 and £3.99 at a time on virtual snowflakes, which can be spent on gameplay boosts and customising the Snowman character. But total spending has been capped at £20 per player in an effort to avoid parental &quot;bill shock&quot;.&quot;While we had to figure out a way that we could make money from the game, we absolutely could not have anything that might give rise to anyone feeling it was exploitative,&quot; Channel 4&apos;s games commissioning editor Colin Macdonald told the Guardian.&quot;Every free-to-play consultant will tell you that a pricing cap is commercial suicide, but we have bent over backwards to do this game responsibly because we knew it would appeal to so many kids.&quot;Macdonald said Channel 4 paid close attention to the September report by the Office of Fair Trading into children and in-app purchases, which set out some best practices for freemium games following a five-month consultation.&quot;We&apos;re not proposing the cap as a model for all our games or the wider industry. We&apos;re just very sensitive around kids and around this brand,&quot; said Macdonald. &quot;We&apos;ve gone through the OFT recommendations, and tried to get that balance where hopefully there&apos;s enough money coming in to fund next year&apos;s game, but not anything that would be exploitative.&quot;Macdonald also stressed that every item in The Snowman and The Snowdog Game&apos;s in-app store can be unlocked through earning snowflakes by playing, meaning that purchases are optional.The game&apos;s launch comes at a time when the companies behind the devices and apps being used by children aren&apos;t pushing in-app purchases inappropriately.Apple launched a new Kids categoryin its App Store in September, refusing to feature in it any apps and games that did not abide bynew rules on IAP, advertising and data-gathering.The company&apos;s main rival, Samsung, haspartnered with US startup Fingerprintto develop a &quot;safe&quot; network around children&apos;s apps on its devices, initially launching in Asia in the first quarter of 2014.&quot;Our goal for Samsung&apos;s new kids’ mobile network is to offer parents peace of mind, knowing their kids will have meaningful play experiences that will help them to learn and grow,&quot; said Samsung&apos;s head of learning and reading, Gerald Cai, in a statement.Back in the UK, games industry body TIGA has been lobbying the Office of Fair Trading to ensure that any future regulation of free-to-play games for children does not leave the UK out of step with other countries.&quot;If UK consumers are to be effectively protected and if we are to avoid the regulation of the UK market becoming misaligned with the rest of the world, then the OFT should work with its counterparts in the EU, the USA and across the globe to adopt a common approach to the F2P market,&quot; said chief executive Richard Wilson.•How to stop kids spending inside apps on iPhone and iPad•How to stop kids spending inside apps on Android
I bought a laptop with Windows 8, which I despise. I've installedClassic Shell, which mitigates the worst of its "features". Now Microsoft is offering Windows 8.1 for FREE. Should I take the offer? I never, ever use tablet features.Thanks as always.David NullYes. I regard the free Windows 8.1 as an essential update. Microsoft has moved from a three-year upgrade cycle to one that provides more rapid upgrades, and in principle, anyone on Windows 8 or later needs to move with the times and install them when they come out. The next one is due in the spring of 2015. The era of skipping alternate versions and upgrading Windows every six years or so is over, though I don't expect Microsoft to run on a six-monthly (like Linux) or annual (like Mac OS X) cycle.Either way, it's a good update. If you like Windows 8, then 8.1 makes it faster and better. The benefits include improved multitasking and multi-monitor support, better apps, and "universal search". If you like Windows 7 more than Windows 8, the upgrade to 8.1 provides controls that make it more like Windows 7. It's therefore a Good Thing for people on both sides of the argument.The most obvious changes have been made to the Start screen, which works as both a program menu and a notification system. There are now four sizes of tile: small, medium, large and wide. You can group your programs in sets with headings -- the equivalent of folders -- and give your most-used programs bigger tiles.You can also pick from a number of Start screen backgrounds, or use a photo. I have the Bliss wallpaper from Windows XP set as both the desktop wallpaper in Windows 8.1 and the Start screen background. This provides a more harmonious shift when toggling between the two, as well as adding a bit of nostalgia.Of course, you can still run apps or programs just by typing a few characters, then picking a result from the search list. In this respect, Windows 8 and 8.1 work just like Vista and Windows 7, only better. (Windows XP users could do this by installingLaunchy.)In 8.1, the Start screen's "PC settings" menu covers more settings, so there is less need to use the old Control Panel. This is one area where the Start option is quicker and cleaner, and you're not doing yourself any favours by ignoring it.If you don't like the Start screen, you can configure Windows 8.1 to boot straight to the desktop. To do this, typenavinto the Search box and click the top option. The old-fashioned desktop approach is to right-click the Taskbar, select Properties, go to the Navigation tab, and check the box that says: "Go to the desktop instead of Start when I sign in". Alternatively, you can do it via the Control Panel: look for "Appearance and Personalization" or "Taskbar and Navigation".This does not remove the Start screen, nor does it bring back the old menu system, so you may want to stick with Classic Shell. However, you can bring up a useful menu by pressing the Windows key and X, and this offers more functions in Windows 8.1. You can, for example, run the Task Manager, Control Panel, File Explorer, Windows PowerShell (for a command line) and various other things. This pop-up menu also provides easily accessible restart and shutdown options.There are many other improvements to Windows 8.1, including Internet Explorer 11 with WebGL support, deeper integration with SkyDrive, and Skype. Most of the "tablet" apps have been improved, including the Bing-based apps (Weather, Finances, News Sports etc), Xbox Music (which now has a free radio feature), and Xbox Video. Since these "modern" apps are quick and convenient, I can't see any reason not to use them. They work very well with a mouse with a scroll-wheel, as hundreds of YouTube videos attest.Windows 8/8.1 is very innovative and, in Microsoft's favourite phrase, "fast and fluid". It does have a learning curve, but if you can be bothered to learn it, it's excellent. Further, as part of the Microsoft ecosystem, it's increasingly being integrated with Windows Phone, Xbox One and Azure/Outlook.com/SkyDrive so you get familiar operations, apps and services across"three screens and a cloud": smartphone, PC, and TV. This is not to be despised, it's the future.Upstairs, downstairsI have recently bought a new desktop which runs Windows 8.1. My two-year-old laptop runs Windows 7. My desktop is upstairs and my laptop downstairs. I am 85 and I don't want too much running up and down stairs.Currently, if I look at Blueyonder email messages in Live Mail on the laptop they don't appear on the desktop. I can get them on either PC using webmail.1. Can the computers be networked even though they have different Windows programs on them? (My son set up a network when the upstairs computer was Windows XP.) Would it make any difference to the email issue?2. Should I put Windows 8.1 on my laptop? Advantages/disadvantages?Margaret LevyWindows Live Mail is a free desktop mail program, which is faster and more powerful than using web-based email, and it handles multiple email accounts. It's very popular on Windows 7 and Vista, but you can still download it and install it in Windows 8.1. If both copies of Windows Live Mail are set up to use the IMAP protocol, then both should download and show the same emails.Virgin Media, which operates Blueyonder and other email services, has various help pages to explain how to do it. These includeHow to use IMAP in Virgin Media Mail,How to configure IMAP for Windows MailandHow do I check my email settings in Windows Live Mail?.You can connect your Windows 8.1 desktop to the network that you used with the Windows XP machine, and the process is much the same (except you can no longer right-click on networks to get their properties). It's actually very easy to do, but Microsoft has instructions specifically for Windows 8.1 atAdd a device or PC to a network.Upgrading your Windows 7 laptop to Windows 8.1 will not provide any benefits in terms of networking or your use of Blueyonder email, and in your case, I can't think of any advantages that would be worth the cost. However, I can think of one major disadvantage, which is that you would have to re-install your Windows 7 programs and any devices, such as printers.When Microsoft released Windows 8, it provided an easy upgrade to Windows 7. However, Windows 8.1 is a new operating system and Microsoft generally avoids doing two upgrades at once. It would still be simple to upgrade from Windows 7 to 8, and then download the free upgrade from Windows 8 to 8.1 from the Windows Store. Unfortunately, if you want to jump from 7 to 8.1, then the options are to keep your personal data files or to keep nothing and do a clean installation. There is no option to keep programs, devices, and personal data files. SeeUpgrade to Windows 8.1 from Windows 7.
[Warning: this article contains plot spoilers]It should have been a scene of remorse and tragic grandeur. Marius Titus, the muscular hero of Xbox One launch title Ryse: Son of Rome, has just discovered his family slaughtered in their home – victims of the Emperor Nero and his paranoid bloodlust.As our hero contemplates his loss, a goddess appears to him, promising the chance for retribution. But for many gamers it seems her words of solace and encouragement have gone unnoticed, thanks to a distracting presence.&quot;The breast physics onRyse,&quot; writes Patricia Hernandez on US games site,Kotaku. &quot;I don&apos;t even know what is going on there.&quot;Sadly, this is only the latest example in a long and shameful history of implausible breast modelling in video games. In the early days, with famously licentious character designs such as Mai Shiranui from the fighting game Fatal Fury, &quot;jiggle&quot; was attained through hand-drawn frames of animation. Later, as 3D polygonal character models replaced 2D sprites, designers started to experiment with physics, adding mass and applying softbody dynamics.The results could &quot;best&quot; be seen in Tecmo&apos;s Dead or Alive series of female-dominated fighting games, which later spawned the horrendous DOA: Beach Volleyball titles – essentially a wretched collection of soft porn fantasies masquerading as sports sims. Here, the helium-like breast physics was such a central element of the experience, players could often customise the jiggle settings.&quot;In Japanese animation, they have a concept of&apos;fan service&apos;, in which artists draw popular female characters in suggestive poses and clothing to appease demand,&quot; says Dom Clubb, artistic director at Jonathan Ross&apos; Hot Sauce studio. &quot;It&apos;s a part of that culture. It&apos;s something we&apos;re much more cautious about here.&quot;Indeed, more recently, the industry has somewhat matured, both in its approach to character animation, and in its depiction of female characters – hence the evolution of Lara Croft, from ridiculously proportioned lad&apos;s mag starlet in the nineties, to this year&apos;s complex and convincing characterisation. Earlier this year, meanwhile, the writer Jenn Frank set up theBoobjamgame design competition, calling for games that reclaimed and demystified breasts.Developers are now being asked to justify the depiction of sexualised female characters in their games. Recently, when PC games site Rock Paper Shotgun asked why the women in Blizzard&apos;s Heroes of the Storm game were so scantily clad, the developerdodged the questionentirely, before laterapologising for dismissing the issue. &quot;It takes work to make compelling characters, but it’s important to take a step back to ensure that we’re not alienating our players,&quot; he wrote.&apos;Physics simulation for breasts is quite expensive&apos;In some senses, the maturation of the games industry is working together with an acknowledgement that this is just a really tricky physical element to get right. &quot;The methodology is actually very similar to simulating the look of body fat,&quot; says Stewart Jones, an experienced animator who has worked in both film and games.&quot;You create a skeleton out of around 15 joints and then add a couple extra that sit in front of the chest area – these would then have motion applied by the spline joints and driven by dynamic code. Most of the issues tend to come from not properly tightening up all the inputs you have under those physics-based objects.&quot;But for most game developers, this is just too much effort and time for what is usually just a cheap piece of titillation. &quot;One issue is that running a physics simulation just for breasts is quite expensive in terms of processing load, for what&apos;s probably a relatively small part of the overall scene,&quot; says Paul Abbott, a veteran art director, now at Brighton&apos;s Wish Studios.&quot;At one place I worked, the breast physics went totally out of control. We put the game on a &apos;soak test&apos; - where we&apos;d leave it running overnight to see if it remained stable. When we came back in the morning the breasts were literally as big as the entire world.&quot;As for Ryse, the sequence is comparatively subtle, but in a world of rich convincing realism, it looks all the more absurd – a body-centric variation on the Uncanny Valley theory. Clubb thinks the sequence shows a team making short cuts to meet a tight deadline. &quot;A character mesh is made up of thousands of vertices. When the physics system is applied, each vertex is given a value – lets say 0-1 – depending on how much the artist wants the particular vertex to be affected by physics.&quot;This will make the cloth vertices sway and the flesh vertices stay rigid. But because Ryse was probably rushed to make the Xbox One launch, I&apos;m guessing the character was given a single physics system for the whole mesh rather than one for skin and a separate one for cloth. If you were to do the physics properly, there are lots of parameters to deal with, like stiffness, sway and stretch, and the cloth on the breasts would have to deform separately. That would have been a computational nightmare.&quot;&apos;This is supposed to be a moment of emotional gravity&apos;Really though, this probably isn&apos;t a question of technology or technique, it&apos;s one of taste and awareness of wider issues. Right now, the difficulties with representing the female body are an ironic metaphor for the industry&apos;s awkward gender politics. Yet as character models increase in visual complexity, and as game narratives mature, the issue of authentic physicality is one developers will need to face. Perhaps one day there will a game that deals in the sensual or even just the non-sexualised physical reality of nudity, rather than in exploitation.But that day is not here, and Ryse, with its simple story of gore and conquest, is not the game. &quot;I think it was a bad decision to have her in those clothes,&quot; says Clubb finally. &quot;This is supposed to be a moment of emotional gravity. Justdressthe character.&quot;• Why does the games industry have such a problem with female protagonists?• Sometimes it&apos;s hard to be a woman. Especially when you&apos;re made out of pixels• If you think sexism&apos;s OK in games, you may be in the wrong century
The WikiLeaks staffer and Snowden collaborator Sarah Harrison has criticised Pierre Omidyar, the eBay founder who issetting up a new journalism venturewith Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Jeremy Scahill, for his involvement inthe 2010 financial blockade against WikiLeaks.In her first interview since leaving Moscow for Berlin last month,Harrison told German news weekly Stern: &quot;How can you take something seriously when the person behind this platform went along with the financial boycott against WikiLeaks?&quot;Harrison was referring to the decision in December 2010 by PayPal, which is owned by eBay, to suspend WikiLeaks&apos; donation account and freeze its assets after pressure from the US government. The company&apos;s boycott, combined with similar action taken by Visa and Mastercard, left WikiLeaks facing a funding crisis.&quot;His excuse is probably that there is nothing he could have done at the time,&quot; Harrison continued. &quot;Well, he is on the board of directors. He can&apos;t shake off responsibility that easily. He didn&apos;t even comment on it. He could have said something like: &apos;we were forced to do this, but I am against it&apos;.&quot;Harrison joined WikiLeaks from the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, and worked with the organisation on the Afghan war logs and leaked cables projects. She now works on the WikiLeaks legal defence team, although she has no legal qualifications, and wascatapulted to fame when she accompanied Edward Snowden, the NSA whistleblower, on his flight from Hong Kong to Russia in June 2013.Referring to Omidyar&apos;s plans to set up a new media organisation, in which the former Guardian writer Greenwald – who wrote a number of stories from the Snowden revelations – will play a central part, Harrison said: &quot;If you set up a new media organisation which claims to do everything for press freedom, but you are part of a blockade against another media organisation, then that&apos;s hard for us to take it seriously. But I hope that they stick to their promises&quot;.Harrison also suggests that Omidyar could have carried the legal costs of the 14 Anonymous hacktivists who were sent to prison for attacking PayPal over the boycott. &quot;That would have been a nice gesture&quot;.Jail sentences for hacktivismOn Thursday,11 of the so-called &quot;PayPal 14&quot; pleaded guiltyin a court in California to one felony count of conspiracy and one misdemeanour count of damaging a computer. They stood accused of organising a &quot;distributed denial-of-service&quot; (DDoS) attack, knocking PayPal&apos;s servers offline by overloading them with traffic in 2010, causing what the company estimated to be $5.5m of damage.Two of the remaining defendants did not take the plea bargain offered, and pleaded guilty only to the misdemeanour charge, meaning they will be required to serve a 90-day jail term. The final defendant, Dennis Collins, did not attend the hearing as he was in Virginia facing similar charges over attacks on other websites at the same time.In January, four British members of Anonymous weresentenced for the same campaign. Chris Weatherhead was given an 18-month sentence, Ashley Rhodes was handed a seven-month jail sentence, Peter Gibson was given a six month suspended sentence, and 18-year-old Jake Burchallwas given an 18 month youth rehabilitation order.&quot;Vastly different&quot;Omidyar, however, argues that the tools used in a DDoS attack render them &quot;vastly different than other forms of protest&quot;.&quot;The problem in this case,&quot;he wrote on the Huffington Post websiteon 3 December, &quot;is that the tools being distributed by Anonymous are extremely powerful. They turn over control of a protester&apos;s computer to a central controller which can order it to make many hundreds of web page requests per second to a target website.&quot;It&apos;s like each protester can bring along 6,000 phantom friends without going to the trouble of convincing each of them to take an afternoon off and join the protest in the street.&quot;But the eBay founder said that the law was too hard on the 14 defendants in the case. &quot;It would be unjust to hold fourteen people accountable for the actions of a thousand… Each person should be accountable for the damage they personally caused.&quot;Second, the law allows prosecutors to calculate damage in a way that seems overstated. An appropriate damage estimate includes the pay and overtime pay required for employees to respond to the attack.&quot;But the damage estimate apparently being used by prosecutors in this case includes the cost of upgrading equipment to better defend against similar future attacks. To me, that doesn&apos;t make sense.&quot;In the Stern interview, Harrison, who is British, also stated that she had chosen to move to Berlin because her lawyers had advised her that anti-terror laws had made it unsafe for her to travel back to the UK.&quot;Any activity which endangers the public order or could change the government&apos;s course of action can be interpreted as terrorism. The fight for women&apos;s right to vote, and the political protests that came with it, would under the current interpretation of the law be seen as terrorism. The rule of law is effectively disabled, and I believe that many people who are politically active feel unsafe in such an environment, not just me.&quot;In Berlin, on the other hand, Harrison said she had a good network of friends and was able to continue working for WikiLeaks. &quot;The German public is very well disposed towards Edward Snowden and what he has done. Personally and legally, I consider the risk I am under here as low.&quot;•This article was amended on 6 December 2013 to correct the number of British members of Anonymous who were sentenced in January, and to correct the date of the decision by PayPal to suspend WikiLeaks&apos; donation account.•&quot;Why DDoS is free speech&quot;.
By most developers' standards, three years is a generous chunk of time in which to create a game. Polyphony Digital will disagree. The studio so synonymous with the Gran Turismo franchise must have felt frantically rushed to push through a full sequel in the mere 1,107 days that have passed since GT5 rolled out. Then again, 2013 marks the 15th anniversary of Sony's genre-redefining driving game so a little extra effort must have felt appropriate.And, of course, there's also the fact GT6 is very much like GT5.Of course, veterans of the series will know that in a decade-and-a-half, very little tinkering has been done to the core of Gran Turismo. Which is by no means a criticism – GT's original concept was bolted to a sturdy chassis, one that has flexed over time to accommodate new concepts and features, but never to the point of warping Polyphony's grand vision of a real driving simulator. With GT 6, you get some additions, of course: around 120 extra vehicles, and new tracks in the form of real-world titans such as Brands Hatch, Mount Panorama, Silverstone, Willow Springs, Ascari Race Resort, and Goodwood Festival of Speed's hillclimb, alongside a fictional Matterhorn-inspired configuration and the return of fan-requested Apricot Hill.Otherwise it's business as usual. There's a massive roster of cars – now in excess of 1,200 – and this time around you can tune up the 'Standard' and 'Premium' models, although there is still no cockpit view for the former. The visuals push the hardware as hard as ever. The cars look gorgeous and many of GT5's graphical issues are gone, although the 16-strong grid replays still reveal the limitations. There is the same 'mobile chicane' behaviour from AI opponents, the same idiosyncratic soundtrack selection, the same driving licence test-locked progression, and the same ample selection of Nissans.But you also get the widest selection of motorsport categories available on any current console driving game – everything from micro vans and superminis to concepts and hypercars, ably supported by representatives from the kart, Super GT, NASCAR, touring car, ice racing, drift, sportscars, hillclimb, and WRC scenes. Keen to show off its range, the game again introduces a large number of these relatively early on in the Career mode.The thankfully redesigned central menu system (if you ask nicely, the NHS is still offering counselling to those traumatised by the bewildering mess that was GT5's counterpart) offers the typical selection of themed race meetings but at given points you're given access to a roster of side activities. So Mission Races place certain requirements on your performance, One-Make races are self-explanatory, and the more playful Coffee Break Challenges are where you'll find traffic cone bashing, accompanied by the surprisingly captivating Eco races requiring you to maximise distance or negotiate a circuit with just a litre of fuel in the tank.Elsewhere you might get invited to power some exotic machinery through Goodwood's superbly rewarding though deceptively tricky hillclimb or even – and skip the rest of this sentence if you don't want the surprise spoilt – slip into your astronaut suit to bounce around the surface of the Moon in NASA's Lunar Roving Vehicle.All of these, as well as the final 'main' race events, unlock progressively once a specified number of 'stars', obtained through race performances, is reached. It's a tried-and-tested mechanic, of course, but a new structural introduction to the series that has major impact because it affords players a flexibility that has previously been missing. You can now pick and choose your events – and therefore your progression throughout the game – with greater abandon. True, you still can't enter any of the six licence tiers without undertaking the now-traditional set of driving tests but there is more opportunity to fast track your way there this time around.The Ford GT swooping around the track at GoodwoodThat's not to say that GT's infamous grind-based structure doesn't apply. You still earn Credits in order to purchase, tune up, or service cars, and some – such as the 20-million-credit-costing 1967 Ferrari 330 P4 – will take some serious saving up. To counter this, and following the controversial trend of the times, Sony has introduced microtransactions. These range from £3.99 (500,000 Credits) to £39.99 (7 million), in a move that has already met strongly worded negativity from some gamers. Time will tell if this adversely affects the balance of GT6's world, particularly online.On that note, it's worth pointing out that Sony assures us an enhanced GT6 online experience, with the ability to create clubs and organise events for members. However, at the time of writing the online portion of the game wasn't available and therefore doesn't form part of this review.Similarly, the publisher's promises of much more content to come in future updates, such as the Course Maker, B-Spec Mode, additional community features, GPS Track Regenerator, GPS Visualizer, and more tracks and cars (redeemable with in-game currency), can't be taken into account at this stage.The Ronda circuit in Spain. One of the key real-world venues in the game Photograph: /PRBut what we can judge is the disc's considerable content offering. And all of this substance would be relatively pointless if GT6 isn't able to underpin it with a solid and rewarding set of handling mechanics. Whereas GT5 made significant strides over its direct predecessor in this regard (which it had to, given the Forza Motorsport series' challenging – and some will rightfully argue, winning – contribution in this department), here the advancement is less pronounced, but noticeable nonetheless. You'll pick it up the moment you sit behind a dedicated force feedback wheel/pedal set-up, but even through a DualShock 3 most cars exude a palpable sense of bodyweight shift resulting from an enhanced suspension model, which when combined with improved levels of tyre behaviour, means you can really play around with the cars in real-world fashion.Sure, GT5's handling was advanced enough to enable you to deliberately unsettle the rear end under trail-braking or lift-off oversteer in order to improve corner entry, for instance, but this time around you benefit from a general additional degree of control and, in particular, increased tyre feedback. Lean heavily on those black rubber rings now and, in most cases, you get a more comprehensive feel of when you're pushing them too far.The result is a set of dynamics that, when driven at the limit, roll at the forefront of what is currently achievable on console. If you can't feel the exhilaration of blasting through Goodwood in a SLS AMG GT3, the lunacy of taking the new 125 Shifter karts around Matterhorn's rollercoaster circuit, the thrill of successfully overtaking a fellow X-BOW around the outside of Brands Hatch's Paddock Hill Bend, or the terrifying ordeal of maintaining 200mph-plus on Nordschleife's final straight with the windscreen showing nothing but a rival's plume of spray, then the only engine you really need is a defibrillator.The reality is that Gran Turismo 6's on-track performance isn't in question. When it's firing on all cylinders, Polyphony's latest is arguably the best console driving game to date. There is nothing out there that collects such a disperse selection of vehicles and consistently delivers in terms of convincing handling dynamics, on some of the world's finest circuits. On top of all this, Polyphony also adds immense game mechanic-altering elements such as weather and night racing.But this impressively engineered octane cocktail can't be fully enjoyed without the bitter aftertaste of a series that has systematically ignored key structural stresses as well as fundamental developments within the genre. Take the mediocre AI. The enduring argument is that the opponents' inadequate intelligence does not matter because Gran Turismo is about you, the car, and the track. It's valid, but it can't mask the undeniable frustration of players who only experience credible motorsport competition when online – or, to a lesser degree, via the adequate two-player splitscreen option.Similarly, there's the continuing resistance to implement full visual damage. Oddly, the damage model appears to have been significantly toned down from GT5, and combined with an unrealistic collision mechanic (both in terms of dynamics and sound effects) this does much to undermine the game's otherwise authenticity. Then there's the recurring issue of the progression mechanic – although some improvement has been made in this latest iteration – and the franchise's overly clinical, impersonal feel.Granted, tinkering with these would mean re-engineering a philosophy so engrained in GT's tyre tread that Polyphony must fear a catastrophic puncture. Yet, accomplished as GT6 is, the team will need to revisit some fundamentals if future iterations are able to stand wheel arch to wheel arch with the Forzas of the world. Indeed, the prospect of how the developer may be willing to evolve the franchise for PS4 is a riveting one. But knowing Polyphony Digital, that's a few years down the road yet.For now, at least, PS3 owners should focus on enjoying another excellent Gran Turismo outing.
This is arguably the year in which internet self-obsession reached new&nbsp;heights. Not only did we see that digital chronicler of daily minutiaeInstagramannounce that it had surpassed 100m active users, but the Oxford Dictionaries peopleannounced that "selfie" was to be the official word of the year. Little did they know that all the coolest, on-trend narcissists had already moved on to "yogis" (yoga + selfie) and "belfies" (bum + selfie), leading us to wonder exactly where self-absorption has to go from here. While we're contemplating that with horror, we thought we'd take a&nbsp;look at the smuggest four corners of the internet currently in existence.Rich Kids Of InstagramLaunched in 2012, Rich Kids Of Instagram is a blog dedicated to the iPhone snapshots of teens and twentysomethings living opulent lifestyles around the world, like a two-dimensionalMTV Cribsfor people who aren't famous. If you live by the philosophy "money talks but wealth whispers", perhaps look away now, because this is high-pitched shouting. As the website tagline puts it: "They have more money than you and this is what they do." Much of it involves infinity pools, yachts and private jets, and bar tab receipts going into the tens of thousands. Many of the posts are accompanied by nauseating captions: a picture of a room featuring a giant Lichtenstein canvas bears the words "home is where the art is";an image of a&nbsp;woman's head emerging from a&nbsp;sea of Chanel and Hermès bagsis tagged as #goldrush;a&nbsp;young man's "reptile" shoe&nbsp;collection, meanwhile, is labelled #endangered. But&nbsp;even more likely to have you clamouring for revolution are the&nbsp;posts of&nbsp;mock humility:a&nbsp;#livingroom containing an&nbsp;old&nbsp;master and a chandelier, or&nbsp;"weekend at the farm" involving a young man in red trousers disembarking from a&nbsp;helicopter.You may think looking at a&nbsp;17-year-old's Ferrari ("This is how&nbsp;the pimps roll") might be an&nbsp;exercise in impoverished masochism, but the lack of self-awareness makes the whole experience strangely gratifying. It's&nbsp;that old schadenfreude working its magic again. These people may have "more money than you", but&nbsp;they're making complete tits&nbsp;of themselves in&nbsp;the process.Olivia PalermoAmerican socialite-cum-reality-TV-star-cum-clotheshorse Olivia Butterfield Palermo's&nbsp;website  is an exercise in fashion-fixated egomania. When visitors aren't busy wanting to "shop Olivia's closet" for two-grand totebags, they can pick up handy tips including help with "how to rock: green" ("Over the last several years, 'green' has come to be&nbsp;– no longer foremost a color [sic]; a way to describe grass, the leaves on a&nbsp;tree, or even your military-inspired coat – but a way of life"). This is, of&nbsp;course, only once you have finished lapping up the exhaustive travel guides:48&nbsp;Hours In Veniceimplores&nbsp;you to "discover hidden gems and craftsman [sic]" in&nbsp;between aperitifs, which presumably you'll be much in&nbsp;need of after all that work layering statement necklaces.Smugger still is the accompanying (and relatively new)Instagram account– an endless stream of conspicuous consumption as Palermo enjoys yet&nbsp;more infinity pools (attentive readers might notice a theme emerging), luxury goods shopping ("I can't think of a better way to start the day in Paris than the ultimate girl's playground #DIOR") and interchangeable small dogs, usually flanked by at least one permatanned, ripped himbo henchman in shorty shorts. It has nearly 500,000 followers.GoopYou wouldn't believe the vegan snack I've just had…Gwyneth Paltrow, creator of holier-than-thou lifestyle guide Goop. Phototgraph: © Jack Abuin/ZUMA Press/CorbisResisting the urge to self-euthanise while surfing the pages of this holier-than-thou lifestyle guide – which was created by&nbsp;walking celery stickGwyneth Paltrow– can only be described as&nbsp;an epic struggle. Recipes for "tomato burgers" (bestowing this fruit sandwich with the holy title of&nbsp;"burger" is an affront to cows everywhere), help on undergoing a&nbsp;"friendship divorce", extortionatetravel guides… Goop covers a lot of&nbsp;ground. Gwynnie may come in for constant flak from the&nbsp;media, but when she's peddling a £200 coat for kids and claiming to be&nbsp;intolerant to dairy, gluten, wheat, corn&nbsp;andoats, you can start to see why. The site is divided into sections imploring you to "make", "go", "get', "do", "be", "see", and&nbsp;"cry" (we may have added that last one ourselves, after being confronted with Paltrow's candidness regarding her bowel movements). She also signs off all&nbsp;her posts with the words "love, gp". If you loved us, Gwynnie, you&nbsp;wouldn't taunt us with your£140 bespoke monogrammed table&nbsp;napkins.This site has been mercilessly mocked for as long as it has been running (est. 2008), yet Gwyneth continues dictating to her assistant&nbsp;about the bee venom therapy she's undergone and the monthly box of vegan "snacks" she's just ordered, and we continue to hate-read. Long may it last.The Socialite FamilyThis promises "a sample of smart and cool families" in its tagline, and&nbsp;if there was any reason to feel more depressed about your drunk uncle Bill and the annual Christmas&nbsp;punch-up among your own second-rate relatives, this site is it. Launched last year, it's divided into assorted "smart and cool" places: think Los Angeles, Paris, Milan and Marseilles, with not even a minimal sprinkling of Gateshead, Bognor Regis and Milton Keynes.The Socialite Family is property porn at its most depressing: ironic leather sofas, exposed brick walls, and "statement&nbsp;staircases" abound. The children's bedrooms feature retro movie posters and plain mauve bedspreads, and the grinning, tousle-haired kids are pictured playing with bespoke wooden train sets that their fathers have carved out of an oak branch taken from the back garden. Meanwhile, teenagers pose artfully with bikes outside their parents' hipster garages (if you thought a hipster garage wasn't a thing, think again). If your own teens have acne and an&nbsp;attitude problem, and their younger siblings play with Barbies in&nbsp;bedrooms that are more "Walt Disney vomit" than "minimalist lines", The Socialite Family is here to tell you that you've failed. "As soon as we walked through the door,&nbsp;our hearts began to beat faster:&nbsp;from the colour of a wall to a&nbsp;ceramic, we wanted to discover it all at once," trills one home description. "As in a dream, everything is a source of inspiration." As in a nightmare, everything is a source of crippling personal inadequacy.Green Wedding ShoesA meticulous guide to vintage and "handmade" weddings, the Green&nbsp;Wedding Shoes blog exists "because you are truly madly deeply&nbsp;head over heels in love", and&nbsp;yet ironically has the effect of completely eliminating that feeling within minutes of browsing its saccharine offerings. There are all stages of "love" here, from vintage circus weddings to honeymoon adventures. "Take a road trip with your sweetie in a rented vintage Airstream!" the site helpfully suggests. Because that isn't guaranteed to end your marriage quicker than an unwanted pregnancy and a gambling problem.Chock-a-block with questions that&nbsp;are supposed to be rhetorical, such as, "Who doesn't love looking&nbsp;at and talking about celebrity fashion?" as well asnauseatingly hipster titbits– "They came up with&nbsp;the perfect theme (and coined a new term!): Nashcago, a blend of the two cities that brought them together, Nashville + Chicago! Ester&nbsp;+ Matt describe their fictional city as 'one part country, two parts awesome and everything about who&nbsp;they are' " – Green Wedding Shoes ignores the fact that most problems at a reception centre around in-law controversy and inappropriate best man behaviour, rather than how to strew bunting around your favourite converted barn. Sadly, there's no category for&nbsp;"shotgun wedding", "just turned 35 and paranoid about my age wedding", or "trying to look classy the fourth time round wedding".BryanBoy'Hysterically camp' fashion blogger BryanBoy. Photograph: Billy Farrell/BFAnyc.com/RexLegendary Filipino fashion blogger BryanBoy's eponymous website is so in your face that one newspaper labelled it "hysterically camp", a description that we could only term a&nbsp;wild&nbsp;understatement.A recent postshows Bryan modelling a pair of blue-and-gold Just Cavalli leopardprint leggings and a&nbsp;Valentino clutch, the appeal of which, he explains, lies in having it&nbsp;"monogrammed with your initials", making it, unusually for this loathsome day and age, where anyone can "pretty much get anything", "truly and only yours". Still, that was a quiet day sartorially compared with the posts of his matching python skin jacket and shorts combo. It's Bryan's penchant for adventurous clothing (he is quite the fan of leather hotpants) that has made him an international internet celebrity. Well, that and his relentless social climbing, which necessitates the regular posting of pictures with famous people. As Marc Jacobs said to him, "I give you a 10 for effort."The jury's still out on how much self-awareness this man is capable of (a&nbsp;September update, titledAusterityand&nbsp;describing the&nbsp;agonising conundrum he suffered as to whether to buy&nbsp;a&nbsp;pair of Balenciaga cut-out boots from Barneys suggests none), or&nbsp;indeed whether he is actually a real person as opposed to an Anna Wintour-created cyborg in culottes and a&nbsp;fur coat. But occasionally there's a&nbsp;clue that there might be more to him. Back in&nbsp;February, following a&nbsp;shopping spree in Beverly Hills, there was&nbsp;a&nbsp;rare moment of contrition. "I'm not gonna lie, thinking about the obscene amount of money we spend on clothes, shoes&nbsp;and accessories on&nbsp;a regular basis… only to end up in the back of our closets, made me sick to my stomach," he wrote, before popping into Cartier for some bling.Children With SwagA compilation of kiddies in designer clothes, posing against artful backgrounds with frighteningly self-aware pouts on their four-year-old faces. Some choice examples include "Avery Dax, 14 months", photographed in what look suspiciously like skinny jeans. He's too young to walk around without smashing his head into the kitchen table, but we'll tell you what he's not too young for: channelling Johnny Depp. And let's not forget thepre-school fashion shoot, featuring one stylish toddler in a buttoned-up shirt, braces and elaborate pink hair bow. It's amazing how kids today take&nbsp;sartorial inspiration from Annie Hall even before they learn to control their bowel movements.Even more distressing, though, is the number of people reblogging these pictures, accompanied by such comments as, "Ooooh&nbsp;my god! Are you checking her suspenders though!?!" Congratulations, people, you've produced a&nbsp;world&nbsp;where a baby is&nbsp;the&nbsp;latest&nbsp;must-have fashion&nbsp;accessory.The LondonerA recent post on The Londoner  features a discussion on how its writer is pioneering the "carb-free garlic butter mash", and it's all downhill from there. Rosie, who started the blog in 2011, runs The Londoner full time from advertising profits, and describes herself as a "roaming blogger" with a love of nautical style ("Welcome aboard, sailor!").Her expertise is wide-ranging, from policing your eating habits through her ownAnti-Diet Diet(complete with Physical Hunger v Emotional Hunger chart and admonishments only sporadically to indulge in "slutty brownies") to fashion, which doesn't exclude styling for her dog, Custard ("Custard couture"). When she's not putting him in a bow tie and declaring that "a good stripe never goes out of fashion", The Londoner is just as likely to be seen describinga first date(on one of her latest, to Heston Blumenthal's restaurant, she wears "very little make-up and a big smile", and asks her taxi driver to drive round the block a few times because she's early, thus proving how incredibly lucrative her humble blog must be).Somewhere in between watching her sporting "Christmas jumpers in Chelsea" and trying to make sense of her recipe for skinny green popcorn, some readers might begin fervently to wish that they could drown in a vat of Rosie's bright orange carrot juice concoction if it meant never again having to encounter the words "killer detox".• This article was amended on 12 December 2013 because "selfie" is Oxford Dictionaries' word of the year, not the Oxford English Dictionary's word of the year as the original said.
Mophie Juice PackIf you're plagued with smartphone battery life that just won't cut it, Mophie's Juice Packs provide power and protection for various smartphones including the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy S4. Available in a variety of battery capacities.From &pound;60Etouch glovesWe've all been there: it's cold, and you need to use a touchscreen. Sure, you could just cut the fingertips off your gloves, but then you get cold. Instead, these gloves keep you both warm and connected.From &pound;5Griffin Helo TC HelicopterA cheaper thrill than the Parrot AR Drone, the Helo TC is a remote helicopter controlled from a smartphone or tablet. Fun for indoor flying and annoying the neighbours. From &pound;32Anker Astro SEThere are many battery-packing portable chargers available these days, but Anker make some of the best high-capacity ones around. The Anker Astro SE is big enough to triple your smartphone battery life and will charge almost any other device.&nbsp;From &pound;26Mu folding plugThe Mu makes the stubbornly large UK electrical plug more compact, folding up when not in use. It is a well engineer USB charger that looks good and fits where needed.From &pound;15PNY PowerPack 2600Small and packed with enough power to charge up a smartphone, the PNY is one of the best of the small rechargeable battery packs.From &pound;13Parrot AR Drone 2.0Arguably the best gadget toy available, the AR Drone is your personal drone you can control from an iPhone, iPad or Android. With an HD camera in the nose, and flips and tricks up its sleeve, it is rather expensive but great fun.&nbsp;From &pound;270
In August 2012, Sony shut its famed Liverpool studio – formerly known as Psygnosis – putting an end to a legacy of game development that stretched back to the era of the Commodore Amiga. This was the team that created iconic PlayStation launch title WipEout, the stylish sci-fi racer that, with its Designers Republic iconography and licensed dance music soundtrack, epitomised the console&apos;s youth culture credentials.Now that spirit looks set to be revived. Five senior ex-Sony Liverpool staff members are today announcing a new studio, Firesprite, which is already working on a new title, seemingly for multiple platforms. Sony Liverpool studio director Graeme Ankers is at the helm, joined by veteran art director Lee Carus, technical director, Chris Roberts, programming director Dr Stuart Lovegrove and game director Stuart Tilley – all of whom had pivotal roles in the creation of such Psygnosis classics as WipEout, G-Police and Colony Wars.&quot;After everything that happened we just sort of got together again,&quot; says Ankers. &quot;We were all pretty close anyway. Five of us looked back and realised what we&apos;d schieved over the last two decades, even back as far as Psygnosis. We&apos;d been involved with hardware launches from PlayStation One onwards with things like WipEout. We had such a dynamic team. In the games business if you can make great experiences, that&apos;s what it&apos;s all about. So we thought, let&apos;s start something together and make games that are new and fresh, but which have a strong DNA of what we&apos;d done in the past.&quot;At first we met in the bars and cafes around Liverpool and started out in someone&apos;s flat. We had all that experience, we&apos;d done so much over the years, and had been such a part of the development scene in the North West. I mean, WipEout could only have been made in this area at that time. We just thought, let&apos;s stay together and see what we can do.&quot;PlayRoom partnersBased in the centre of Liverpool, Firesprite now has 20 staff, all but four of whom come from Sony Liverpool. And the team has already shipped a product – using their contacts at Sony, they snagged a collaborative role with Sony Japan to produce the free PlayStation 4 launch app, The PlayRoom. &quot;We developed the visual side, all the AR bots as well as the world and the menus,&quot; says Ankers. &quot;It was a unique relationship really. We had really strong ideas of what PlayRoom should be and we worked almost as one team with Sony in Japan&quot;.The studio is now working on a new game, which Ankers implies is for the new consoles, as well as smartphone. &quot;We&apos;re working hard creating a new engine and tool chain,&quot; he says. &quot;We want to get the power into the hands of the artists and designers. We want to deliver new types of experiences, on new platforms. We want our games to have a technical edge to them. We want to do things first.&quot;No other details have been released, but it&apos;s interesting that the studio&apos;s logo retains the look, feel and Japanese character set of the old Designers Republic work that once adorned all of Studio Liverpool&apos;s releases. It could almost be one of the WipEout racing teams. Does this mean we can expect titles like WipEout and G-Police, games with a highly-stylised futuristic sheen? &quot;The PlayRoom allowed us to re-capture that slightly out-there sci-fi feel,&quot; says Ankers. &quot;The look of the future is something we&apos;ve always captured really well and it&apos;s something we like doing. That&apos;s definitely a part of it.&quot;There will be more details on Firesprite&apos;s next game early next year. For now, Ankers and his colleague are growing the studio and looking to help re-energise game development in the area, which also saw the closure of fellow veteran Bizarre Creations in 2012.&quot;The North West has a strong history in development,&quot; he says. &quot;There was Ocean, Studio Liverpool and Bizarre. But now there&apos;s lots of cool new stuff in the area that hasn&apos;t been announced. There is a lot of opportunity on mobile on the new consoles and the North West is full of people who have made some cracking games. There are studios and teams forming. It&apos;s early, but there are some exciting things coming through.&quot;• Sony Liverpool to close amid flurry of game industry redundancies• PlayStation 4 hands-on review and Xbox One comparison - video
An innocuous-looking torch app for Android that has been downloaded more than 50m times silently shared users&apos; locations and device IDs with advertisers, the company has admitted.In asettlement with the US Federal Trade Commission(FTC), the maker of Brightest Flashlight Free admitted that the app&apos;s privacy policy &quot;deceptively failed to disclose&quot; that it was passing on location and device ID data to networks of advertisers.The privacy policy said that &quot;any&quot; information collected by the app would be used by the company. But it didn&apos;t say that it would also send it to third parties.Since its release in February 2011, the app has been downloaded between 50m and 100m times, according to data on the Google Play app store.&quot;When consumers are given a real, informed choice, they can decide for themselves whether the benefit of a service is worth the information they must share to use it,&apos; said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC&apos;s consumer protection bureau. &quot;But this flashlight left them in the dark about how their information was going to be used.&quot;False choiceThe FTC also said that the app gave users a false choice: &quot;At the bottom of the license agreement, consumers could click to &apos;Accept&apos; or &apos;Refuse&apos; the terms of the agreement. Even before a consumer had a chance to accept those terms, though, the application was already collecting and sending information to third parties – including location and the unique device identifier.&quot;That meant that advertisers could in effect have tracked users through their device ID and location to see what adverts they were clicking on - and even identified people through related information.Analysts warned that the revelation could harm Google&apos;s reputation - and that other apps on the Android market are suspected of doing the same.&quot;Bad security/privacy hurts Google&apos;s attempts to build trust and willingness to pay [for apps],&quot;commentedthe research company Canalys.Fake warningIn October, three security researchers from Bitdefender examined 630,000 apps in the Google Play store and said that more than 23,000 of them grabbed the user&apos;s email address. They also highlighted Brightest Flashlight Free for displaying a fake antivirus warning which suggested that the user&apos;s phone harboured malware.Graham Cluley, an independent security expert, commented: &quot;The question remains, of course, how many *other* free Android apps are doing similarly sneaky tricks, exposing the privacy of their users?&quot;Under the settlement, the app will in future have to tell users how, where and when their data is about to be shared, and get their express permission to do so.The case is the first where the FTC has zeroed in on unwanted sharing of geolocation data as part of its requirement to protect US consumer privacy.Android apps tell users what information they will collect from users before they are installed - but do not give any explanation of what or how the information will be used, or why it is necessary to collect it. There is also no standard way to veto the collection of data or access to a machine function by an app.ThePlay Store app, which has generally received good reviews - an average of 4.8 out of 5 - turns on all the lights on the device to create a torch. It also says that it offers &quot;unobtrusive ads&quot;.The developer, GoldenShores Technologies, also offers another app for choosing colours, which is also ad-supported. It has had far fewer downloads, totalling around 50,000. The FTC didn&apos;t say whether it is investigating that app.Erik Geidl, who runs GoldenShores Technologies, has been ordered to delete any personal information that the app has collected. He is also required to tell the FTC if he changes his employment over the next ten years.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe pitfalls of techno-optimism (and the ambition of Amazon) &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsSteve Wildstrom:The techno-ethusiasm that greeted the Bezos interview is hardly unique. We have seen the same sort of reaction to 3D printing, which at least has the advantage of being real and available today. 3D print is also a very exciting new technology that enables many things once thought impossible. But it has also inspired a vast quantity of tech journalistic nonsense: 3D printing will replace conventional manufacturing, families will meet all their needs for manufacturing objects with home printers; or, my favorite, we will solve the problem of hunger by printing food. These breathless predictions uniformly ignore the limitations of both technology and economics, not to mention the fact that after 40 years, old-fashioned 2-D printers remain the most unreliable pieces of tech equipment that most of us own.Google invites Glass Explorer Edition owners to upgrade their eyewear &gt;&gt; EngadgetThe company is now inviting owners to swap devices through a free mail exchange before February 5th. While the upgrade isn't mandatory, Google warns that it's only developing with the newer Explorer Edition in mind -- there's no guarantee that new accessories or software will work on old models. The invitation is more of a push than a gentle nudge, then, but we doubt that many Glass users will complain about a free update.Includes changes to make it compatible with prescription frames.Microsoft produces a winner in tablets &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Guest columnist" Bob Tedeschi (while David Pogue leaves the building, presumably):I found the touchpad on the Type Cover less responsive than the touchpads found on laptops, but then I realized: Who needs one when you can swipe and tap the screen?Note that on the Surface 2, the Office experience isn't exactly the same as you would find on a Windows laptop — or, for that matter, on the Surface Pro. If you are an Excel ninja, for instance, you'll be sad to know you can't perform some advanced functions with Office RT. Same goes for other Office applications. That said, Office RT is far better than mobile apps that seek to approximate the Office suite. Google last year bought the best of the bunch, QuickOffice, and the user reviews have plummeted since the deal.Neither Surface device connects to a cellular network, so it's Wi-Fi or nothing, and the sound on the Surface left me pining for more volume.Your children will also be sad to know they can't download Minecraft or any other desktop apps on the Surface 2. The Windows mobile app market has no official Minecraft app, which is available on Apple and Android.And as he also notes, Angry Birds costs $3.50 rather than being free, as is the case with other apps. A smaller, pricier app selection, limited versions of Office - this is "winning"?Samsung's next challenge: selling phones to businesses &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWhen Samsung launched its latest flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S4, in March, company executives promised it would come preloaded with the Knox system. But Knox wasn't ready in time for that rollout, with the system still hampered by inadequate security specifications and bugs. Knox didn't come preloaded on any Samsung devices until the release of its Galaxy Note 3 phone-tablet hybrid that made its debut in September.One of Samsung's key partners, the Defense Information Systems Agency—the Pentagon unit that grants approval for technologies to be used by other government agencies—has been particularly frustrated with the delivery of a ready-to-use device loaded with Knox's security features, according to people familiar with the matter. It granted Samsung Galaxy smartphones—as well as iPhones and iPads—a key initial security approval in May, based on Samsung's assurances of a smooth Knox rollout."We understand the technology challenges each of our vendors must work with respect to their products being market ready and will continue to work closely with each of them," said a spokeswoman for the Defense Information Systems Agency.Samsung says its research and development teams have been working "very closely" with the U.S. National Security Agency, which helps technology companies shape new products for U.S. government agencies. The NSA said it wasn't able to comment on the matter.Google Nexus 4 KitKat update causing problems including battery drain and no dialling &gt;&gt; 3GFrom3's official site no lessa site which does its level best to look like an official site for network operator Three, but is in fact unaffiliated to it:A wide variety of problems are being reported by Nexus 4 users who've updated to Android KitKat. Some of the most serious issues involve the home-button ceasing to function, the phone dialler not working anymore and the lock-screen getting stuck.Other owners of Google's smartphone have reported terrible battery drain since updating, laggy keyboard performance and some users have even reported that their device is now shutting down of its own accord.Not all users are affected by issues, but it's a real mess for Google - especially given that early updates to new Android platforms are often highlighted as major selling points of Nexus devices.What to do if affected?Google are aware of the problem and they are already thought to working a new update to resolve the issues (KitKat 4.4.1). Waiting it out is an option, but Google are yet to comment when the new patch is likely to made available.Puts something of a crimp on the promises of the Nexus line getting pure, untroubled Android.The Rise and Fall of BlackBerry: an oral history &gt;&gt; BusinessweekBusinessWeek's cover story is told through peoples' recollections, from the start through to key moments like this:Thomas Homer-Dixon, professor of political science at the Balsillie School of International Affairs: I was with Jim [Balsillie, RIM co-CEO and co-chairman] on an icebreaker in the Arctic in the summer of 2010 for a weeklong seminar on Arctic issues. That's when things really turned. Saudi Arabia, India, and others were saying RIM had to open up to national intelligence. He gave a talk at the end of the week to everybody on board. He started out by saying, "You know, I'm an electrician's son from Peterborough. A lot of people who are involved in building a $60 billion company like to look back and attribute their success to smart moves along the way. What I'm going to tell you is a story about luck—and extraordinary luck at key moments along the way." He identified six moments where RIM could have failed. A combination of luck and acumen had put them on the right path. Someone asked, "What do you think is going to happen now?" He said, "Well, it's really hard to say. This is a rapidly expanding market. We may have a diminishing share of that market, but who knows?"Headlines from a mathematically literate world &gt;&gt; Math with Bad DrawingsOur World: Hollywood Breaks Box Office Records with Explosions, Rising StarsMathematically Literate World: Hollywood Breaks Box Office Records with Inflation, Rising PopulationAnd many more, all of similar truth. (Via @RagingTBolt)Bluetooth 4.1 released &gt;&gt; dailywireless.orgThe last Bluetooth update was in July 2010, with the spec for Bluetooth Smart, also called Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) or Bluetooth 4.0. It enabled low-energy technology for the Internet of Things.A single device can now act as both a Bluetooth Smart peripheral and a hub at the same time. For example, a smart watch acts as a hub gathering information from a heart rate monitor while simultaneously acting as a peripheral to a smartphone — displaying new message notifications from the phone.Bluetooth has become the wireless technology of choice for developers, according to the Bluetooth SIG, with over two billion devices shipping annually. The Bluetooth SIG [Special Interest Group] now counts over 20,000 member companies.Photorealistic fingerpainting of Morgan Freeman &gt;&gt; Kyle LambertLooking at the result, it's easy to see why people don't believe it was drawn rather than just a photograph. Looking at the start, it's hard to see how he got there. 200 hours of work in between the two.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
The government&apos;s flagship Tech City cluster in east London is finally being supplied with more reliable high-speed internet access, the prime minister will announce today - three years after the centre first opened.The announcement builds on a project already underway by EE to expand its new 4G mobile network in the area, providing 4G-enabled hubs to 100 companies around Old Street&apos;s &apos;Silicon Roundabout&apos; by September 2014.David Cameron will speak at Tech City at an event to mark the third birthday of the initiative.High-speed broadband was a key pledge by Cameron when the government launched the Tech City project in December 2010, yet many tech startups have complained from the start that poor network speeds have hampered the growth of their businesses.Broadband speeds within London average around 17Mbps, but research by comparison site uSwitch found that one in five broadband users, including those in the Tech City area, get speeds of less than 3Mbps - barely enough to watch video online.“BT is really trying to address connectivity issues in and around the area, but these things take time”, said Tech City’s chief executive Joanna Shields. She told the Guardian that for smaller companies without permanent offices, mobile broadband provides an attractive alternative to costly fixed-line services which can take six or more weeks to activate.The new &apos;long term evolution&apos; (LTE) network supports speeds of around 300Mbps using special wireless hubs. similar to fixed-line broadband routers. They connect to EE’s 4G network wirelessly, rather than a phone line or cable, and can support around 20 people using each hub.There are 17 masts in place in the area already, though EE will provide the service and devices - which aren’t publicly available yet - for free to startups within Tech City.East London: &apos;one of the world&apos;s great technology centres&apos;At the launch of Tech City in 2010, Cameron said he wanted to &quot;help make east London one of the world&apos;s great technology centres&quot;.Led by Shields, a former Facebook, Bebo and Google executive, Tech City has set out to attract investors and entrepreneurs to east London and promoting companies and events to champion London&apos;s position as the “digital capital of Europe&quot;.The government claims east London is now the fastest-growing cluster in Europe, accounting for 40% of all job growth in the tech and digital media industry in the UK between 2009 and 2012. The number of tech companies in London has grown 76% since 2009 and 582,000 people now employed within the technology and digital sectors.However, the Olympic Park’s media centre – one of the key parts of Cameron’s original Tech City plan – has failed to draw interest from smaller businesses, leaving BT Sport to headline the companies using the facility.Around 200 tech companies were already situated in the Old Street area when the initiative launched, drawing criticism that the government was trying to claim credit for a cluster that was already well established. There were also concerns were that attracting corporates such as Google, Facebook and Intel would push up the price of office space. That was inevitable, said Shields, along with the general direction of London property prices.“As an area becomes popular, and more companies move in, of course office space prices are going to go up,” said Shields.Recent data from YouGov found that 48% of tech businesses cited the cost of doing business in London as one of the primary issues hampering growth, forcing some to leave the capital for other digital hubs like Birmingham.&apos;We were sceptical we could attract talent from the US&apos;Now, however, over 1,300 startups operate within the Old Street area including companies like Mixcloud, Viadeo, Mind Candy, 7 digital, Last.fm, Lyst and Gree, with mobile gaming firm Rekoo recently marking the first mainland Chinese firm to set up shop in Tech City.“We were sceptical when we first started out that we would be able to attract talent from the Bay Area in the US, but we’ve managed it without issues because London has more than just tech to offer,” said Chris Morton chief executive of online fashion startup Lyst.Tech City has established itself as a brand name for UK tech, he said. “London is now much more of a tech focal point in Europe and hiring the best and brightest from the EU is incredibly easy.&quot;The expansion of Tech City has also benefitted surrounding areas and services including the growth of local bars and restaurants.Shields: &apos;Tech City is supporting economic growth&apos;Shields rejected the idea that the government might de-prioritise the technology sector as its continues to look for ways to cut public spending.“Anyone can look at the figures and see that the Tech City initiative is adding to the economic recovery,” said Shields, explaining that private sector investment through Tech City is now supporting economic growth.“Our challenge now is to build on these firm foundations to drive higher rates of start-ups and create a landscape favourable to digitally enabled firms to thrive and contribute long term to growth and jobs.&quot;•Autumn statement has mixed messages for tech startups
Art has undergone a significant change in the last century. Dyson&apos;s bagless vacuum cleaner, for example, was installed in New York&apos;s Metropolitan Museum of Artin 1996, only 23 years after the death of Picasso. Now, 16 years later, even lines of code are seen as art.A recent exhibition in Munich, Big Data Art 2013, was devoted to showcasing this next generation of art. It&apos;s no surprise that in a world where big data is being used by social networks, retail stores and shh,surveillance agencies, a number of artists chose to portray a political message through their work. After all, something that often accompanies big data is privacy concerns.One of the more intriguing works on show was byAPNOA, set up by Sebastian Drack and Tobias Feldmeier, two students at the University of Applied Sciences Salzburg. The premise of their art,bias, was simple: every time someone sent a Twitter message containingone of the 377 keywords the US Department of Homeland Security is monitoring, a string would flash with a fluorescent light, hindering the view of the rest of the room. A speech synthesiser would also read the word aloud and release a &quot;mysterious sound&quot;.According the artists, the fluorescent light was meant to signify the invasion of data privacy and surveillance that is imposed upon our lives. The art installation was also meant to demonstrate the omnipresent nature of big data. Drack said:The big data world is still some kind of abstract parallel universe for many people but at the same time data is incredibly real and it is definitely time to give statements, raise awareness and to be part of democratic processes. Do we live in an constitutional state or do we live in a surveillance state?The political nature of this artwork becomes more evident after reading aquestion posed by this newspaper&apos;s editorwith regards to British and US intelligence agencies, a question that echoes Drack&apos;s statement:...is it right that we should know so little about who they are or what they do – that this dramatic loss of individual privacy, unprecedented in history, could be done without any kind of public knowledge or consent? Who agreed?Big data now plays a very big role in our lives – our search history, location, who we talk to and text, and data from social media accounts is all collected, analysed and stored, according to documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.These revelations have sparked a worldwide debate about the nature of intelligence gathering. Beyond this, the bigger issue has perhaps been of putting this into context for the ordinary internet user. The Guardian has releasedsupplements within the newspaperas well asinteractives, the sole purpose to explain why &quot;metadata&quot; matters.But Drack and Feldmeier may be on to something with their art. It&apos;s intuitive – just like the touch-screens that are now second-nature to our fingers. Their art explains that organisations are constantly looking at our information in some form or another and how that can disrupt our own lives. It&apos;s simple and that is why it carries such impact.
Facebook is facing a fresh controversy over its tax contributions after company filings revealed the social network exported an estimated £645m earned in the UK and other overseas markets to the Cayman Islands tax haven last year.Facebook uses a subsidiary in Ireland to collect advertising revenue from around the world. Accounts filed in Dublin this week show that business is booming, with international earnings rising to £1.5bn in 2012, up from £840m in 2011. But the Irish government collected just £4.4m in tax from the world's largest social media company last year.Using a complex web of subsidiaries in a tax structure known as the "double Irish", employed by a number of American multinationals, Facebook shelters much of the money it earns outside its home market from governments around the world.Facebook and Google account for around half of the £6bn expected to have been spent on advertising on the internet in Britain this year, according to eMarketer. But Facebook has put most of this income out of reach of the taxman.The company paid no tax in Britain last year, despite earning an estimated £223m in one of the Europe's biggest advertising markets. Facebook takes full advantage of London's status as a hub for European advertisers. Its European vice president, Nicola Mendelsohn, formerly chair of the well-respected Karmarama ad agency, is based in the capital, near to the headquarters of WPP, the world's largest buyer of advertising space.A Facebook spokesman said: "Facebook complies with all relevant corporate regulations including those related to filing company reports and taxation. We have our international headquarters in Ireland that employs almost 400 people and a series of smaller local offices providing support services all over Europe. Dublin was selected as the best location to hire staff with the right skills to run a multilingual hi-tech operation serving the whole of Europe."Facebook's UK operating company employs more than 120 staff, many in advertising sales, but advertisers are actually billed via the Dublin-based subsidiary, Facebook Ireland Ltd. Accounts show the business employed 382 staff last year, some of them in Ireland and some abroad.The subsidiary collected revenues of £1.5bn last year, but this was wiped out by two items – the cost of sales and payments made to other group companies. Large sums go directly to the US, with £670m being paid to the listed parent company last year. But £645m was paid to Facebook Ireland Holdings for use of the platform.This second subsidiary is based in Ireland but does not file full public accounts. This means the final destination of any payments out of Facebook Ireland Holdings is untraceable. However, there are clues to its ownership – filings show Facebook Ireland Holdings is owned by a number of Facebook subsidiaries based in the Caymans, a jurisdiction that does not levy corporation tax.The ownership structure suggests Facebook may be diverting much of its international income to the tax haven. The company declined to comment on this aspect of its accounts.Margaret Hodge, who chairs Parliament's influential Public Accounts Committee, has criticised Facebook's tax record, accusing the company of apparently "deliberate manipulation of accounts of economic activity to deprive the British taxpayer of a rightful tax contribution".Political leaders around Europe have urged Dublin to do more to tackle tax avoidance scheme. The G20 group of countries and the OECD are working to close loopholes, while prosecutors in Italy have initiated proceedings against Apple for similar arrangements to those being used by Facebook.
Like the record executive who turned down the Beatles, there&apos;s a marketing executive who worked at RIM (now BlackBerry) who must rue the day he or she ever heard the name &quot;Justin Bieber&quot;.According to acomprehensive &quot;oral history of BlackBerry&quot;in the latest issue of Bloomberg BusinessWeek, Bieber approached the company in 2007, offering to become a &quot;brand ambassador&quot;.As recounted by Vincent Washington, RIM&apos;s senior business development manager from 2001-11, the awful moment came and went quickly.One thing we missed out on was that Justin Bieber wanted to rep BlackBerry. He said, “Give me $200,000 and 20 devices, and I’m your brand ambassador,” basically. And we pitched that to marketing: Here’s a Canadian kid, he grew up here, all the teeny-boppers will love that. They basically threw us out of the room. They said, “This kid is a fad. He’s not going to last.” I said at the meeting: “This kid might outlive RIM.” Everyone laughed.Of course, in 2013 RIM changed its name to BlackBerry. Bieber … is still called Bieber.At the time the company barely advertised because it was certain that its reputation in businesses ensured that people would come to it.The story - which is told through quotations from people who worked with and around the company - shows that the meteoric rise of the company came through the fact that in around 2003, owning one marked you out: &quot;BlackBerry was a darling of enterprise. If you had a BlackBerry you were an important person, as at that time a lot of people didn’t have a smartphone. It was almost a status symbol within the company,&quot; the article quotes Kevin Michaluk, founder of CrackBerry.com. &quot; It was the most intuitive communication device. With that blinking red light, it had that addictive quality.&quot;It also made the crossover into consumer popularity in 2004, when the company began handing handsets out to Bollywood celebrities, and the 2006 BlackBerry Pearl appeared with a trackwheel and a camera - the latter being an addition that the company had previously eschewed.But the problems began to multiply as the iPhone and then Android phones forced the company to try to catch up. By 2008, recalls Brendan Kenalty, of customer base management, 2007-10:All the market research was saying, “Hey, everybody wants what they call candy bar phones,” which is the nonflip phone. And the next [BlackBerry] product that came down the pipe was the new Pearl Flip. All the sales guys were, like, “What the hell? We asked you for big screens, touchscreens, more of these candy bar styles.” And they were, like, “Yeah, but we came up with this really cool technology about the hinge. Look at how this works!” There’s probably still a warehouse full of them.So RIM, as it was, produced its first &quot;touchscreen&quot; device – theBlackBerry Storm– which garnered terrible reviews, and of which Kunal Gupta, CEO of Polar, which develops applications for companies to publish on mobile platforms, including BlackBerry devices, says in the article:We got an early prototype. When you clicked something, it would take longer than it should. It would crash or freeze. You were used to every BlackBerry product being a winner. This one felt like an afterthought.From there the story is well-known: the failure of the PlayBook tablet, and the same – so far – for the new BB10 platform. But there&apos;s still optimism inside the company, according to Jeff Gadway, current senior manager for product marketing:When you go into the focus groups, and you talk to customers about brands in the technology space, there are brands that don’t come up at all anymore. And then there’s BlackBerry. People have fond sentiments about BlackBerry. If people didn’t have that affinity toward the brand, I would be challenged to really believe in what we’re doing. People want to see BlackBerry succeed.Might it all have been different if that marketing executive had seen the potential of Justin Bieber back in 2007, though?Felix Gillette of Bloomberg describes the article in this Bloomberg TV extract.Felix Gillette of Bloomberg talks on Bloomberg TV about the 'oral history of BlackBerry'• Sales of BlackBerry handsetshave dropped almost to zero among consumers in the US, China, Japan and Spain, new figures suggest
Bitcoin has been endorsed by a Wall Street currency analyst who has claimed it shows &quot;clear potential for growth&quot;, apparently contradicting an earlier warning issued bythe Chinese central bank has banned its financial institutionsfrom dealing in the currency.In a detailed research note, David Woo of Bank of America Merrill Lynch argues that &quot;bitcoin can become a major means of payment for e-commerce and may emerge as a serious competitor to traditional money transfer providers&quot;.Assuming bitcoin does achieve that maturity, Woo argues that the fair value of one bitcoin should be around $1300 - higher than it has ever been before, but still significantly short of some of the larger estimates made for the currency.Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, two major investors in bitcoin who famously fought Mark Zuckerberg over their role in Facebook&apos;s birth,have argued that the currency&apos;s exchange rate could rise as high as $35,000 to one.Woo also examines the underbelly of the currency: &quot;It has been reported that Bitcoin may help users avoid high taxes, capital controls, and confiscation… That said, the fact that all Bitcoin transactions are publicly available and that every Bitcoin has a unique transaction history that cannot be altered may ultimately limit its use in the black market/underworld.&quot;Other Wall Street analysts are not so kind, however.Steven Englander, a currency strategist at Citi bank, also released a research note on the currency, in which he argued that the technological benefits of bitcoin are too easy to copy and use to create new currencies for bitcoin itself to have value.&quot;Unlike fine art,&quot; Englander wrote, &quot;bitcoin can be replicated exactly or close to it. Say in response to overwhelming demand for bitcoin, someone created nitcoin… We will see big speculative swings as different ‘coins’ are created and move in and out of fashion.&quot;This week, the Dutch, French and Chinese national banks have allissued warnings against using Bitcoin. The Bank of France released a report calling the currency &quot;highly speculative&quot; and saying it poses a &quot;certain financial risk&quot; for owners.•Bitcoin hype &apos;worse than tulip mania&apos; says Dutch central banker
Twitter has hired the former Pearson chief executive Dame Marjorie Scardino to be the first woman on its board, after critics rounded on its all-male lineup.In response to the company&apos;s announcement, the former boss of the Financial Times publisher acknowledged the news in what appeared to be her first tweet: “@twitterThank you. There couldn&apos;t be a more exciting time in Twitter&apos;s history to join!” she wrote.Twitter said Scardino would join the company immediately and would be a member of its audit committee.In 1997 Scardino, who is now 66, became the first woman chief executive of a FTSE 100 company in Britain, when she was appointed to lead Pearson. She has deep ties in media and education: Pearson owns most of Penguin Random House and a half-stake in The Economist and under her tenure built one of the largest education publishing and testing businesses in the world.Her appointment comes after Twitter faced criticism regarding its all-male board, before its flotation last month. The Stanford University academic and entrepreneur Vivek Wadhwa told the New York Times: “This is the elite arrogance of the Silicon Valley mafia, the Twitter mafia. It’s the same male chauvinistic thinking. The fact that they went to the IPO without a single woman on the board, how dare they?”The comment led to a spat between Twitter chief executive Dick Costolo and Wadhwa. Referring to an American stand-up comedian, Costolo called Wadhwa “the Carrot Top of academic sources”. Costolo argued that: “The issues are much bigger than checking any one box.”As well as Costolo, Twitter&apos;s board includes former Netscape chief financial officer Peter Currie, former News Corp chief operating officer Peter Chernin and Silicon Valley venture capitalist Peter Fenton.After Scardino’s appointment, Wadhwa tweeted: “On Twitter, yes, I know easy and popular thing is to declare success and smile. But much more needs to be done … and in their interest. We don&apos;t want diversity for the sake of diversity. We want it because it improves performance, innovation, values. Makes pie bigger. It&apos;s not just Twitter that needs to be called out. But they are the poster child and in the spotlight because of IPO.”Twitter is not the only tech company with poor representation of women at senior levels. According to the research firm GMI Ratings, about 49% of publicly traded tech businesses have no women on their boards, compared with 36% of the 2,770 largest public companies in the country.Scardino was born in Flagstaff, Arizona, and took British citizenship in January 2002. A month later, she was made a dame.
The Xbox One has come under a lot of flack for costing $100 more than Sony&apos;s competing PS4 console.Microsoft justifies the price difference by pointing out that the Xbox One comes bundled with theKinect 2.0, its all-purpose video camera/microphone/motion sensor/Orwellian spy, but many gamers haven&apos;t been convinced. The Kinect is widely seems as lacking a &quot;killer app&quot;, something more than the various motion-controlled party games which filled the shelves of the last generation.But that&apos;s surely bound to change, because that must-have feature has been found: the latest version of 2K Sports&apos; flagship basketball series, NBA 2K14, penalises gamers for swearing. In real life.Bad language while playing NBA 2K14? The game knows&hellip;Yes, if the Xbox Onehearsyou swearing, the in-game referee will penalise your team for a technical foul.The PS4 version of the game has the same feature, but requires the Playstation Camera, sold separately, to make it work. That&apos;s frankly not good enough: I want this on in every game, by default.In fact, developers should go further. I want Lara Croft delivering withering put-downs to men who comment on her looks; Cooking Mama telling off players who are rude to their real-life mothers; and the Prince from Katamari Damacy asking people to occasionally recite the alphabet backwards while standing on one foot, just to ensure that they aren&apos;t playing with any &quot;performance enhancers&quot;.
With record-breaking sales figures and seemingly unending demand, it&apos;s likely gamers will find it challenging to secure an Xbox One or PS4 in time for Christmas – unless they thought ahead and pre-ordered their new machine well in advance. But judging by the experiences of several Guardian readers, as well as many others hitting Twitter and gaming forums, this is no guarantee of satisfaction.The Guardian has received reports that PlayStation 4 pre-orders, specifically through the high street and online retailer Game, have been cancelled with little in the way of explanation or notice. Last week, gamershit the PlayStation forumto complain about receiving cancellation emails from Game informing them that they would need to contact customer services if they wanted the order to be re-instated. One customer Gregory Rasputin,recorded his own experience online, including the email from Game that suggested there may have been a problem with payment.From forum messages, it seems that pre-orders have been taken on bank cards that later expired, but that customers were not informed when the payment was attempted and failed. On his site, Rasputin posted a list of tweets from other pre-order customers, sent to the @gamedigital Twitter feed. One says: &quot;Can someone help me with my PS4 preorder? You have tried to take payment from the wrong card account and have cancelled it!&quot;Credit checkThe Guardian approached Game for a comment, and received this response from marketing director Ailsa McKnight: “Demand has been incredible and since launch we’ve had thousands of satisfied gamers get their hands on a console for Christmas. There have been a small number of issues with payment processing and delivery, the majority of which have been out of our control. Our customer services team have been reaching out to customers via email, text and phone and we will continue working to ensure that all of our pre-order customers get their hands on their console as quickly as possible.&quot;Certainly, the retailer is maintaining its presence in social media channels, but some gamers are questioning the company&apos;s follow-through with customer support. On 25 November, Game tweeted: &quot;If you&apos;re having an issue with your pre-order don&apos;t worry we can fix it. Email us.&quot; Subsequent tweeted assurances have, however, met with frustrated responses from gamers. Arequest for patiencetweeted five days later, was met with anger from those still waiting to hear. &quot;Are you kidding me, I&apos;ve been waiting since Thursday at 11am. Still no answer. You have my money! Where the hell is my order?&quot;Video game site Sixth Axisreports the experiencesof another Game pre-order customer who claims to have fully updated all of his credit card details, only to have his order cancelled anyway. He told the site: &quot;I checked the night before that my Game account had my new and up-to-date card registered with it, which it did. I also made sure my old debit card was deleted, which it was. They had tried to take my money twice using my old, now out-dated, debit card and didn’t even consider trying to use the new one linked to my account.&quot;Guardian reader Josh Hannaford pre-ordered his PS4 from Game in August, paying the £20 deposit and receiving an automated email that day acknowledging his order. On 19 November he received another email from Game, letting him know that the remainder of the cost would be taken from his account suggesting that he check with his payment provider that the funds would be available – which he duly did. A week after launch and he&apos;s heard nothing from Game. He has since queued several times to access the Game site&apos;s online chat support as well as applying for acall back, with no luck.Finally this morning he received a response from the Game Twitter account, asking &quot;can I help?&quot; In a direct message conversation, Hannaford claims that we was told his order was classed as &apos;Phase Two&apos; and would be sent before Christmas – even though he had made his order on the &apos;Phase One&apos; cut-off day to ensure launch day delivery, and had been assured by live chat staff on the website that the console would be sent for 29 November. &quot;Sorry If you have been misinformed but all phase one stock is now gone, phase two will be with you before Christmas,&quot; was the alleged reply.Meanwhile, the tweets keep coming in to the Game account,this one on Thursday morningfrom Evette Parr: &quot;Been trying to get in touch via the CS channels for a week - certainly not the quickest way &amp; NO reply to my tweet - ridiculous.&quot; Forum posts also suggest there have been problems with Paypal payments for pre-ordered systems. The comments section beneath the Sixth Axis story, includes a post from a reader named NotHappyWithGame who provides a full transcript of his online chat with the retailer&apos;s customer support rep – here, difficulties with Paypal are blamed, even though the reader claims the account is in credit.Game savedIt is likely the sheer volume of pre-orders taken, combined with the vagaries of hardware distribution on at such a large volume will have contributed to Game&apos;s woes – and there are plenty of tweets for customers who have received their consoles on time. The retailer went into administration last year, closing 277 stores, but was later bought out by investment firm OpCapita which saved 333 stores and has since re-opened several more. It is also not alone in its difficulty with pre-orders; readers who pre-ordered their PS4s from Amazon have also been in touch to say they are still waiting for machines.&quot;Almost half a million PS4 and Xbox One consoles have been sold in two weeks, and when you’re talking of numbers and demand on this scale, you’re bound to hit some problems,&quot; said Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. &quot;I don’t know the details surrounding the current issues with next-gen pre-orders. Game said last month it had expected a seriously busy Christmas and had hired 4,500 extra temporary staff to compensate, and 100 extra people specifically for its contact centre. So hopefully they have the resource in place to help out their customers in need this Christmas, because there is going to be a lot more consoles sold between now and 25 December.&quot;For consumers frustrated by the delay, it seems there is little recourse in consumer law if the terms and conditions of the pre-order include clauses that stress there is no guarantee of a specific delivery date. Game&apos;sonline pre-order pagestates: &quot;We cannot always guarantee that Limited Edition items or some Hardware will be available for delivery on the day of launch, but we will keep you informed if any issues arise.&quot;According to Jemma Robinson, the joint lead officer for civil law at the Trading Standards Institute, online pre-orders are not confirmed until an email is received that the goods are being dispatched. &quot;Customers need to be aware when they&apos;re shopping online that the contracted is not finalised with the acknowledgement email, which confirms your offer to buy the product, but with the acceptance email, when the full payment is requested. Until that point both the customer and retailer are legally able to cancel the agreement. For a contract to be binding you need to have the offer, acceptanceandconsideration, which is basically the payment. Terms and conditions do differ between retailers though and customers should be aware of them.&quot;Robinson suggests that aggrieved gamers should contact Trading Standards through theCitizens Advice consumer service helpline. &quot;Customers need to ensure their payment details are correct so if they have changed cards, bank accounts or mobile phone numbers, the retailer needs to be informed. If all of that is correct, the best practice is for consumers to contact the retailer in writing so that they have evidence of a complaint. If it isn&apos;t resolved they can contact consumer services for help with their individual situation.&quot;Christmas rushFor customers still hoping to grab an next-gen console before Christmas, many major retails such as Amazon, Asda and Argos are showing &quot;sold out&quot; messages on their websites, although the Guardian has been assured by retail insiders that that are machines in the channel and making their way to stores. This will, however, be little comfort to the Guardian readers still waiting for their pre-orders to be fulfilled.&quot;I pre-ordered a PS4 instore from Game in Belfast and was told I wouldn&apos;t be guaranteed before Christmas,&quot; says Stephen Cosgrove. &quot;I was okay with that, given the lateness of my pre-order, but later I heard stories of consoles being sold straight through instead of filling pre-orders. I checked the store&apos;s Twitter feed (@GAME_Belfast), and saw those rumours all but confirmed.&quot;So hetweeted them, &quot;How is that acceptable? What&apos;s the point in me *paying* for a preorder if someone else can just walk in off the street?&quot; The response was that sometimes customers cancel pre-orders. &quot;Following that, they blocked me on Twitter.&quot;• PS4 outstrips Xbox One to become UK&apos;s fastest selling console• Sony&apos;s PS4 sells more than 2m units worldwide• PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: The next-gen consoles compared
Tesco has said that an updated version of its surprise hit tablet computer, the Hudl, will be launched in 2014.“The new model will be an enhanced version,” said Tesco’s chief executive, Philip Clarke.He also announced that Tesco had sold more than 35,000 Hudl tablets within the first few days of the launch, and has sold more than 300,000 to date, “more than we had originally planned in total in the run-up to Christmas” according to Clarke.“With the UK being the hottest European market for tablets it comes as little surprise that Tesco is looking to build on the success of its first foray into this segment,” said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight talking to the Guardian.Run out of stock twiceChief digital officer at Tesco, Michael Comish, admitted that Tesco had struggled to maintain stock of the tablets saying, “they are flying off the shelves so quickly, it has run out of stock twice”.The Tesco Hudl, priced at £119 or less, has taken the budget tablet market by storm, prompting moves by other British high street names such asArgosand Aldi to do the same.“Our expectation is that the Hudl tablet could be a beachhead for a wider expansion into own-branded consumer electronics given the strong sales it has already recorded,” said Wood.The Hudl, based on perfectly usable Android without significant modification, impressed critics for itssolid build, good screen and excellent value.More than just a single productBut the Hudl represents more than just a single product to Tesco, it is an entry into consumer homes, something other retailers like Amazon are using to great effect.“Tesco will be acutely aware that Amazon is using its Kindle Fire tablets as a direct means to deepen its relationship with its customers,” said Wood. “Tesco must address this quickly and develop Hudl into a direct channel that links into its numerous other assets such as the Clubcard and Blinkbox.”Tesco’s success in the budget tablet market has been one of only a handful of high points for Britain’s largest grocer, as itrecently reported sales falling across all major markets, blamed on &quot;an unprecedented period of declining incomes&quot; and a &quot;challenging grocery market&quot;.The Hudl tablet has taken on the gap in the retail giant’s consumer electronics sales, after the retailer&apos;s chief executivePhilip Clarke saidthat it would be scaling back on sales of products such as flat-screen TVs, which &quot;take up a lot of space and [don&apos;t] take a lot of money&quot;.In the UK in 2012, 8.3m tablets were sold according to data from CCS Insight, with more than half of those sales coming in the last quarter of the year alone. Expanding upon 2012’s market, almost 6m tablets were sold in the first half of 2013, and demand is expected to accelerate into Christmas.• Tesco’s Hudl tablet is asolid, capable and affordable Android tabletto suit the budget conscious
Microsoft&apos;s chief lawyer says that government snooping on its servers constitutes a threat as serious as &quot;sophisticated malware or cyber attacks&quot;.He also pledged to open up some of its code for peer review to reassure customers that there are no &quot;back doors&quot; to allow unauthorised access to informaiton.Brad Smith, Microsoft&apos;s general counsel, said that the company is adding encryption to connections between its servers, to thwart unauthorised snooping by government agencies tapping into fibre-optic cables. That follows identical moves by Google and Yahoo to protect their internal communications against unauthorised surveillance.Smithsaid: &quot;We are taking steps to ensure governments use legal process rather than technological brute force to access customer data,&quot; citing press coverage of &quot;a broader and concerted effort by some governments to circumvent online security measures – and in our view, legal processes and protections – in order to surreptitiously collect private customer data.&quot;The move follows revelations in the Guardian in June that GCHQ, the UK&apos;s spying agency,taps into fibre-optic cables which make landfall in Britainin a program called &quot;Mastering the Internet&quot;, and in October that the US&apos;s National Security Agency (NSA) taps into the private communications links used by companies including Google and Yahooto extract data &quot;at will&quot;.Many larger companies appeared to have had encryption enabled for customers connecting to their servers - but then transmitted data between their centres without encryption because it allows for faster data communications: encrypting and decrypting data carries a processing overhead that could result in slower processing, and was seen as unnecessary. But the Snowden revelations suggest that that left a vital are unprotected from snooping.&quot;If true, these efforts threaten to seriously undermine confidence in the security and privacy of online communications,&quot; Smith wrote. &quot;Indeed, government snooping potentially now constitutes an &apos;advanced persistent threat&apos;, alongside sophisticated malware and cyber attacks.&quot;Google instituted a system called &quot;Perfect Forward Secrecy&quot; to connect its websites after the Guardian revelations. Yahoo and Twitter have also done so.Smith said that Microsoft will expand encryption across its services, reinforce legal protection of customer data, and make its computer programs more easily available for examination in &quot;transparency centres&quot; around the world so that larger customers can check code. It already runs a form of that &quot;code checking&quot; system for some large businesses and governments, which can examine the source code of its Windows and other software for &quot;back doors&quot;.Smith said: &quot;We all want to live in a world that is safe and secure, but we also want to live in a country that is protected by the Constitution. We want to ensure that important questions about government access are decided by courts rather than dictated by technological might. And we’re focused on applying new safeguards worldwide, recognising the global nature of these issues and challenges.&quot;•Snowden documents showNSAgathering 5bn cell phone records daily
I was disappointed not to see more measures in the chancellor&apos;s autumn statement that would support the UK&apos;s financial technology industry.In recent weeks there’s been talk about specific tax breaks for those investing in peer-to-peer lending platforms, which haven’t been delivered. This would have been great news for London’s tech city. Not only would it have helped grow British businesses like Funding Circle and Ratesetter, but it would have given the financial technology sector greater credibility in the eyes of the public.There are mixed messages for fast-growing business like mine. In positive news, capping business rates and the patent box tax relief shows that the government is committed to encouraging entrepreneurship and innovation in the UK.This is an important consideration for those of us in the sector. While traditional banking has consistently let people down through mismanagement, overcharging and appalling customer service, it is still a challenge to persuade customers to trust a new financial business.The capital gains tax on non-residents with properties in the UK also worries me a little. The government claims this will only affect a small minority of taxpayers, but commentators believe its effects will be more widespread. Potentially hitting 5 million British expats and threatening many more international people and businesses, it could cause problems for Britain’s international reputation.Regardless of how much money this raises for the Treasury, it sends a less than welcoming message to those who live and work across borders - something complicated enough as it is.Businesses thrive when money moves freely across borders. My business recently received Peter Thiel’s first investment in Europe. This was a wonderful accolade for TransferWise and goes to show how business can benefit from an open Britain.• Taavet Hinrikus was Skype&apos;s first employee and has worked at and advised startups includingMendeleyandblip.tv, as well as co-foundingTransferWise, which makes international money transfers cheaper
The Chinese central bank has warned the country&apos;s financial institutions not to trade in bitcoin, saying that the digital currency doesn&apos;t have &quot;real meaning&quot; and lacks legal protections.However, no explicit risk to China&apos;s financial system was identified by the bank, and it reiterated that individual citizens were free to use bitcoin provided they were aware that they were taking the risk on themselves.The bank also identified money laundering and other illegal uses of the currency as areas of concern.Bitcoin has recently achieved a measure of popularity in China, withFiatLeakand other bitcoin trading information sites showing large inflows of the currency through Chinese exchanges.China Telecom, the largest mobile phone provider in the country, launched a promotion allowing a Samsung phone to be bought with bitcoins, andBaidu, the Chinese Google, is accepting payments for its firewall service in the currency.But there&apos;s also suspicion that a large measure of the bitcoin&apos;s Chinese popularity isthe result of fringe-legal uses. The currency is perfect for getting around the country&apos;s tight capital controls, which prevent rich Chinese citizens from moving too much money overseas.While bitcoin remains unregulated, it is easy for users to buy a large sum in Chinese yuan and sell it in US dollars, evading those regulations.The potential of bitcoin in China is seen as a large part of the reason for the currency&apos;s seven-fold increase in price over November, and the news that the Chinese central bank is taking a less-than-welcoming stance to it has sent markets tumbling.The value of one bitcoin fell by 28% over two hours on Thursday morning, before settling into its more normal pattern of rapid large price swings in both directions.The warning follows a similar cautionary tonefrom the Dutch central bank, which noted that there is no central issuer which can held liable for bitcoin, and no deposit guarantee scheme in the event of bitcoin banks failing.The former head of the Dutch bank even compared the bitcoin bubble to the Netherlands&apos; tulip mania in the 17th century – but pointed out that at least when that bubble burst, investors were left with tulips at the end.•Is bitcoin about to change the world?
PlayStation 4Underneath the casing ofSony&rsquo;s angular new consolelurks an internal architecture that balances power and accessibility. It will certainly play host to numerous blockbusters, but its potential as a place for indie games to thrive is most exciting.From &pound;349Xbox OneWhile the Xbox One hasfaced some flack since its was announced, its launch title line up &ndash; including console exclusive Titanfall &ndash; may just trump that of the PS4.From &pound;429.Nintendo Wii UWhile it hasn&rsquo;t sold in the numbers its forbearer enjoyed, the Wii U is an impressive machine, supported by brilliant games that stand out from their Xbox and PlayStation equivalents, often thanks to their use of the Wii U&rsquo;s tablet controller.From &pound;250Nintendo 2DSMore robust and affordable than its cousin the 3DS, this handheld gaming platform is compatible with both the vast DS and 3DS&nbsp;game library. It lacks the 3D capabilities of the 3DS, but is a great choice for younger players.From &pound;110PlayStation VitaWhile the arrival of the PS4 is dominating the headlines around Sony&rsquo;s gaming platforms, the Vita remains a great portable option. Brilliant games and power under the bonnet make it a worthy addition to any gamer&rsquo;s collection, especially given its new Remote Play features linking up with the PS4.From &pound;140Turtle Beach Ear Force XP SevenWhether you&rsquo;re a competitive online player or an audiophile with a taste for gaming, and you don't want to annoy the neighbours with gunfire at all hours, the XP Seven remains one of the most highly regarded mic and headphone combinations. The price tag is substantial, but the quality is exceptional.From &pound;250Tritton Kunai Stereo wired gaming headset&nbsp;While not on the same scale as the Ear Force XP7 (above) the Tritton Kunais provide decent quality audio, an in-line remote, and universal connection with almost all gaming platforms without breaking the bank.From &pound;35Hori Real Arcade Pro V3 SA Kai (PS3)A leader in high-end arcade sticks, Hori has revisited and refined its enduring &lsquo;HRAP&rsquo; series. Packed with parts found in real arcades, it is probably the best stick option presently available. Also available as the VX SA Kai for Xbox 360.From &pound;115GameRacer Pro driving simulator seat&nbsp;For those that take driving games seriously a seat and wheel (below) combination is the ultimate indulgence in the pursuit of accurate control.From &pound;220Logitech Driving Force GT&nbsp;Costs can be astronomical but combining the GameRacer chair (above) with Logitech&rsquo;s proven wheel balances quality and affordability for the ultimate driving setup.From &pound;129Logitech Powershell + Battery&nbsp;Logitech&rsquo;s new made-for-iPhone accessoryslaps a controller around your smartphone, bringing console-style game controls to iPhone gaming. It also has an extra battery hidden inside to charge your iPhone 5 or iPhone 5S to keep the games rolling for longer.From &pound;90Moga Ace PowerAnother iPhone controller, the Moga Ace Power also integrates a battery for recharging your phone, but also includes analogue thumb sticks and supports the iPhone 5C unlike Logitech's offering.From &pound;80Moga ProAn Android-compatible Bluetooth gamepad that turns any Android phone or tablet into a portable gaming machine. The Pro supports a good library of supported games spanning most genres, including Dead Trigger 2. A variant with a battery to charge your phone, the Power Pro, is also available.From &pound;40
