Q:When you first heard the news of the PSN hack how did you respond? What thoughts went through your mind?A:The first thing that went through my mind when I first got the call from Tim Schaaff– he's the president of Sony Network Entertainment International – was obviously the immediate need to shut the system down. That was his recommendation. The second thing was, "OK, what about the data that we have?".Q:Has Sony worked out who hacked the PSN?A:The quick answer is "no". Obviously we're working with the FBI and other authorities as well. We're co-operating with them and giving them as much information as we can so they can track down the perpetrators as quickly as possible.Q:You waited a week before you informed consumers the PSN had been hacked. Why did you wait so long?A:I think I'd rephrase that question, because I don't think we "waited" a week. I think we were very aggressive in the way we tried to get the information out to consumers as quickly as possible.As you probably know there are laws in a number of states in the US that have legal requirements which, in a nutshell, mean you can't just go out there and drop a statement like that without being able to answer some fundamental questions. You need to do your due diligence before you make a statement. We obviously wanted to make sure that we met those requirements.We also wanted, just as good practice, to try and garner as much information as possible before making any announcements.So I don't think we "waited" a week. I think it took a week to make sure that we had, at least what we thought was enough information that was credible at the time before we made any announcements.Q:Do you think that the PSN would have been hacked if it had been a closed system like Xbox Live?A:As far as I know – and I don't profess to know the whole system of Xbox Live – the plain fact of the matter is that they use the internet to connect to their services. It's not like a private or a personal thing that they have. I'm not sure what the distinction there is. Maybe you have more information about their architecture than I do.Just generally speaking, whether it's PSN or any other non-Sony services, in the past week several companies and organisations also got hacked as well. I think there are reports that the FBI got hacked. So this isn't something that is a Microsoft issue or a Sony issue or limited to one or two companies. This is actually a lot bigger than that. It's large enough to the extent that we're talking about any and all companies, organisations and entities that deal in the online space – which is pretty much everyone at this stage, isn't it?It's a threat, not just to Sony or a couple of other companies, but to the very fabric of society. Therefore it requires individuals and companies to be very vigilant, which goes without saying, and we need help from various government, various enforcement agencies and legislation in certain instances as well. And this needs to be a worldwide effort.Q:Has Sony revised its security systems so that it isn't storing passwords that are unencrypted?A:As you probably know, when we made the announcement that we restored the services, we had moved the data centres and we basically have done everything to bring our practices at least in line with industry standards or better. I'm not going to get into details of what we did and have not done for security reasons. But I can tell you that, as far as the PS3 is concerned, we've done everything that we thought we could to make sure we're protecting our consumers' data as aggressively as possible.Q:What other plans do you have to win back consumer trust?A: We certainly have the "welcome back" program in place and that's important. But this is not a situation where you have three program in place and we're good to go. This is an ongoing process of winning back consumer confidence. I think that based on what we've seen so far with the restoration of the PlayStation's services, we're back up to about 90% in terms of activity on the networks.Another indicator is the fact that before we restored the services, the No 1 question we got in all the territories was "when are you going restore the services?". Once that was up, the top questions were queries relating to how people could get back online as opposed to queries about how to cancel online accounts.This tells you that the consumers are willing to come back and we're very grateful to them for that. But like I said, it's an ongoing process and we need to work at it.Q:Are you aware of any knock-on effect that the PSN hack has for developers who are creating online experiences? Has it put any of them that you know of behind schedule?A:You should probably speak to the publishers and they'll give you a better idea from their perspective. From what I've heard from publishers, obviously the outage has had an impact, but I don't know that it's had an impact to the extent that titles are being pushed back or delayed. Again, it's probably best if you ask the publishers.Q:What's the future for PS3 in terms of keeping it relevant as it ages as hardware?A:One of the things that we always talked about is the 10-year life cycle. When we launched the PS3 back in 2006, one of the questions I kept getting asked was why we were putting so much technology into a piece of equipment that was basically a games console. At the time, I said we were looking at a 10-year life cycle. We wanted to make sure we could adapt as new technology was brought on board. A lot of people at the time said that while it all sounded great, they didn't believe it.The plain fact is, the PS3 has grown with the times. The most recent example was the firmware upgrade for all of the PS3s to be 3D compatible, which is something no other console could do. And to this day, there's still a lot more headroom left in the PS3. That, again, is a function of the initial investments we made, both in terms of technology as well as financial investments for the components.You probably hear a lot things about the PS3, but one thing you won't hear is that it's slipping behind the times.Q:Is the PS3 still profitable?A:I always caveat this by saying that asking whether the hardware in itself is profitable or not is a moot point because we're not in the hardware business. We're in the entertainment business. We look at the totality between hardware, software and peripherals and whether it's profitable as a platform.Having said that – because everyone is so interested – yes, we are profitable on the PS3 hardware and we'll continue to be profitable on the PS3 hardware, if it answers your question. (Laughs) Whether we're profitable or not in the hardware alone, that doesn't really address the bigger picture.Q:Is Sony going to commit development resources to PS Vita for the length of its life cycle and how long is its life cycle?A:Hard to tell at this point how long the cycle will be. We just announced the device in January and we only just announced pricing this week. There are also still many months to go before it hits the market. I'm not going to try and guess what it's life cycle is going to be.Having said that, with every platform that we launch, we have the responsibility as the platform holder to make sure we're supporting it as aggressively as possible. That goes without saying. We did that for PS3, we continue to do that for PSP and we're definitely going to do that for PS Vita. Unless we are able to push the platform and increase the install basis as quickly as possible there will be less opportunity for publishers have business opportunities on PS Vita.Q:How do you think the PS Vita will fare in a world of ultra powerful smartphones?A:If you look at the PS Vita, I think we created the ultimate portable gaming machine. Smartphones and tablets are more general purpose than specifically designed for gameplay. Whether we're talking about the analogue sticks, the keys, the shoulder buttons, the rear touch panel – everything on the PS Vita is designed for immersive gameplay. You don't get any of these functions on tablet devices. You don't even have physical buttons which makes controls in games a little more difficult.We're catering to a completely different market. I don't see the PS Vita being in direct competition with smartphones and tablets. However, I do recognise that that's a growing market as well and that's why we announced the PS Suite initiative where we are bringing the PlayStation experience to Android-powered smartphones and tablets. But we're doing it in a uniquely PlayStation way where we certify the hardware devices as PS Certified. That means you can enjoy Sony experiences the way they're meant to be enjoyed and the first of these devices is the Sony Ericsson Xperia Play.
On Tech Weekly this week, Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss are reunited after Jemima's self-imposed break from technology. And what a week to come back: the announcements are coming in thick and fast from the US west coast, where the Electronic Entertainment Expo and Apple's World Wide Developers Conference are under way.Guardian video game correspondents Keith Stuart, Steve Boxer and Nick Cowen are on the floor at E3 in Los Angeles, delivering the dirt on the next generation equipment from Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony. Nintendo's next-generation Wii has beenunveilled as the Wii U, and Keith has the analysis from Danny Bilson, head of THQ, and the Oliver twins – Andrew and Philip – of Blitz Games Studios. He's also gotthe latest on the Kinect interface. Sony's back from the brink, brushing away its year of controversy withnew titles and a new handheld, the PlayStation Vita. And is EA'sfree 'Battlelog'the start of a social networking war in games?Charles and Jemima break downthe Apple announcements: is the new iCloud service as customer-centred as it's been made out to be? If it was in a fight with Google and Amazon, would it win? And what about the new iOS service: what does its reverse engineering of some of the most popular independently developed service apps (Dropbox, Instapaper, Remember The Milk) mean for the business models of the app developer community? Finally, what else is new about OS X Lion other than its iPod good looks?Find out all this and more on this week's Tech Weekly.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 4 JunePositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)32 (3)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (27)DS (18)PS3 (18)43 (2)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)24 (4)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (84)Xbox 360 (14)PS3 (2)105 (5)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (32)PC (6)46 (6)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)847 (8)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (31)PC (5)Wii (4)298 (7)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (20)PSP (5)DS (4)369 (12)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (37)PC (20)710 (–)The Sims 3: Generations (12+)PC (100)1UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
If I were younger and less jaded in my ways, I have to concede that I would find Kinect Star Wars utterly enthralling. After all, this game is all about putting the player in the shoes of a Jedi, and this has been a childhood dream of pretty much every bloke I've ever met who was young enough to enjoy the films when they were first released.I have to start this preview, however, by making a confession: I am not the type of player Kinect Star Wars is aimed at, the reason being that I am one of those curmudgeonly souls whose love of the Star Wars franchise was obliterated by the prequels. For me, any defence of nearly every Star Wars IP released after The Phantom Menace can be stopped dead in its tracks by uttering the words, "Jar Jar Binks". So the fact that Kinect Star Wars is set during the same time period as the prequel movies was something I had to put to one side for my hands-on preview of the game.The demo began with a brief tutorial courtesy of Yoda, who was inaudible over the din at the showcase event. Thankfully, a Microsoft representative was on hand to yell over the noise if I got into any trouble and both he and Yoda took me through the game's easy control scheme. Players wield a lightsaber by making cutting and thrusting motions with their right hand. They can also use it to deflect laser beams shot at them from oncoming foes. Their left hand allows them to use The Force to lift enemies into the air and knock them over. They can also use their feet to kick opponents down, provided they're close enough. Finally, by leaning forward, players can make their Jedi sprint across environments.Once the tutorial was over, I was thrust into the action. The game's plot, I was told, takes place in the same timeframe as the Star Wars prequel movies, and the segment I was playing was set in the cloud city of Bespin. My Jedi arrived there in a dropship which circled the city, showing it was under attack by Trade Federation droids, and then I was prompted to jump into the action.It's here that the first niggle arose. There was quite a bit of lag between my movements and the action on-screen. Time and time again my lightsabre blows missed my targets because of the delay between my actions and those of the figure on-screen. My left-handed Force attacks were less of an issue, as they cleared foes out of my way easily. But lightsabre attacks felt late and clunky and were especially frustrating when I tried to deflect laser beam attacks, which became a rather big issue when bigger droids with forcefield protection rolled into view.  The demo ended once they'd been dispatched and I'd come face to cowl with a pair of hooded figures clutching two lightsabers a piece.Still, it has to be said that sweeping enemies aside with a wave of one's hand is pretty satisfying, and according to the Microsoft representative on hand, the gameplay won't be limited to lightsaber battles - players will get to pilot vehicles and starfighters too. The latency issues I experienced during the demo may well be cleared up by the time of release, and if they aren't it's a safe bet that younger players won't give a hoot. However imperfect Kinect Star Wars may be, it grants the power of The Force to any player who boots it up and for that reason alone, regardless of my concerns, it is a game which will sell very healthily.•Kinect Star Wars will be released for Xbox 360 with Kinect this winter
Is there any company in the world that understands the intricacies of large-scale multiplayer map design, better than Dice? On this evidence, I doubt it. Here, EA was showing off playable code of Operation Metro, a pummelling example of the game's Rush mode, which requires one team to hold a series of bases, while the other side attacks. If a base is taken, the frontline moves back to a new location, and so on. It's familiar stuff, but taking place across a beautifully recreated Paris, it is a commanding experience.Dice was keen to point out the game's combination of micro-destruction (ie degradable cover objects) and big set-piece demolitions including collapsing houses and falling building facades. Frostbite 2 can handle both with aplomb. We were also introduced to the game's four new character classes. Assault is the classic infantryman, but Dice has added more versatility by adding medic capabilities allowing the character to heal himself and others amid the frontline combat. The Engineer is there to repair vehicles, but he can also be equipped with interesting kit, such as an underslung torch that illuminates darker areas (it's possible to shoot out lights in certain environments), but will also temporarily blind enemies that stumble into its beam.The Support class is the standard heavy weapons guy, but with one addition – he can now mount his weapons on a bi-pod, providing stability but also considerable suppression capabilities. Interestingly, when a player lays down effective and consistent covering fire on a position, any nearby enemies will experience visual distortions as their combat awareness drops. If a player is shot by a team-mate while you're suppressing, you get a share of the points. Finally, the Recon class is a modernised sniper, adding the ability to hold the character's breath for a steadier aim. This class can also launch UAVs to spy on enemy positions, so it's not just about camping and headshots. Naturally, there are highly customisable load-outs for each class with lots of slots available for extra kit.In Operation Metro, it's US marines versus Russian Spetsnaz solders. The battle kicks off in a park near the Eiffel Tower, with small hills providing cover, and snaking pathways to work down. When this base is taken, the action moves into the Metro system. Suddenly the gameplay is much more focused and claustrophobic, with players fighting among the stalled trains and along the narrow tunnel system. Out on a platform, there are some stunning shootouts in a station area, with machine gun fire tearing chunks out of stone pillars. Then we're out again, into a tight, urban area surrounding the finale of the level, the Paris stock exchange. It's an exhilarating 10-minute romp. The opening section feels like the standard Battlefield open rural area, with lots of running between intense skirmish points, but the underground sequence feels like a co-op version of a linear single-player level. It's an effective mix, that will demand really flexible team tactics.Vehicles will also play a part. This infantry-based level will feature armoured personnel carriers, and every available model can be customised with different weapon setups as well as useful equipment such as night sights.Dice has updated its dog tag feature, too. Each player in the game will wear these identifiers and they can now be customised with a range of in-game stats such as the number of kills you have with a knife or sniper rifle. When a player is killed, the attacker can remove the tags and view the stats, bringing some detail and personality to each encounter.Visually, this is something of a benchmark, with awesome environmental destruction, mixed with clever lighting, smoke and particle effects. The aiming and weapon handling feel more challenging than a Call of Duty title, with plenty of kick from an assault rifle. It's a serious, strategic shooter that wants players to get to grips with their own skills, and their own place in the team hierarchy, rather than running about like a headless chicken firing an AK-47 from the hip. It is, in short, what we expect from Dice. It is very promising.• Battlefield 3 is released on 25 October, on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
David Starkey is already a "cross-platform" historian, best known for his projects spanning books and TV. However, there's now an app for that too. It's called Kings and Queens, and while its textual basis is Starkey's Crown and Country book, the iOS app is no cash-in.Developed by Trade Mobile, the app uses a timeline user interface to explore the history of the English monarchy, with a wealth of background material to dive into, and entirely new footage of Starkey explaining the key points. In an interview with Apps Blog, he fizzes with enthusiasm about the potential of apps for his work."It's a case of the technology catching up with what I wanted to do," he says. "Television is a performance, but apps actually reflect thought processes."Starkey describes the process of writing his books and filming his shows as a "struggle for linearity", reducing something that is three-dimensional into a two-dimensional narrative. He also talks about his early days studying for a doctorate, where he shunned a typewriter in favour of "writing into pencil onto scrap paper, then chopping it up, moving it around ... cutting, pasting and erasing, and only then typing it up".A stint as a visiting professor at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire in the late 1980s gave Starkey a moment of revelation: word processing on an Apple Mac."The technology had caught up with what I wanted to do, as typewriting was utterly antithetical to my mental processes," he says. "And that's what Trade Mobile have done with the platform we used for Kings and Queens: it reflects the creative processes of the writer. All those things you've had to level out to make the line of narrative [for books and TV] you can put back in. I no longer have to take these decisions that involve sacrifice. The reader can arrive at the judgement for themselves."Is there a risk here though? Starkey gleefully pooh-poohs the idea that TV dumbs down history, saying that the skill of condensing subjects like the Protestant Reformation into a couple of hundred words for a piece to camera has "greatly improved" him. So he admits that being able to put all that extra material back in to an app has its dangers."The risk is that creativity is also about limitation and observing rules," he says. "The great risk is that you get complete floppy free-form – the sort of rubbish there is on the web, where nobody has exercised discipline. It's why so much of the web is colonised by pub bores – there's no one to rein them in!"Filming the video footage for Kings and Queens involved Starkey adopting a more conversational tone than might be expected from his TV shows, reflecting the personal nature of tablets and smartphones, and also their interactivity."It's the conversational tone you might get over dinner or in a tutorial," he says. "Only bad teachers lecture at a tutorial. With the app, you've almost got to imagine that someone has just asked you a question, so the tone is a response, a reply. By that, the app will also directly reflect the personality of the author."The default marketing line around book-apps like Kings and Queens can be 'it's bringing x to a younger audience', based on the assumption that apps are way to interest young people in dry or complex subjects. That wasn't the case here, and deliberately so: Starkey is characteristically blunt about the assumption that tablets and apps are for the young."This is one of the most ludicrous and patronising things about what some people are saying," he says."The idea that it's only the young or people who've grown up with a technology who can appreciate it. Complete nonsense! My generation [Starkey is 66] is highly intelligent and highly adaptable, and we've gone through this series of extraordinary technological leaps. Unlike today's young who were born with this world, we've shown the meaningful thing, which is adaptability, and the ability to encounter radically different new technologies repeatedly."Kings and Queens is as much for older users, then. "The only problem will be rheumatism!" he says, with a hearty laugh.Starkey's recent public brush with today's youth came in the Jamie's Dream School show, where as one of the teachers, he was visibly unhappy with the attitude of some of his tearaway students. How does he feel about apps and tablets being used in schools?"The use of computers and other mobile devices has to be so carefully controlled. As we discovered with Dream School rather awkwardly, it can become a source of total disruption that destroys the co-operative learning experience," he says."The great problem with these things is that they can individuate what should be collective, in a very dangerous way. I would much prefer to see these things primarily regulated by the teacher. If you listen to some of the extreme believers of the use of computing in teaching, there's no reason why children should ever go to school at all! It's completely absurd."All this is said with laughter - Starkey visibly enjoys playing up to his reputation for plain speaking - but he stresses that his point is a serious one. He sees apps playing an increasingly important role in the classroom, but as a spur for discussion mediated by a teacher, rather than a solo learning experience.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhoto gallery: Steve Jobs at WWDC &gt;&gt; San Francisco Chronicle"Steve Jobs rests his head against his wife, Laurene Powell Jobs, after delivering the keynote address to the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference at Moscone West on Monday."Never known Jobs's wife to be at a presentation he's made before. A touching picture.Dear Ubuntu: The netbook is toast &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe former chief operating officer of Canonical (Ubuntu) argues that netbooks are sooo over. The commenters disagree: some of them know someone who bought a netbook, ooh, a while back, and their tablet doesn't have a proper file system browser, so QED.Indians plan their time online more than before &gt;&gt; MIcrosoft India"in India.. the study also sought to identify which portable devices consumers are using, allowing brands to modify their content by device. It also unearths evidence to demonstrate the growing importance of mobile usage in communication and creation as smartphone ownership continues to explode."The study shows that in India, the use of smartphones at 34% surpass notebooks which stands at 33% as the main method for accessing information. Except for information seeking and content creation, however, notebooks remain the main device used for transactions and entertainment."Taiwan's HTC May sales more than double &gt;&gt; Reuters"Taiwan smartphone maker HTC Corp said on Tuesday consolidated sales for May reached T$40.62 billion ($1.42 billion), more than double the same month a year earlier.The monthly sales compared with T$18.82 billion a year ago and T$38.73 billion in the previous month."That's some fast growth.How I Failed, Failed, and Finally Succeeded at Learning How to Code - James Somers - Technology - The Atlantic" I went through this cycle several times: I saw people programming and thought it looked cool, resolved myself to learn, sought out a book and crashed the moment it got hard."For a while I thought I didn't have the right kind of brain for programming. Maybe I needed to be better at math. Maybe I needed to be smarter."But it turns out that the people trying to teach me were just doing a bad job. Those books that dragged me through a series of structured principles were just bad books. I should have ignored them. I should have just played."Links toProject Euler, which is interesting too.Fred Wilson to devs: expect platform owners to work against you &gt;&gt; Gigaom"Developers building atop platforms like iOS and Twitter should go in with eyes wide open, said Union Square Ventures partner Fred Wilson, who reminded entrepreneurs about the dangers of relying on someone else's APIs. In a talk last night before an audience of entrepreneurs, Wilson said developers need to plan for the day when platform owners work against their interests."The only solution is to be multi-platform.Fitch cuts Nokia debt to lowest investment grade &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Nokia Oyj (NOK1V), the world's biggest maker of mobile phones, had its debt rating slashed to the lowest investment grade at Fitch Ratings because of the declining market share of the company's Symbian smartphones.&#10;"The long-term rating was cut by two levels to BBB- with a negative outlook, Fitch said on Tuesday."Not so much OYJ as OUCH.Mac Shield: more Mac malware – top tips for avoiding infection &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityPaul Ducklin points to a new version of MacDefender (now called 'MacShield"): "Don't rely on Apple's built-in XProtect malware detector. It's better than nothing, but it only detects viruses using basic techniques, and under a limited set of conditions. For example, malware on a USB key would go unnoticed, as would malware already on your Mac. And it only updates once in 24 hours, which probably isn't enough any more."Install genuine anti-virus software. Ironically, the Apple App Store is a bad place to look - any anti-virus sold via the App Store is required by Apple's rules to exclude the kernel-based filtering component (known as a real-time or on-access scanner) needed for reliable virus prevention."Excellent points.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Facebook has come under fire for quietly expanding the availability of technology to automatically identify people in photos, renewing concerns about its privacy practices.The feature, which the giant social network automatically enabled for its more than 500 million users, has been expanded from the US to "most countries",Facebook said on its official blogon Tuesday.Marc Rotenberg, president of the non-profit privacy advocacy group Electronic Privacy Information Center, said the system raised questions about which personally identifiable information, such as email addresses, would become associated with the photos in Facebook's database.He also criticised Facebook's decision to automatically enable the facial-recognition technology for its users."I'm not sure that's the setting that people would want to choose. A better option would be to let people opt-in," he said.Internet security consultancy Sophos noted thatmany Facebook users had seen the facial recognition option turned onwithout any notice in the last few days."Yet again, it feels like Facebook is eroding the online privacy of its users by stealth," commented Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at Sophos.Facebook's "Tag Suggestions" feature uses facial recognition technology to speed up the process of labeling friends and acquaintances in photos posted on the site.Facebook has been repeatedly criticised forchanging settings involving privacy and identityin favour of making more data public in ways that means its users have to opt out of, rather than opt in to, the service.Facebook, which announced in December that it planned to introduce the facial recognition service in the US, acknowledged that the feature was now more widely available.The site also said in an emailed statement that "we should have been more clear with people during the roll-out process when this became available to them".The statement noted that the photo-tagging suggestions are only made when new photos are added to Facebook, that only friends are suggested and that users can disable the feature in their privacy settings.While other photo software and online services such as Google Inc's Picasa and Apple Inc's iPhoto use facial recognition technology, its use on a social network like Facebook could raise thorny privacy issues.Google has stepped away from the widespread implementation of its Google Goggles service, which would try to identify people based on facial recognition through mobile phones running its Android operating system. Instead it only uses it for translating text and identifying objects. Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman, said earlier in June that he had concerns about its use with people."We do have the relevant facial recognition technology at our disposal. But we haven't implemented this on Google Goggles because we want to consider the privacy implications and how this feature might be added responsibly," he said. "I'm very concerned personally about the union of mobile tracking and face recognition."Rotenberg noted that Apple's iPhoto software gave users control over facial recognition technology by letting them elect whether or not to use it with their personal photo collections.Facebook's technology, by contrast, operates independently, analysing faces across a broad swathe of newly uploaded photos.Last year the Electronic Privacy Information Center filed a complaint about Facebook's privacy practices with the US Federal Trade Commission, which Rotenberg said was still pending.He noted that he planned to take a close look at Facebook's new announcement involving facial recognition technology.
Day two of E3. Let's hope exciting things are happening!
Nintendo, which introduced gaming to a new generation of players with the Wii, is aiming to break the mould with its next home console, called the Wii U.Promising more for hardcore gamers, as well as the casual audience that flocked to the Wii, the next generation console features a controller that resembles a tablet PC, with a 6.2in touchscreen. It plays HD graphics and includes a camera, joysticks and buttons.Nintendo's announcement will pressure rivals such as Microsoft and Sony to come up with new game systems, and could jumpstart a $65bn (£39.5bn) global industry that surpasses Hollywood in size. The new device will launch between April and December 2012, the company told reporters at the E3 games conference in Los Angeles. They did not reveal how much it will cost.The console can also be used to play games with a TV screen. Its controller can be used to make voice calls and will be able to run previous Nintendo games. It has motion-sensor capabilities and works in conjunction with existing Wii controllers, the company said.The device could appeal to hardcore gamers who enjoy playing first-person shooter games, an area where Nintendo has lost ground to rivals.Wii U is the first new home console in five years. The device has graphical abilities roughly on a par with the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. This allows it to run the biggest blockbusters games, which currently only appear on those consoles.At Nintendo's E3 press conference  the chief executive of EA Games, John Riccitiello, said: "It's a better platform than we have ever been offered by Nintendo." Several games publishers, including Ubisoft, Codemasters, THQ and Capcom, announced that they will make games for it.
The Nintendo Wii U unveiled at E3 in LA. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/GettyNintendo has named its new console Wii U. The machine, set to launch next year and previously known under the working title Project Café, will – as expected – feature a controller complete with 6.2in touchscreen panel and motion sensors, as well as the usual array of buttons and analogue sticks.No pricing details were announced during the company's packed pre-E3 press conference, but this is a considerably more powerful architecture than the Wii, supporting HD visuals in full 1080p, putting it in the same performance bracket as the Xbox 360 and PS3. It is also compatible with previous Wii controllers as well as the Wii Fit balance board, although it will come with a brand new "zapper" peripheral which will act like a Wiimote.Explaining the meaning of the name, Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aime said that it was a continuation of the wordplay that started with Wii, which was designed to sound like "we" meaning inclusive and social. The U represents "you", highlighting the fact that players are able to run games either on a television or on the controller's own personal screen. "Can it also stand for unique, unifying or utopian? The answer is yes to all of these," he claimed.Large screens showed several videos of gamers using the technology. One showed someone playing a golf game, in which the touchscreen controller is placed on the floor to represent the teeing off position. A ball appears on the screen, and the player stands over it, with a Wii remote controller held like a club; they then perform a swinging action to belt the virtual ball along the fairway. In a another demo, the touchscreen pad acts as the sights on a gun, with the player moving the controller around to target different areas of the television screen. Some games will also employ the controller as a shield, moving it about to block incoming attacks.But it's the fact that the gaming experience can be switched from TV to small screen in an instant that is the most obvious proposition. "The new controller for Wii U with its built-in screen means you don't have to give up your gameplay when someone else comes in the room and wants to watch a TV programme," said Nintendo CEO Satoru Iwata.The presence of a front-facing camera on the controller also allows video chatting, with a friend appearing in a small window on the television, while the game plays on the major part of the screen. "We want to create a strong bond between games, TV and the internet and similarly between you your friends and your family," explained Iwata. "This includes using the television screen to enjoy videos you've found online, or enjoying videochat even when you're watching TV."Several games were announced for the new console, including a new version of the popular multiplayer fighting game Super Smash Brothers which will allow owners of the 3DS and Wii U versions of the game to play against each other. Wii U will also see the exlcusive Lego City Stories game from Lego Star Wars creator TT Games – an open world adventure filled with custiomisable vehicles.Nintendo also revealed plenty of support from third-party publishers. Key titles like Darksiders II, Tekken, Batman: Arkham City and Assassin's Creed will be coming to the console. There was a definite attempt to show that, unlike with the casual gamer-friendly Wii, Wii U will be equally aimed at the hardcore gaming audience. "This system is designed to appeal to all people especially veteran gamers," said Iwata. It is an interesting move for Nintendo, harking back to previous machines such as the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and the N64, which attracted a faithful user-base of "core" gamers.The E3 audience gave the console a rapturous reception, and with masses of support from the industry, this is another potential revolution from the company that has always innovated through ideas rather than technical specifications. "Wii U will change the way you play game," promised Fils-Aime. It is a boast Nintendo has often made in the past, most recently with its Nintendo 3DS console, and it is a boast the veteran manufacturer is more than capable of delivering on.
So where -where- is the iPhone 5? (Or, as we've been hearing from informed sources, what will actually be called the iPhone 4GS/iPhone 4G?)Obvious answer: not at WWDC.Second obvious answer: it's coming in September/October, and will be right up there when iOS 5 comes out of beta and is released properly.This might seem blindingly obvious, but lots of people were hanging on to the hope that Apple would launch the iPhone 5/4GS/4G on Monday. The fact that it hasn't - unlike the past two years, when it has announced new versions of the iPhone at, guess where, WWDC - indicates that Apple is shifting its strategy in phones.Presently, Apple's phone market segmentation strategy is to sell the newest model (the iPhone 4, now around a year old) at the highest price, and the second-oldest model (the 3GS, two years old) at a lower price. Hence you can find carriers such as Orange selling the 3GS for free with a £25 per month contract, while the iPhone 4 is still has an upfront price plus a £30+/month contract.Presently this is as much segmentation that Apple is able to achieve, because it was locked into the yearly release schedule. That's not surprising; Apple was a comparative newcomer to the mobile phone industry. Remember how the original iPhone couldn't forward SMS or send MMS? How we laughed.Now Apple is a serious player. And (we're hearing from the supply chain) it is shifting the release date of the newest phone to September/October, which means a lot can change.Why the iPhone is not like the iPodA few months back there was lots of talk about Apple working on an "iPhone nano" which would cost £125. This was nonsense (not that this stopped lots of sites from writing it; wheat, chaff, who cares) but the reason that some were taken in by the idea of a "low-end iPhone" was that this sort of segmentation - start at the top (iPod classic) and own it, and then diversify down to the middle (iPod mini) and finally scoop out the low end (iPod shuffle).Great strategy if you dominate the market and plan to continue doing so; it worked for a long time for Nokia until smartphones arrived in force, when suddenly it stopped working.But Apple has nothing like a commanding share of the overall mobile market, nor of the smartphone market. (In the first quarter, when it had the largest revenue in the entire mobile market, it had a 17% share of the worldwide smartphone market, and about 4% of the entire 428m mobile phone market.)So what can it do? An "iPhone nano" won't work, partly because it just can't segment the market into "featurephone" and "smartphone" in the way that Nokia has.Why the iPhone 5 will be like the iPhone 4Instead, look to Apple to consider iPhone updates on a six-monthly basis. One model in September/October; another in March/April. That allows for incremental differences between versions which provides the updraft for sales, which carriers will like. But it also means that Apple doesn't have to sweat too hard on how different to make the next handset - unlike the present situation, where every new model has to blow the bloody doors off.Yet it also means that it will have a wider range of handsets to offer over time because of the natural segmentation of age: the iPhone 4, iPhone 4GS, some time next spring, the iPhone 5; in the autumn, the iPhone 5G (or whatever). And so on. The ages of the devices will create the tiers, which will allow it to slice the market into different price tiers and compete with Android - and more importantly RIM, which Apple clearly has in its sights as a rival to be crushed (why else introduceiMessage, which looks like a clone ofBlackBerry Messenger?).So that's it: if you're wondering where your iPhone 5 (4GS/4G) is, it's being built in a factory in China. And Apple is getting ready to unveil a completely different way of slicing and dicing the phone market.The questions that remain:• how well can Nokia's Symbian smartphones resist at the low- and middle-end, given that the iPhone is already taking much of the top-end business?• can RIM stem thechurn away from its platform(put at 3m lost to the US user base since September 2010 by Horace Dediu)?• are Android phones from Samsung and HTC going to be able to challenge for the top-end smartphone that the iPhone has? Android use is growing faster in the US over the past year (6m to 27m, compared to 12m growing to 20m iPhone users by Dediu's calculation).
When looking at the Nintendo Wii U, it's important to remember that when the Wii launched in 2006, some people laughed at the console's intention to "disrupt" gaming.It didn't look like a disruptive piece of kit – but it was. The proof lies in the fact that Microsoft and Sony subsequently felt obliged to create the Kinect and Move, not to mention the entire generation of people it introduced to video games. But surely it couldn't pull of the same trick again with Wii U?Oh yes it can. Although there was trepidation mixed in with the excitement when we pitched up at Nintendo's still half-built booth at E3, on the day before the press conference at which it would launch Wii U, for an ultra-exclusive sneak preview of the new console.Which was conducted in a gloriously cloak-and-dagger manner – a wristband had to be obtained, security insisted we hide our press badge, we were given a lengthy list of questions we couldn't ask, photography and audio-recording devices were strictly banned, and we had to wait outside a demo room sealed by a blast-door that would tax a professional safe cracker.Upon entering the inner sanctum, Wii U itself, although apparently hooked up to a big screen, initially remained concealed – indeed, the console remained a shadowy presence throughout, partly hidden in a cupboard. What we could see of it resembled a slightly more rounded Wii, but in truth, it looked like a prototype not yet given the benefit of an industrial designer.We were told that none of the games we would be playing were actual games, but rather tech-demos. And our first glimpse of anything running on the console was emphatically that: a lengthy fly-through in an immaculately constructed virtual Japanese garden, from the viewpoint of various birds, designed to show off Wii U's graphics-processing power.Which was impressive if not jaw-dropping – on a par with the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, running in full HD, with depth of focus and convincingly modelled water and weather effects. We had established that Wii U will be able to run the sort of third-party titles that currently only make it onto the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, but before long, we began to yearn for some signs of Nintendo's fabled disruptive gameplay.What the hell is that?They weren't long in coming. With a theatrical flourish, the new controller was produced. On clapping eyes on it, our initial reaction ran thus. What? The hell? Is that?... and here's the funky new Wii U controllerThe  controller is one of the strangest bits of kit you will ever see. It basically resembles an unholy mating of a tablet PC and a gamepad. It's huge – you need both hands to grip it – and dominated by a massive, 6.2in touchscreen.It has two analogue sticks, all the buttons you would expect to find on a gamepad (including two triggers on the back plus two bumpers, which weren't used during the demo), a camera pointing at you and a tiny speaker. It motion-senses like a Wiimote and has a gyro-sensor like the 3DS. The whole shebang basically has most of the elements found in the PlayStation Vita (bar the processor and graphics chips), and is much bigger than Sony's new handheld.It's clearly not something you can wave around with abandon like the Wiimote, so we initially found it more than a little confusing. Luckily, the chance to experience some proper gameplay was at hand, and the point of the new controller became clearer.Nintendo had been banging on about how that bizarre piece of design was all about providing new gameplay experiences, and from the off, there was no disputing that it delivers on that count.Mii ChaseThe first tech-demo we played – although it looked suspiciously like a mini-game that you might find in a Wii U version of Wii Play – was called Mii Chase. On entering the room, we had noticed a collection of Wimotes, which seemed odd, but Mii Chase rammed home the message that part of the point of the new controller is about interplay with the familiar remote control.Mii Chase was an ultra-simple game for up to five people. I would navigate Mario, using the new controller, around a maze-like circular level, while four people equipped with Wiimotes would, after I had been given a head-start, try to chase me down within a certain time. The twist was that they had to share a split-screen on the TV, whereas my screen on the new controller showed a third-person view of my character, plus a top-down map with the whereabouts of my pursuers.In gameplay terms, this was almost laughably simple, yet the whole experience felt fresh and innovative, as well as fun. The need for the pursuers to co-operate generated a raucous atmosphere, yet the private information communicated by the new controller's screen meant I could stay one step ahead of them.If you think about it, there are an awful lot of Wiis out there, and if people are going to upgrade to Wii U, they'll be thankful that those Wiimotes, at least, won't become redundant. So to create gameplay from the interplay between the two types of controller could just be a stroke of genius.Battle MiiNext up was Battle Mii, in a similar vein to Mii Chase, but somewhat more sophisticated. Battle Mii is a first/third-person shooter, with two people (playing as their Miis) on the ground, armed with a gun and three lives each.The person with the new controller pilots a hover-ship (equipped with six lives), using the analogue sticks as if piloting a helicopter in a game, while shooting with one trigger and using the other to zoom. Tilting the controller changed your camera view, so you could use that to aim.Again, the dynamic was Wiimotes versus new controller. There was a Metroid theme to proceedings – the ground-based characters could roll into a ball like Samus – and health and armour power-ups. The gameplay experience was very different according to whether you were on the ground or in the air and, again, Battle Mii felt refreshingly unlike anything we had played before.Shield PoseShield Pose showed that Wii U isn't just about the tension between the new controller and Wiimote-wielding adversaries. It used the new controller on its own, and required no pressing of buttons whatsoever.The premise was endearingly madcap: a bunch of pirates on three ships – one central, one to the left and one to the right – plus the moon above were firing arrows at you, and you had to use the new controller as a shield. There was a rhythm element, too: you had to raise the new controller from the horizontal at just the right time (on a musical cue), then lower it, also with the rhythm, to shake the arrows off.The head pirate called which direction the arrows would come from, and after a while you would have to raise the new controller and point it in various directions before shaking off your arrows. Simple, again, but completely original – and there was an endearingly humorous element to the game.More tech-demosOur hands-on finished with two more tech-demos. The first, Panorama View, had nothing obvious to do with anything recognisable as a game, but was startling and impressive. It was simply video footage taken from a car driving down a Kyoto city street. Or rather, stitched-together video from several cameras, as you could use the new controller's gyro-sensor to move your viewpoint around, as if you were actually in the moving car – looking up, down behind and around.The last demo was blandly entitled HD Experience, but it will excite Nintendo fanboys. It was essentially a cut-scene depicting what a Zelda game would look like on Wii U set in a huge, gothic interior, with Link taking on a giant spider-boss.Nintendo had mapped various functions onto the new controller's touchscreen, such as toggling the lighting between day and night, and scrolling through different camera angles. There was also a map, and you could press a button to switch images between the new controller's screen and the TV screen.It demonstrated that the new controller's touch-screen can operate much like the touch-screen on a 3DS, letting you access inventory and so on.So will Wii U eclipse the Wii?Initial impressions would leave us answering that question with a resounding "Yes". In typical Nintendo fashion, Wii U is one of those objects that you have to get your hands on before you get what it is trying to achieve.Nintendo unveils its new Wii U console at the E3 in LAThe new controller is such an odd, unlikely-looking thing that it will undoubtedly generate a wave of early cynicism. But the joyously unusual nature of the gameplay experiences that even a couple of hastily assembled tech-demos can engender bodes more than well.And its sensible amount of under-the-bonnet grunt (an area in which the underpowered Wii suffered from its inception) gives it much more hardcore appeal than its predecessor.After the demo was over Nintendo, bless it, treated us to a final element of cloak-and-daggerishness. We were told more facts about Wii U, which had to be read out and transcribed only onto paper.So here they are: the console itself will run in full HD, via HDMI, but the touchscreen isn't HD. The console has internal Flash memory which can be augmented with "SD Card or USB solutions". It will play optical disks and downloadable content, and will be backwards-compatible with Wii software. And it will launch some time between 1 April and 31 December 2012.It will be the oddest console ever, and possibly the best, too. Or it may turn out to be a complete cul-de-sac. But one thing is for sure: it won't just be another generic games console.
The Need for Speed series has become the Star Wars of the driving game world – a ridiculously successful, long-running franchise that can be chopped up and dished out in any form that the zeitgeist demands.In the nineties it was all super cars and glamorous European locations, while the early 2000s saw a transition to American tuner culture and pimped rides. Then last year, we had Criterion's scorching NFS: Hot Pursuit, a return to the series' roots as a sleek, urban racer complete with high-speed cop chases. With this year's Shift 2 spin-off, London-based Slightly Mad Studios brought us into the realm of track-based driving simulation, complete with an innovative "helmet" cam that shakes the screen around with every impact.The Run mutates the proposition yet again. This time, the development team is Black Box, the veterans now integrated into EA's vast Vancouver office. Previously responsible for the epic, narrative-driven Need For Speed Undercover titles, the studio has stuck with the idea of a racing game driven by an underlying plot. But The Run takes this concept to a new level. It is essentially a cinematic action adventure game, based around driving. It is Uncharted on four wheels.Players take on the role of Jack (he doesn't seem to have a surname at the moment), a talented driver who gets involved in "an illicit high stakes race" from San Francisco to New York. We don't know much about the character yet, but he's got a shady history, and it seems he's on the run from somebody – the police? Gangsters? Both? EA isn't saying just yet. The game, then, is a gigantic chase sequence, taking in several cities and landmarks across the country. It's the first title in the series to use real locations, though these are highly stylised interpretations. There is no slavish adherence to grid-based city road layouts here.Intriguingly, Need for Speed: The Run will be one of the first console titles to use DICE's cutting-edge Frostbite 2 engine. It has apparently taken a year to re-purpose the tech for driving rather than shooting, but according to designer Alex Grimbley (recently head-hunted from Codemasters where he oversaw the Grid and Dirt titles), it's been worth every moment. "Frostbite is awesome for quick iteration," he explains. "Previously, if a producer requested a change to a track, it would sometimes take a day for that change to get in the game and be playable. We can do it in minutes now. So rather than making one change to a track per day, we can get up to 30 changes in."The design process, then, has been one of experimentation and refinement. On previous Black Box titles, artists, coders and designers all worked separately. On The Run, they're working collaboratively in small groups building the game together from initial planning to structure and development. It has created a much more improvisational feel. "Previously the art guys would build their tracks, then they'd throw them over, and the designers would go 'oh well, that's really not much fun, can you change it?'" explains Grimbley. "Obviously that was a horrible process – it didn't really allow for iteration, and it didn't allow for quality. Now we all get in a room together, we brainstorm, we throw stuff up on the wall, and slowly the game evolves."But there are other more tangible benefits to the Frostbite 2 engine. As the executive producer at EA, Jason DeLong, explains: "Frostbite gives us some of the greatest world destruction that you've seen. We have an action driving experience that's never been done in NFS. It's a racing game at its core, but this engine has allowed us to push the narrative further than ever before. Also, the actor animation in Frostbite 2 is incredible, which is really important for us, because, for the first time in NFS history, you're going to get out of the car …"And here's the key talking point at the moment. At certain moments through the game, Jack will head off on foot. For the most part, these short, intense and crucially interactive sections will work instead of pre-rendered sequences to move the story along."Our original question was, how do we keep the player immersed in the game while we're telling the story?" says Steve Anthony, the producer of the in-car content. "In Most Wanted it was very much a movie, but games are moving beyond that – storytelling is gameplay."Apparently, the original idea was to offer the player full control over the character in these onfoot challenges. "It was a freeform system," explains Anthony. "The character could get out and explore the world. But through focus tests and playing ourselves we quickly discovered that once you do that, the player wants to go everywhere – and we're Need for Speed, it's a driving game. Plus we didn't want to invest a full year building a full locomotion system. Now, it's in a more controlled setting."What that looks like in practice, is a series of on rails action moments controlled via a quick-time event mechanism. In the demo I played, taking place in downtown Chicago, I start off competing against seven other cars in a race through the night-time streets, but after a few minutes, a car comes scorching out over a junction and drives straight into me. My vehicle is a write-off, so Jack jumps out, and then spots several armed men running toward him. He legs it into a building, up several flights of stairs and then bursts out onto a rooftop. It's at this point that the interactivity kicks in. A screen prompt gets me to hit X repeatedly to start Jack running toward a ledge then the Triangle button triggers a leap onto an adjacent tenement. All the while, a helicopter hovers overhead, spraying machine gun fire.Eventually, Jack clambers down a fire escape and finds himself in an alley, with a police car just pulling up nearby. He runs at one of the cops and a Triangle prompt comes up – get the timing right and Jack performs a flying kick at the policeman, then gets inside the car and drives off. Now, we're back in control, with a timer ticking down and a directive to get the hell out of town. With the helicopter in, ahem, hot pursuit, I need to snake in and out of the traffic, looking for cover in a series of underpasses. It's thrilling stuff, and classic Need for Speed. The sequence ends with my car unavoidably swerving to avoid a jackknifed oil truck, then busting through a wall and landing upside down on a railway track. In a moment highly reminiscent of a scene in Heavy Rain, I now need to look around and figure out which of the available button inputs will allow me to kick out the windows and escape before being hit by an incoming train.These events won't always be about harsh success or failure states. In some sections there are branching outcomes, so if the player mangles a certain button press, they'll get another chance to pull through. In the alleyway police fight, for example, if the kick is poorly timed, the cop grabs Jack and gets him in a choke hold, but then there's a chance to hit a button, fight back, and steal the car.There's no doubt, however, that this is going to be a divisive feature. From Shenmue to Call of Duty, the whole concept of QTEs has been furiously debated; they represent a weird hinterland between interactivity and linear content. But, it's intriguing to find them in a racing title, and the sections are beautifully choreographed, with some extremely credible animation. Black Box has its own director of photography Adam Myhill, who has pulled in influences – and technology – from CGI flicks such as Avatar, using full performance capture and virtual cameras to create some really gritty, stylish and naturalistic action sequences. We're told these sections are there to provide an alternative to the usual narrative movies, and that they'll be mainly confined to the game's city locations. In rural areas, driving will very much be the focal point. However, there's a big, big gamble going on here and for a game based around the concept of a high-speed chase, many players may feel they'll be an unnecessary diversion. EA has quite a sales job on its hands.Away from all that, are the standard concerns for a driving sim. The Run employs a large range of real-world vehicles, seemingly taking in the usual mix of muscle cars, street racers and refined exotics. For the handling mechanic, Black Box is going for another hybrid approach. "We're trying to sit somewhere between Shift and Hot Pursuit," says Grimbley. "We want to reward sim fans like myself – I don't want be bored in 10 minutes, I want there to be some depth to the handling. I want to re-lay the tracks and knock a few seconds off my time. But at the same time all our art director wants to do is power-slide through every track. So we're trying to appeal to both sets of fans. We're trying to meet the players' perception of how these cars will feel, we're not over-investing in replicating exact performance stats."Not much has been revealed about your competitors in the race, but it looks like many will be key story characters rather than anonymous AI drivers. EA has confirmed there will be multiplayer, but no co-op, which might have been a neat little addition to the series, trading on the game's use of action adventure genre conventions. We've also been told that alongside the main campaign there will be other modes that encourage the player to go back and try sections of the track again. Autolog is also in there, and it's been updated, allowing players to compare times on certain  segments of the whole race, as well as attempt to beat each other to the New York finishing line.The Run is an intriguing proposition, and the idea of scorching through the States in a Shelby is extremely enticing – it trades on the fantasy many of us harbour, of heading out on a Hunter Thompson-esque road trip across America. Purists will complain about the onfoot sequences, and sim nuts will balk that you don't get to drive between Frisco and the Big Apple. But thereareover 300km of track, three times more than Hot Pursuit, so there's plenty to see. Launching into a very dense driving genre, Black Box has gone all-out to create something that stands apart. We'll have to wait and see whether this is necessarily a good thing.
Among the corporate behemoths that dominate the modern games industry, French publisher Ubisoft has managed to preserve an image which is incongruously approachable and un-shark-like.Yet these days, while it might not yet challenge the likes of Activision and EA in size, it's a big-hitter, thanks to a sizeable collection of strong franchises, and an impressive roster of studios spanning places such as Canada and China, plus increasing hooks into the movie industry.Its E3 press conference was a solid affair which, while it may have lacked one of those announcements that solicits a mass intake of breath, certainly didn't want for blockbusting games that we'll soon be clamouring to get our hands on.As ever, proceedings were kicked off by Yves Guillemot, a man whose impish appearance and sweet manner beguilingly belie his co-founder and CEO job title.He pointed out that 2011 marks the company's 25th anniversary, and is surely the only person in the games industry you would believe when he says: "When I set this company up with my brothers 25 years ago, all we wanted was to work with great people and have fun."The CEO side of him did kick in, though, when he pointed out that, in that quarter of a century, Ubisoft has shipped more than half a billion games.HeadlinersThe undoubted star of Ubisoft's show was – as is so often the case at E3 press conferences – the last game they showed. Namely, Assassin's Creed: Revelations. Assassin's Creed has become an object lesson in how to make a games franchise: it improves consistently every year, and the sumptuous-looking Revelations didn't look as though it would remotely buck that trend.We were told that it will be the last Assassin's Creed to star Ezio, and that the plot involves a personal quest to find the secrets left by the franchise's first central character, Altair. The action had clearly left Rome, in favour of a set of exotic locations, including a mountain setting which could have been the Himalayas.Ezio, apparently, was hot on the trail of a leading Templar, but was also being pursued by an Elite Guard. It would be safe to say that the game's resource-management appears to have been more or less sidelined in favour of action.Most of the action took place in Constantinople, where we saw Ezio planning an escape by ship, except the powers-that-be had blockaded the harbour by running a giant chain across it.An accomplice provided Ezio with a bomb which, after dispatching various guards, he used to blow up the lighthouse securing one end of the chain, before jumping onto a ship, using its flamethrower-like gun to set most of the ships in the harbour on fire. Then he performed a trademark parkour-run from ship to ship, via floating debris, before jumping onto a getaway ship. Thrillingly cinematic stuff, which will hit the shops in November.Far Cry has always been one of those franchises that threatens to join the triple-A ranks without quite delivering, but with Far Cry 3, it looks as though it may finally have upped the ante. The action started with the hero, Jason Brady, shipwrecked on an island endowed with Far Cry's trademarked lush, tropical look – we were told his girlfriend was missing and his boat had gone.He swiftly encountered a thoroughly nasty group of modern pirates, terrorising the local population; after dispatching a good proportion of them with stealthy take-downs, he was captured by a particularly psychopathic example, and chucked into a sea-filled cavern with a concrete block tied to his feet. Naturally, he wriggled free, and managed to cause more havoc, culminating in hijacking a helicopter, which was brought down by an RPG.The demo ended with him crawling out of it only to be confronted, unarmed, by the same psychopath repeating the same catchphrase. Far Cry 3 looks to have taken a leaf out of Call of Duty's back as far as breathless, cinematic action is concerned. It won't arrive until 2012.We won't have to wait so long for Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier, though. The demo we were shown showed the world's most high-tech squad of soldiers at work in Nigeria, rescuing a VIP tied up in a shipping container.Toys included a radio-controlled mini-UAV used for recon, and a thermobaric bomb which was called in to take out two helicopters. Graphically, Future Soldier is state of the art, and Ubisoft, unexpectedly, announced that it will be accompanied by a PC game called Ghost Recon Online, which will be free to play.Previously unseen stuffWe were tantalised by a glimpse of a new game from Gearbox, which developed the Brothers In Arms WWII games for Ubisoft. Called Brothers In Arms: Furious Four, it is something of a departure, with a comic-book style, and four characters with near-superhuman powers who basically kick Nazi butt.Other highlights included Rayman: Origins, a long-awaited new instalment of the platform game which established Ubisoft as a credible company. Although it's a classic side-scrolling platformer, we've played it, and it's challenging, fun, fast-paced and at times very clever.At Microsoft's press conference, Guillemot pledged his allegiance to Kinect, and although the Kinect element in Future Soldier, centred on weapons customisation, looked unconvincingly tacked-on, Ubisoft had plenty of more mainstream Kinect fare on offer, most notably Rabbids: Alive and Kicking, which put the pesky critters in a facsimile of your living room, and including bizarre party games such as forcing four people to arrange themselves in specific shapes.Ubisoft also showed Just Dance 3, for all the motion-control platforms, which will surely once again shift obscene quantities of product, and the excellentDriver: San Francisco, which we have previewedand will arrive soon. The quirky, family-owned French concern continues its inexorable rise.
If there are any Xbox 360 owners out there who remain convinced that Microsoft produced Kinect solely to win over the casual core crowd, they should have a gander at Rise of Nightmares. Developed by Sega, this is a particularly nasty and graphic survival horror game that plot-wise, takes its lead from Resident Evil and the Hostel film franchise. It also puts a premium on bloody dismemberment, flying body fluids and gruesome, wet slapping sounds.The pitch is straight-forward enough; the player takes on the roll of a tourist on holiday  somewhere in Europe with his wife. The pair are soon knocked out and kidnapped by an eccentric local, who on the evidence of the demo I played, resides in a massive medieval dungeon. The action starts with the player waking up and taking in their surroundings. In no time at all, they become aware of their captor standing opposite them, fondling the neck of a hysterical man who is tied to a chair. As the poor unfortunate begs and pleads for their life, the chuckling psycho casually brings an axe down on his right hand, severing it completely."Why!? Why did you do that?" screams the victim as claret shoots out of his arm."Why not?" sniggers the psycho, and then buries his axe in his victim's skull with a sickening crack.The action is briefly interrupted by a telephone call, and the player's captor is called away on an urgent matter upstairs, leaving them in the company of a zombie nurse. She is quickly dispatched by some figure off-screen who then frees the player and the pair of them begin to make their way out of the dungeon. Hilarity ensues.The control scheme in Rise of Nightmares is a doddle to master – mind you, this is a Kinect title, so if it wasn't, there'd be a problem. Players can turn in a 360 degree arch by swivelling their shoulders right or left, they move forward by placing one foot forward and taking a step back causes them to back up in the game. The player hovers their reticule over any doors they wish to open, or they can use their foot to kick them in when the prompt pops up onscreen.There's a bit of lag between the player's movement and their actions in the game so navigating the endless, eery corridors can become a might tricky. Still, the game compensates for this by putting certain segments of the player's progression on-rails; the player simply raises their right hand when prompted and their forward movement becomes ever so smooth.When they're not walking or looking around, the rest of the player's time is spent battering the endless parade of grisly monsters that stand between them and the dungeon's exit. This is where the fun starts as Rise of Nightmares offers the player an increasingly vicious arsenal to dispatch foes. They start off with a stick, but it's not long before they're being offered brass knuckles, ice saws, chainsaws and cast-iron tongs.The player uses the weapons the way they would in real life. When the player jabs the air in front of them their character in the game hits out with the brass knuckles. A downward or sideways slashing motion causes their character to slice and dice opponents with the ice saw. The player needs to pretend they're gripping the handles of an invisible pair of tongs to activate that weapon; bringing their fists together causes the tongs on screen to bite into an enemy's face. The chainsaw is equally easy to use; hold two hands out in front of you, the way you would if you were holding a real chainsaw, and simply walk it into anything attacking you.The combat in Rise of Nightmares isn't exactly complex but it's delightfully visceral and loads of guilty fun. When the player hits an enemy with an ice saw, the sounds of tearing meat and wet splashes usher forth from the TVs speakers. If they whirl in an arch with the chainsaw, they'll hear bone splinters and more wet splashes. The enemies for the most part, are pretty direct in their attacks; they shuffle towards the player and lazily strike at them. The exception to this rule is a monster which can vomit acid in the player's face; when this happens, the camera is completely obscured by a puddle of yellow fluid, which the player clears by making wiping motions with their hands.On the evidence of the demo I played, Rise of Nightmares isn't smart and it isn't deep, but players shouldn't hold that against it. This is a game which is designed to provoke laughs and revulsion in equal measure. It may not convince anyone to sign up for a Kinect unit, but those players who already own a hands-free interface may find themselves seduced by its gruesome delights. After all, how often do you get to use a pair of tongs to take a zombie's nose off?• Sega; Xbox 360 with Kinect; release date: TBC
It was surely the right decision. Sony opened its E3 press conference with an apology for the recent PSN outage, delivered by Jack Tretton, head honcho at Sony Computer Entertainment America. He told a packed audience at the Memorial Sports Stadium, "My friends in the media tell me that nothing makes their editors more happy than controversy and bad news. So to all our esteemed members of the press I say, you're welcome." He went on to specifically thank third-party publishers for their support, before telling PlayStation fans, "You are the lifeblood of the company. Without you, there is no PlayStation. I want to apologise both personally and on behalf of the company […] We have been humbled and amazed by the amount of dedication and support you continue to give. Network activity is currently at over 90% of the original level before the Network outage. That is something we do not take lightly."It was frank and funny, and it meant that the company would then have a gargantuan two hours to seduce us into forgetting the whole sorry business with a mass of demos and announcements.And while Microsoft's event seemed like one long drawn-out advert for Kinect, Sony's was an assault on many fronts, taking in 3D, the PlayStation Move controller and of course,PlayStation Vita, the new name for the Sony NGP. The key theme was connectivity. "PS3 is the most connected digital device available today," said Tretton before announcing a string of cross-platform titles, such as futuristic racer Wipeout 2048, which will allow Vita owners to compete against PS3 players, and the fascinating action RPG, Ruin, which comes on both Vita and PS3 and features cloud-based game saves, allowing purchasers to play on the move, then take up their game at exactly the same point when they arrive at home and boot up their PlayStation console.Equally intriguing was Dust 514, a persistent online first-person shooter from CCP, the creator of the space-based massively multiplayer PC game, Eve Online. It seems that somehow, Dust 514, which involves planetary combat against a range sci-fi enemies and craft, will inhabit the Eve universe, with the actions of Dust players having a direct bearing on the wider PC title. It's not yet clear precisely how this will work in practice, but you can readCCP's developer blog about the game hereand you'll find a good description at theOfficial PlayStation Blog. Dust 514 is due out next spring.Naturally, Uncharted was a vital element of the show, with the third title in the PlayStation 3 series as well as the wonderfully promising Uncharted: Golden Abyss on Vita. Developer Naughty Dog showed off a new level of Uncharted 3 set aboard an abandoned ocean liner. Nathan is seen running along decks, swaying and staggering as gigantic waves lash the vessel. He ventures inside and quietly takes out several bad guys in an opulent ballroom, before venturing into a lower deck car park, where he finishes off one enemy, by punching him a couple of times, then pulling the pin from one of his grenades, blowing him sky high. At the same time, gallons of visually impressive seawater is bursting in through lower levels, prompting a couple of swimming sequences. It's exciting and graphically lush, with moments of genuine tension, as Drake gets caught underwater lodged beneath heavy objects. A multiplayer beta will apparently begin on 28 June, with the game arriving on 11 November. We also saw anew story trailer.There was new footage, too, of Resistance 3, the latest title in the historically-set sci-fi FPS series in which Earth is invaded by parasitic aliens known as Chimera. The action is set in August 1957, four years after Resistance 2. Earth has fallen to the invaders, and the player must now travel across the country from Oklahoma, gathering ragtag groups of survivors into one last resistance force. The level we see takes place in a battered St Louis, where a group known as the Remnants has attempted an ambush of a Chimera convoy. There's a pitched battle amid the burnt-out buses and cars littering the shelled streets, with an enormous skyscraper-sized Chimera beast wandering about, stabbing at the player with its insect-like limbs.  The game is set to support both PlayStation Move and 3D, and it will launch with a special 'Doomsday' edition including the new gun-like 'Sharpshooter' peripheral, a Move controller and a PlayStation Camera, all for $150. No word on a European release for that package though. Resistance 3 is out on 6 September.On the subject of Move, there were a couple of announcements for Sony's motion controller. Forthcoming basketball sim NBA 2K12 is set to feature a special Move-powered mode which lets gamers use an onscreen cursor to point and click on players as well as using simple pass and shoot buttons to direct the action. The idea is to create an intuitive version of the sim for non-gamers. The company also revealed a Move-powered action RPG titled Medieval Moves: Deadmund's Quest, which employs Move inputs for all of the weapons (including a sword, throwing stars and a long bow). Looking like a sort of first-person version of Zelda, the game also features environmental puzzles, and a nice, cartoon-esque visual style. It's due out in the autumn.The other big story was 3D. As well as showing several 3D-enhanced titles, Sony revealed that it will be launching a budget-friendly PlayStation-branded 3D monitor and a pair of cheap active 3D glasses in September. The 24-inch display seems to be aimed at students and teenagers, and together with the glasses offers an absolutely inspired feature: it allows two-players to view different images on the same screen, effectively creating a new form of 'splitscreen' multiplayer, in which both participants get a fullscreen version of the game action. The gadgets can be bought together in a bundle for $499, which will probably translate to about £499. They're both arriving later this year.Elsewhere, Sony revealed Starhawk, a multiplayer combat game from the makers of early PlayStation Network hit, Warhawk. The action appears to revolve around interstellar colonists fighting it out for territory on an alien planet. There are cyborg cowboys, robots that transform into jet planes and dune buggies.There were also a few retro announcements, including God of War Origins, which combines the PSP games, Chains of Olympus and Ghost of Sparta, into one PS3 package and remasters both in high definition and 3D. Also ready to be covered in HD and 3D magic dust are the long-awaited remakes of Ico and Shadow of the Colossus. All are due in September.On the subject of Team Ico, the biggest disappointment was the lack of a Last Guardian announcement. The hugely anticipated adventure is almost certain to be a no-show at E3 this year, despite appearing on almost every list of most-anticipated titles.But this was a busy, breathless and very long event, with some interesting new concepts and fresh attempts to interest the world in Move and in 3D. A major irony was the emphasis on community, especially in relation to Vita and its many social gaming features. Having just tested the loyalty of its PlayStation Network users to the limits, the company now wants us to spend more time in its virtual realm. It has a lot of confidence-building to do, before beginning to seed this experience later in the year. Tretton joked about the PSN controversy, but unless the company's digital infrastructure is completely secure, hackers will no doubt have the last laugh.
Amid the faded grandeur of the Orpheum theatre, Electronic Arts showed a strong roster of titles at its pre-E3 conference on Monday, but there were few surprises or announcements. Perhaps the key revelation was Battlelog, a new version of Need For Speed's Autolog social networking and multiplayer gaming system, set to launch alongside Battlefield 3 – more detailshere.The big new game reveal was Insomniac's new multiplatform title. The creator of Resistance: Fall of Man is working on Overstrike, a near-future, sci-fi shooter. There was also a new Sims title, The Sims Social, which will run on Facebook, and looks quite fruity.Due out on 6 March, Mass Effect 3 was covered with the launch of a new trailer, Fall of Earth, showing in-game footage for the first time. There was also a brief demo showing Commander Shepard attacking a Reaper base – which turns out to be an actual Reaper that transforms into a gigantic insect-like beast.A new trailer for Star Wars: The Old Republic, featuring an array of huge blaster and lightsaber battles between Jedi and Sith armies, was greeted with enthusiastic applause. "It represents years of my life," said BioWare co-founder Greg Zeschuk. "It represents true devotion and sacrifice. And it's been worth it."A trailer of the RPG, Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, revealed some pretty generic sword-fighting and spell-casting against huge monsters in a fantasy realm. Developed by 38 Studios the key allure of the title may be the superstar talent onboard, including comic artist, Todd McFarlane and author RA Salvatore.Here's a quick rundown of our highlights …SSXThe veteran snowboarding series is returning, with an ambitious open-world feel. Apparently, EA Sports has used Nasa satellite data to recreate every major mountain range in the world, and players are able to explore as they wish. I've no idea how this will work in practice but it's a fascinating premise. The title will include three distinct modes: Race It, Trick It and Survive It, the latter featuring immense natural disasters and other challenges to snowboard through. In the demo we saw, the player is pursued by a cataclysmic avalanche. It looks like an action adventure sequence crafted into a sports sim, which is interesting. The release date is January 2012, and the character roster is to be revealed over the next few months.Fifa 12Matt Bilbey, EA Sports' general manager of football, took to the stage to assure us that the next title will be "the most authentic Fifa ever". Yes, yes, they say that every year, but this year theymeanit. The defence system has been re-worked to be more tactical with an emphasis on positioning, rather than just bumbling in there with endless tackles. There's also an improved "deft touch" system on the left analogue stick that provides precision dribbling, and the ability to engage in close-control tricks. The major innovation though is the "player impact engine". Apparently, a layer of real-world physics has been added to the character animations, so there's a genuine sense of physicality – sliding tackles will have genuine momentum based on the speed of the player, while opponents will be able to nudge, push and pull at each other during close encounters. Injuries will also be closely and authentically based on this system, so a lengthy sliding tackle at top speed is likely to inflict proportionally greater damage than a little toe poke at an opponent's shin. An interesting introductory movie showed professional footballers and coaches talking about how the Fifa titles are being implemented into the real game. Apparently, football manager Ole Gunnar Solskjær uses it to research opponents while Scott Sellars of Manchester City's youth side sees it as a vital element of training youngsters.There was also time to show off  EA Sports Football Club, a live service designed to help fans find other people to play against online, as well as socialise and engage in competitions. Apparently, each Fifa fan will be able to create a unique identity which will be consistent across all versions of the game, regardless of platform. The system also tracks the games your friends have played, as well as results and news from the real-life sport. Best of all, you'll need to enter your own favourite side and will see a global league table of the most successful clubs in the sim's online mode. So it's Call of Duty Elite for football. And free.NFL 12 also got a look in, promising rebuilt defensive AI, a new collision system, dynamic plays and new online features.The Sims SocialThis is potentially the most interesting Sims-related release for a number of years. Designed for Facebook, The Sims Social features old-school 2D isometric visuals and lots of connectivity with your real-life profile, friends and news wall. It seems that you'll be able to act out virtual relationships with your pals, inviting them into your Sims neighbourhood, then engaging in virtual social situations. The demo showed a conversation between two women, one of whom used Sims Social to virtually "date" a male friend. We see their Sims characters having a dance in the living room, then a kiss, then finally there's a shower scene (steamed over, of course). The idea of competing against, or getting the chance to "go out with" Facebook chums will surely be an enticing prospect, though it could lead to some tricky arguments with real-life partners…OverstrikeTed Price, co-founder of Insomniac took to the stage to introduce this hectic near-future shooter. He promised "high powered gadgets, action-heavy gameplay, memorable characters in a mysterious universe and of course a touch of humour". The action revolves around a squad of loose cannon operatives, who are sent on a variety of apparent suicide missions against an unknown enemy ("They're the black sheep even their own agency tries to ignore," says Price). The playable combatants include a mercenary, a scientist, a thief and a detective, and they do have some rather unusual weapons, including electrifying crossbows and a device that fires a sort of amorphous metallic blob that consumes and crushes enemies. It looks like multiplayer co-op is going to be the key game mode.There is a teaser trailerhere.Battlefield 3Set for release on 25 October, Battlefield 3 is looking glorious. We were given a quick peek at the Paris-based multiplayer level, Operation Metro, which includes shootouts in the underground (which mirrors Modern Warfare 3's London tube train level) and some street fighting amid beautiful Parisian architecture. The destruction capabilities of the Frostbite 2 engine were illustrated at one point where a great chunk is blown from the side or an ornate building.There was also a brief demo of a tank mission, with the player becoming part of a major attack on an enemy base in the Kavir desert. We see several armoured vehicles trundling through hyper-detailed scrublands, toward huge plumes of smoke growing ominously on the horizon. On the way, the player can use the 120mm cannon and 7.62mm coaxial machine gun to take out soldiers and vehicles, and when approaching the weapons depot, the view switches to a satellite display of the area, which is used to call in an airstrike. It's no doubt running on a behemoth of a PC, but it's cutting edge stuff in terms of visuals, if not mission design concepts.
Steve Jobs took the stage to announce iCloud on Monday at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference. Cloud computing? From Apple?iCloud also encompasses iTunes Match, which is in effect an amnesty – 10 years after the original file-sharing Napster was ground into the dust – for people who have illicitly downloaded music from filesharing networks, and marks a way for music labels to get some money back from them.The simplest way to deal with whatiCloudand iTunes Match do (apart from reading Apple's press release, linked there) is to deal with all the questions we've been asked via Twitter. So here you go.•Why?Because whereas 10 years ago Steve Jobs talked about the personal computer being the "digital hub", Apple now thinks that cloud computing is going to be the hub, because it has diversified its product range – iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod Touch – so that you don't necessarily need a "PC" to do the tasks that previously needed the power of a CPU on your desk. We live in a world of multiple devices – PC, smartphone, tablet, music player – where you want to be on top of your calendar, contacts and music, as well as being able to edit and save documents on the go wherever you have internet connectivity. The storage – and, more importantly, synchronisation – of those shouldn't need to wait for you to get to one canonical device (the PC). All you should need is a reliable internet connection.•Is the iTunes bit US only?For now, yes.No date has been given for a UK or rest-of-world release for iTunes Match(where the songs in your iTunes library can be synchronised with a list in the cloud, for $24.99 per year). That was in fact the very first question we asked Apple after the keynote finished. "No date has been given," came the reply.However, as MobileMe will officially die on 30 June 2012 (and you can no longer sign up), and the explanatory email from Apple says that it's going to be replaced with iCloud, it's clear that it's going to be rolled out to the rest of the world in time. Apple's given itself a year to get the other music labels in other territories on board, it seems.•Can I give my friend access to my account so they can have all my music?Well, think about it. You'll have to let them log in as you. They'll also have to log in as you on any and all devices that they want to use. The music will get downloaded – but it's not clear quite how accessible that will be to pull off your iPhone, say. And when your friend logs off, perhaps the music goes. You might be able to do this – but the chances are the deal with the music labels is going to make it extremely difficult to do easily.•Are iTunes syncs included in the 5GB limit?As we understand it, that only the songs that have to be uploaded from your collection because they're not found on the iTunes Music Store will count against your limit of 5GB of free storage.•5GB is really small ... is that just so the next announcement of "we're now giving you 20GB" seems generous?iCloud's free allocation of 5GB of storage is only 2GB less than you get with Google's free Gmail account, and Google is usually thought of as the king of cloud computing. Then again,Microsoft's Skydriveis 25GB, and is free. It doesn't offer the push syncing between devices, though. By limiting who can access it (people who are using iOS5 or OSX Lion) Apple is taking a cautious approach: it doesn't want anotherMobileMe disaster.•What's the cost of extra storage?Not known at the moment.•Does it stream music or do you download, or both? Will it stream effectively over 3G?It's a download for the free element (music that you previously purchased on the iTunes Music Store). iTunes Match is also a download, not streaming.•Where are the server farms? How green will they be? Apple don't have a great record ...Maiden, North Carolina and two other locations. The Maiden one is near a major source of hydroelectric power. Server farms of that sort often are as it's one of the most reliable.•Will it sync seamlessly with my PC &amp; Linux netbook? Will it have version control? Shareable URLs to send photos to Gran?(a) iTunes Match will work on Windows Vista and Windows 7, as well as Mac OSX, as will iCloud. (b) No signs of version control that we've seen, though Lion does have that built in – so you may get it on that platform. (c) Logically there must be a URL for a photo, but whether you'll be able to share that directly is still unclear. It might be that you'll either have to send it via Twitter, or embed it in an email. Gran might like to get an email– it's been too long since you got in touch.•Will iOS 5 &amp; iCloud improve management of Podcasts? Auto download new episodes? Notifications of new episodes?That would be an iTunes improvement, so you'd need to look at that.•What/how much integration will there be on the non-iOS side – ie, on Lion?On Lion, as much as on iOS. On earlier versions of Mac OS X (and on versions of iOS before iOS 5), it's much less clear. Our best guess would be that, since iOS 5 will work on the iPhone 3GS and up – which makes the majority of iPhones sold – that it won't be very backward-compatible at all, by contrast with Windows, where it will work with Vista and Windows 7. (Outlook 2010 is recommended for calendars.)•Will it enable easy group sharing of photos and docs?Neither Jobs nor Apple said so, but since it wasn't shown off doing this, and since Apple isn't an enterprise-oriented company (where group sharing like this would be a big feature), our guess is that for documents and photos, you'll be using email again.You will however be able to share calendars.•1 – why no streaming? 2 – is iCloud music US only? 3 – why no video?1 – because streaming is more expensive and harder to cache than a download: you can't just dump a load of data on the line, but have to keep it flowing. 2 – see above. 3 – video takes up far more storage, and Apple doesn't have the deals with film and TV studios for this. Baby steps.•Will the interface still be iTunes, or will it be new?You don't specify which interface on what device. It's iTunes-like in iOS devices, but iCloud covers a lot of different applications, including documents. iTunes Match will, yes, work through iTunes.•Will it put Dropbox out of business?We doubt it, because Dropbox is cross-platform in a way that iCloud's document service isn't trying to be. The aim of Dropbox is broad: get people to use it to sync content between diverse systems. iCloud is trying much more to tie people into using iOS devices; working on Windows is necessary because the majority of iPhone/iPad owners are on Windows. Dropbox also lets large groups of people share files. Apple isn't into that at all.•Can you upload any doc? Encrypted all the way? Other security?From our reading, only documents that are readable across all iOS devices can be uploaded (that's why Pages was shown – though Pages can open Microsoft Word documents). Encryption will be there, but obviously only as good as your password. If you're worried about encryption in transit, that's already the case with MobileMe, so it won't change with iCloud.•what will the UX [user experience] be like on Windows? Will it be a viable solution for backups, file management, etc?We don't know what the UX will be like. (Windows-y?) It's not going to be your first port of call for version management. Apple is making something for the average user, not the computer expert. The whole point is that you shouldn't need to be an expert to use it. If you're looking for version management, there are plenty of free Unix solutions out there – starting with Github.•What happens to those of us with MobileMe subs between its end in June and iCloud's availability in Autumn?Great question.No obvious answer. Sign up for another year and hope for a refund, or watch as your email and stored data vanishes in a puff of cloud, seems to be the initial response.All MobileMe accounts are being extended free for another year to June 2012. (Thanks @spikediswhack.)•What happens if you stop paying for your iCloud match service per month – what do I lose and what do I keep?First, it's annual: $24.99 (which will probably translate to £20 in the UK). If you stop paying, you'll still be able to access your purchased iTunes Music Store music on any iOS device, but your uploaded music, and the rest of your library, will revert to living only in one place – a hard drive somewhere at home or work.•How do you think Apple will identify music for iTunes Match, and if it's file-signature based, could they identify pirated music? And, should they not carry that track on iTunes, could they be legally compelled to identify users with those files?It will probably work initially on ID3 tags, and possibly an MD5 hash if that's available (but ID3 tags are going to be more likely to be right, since you'd have named your music, where the MD5 hash will vary depending on how long the song is and its sample rate.) As for piracy, stop fretting. Apple can't possibly have every song, and it could argue that people might have written their own songs.•Is iTunes Match not a licence to get music cheap? Leech the album illegally, match it to iTunes and claim under the $25 account?You've got it the wrong way round. Previously if you leeched it, the record label would never have gotten any money before. Now it'll get a cut of that $25. It's about as much as it would get through Spotify. (Update:this may be a 70/30 music labels/Apple split, as happens with app sales. Ironically, this sort of split between service provider and music supplier is exactly what some US music publishers wanted with the original Napster. It's taken 10 years for the record labels to come round to it.)•I have one AppleID tied to iTunes content. Another ID for MobileMe mail. Which does iCloud need?Oooh, tricky. MobileMe comes after iTunes, so that will be the disposable one. Your MobileMe identity will shift to iCloud, but the iTunes accounts are tied to that ID, so you'll need to keep that one.•iTunes Match, Amazon Cloud Music, Google Music – will any of them ever work in the UK? Will Spotify ever launch in US?Yes, Probably, Probably, Yes. Just don't ask us about timescales.We're sure you'll have some more and we'll see if we can bug Apple to give us more information. In the meantime, keep the questions coming.
During EA's pre-E3 press briefing on Monday, the company announced a new social networking feature for its forthcoming shooter, Battlefield 3.Named "Battlelog", the service will allow players to set up and manage friends lists and other community features, much likethe Call of Duty Elite service announced last week by Activision.But there's one key difference: while many of Elite's features are open to paying subscribers only, EA chief John Riccitiello took great delight in pointing out that Battlelog will be free."The service is a hub of powerful social tools, where gamers can connect, communicate and play with friends," said Karl Magnus Troedsson, the general manager of the game's developer, EA Dice. "You can launch a game, manage friends lists, squad up, create platoons, check out your stats in real time – and all 100% free."The Battlelog name is, of course, a reference to "Autolog", the innovative social gaming feature added to last year's racer Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit.Autolog allows players to track and compete against the best times and performances of their friends, enlivening the single-player and creating a new form of asynchronous multiplayer activity. Battlelog will no doubt endeavour to fulfil a similar function.EA is clearly making social gaming a key element of its business. The company also announced the EA Sports Club, which allows players to seamlessly track matches played by friends as well as challenging other gamers to online matches.EA is set to run an open beta of the Battlelog service in September, and the full experience will be launched alongside the Battlefield 3 game on 25 October.
Cloud-based consumer data services might not be new, but the iCloud service Apple announced last night marks a major step towards the mainstream.Returning from sick leave for the string of announcements at Apple's World Wide Developer Conference, chief executive Steve Jobs made the most significant statement of the night: "We're going to demote the PC and the Mac to just be a device – just like an iPad, an iPhone or an iPod Touch. We're going to move the hub of your digital life to the cloud."Veteran Apple commentatorJohn Grubersaid that "demotion" of the Mac will come to define a new era for Apple."iCloud will shape the next 10 years the way the iTunes-on-your-Mac/PC digital hub shaped the last 10," he wrote. "This is a fundamentally different vision for the coming decade than Google's. In both cases, your data is in the cloud, and you can access it from anywhere with a network connection. But Google's vision is about software you run in a web browser. Apple's is about native apps you run on devices. Apple is as committed to native apps – on the desktop, tablet, and handheld – as it has ever been."Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said the move will encourage consumers to stay within Apple's ecosystem of gadgets, from phones to desktop computers. "Apple is increasing the likelihood that consumers buy multiple Apple devices," he told clients."What's new is that Apple will be giving away iCloud for free (we had expected it to be priced between $25-$99 a year). This will allow Apple devices to automatically share contacts, calendars, messages, photos, apps, and music purchased on iTunes; sharing non iTunes music will cost $25 a year." Munster compared that the Amazon's Cloud Drive, which could cost up to $200 a year.For Apple's rivals, iCloud presents a major challenge. Google started offering cloud-based services to the mainstream through its Gmail service in 2004, but Apple's third and soon-to-be-opened data centre in North Carolina puts it ahead, said Forrester analyst Frank Gillett."Google is worth watching as a number two player but will struggle to match Apple. Microsoft, with no articulated vision for personal cloud, lags significantly."Mike Abramsky of RBC said iCloud is likely to be a huge boost for Apple's device sales. "By 'cutting the cord' to the PC, Apple may expand its addressable device market by 4x, addressing the handset users who have a phone but not a PC. We believe we may see new devices in time, based off iCloud services."The announcement marks a major move for Apple away from the desktop PC as the central hub of digital activity, acknowledging the consumer shift towards mobile phones and iPads. Apple said last night that it has now sold 200m iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch devices, though  it was careful to open the event by heralding the success of the Mac computer by saying sales have grown 28% compared to a 1% slump in PC sales.In contrast to the warm welcome from analysts, Apple's stock fell 1.57% in response to the announcements, with traders apparently unimpressed by the series of software updates and iCloud announcements because they were not backed up by a new iPhone release.
So, as widely guessed in the media, the Sony NGP is now called PlayStation Vita and it's launching this winter, with a Wi-Fi-only model at $249 (£151) and a 3G and Wi-Fi model at $299.The price announcement drew loud cheers from the 6,000-strong audience at Sony's E3 press briefing on Monday – many pundits were predicting the console would debut at $349 or more.But it's not just the lower-than-expected price that puts the console into very direct competition with the Nintendo 3DS – Sony was keen to highlight several functions of Vita that closely correspond to the rival machine.Social networking, for example, is a key functionality. The device will come with a service called Near, which lets you connect with other nearby Vita owners to compare trophies and socialise. It's very similar to the 3DS StreetPass concept, which automatically swaps game data between consoles as players pass in the street.Vita is also set to offer a chat system called Party Room, which lets owners indulge in conversation with other gamers via a headset. It'll work across games, allowing mates to talk even when they're both playing different things – a crucial social element in the early success of Xbox Live.Introducing Vita, Sony Computer Entertainment chief executive Kaz Hirai was also keen to point out the gadget's front- and rear-facing cameras, and the potential for augmented reality gaming."We're confident that PlayStation Vita will be the first product to truly blur the lines between interactive entertainment and your real life," he said. And yes, the Nintendo 3DS also offers augmented reality functions, exhibited in the six free AR mini-games that come free with the console.There were some hugely popular game demos at the event, too. We saw a level of Uncharted: Golden Abyss, a Vita-exclusive spin-off from the massively successful PS3 action adventure series. Set in and around a crumbling temple, it's graphically extremely strong, using advanced visual effects such as water modelling and dynamic lighting to create a densely detailed and atmospheric environment.Cleverly, developer Sony Bend Studio has integrated a dual control system that lets players opt for the classic PS3 controls, or a new set of Vita options.Players can for example, use the touchscreen for combat, tapping an enemy or the environment to pull off different moves. We're also shown a section where hero Nathan Drake has to scale a treacherous stone wall; the motion controls can be used to direct him left or right – players simply tilt the console. When running toward a chasm, a tap of the screen will perform a jump; and when navigating along jutting ledges on the wall, swiping the screen makes Nathan swing from one to the next.There's also a new mode, which lets you plot a climbing course for the character by drawing a route on the screen, which then highlights the relevant arm and footholds.Sony also mentioned that the console's innovative rear touchpads will be employed, but wouldn't say how. And again, most actions can also be carried out using buttons, too, so luddite joypad jockeys can just stick with what they know.Another intriguing announcement was Ruin (working title), a top-down viewed action RPG, for both Vita and PS3. Highly reminiscent of a slightly lighter, more playful Diablo, it's a classic "explore the dungeon, fight the baddies and grab the loot" experience, but with some social connectivity elements.It seems that there are multiplayer elements of the main mode, allowing players to pop into each others' games, helping or hindering whoever they find. Yep, sounds like Demon's Souls, but apparently Ruin also features Twitter connectivity, and a sort of Tower Defence feel, with players building lairs that have to be protected against incoming invaders – these lairs get more powerful as the player progresses and earns more loot.But here's the fascinating part. Both the PS3 and the Vita versions use a cloud-based game save mechanism, and they're mutually compatible. This means you can play the Vita version on the bus, save it, and when you get home, pick up at the same point on your PS3. Apparently saving and loading to the cloud is extremely fast, and it's a really need addition to the usual interplay between handheld and home consoles (although, of course, you'll need tobuyboth versions of the game, unless the PS3 one is a free download).Another audience pleaser at the press event was the revelation that Street Fighter X Tekken, the fighting game that combines the two biggest franchises in the genre, is coming to Vita. Producer Yoshinori Ono came on stage to show off the the game, and showed how the touchscreen could be used to access moves.He also revealed that the game will feature a guest appareance from Cole, the lead character in super hero adventure inFamous. His electrifying attacks and flying kicks fit right in, it seems.There were also two Vita remakes of classic PlayStation titles. Sony is building a new version of its popular racing title ModNation Racers, with a design-your-own-circuit option that uses the touchscreen for intuitive drag and drop functionality. Track pieces can be selected then slung onto the screen, and corners are created by tilting the console at the required angle.Brilliantly, the rear touchpad can be tapped to create mountains around the tracks (the longer you press, the higher the peak), while the front touchscreen can be pressed to create indentations that can be filled with water to create lakes. And when the Vita version is released, players will be able to download the 2m tracks already created by owners of the PS3 version.Along similar lines, a Vita version of gorgeous physics-based platformer LittleBigPlanet will use the touch controls to make building your own mini-games and levels even easier. A short trailer shows the motion controls being used to roll a barrel around on screen, while it's also possible to take photos and use elements of your images to create environmental features, or even enemy characters. We're shown a player taking a photograph of a girl, cutting out her hair and using it as a pair of legs for a marauding giant.Sure, lots of games journalists emerging after the two hour show were still skeptical about whether there's a mass market for another specialist handheld games console. But Vita is covering all the right bases, making innovative use of familiar elements such as touchscreens, cameras and accelerometers, while forging interesting links with the PS3.Strangely, having highlighted augmented reality as a selling point, Sony showed off very little of this functionality (although, for example, it has been demoingan AR beat-'em-up named Reality Fighterswhich uses the outside camera to make your real-world environment into an arena for the characters to fight in), but more announcements will no doubt trickle out through the rest of E3.For now, Vita is a curiosity that may be on the verge of winning over larger audience than many anticipated.
You've got to hand it to Blizzard. When it comes to producing world-beating franchises, the Irvine-based developer is arguably the most reliable name in the industry.This may be due, in part, because it's able to ignore any calendar-based publishing requirements. While Infinity Ward, Treyarch and Sledge Hammer have to dance to the tune of Activision's projected earnings, Blizzard can churn out games at its leisure, safe in the knowledge it only needs to meet the exacting requirements of its massive, core audience. This is also why every single Blizzard title is beta-tested to within an inch of its life and by the time they role off the assembly line they're as close to perfection as possible.This is also why, the first hands-on time with Heart Of The Swarm, the first expansion pack for Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty, was absolutely thrilling. The game looked gorgeous, played like a dream and seemed to have a staggering depth. Then again, most of the heavy lifting for Heart Of The Swarm has already been done. Remember, there were 11 years between the first and second Starcraft games. &nbsp;That's an awfully long time to ensure everything works as it's supposed to. By the time it landed on retail shelves, it was able to satisfy the demands of a fanbase eager to play through the next chapter of the Starcraft story and a professional E-Sports league at the same time.All told, then, it's not really surprising that Blizzard that hasn't tinkered too much with the game's core mechanics for Heart of the Swarm. Players who buy the expansion pack will find themselves in very familiar territory in terms of the gameplay (those who play online with the Zerg, even more so). What they'll also notice is how much darker in tone Heart Of The Swarm is compared with its predecessor.The reason for this change is obvious. Whereas the story in Wings of Liberty followed Jim Raynor and his rag-tag band of Terran space cowboys, the campaign in Heart of the Swarm revolves around Sarah Kerrigan and the Zerg, the violent and brutal alien antagonists of the Starcraft universe. Kerrigan also takes centre stage in the story and, as anyone familiar with the franchise's lore will know, she isn't exactly the sunniest of souls. Mind you, she has legitimate reasons to be cheesed off.Once a noble freedom fighter, Kerrigan was betrayed by her leaders, left to die at the hands of the Zerg and was then transformed into a horrific Zerg/human hybrid. She then became the driving force behind the Zerg swarm, which made her target for pretty much every other race in the galaxy. The ending of Wings of Liberty gave her brief respite, but Heart of the Swarm sees Kerrigan right back with the Zerg, and if anything, hungrier than ever for revenge against those who betrayed her.It also sees a slightly more evolved version of Kerrigan; having escaped from her Terran captors, the Queen of Blades now looks altogether more human than before. She is no longer infested with Zerg-like accoutrements and appears as a human woman wearing a glowing jumpsuit. She also has access to a raft of new abilities in the form four separate strands of Battle Focus, which players can switch between during the mission load-out screens. Unlike Raynor, Kerrigan looks set to spend a lot of time on the frontlines of every battle and her powers can tip the odds heavily in her side's favour.The two strands available at the preview event were "Corruption" and "Spec Ops" The latter bestowed Pulse, a radial light-based attack and Psionic Shadow, which allows players to create a doppleganger of Kerrigan that deals half-damage attacks. Corruption is far more fun; with this, Kerrigan is able to use Corrosive Spores – which cover targets in acid – and Spawn Broodlings – an instant-kill attack which turns the victim into small Zerg units, which then attack the nearest target.Kerrigan's Battle Focus will grow throughout the campaign, and this theme of evolution is the driving force behind many of the developments in Heart of the Swarm. As the campaign continues, players will collect points from every mission and sub-mission they successfully complete which they can then spend on evolving the different Zerg units in Kerrigan's swarm. &nbsp;During mission load-outs, players can interact with a slimy worm-like Zerg called Abathur, the Evolution Master, who weaves genetic strands together to make units more powerful and eventually evolves them into new species of creatures altogether.In the case of Zerglings, for example, players can choose upgrades such as metabolic boost (which increases speed), posthumous mitosis (which plants Broodling seeds in Zerglings so they have a 20% chance of spawning new units on death) and, rapid genesis (allowing faster production of units). Once two of these upgrades are unlocked, players then have the option of evolving the Zerglings into either Swarmlings, which hatch in groups of three, or Raptors, tougher units which can leap at enemies. In both cases, the Zergling's appearance will change cosmetically, depending on which new breed is selected.In the two missions I was able to play at the preview event, new units were unlocked at the start; the acid-spitting Roaches and the suicide-bomber Banelings. Both could be upgraded and evolved provided the requisite points were earned. Roaches could have their armour, projectile attack and regenerative abilities improved, and could also be evolved into Leeches (incredibly tough to kill) or Prowlers (units which move while burrowed underground).Banelings for their part could receive upgrades allowing them to roll quickly towards targets, cover a greater area on detonation and slow down opponents. They could also be evolved into Gorglings, allowing them to become collectible resources if they die, or Spiterlings, which spawn two extra Banelings once they explode. The evolution/upgrade aspect will be available, presumably, to any and all units that the player unlocks throughout the game.The missions in Heart of the Swarm are structured differently to those in Wings of Liberty. Raynor's story involved dotting around the galaxy, staging hit and run attacks on soft targets. Kerrigan's progress is more direct; she and the Zerg touch down on a planet and will then proceed through a series of missions leading to the conquest of whatever world they're on.The two missions I was allowed to play through at a preview event at Blizzard's HQ involved Kerrigan laying the groundwork for her campaign of vengeance. The defeat the Zerg suffered at the end of SCII left them in disarray with Brood Mothers breaking off from the main swarm and no longer seeing Kerrigan as their leader.The first mission, War for the Brood, was set on the burnt-out world of Char with Kerrigan pitted against a renegade Brood Mother called Za'Garah. While marshalling her forces, Kerrigan needed to round up 100 un-hatched Zerg eggs dotted around the map, before Za'Garah could do likewise. Once this was accomplished, Abathur could produce a gigantic wave of Banelings that Kerrigan could direct straight at Za'Garah's base.The second mission, Silence Their Cries, involved a pitched battle against the Protoss on the ice world of Kalidor. Here, Kerrigan needed to build up enough forces to knock out three pylons deep in enemy territory, that the Protoss were using to call in reinforcements. As an interesting tangent, both the Zerg and Protoss were hampered by flash ice storms on Kalidor, which rendered all units immovable when they hit. However, the Zerg could get around this small problem at the beginning of the mission, by killing some of the local wildlife and absorbing their DNA, making them immune to the ice storms' effects.Blizzard was tight-lipped about whether players will see any new variations of Zerg, or how many fresh units will be made available for the game's superb multiplayer.Still, on the evidence here, there's more than enough to whet the appetites of the Starcraft faithful – and indeed, any other RTS fans who have yet to sample the delights contained in Wings of Liberty. The only downside the game has at the time of this writing, is that it's going to be quite a while before it's ready for release. Still, if the history of Blizzard's lengthy development cycles has taught its fanbase one thing, it's this: great games come to those who wait.
An excellent feature on Nokia CEO Stephen Elop and the company's new smartphone strategy has beenpublished by Business Week, with a series of telling anecdotes from Elop's first few months in charge of the company.It includes the moment on 3 January this year when Nokia's chief development officer Kai Oistämö shared his concerns with Elop about the MeeGo OS, which had been jointly developed with Intel. "It was truly an oh-shit moment – and really, really painful to realise where we were," says Oistämö. "MeeGo had been the collective hope of the company, and we'd come to the conclusion that the emperor had no clothes. It's not a nice thing."Those concerns were the direct trigger for Nokia seeking a deal to switch to either Android or Windows Phone, eventually opting for the latter. The anecdote reminded me of another gut-sinking moment for Nokia's executives though, which was revealed in a press briefing with a handful of UK journalists in 2009.The moment was the realisation that the initial version of Nokia's Ovi Store for apps was woefully inadequate, and it came when Apple launched its App Store in July 2008.The briefing was with George Linardos, who at the time was vice-president of product and media at Nokia in December 2009. At the time, Linardos was one of a number of Nokia executives with responsibility for improving the Ovi Store, which had been the subject of fierce criticism from the media and developers.Four journalists were in the room – my original report waspublished here– and we were told that Linardos was going to speak openly and on the record about Ovi Store's failings. He certainly did that, explaining that Nokia's decision to launch an app store was taken long before Apple unveiled its own plans."We had this jambalaya of services – Download, MOSH, WidSets. Looking at them, it was a very obvious decision that we needed to consolidate one place for consumers to go on our phones, put the full weight of our distribution behind it, and provide a single point of entry for publishers," said Linardos.The problem? It would take longer to develop an entirely new store from scratch than it would to wodge something quickly together from those legacy stores – "an interim approach" as Linardos put it. At this point, Nokia's execs thought they had time to launch an adequate Ovi Store 1.0, while working behind the scenes on something better."The over-riding ambition was to consolidate the services, building a single service for consumers and a single point of entry for publishers. Neither would be perfect, but it was as opposed to continuing with the previous fragmented approach. If the market dynamics hadn't changed, that would possibly have been okay," said Linardos."When the decision was made, there was no such thing as the Apple App Store. But when the industry changed around that, suddenly this thing [Ovi Store] has to be judged in terms of 'is it the definitive competitive response to other app stores?' And that's not what it was necessarily conceived to be at that point – there was always the understanding that this was interim."His quotes illustrated something that also comes through in this week's Business Week article: Nokia's traditional position of dominance created overconfidence, not to mention a drastic underestimation of the impact its brash new rival from Cupertino would have on the market.Why rehash these quotes now? Nokia is currently working not just on its first Windows Phones, but on a Nokia-branded version of Microsoft's Windows Phone Marketplace – a privilege so far not granted to other handset makers.The App Store launch was the then-in-development Ovi Store's own emperor's new clothes moment, but in the three years since, Nokia made a raft of improvements to its store, squashing bugs and introducing new features.Daily downloads rose sharply, but Nokia still faced a tough challenge convincing developers that Ovi Store could be lucrative for their businesses – the company has talked lots about developers getting millions of downloads for their apps and games, but less about how many of those are paid sales.Nokia's Windows Phone store will be a fresh start for the company on the developer score. The lessons from turning round the original kludge that was Ovi Store should serve Nokia well in its comeback efforts.
Snuck into last night'sApple World Wide Developer Conferencewas the announcement of Newsstand, which puts digital newspaper and magazine products into one dedicated place. Much like iBooks, the Newsstand app racks everything up on a wooden shelf (how quaint!) and there's a new section of the App Store set aside specifically for newspaper and magazines.Once you've subscribed to a publication, Newsstand automatically downloads the new edition when it is published.This completes the painfully slow move – about nine months – on behalf of Apple and news publishers to a digital news service within iTunes.The first half of the service, which collects payments for subscriptions, launched in February after its debut with News Corp's The Daily news app. Publishers choose the frequency of subscription (from weekly to annual). Until then, publishers such as Condé Nast had been trying individual apps for each publication, and without much satisfaction. Digital titles had required users to download and pay for each edition individually.Photo bySeattle Municipal Archiveson Flickr.Some rights reservedInevitably Newsstand is designed to encourage consumers to spend more (this way, Apple gets its 30% commission) and consumers have to proactively cancel the subscription to stop paying, which is likely to mean more money for both Apple and the publishers.Publishers were increasingly desperate to be included in the iPad gold rush, but were reluctant to relinquish control of historically crucial subscriber data. Apple refused, and publishers eventually caved in and opted for the compromise – a pop-up that asks consumers if they are willing to share their name, email and address with publishers. About 50%, according to a report byFortune, are agreeing to this, which is a respectable proportion.Newsstand undoubtedly makes a far simpler proposition for consumers, especially those already familiar with the iBooks routine. Apple's fanaticism about process and order will be satisfied by a neat Newsstand app (though the two adjacent s's must grate a little, hey Steve?) and it is likely to earn yet more revenue. For publishers, as is often the case, it's less clear cut. The process is simpler and takeup is likely to be higher, but the app also further restricts control of publishers' products, both because Apple retains those precious credit card details and a big chunk of subscriber contacts. It might be that web apps, as theFT launched today, become a better way of bypassing the Apple system completely and regaining at least some control.There are clear benefits for publishers in producing a web app. Avoiding both the Apple and Android stores is one massive advantage; users access the app through the device's browser, so there's no need to submit to terms that include, in the case of Apple, handing over 30% of revenues, losing a big chunk of subscriber details and risking being barred if you include a nipple in the wrong place. For Android, the issue is more being lost in a marketplace that is still pretty hard to find the best apps on.Next, there's one build for an HTML5 web-based app, and each device is already optimised to show web-based content. But most importantly, direct control over the app means the publisher can decide how, or whether, the consumer will pay. For the FT, that means continuing a mixed-access model – up to ten articles are free, and beyond that users need to subscribe.There's some disadvantage in needing to promote the app; consumers increasingly look to app stores as the first port of call to populate their device. But there's little barrier, once they know aboutapp.ft.com, to using a website. There's also no download.As a financial news business, the FT and Wall Street journal have always been held up as examples of how specialist news sites can charge more easily. But  when it comes to web apps, however, there's plenty that more mainstream news sites would benefit from.As for Google's One Pass system, which offers some kind of rival to Apple's subscription system, it feels woefully inadequate without the rest of that full-featured consumer package that iTunes and all its related devices have come to recognise. How long ago was it that Apple overtook Google as the company news publishers really had to get into bed with?Incidentally, there is already an international digital magazine service calledNewsstand, so we'll wait and see whether it objects to Apple's use of that name.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft set to launch Office 365 on June 28 &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Office 365 will allow businesses to deploy the latest Office software from Microsoft whether it's on the desktop, online or via the cloud. Office 365 provides Office 2010, Exchange, SharePoint and Lync all Online in a cloud-based service."The service is a full browser-based solution that incorporates webmail, collaboration and document management. The entry-level package, Office 365 for Small Businesses, provides Office Web Apps, Exchange, SharePoint and Lync online with an external website for $6 per user, per month. Larger businesses can take advantage of Office 365 for Enterprise. The package is $24 a user, per month and will include email, voicemail, enterprise social networking, instant messaging, web portals, extranets, voiceconferencing and videoconferencing."The Enterprise package also includes pay-as-you-go access to Office Professional Plus."You have to have Office first. This isn't some price-reducing move by Microsoft.What is iCloud? &gt;&gt; Apple"When you update your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch to iOS 5, your favorite Apple apps become seamlessly integrated with iCloud. Just like that."It's not clear from the illustration, but Macs have to be running OSX Lion. ITunes in the cloud is available to Windows (Vista and Windows 7) but no mention of iCloud and Windows.A brief Sony password analysis &gt;&gt; Troy Hunt"We end up with 93% of accounts being between 6 and 10 characters long which is pretty predictable. Bang on 50% of these are less than eight characters. It's interesting that seven character long passwords are a bit of an outlier – odd number discrimination, perhaps?&#10;"I ended up grouping the instances of 20 or more characters together – there are literally only a small handful of them. In fact there's really only a handful from the teens onwards so what we'd consider is a relatively secure length really just doesn't feature."Interesting analysis; only 1% of passwords don't contain an alphanumeric character. But of course those 20-character passwords are all useless anyway, as they were stored in cleartext.Still think the mouse isn't dead? &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"I mean, does anyone still think the mouse isn't dead?&#10;"I can understand that after Apple put a gun to the head of the mouse with the release of the Magic Trackpad, people were skeptical. 'Apple has basically no market share!' was the basis of most of the basic arguments. The bigger point was that we're moving into a world where touch is king, lead by the smartphones and tablets. These devices are going to start influencing our more traditional computers, not the other way around.&#10;"But still, many were quick to argue that the PC will never go mouse-less. Which is silly. In fact, it's going to next year. And Microsoft — yes, Microsoft! — is leading that charge."Sun and Apple almost merged three times – Bill Joy &gt;&gt; The RegisterInteresting for the timing, from January 2006: "McNealy said. 'I guarantee you it will be hard to sell an iPod five or seven years from now when every cell phone can access your entire music library wherever you are.'"Ladies and gentlemen, we bring you... Google Music. Also iCloud. And Amazon Music Locker.Apple Patents Way to Prevent Concert Piracy &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The patent describes an invisible infrared sensor integrated into mobile iOS devices with a built-in camera — which includes iPhones, the iPod Touch and iPad 2. As the Apple patent explains, an infrared sensor in a mobile phone could be used to search for another signal that would say whether it is O.K. to activate and record footage with the phone's camera.&#10;"The recording industry could easily use this technology to disable a camera during a music concert by blasting an infrared signal from the stage and in turn disabling an iPhone from recording the concert for purposes of sharing it online, violating copyright laws."Hmm, surely you'd need the IR signal to indicate that it's OK, or people would just cover the IR receiver?WWDC queue &gt;&gt; 360 PanoramaThis is the "flat" view; to get the panoramic view, strip the /f off the URL. (Or click the chooser.)iOS 5: Tweet everywhere &gt;&gt; Twitter blogBeing included in iOS really is, as one person commented, the anointing of Twitter. If you're built in from the ground up there, you've arrived. And if you can't monetise that, nobody can help you.Did the latest Sony hack leak my info? &gt;&gt; Didsonyleakmyinfo.com"If you are paranoid about entering your email address into some random website (which you should be), this website ONLY stores the hash of the leaked email addresses. No email addressess are stored or saved by this site... we get the email addresses from torrent sites then parse them locally for email addresses, convert them into secure anonymous hashes them upload them to the this site. It's not nefarious or evil in any way."They've got 37,000 hashes. A little way short of the 100m-odd people reckoned to have details out there, surely.Five great examples of data journalism using Google Fusion Tables &gt;&gt; Journalism.co.uk"Google Fusion Tables allows you to create data visualisations including maps, graphs and timelines. It is currently in beta but is already being used by many journalists, including some from key news sites leading the way in data journalism."Neat, and not just because two of them involve The Guardian.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's the first day of E3, and the day of NIntendo's press conference. Project Cafe, here we come!
Halo 4: back with a brand-new adventure. Photograph: Fred Prouser/ReutersThere was a rather flat mood among journalists leaving the Galen Centre after Microsoft's keynote briefing at this year's E3 trade show. Some made  negative comments about the developer's family-friendly Kinect titles. Others bemoaned the fact that Kinect seemed primed to invade core franchises – Fable, Ghost Recon and Mass Effect among them. The most repeated complaint was that, overall, Microsoft's briefing was a damp squib.However, all of this sniping was a bit unfair, and, truth be told, inaccurate. The source of it is easy to identify – ever since Microsoft nailed the gaming media's jaws to the floor in 2009 with it's Project Natal reveal, the bar for all future briefings was set unbelievably high.The expectations that swirled around Microsoft's E3 keynote this year were ridiculous. The fact that the content of the briefing was shrouded in mystery added fuel to the hype. Everyone knows what they're likely to see at Nintendo's and Sony's presentations – Project Cafe and the NGP (and an apology for the PSN hack) respectively. Microsoft was the wild card at this year's expo; aside from seeing the developers biggest franchises, no one knew what to expect when the lights went down in the auditorium.So, when Microsoft didn't unveil a new console, or once again reimagine the casual core interface, or cause the sky to crack open and angels to descend from heaven, it prompted some short-sighted criticism. But once one starts to considers the contents of Microsoft's briefing on it's own merits, things start to look quite a bit more positive.For starters, core gamers – who can lay claim to being the source of the Xbox 360's impressive market share – have lot to look forward to. Aside from being the first gamers to gain access to the first DLC for Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 and the only audience who will get to enjoy Gears Of War 3, they'll be happy to hear that two new Halo titles are in the pipeline. The first of these is a spruced up, remastered edition of the very first Halo title, Halo Combat Evolved Anniversary. The second title sees Master Chief return in a brand new adventure, Halo 4, which Microsoft Interactive Entertainment president Don Mattrick announced was the first entry in a planned trilogy.Second, the core audience can breathe a sigh of relief. When Microsoft announced last year that Kinect would be used in core titles on the Xbox 360, core gamers wailed that the hands-free interface would wreck some of their favourite franchises.However, as Microsoft's keynote demonstrated, Kinect isn't being shoe-horned into core titles just for the sake of it. Instead, upcoming games such as Mass Effect 3 and Ghost Recon: Future Soldier will use the sensor to enhance the overall gaming experience. The latter title looked particularly impressive; players can use Kinect's motion sensing and voice command capabilities in a feature called gunsmith, which allows them to customise in-game weapons to fetishistic degrees. For those looking for a brand new Kinect core experience, the developer unveiled Crytek's Ryse, which uses the sensor the recreate the brutal combat of ancient Rome.Elsewhere, Microsoft offered Kinect fare aimed at more casual gamers. The hardcore crowd may turn its collective nose up at games such as Kinect Sports 2, Disneyland Adventures and Sesame Street: Once Upon A Monster, but children will absolutely love them. Microsoft also announced the launch of Kinect Fun Labs, a kind of multi-faceted tool that allows players to use Kinect to re-style their avatars, scan toys into the dashboard and create 3D pictures. If that weren't enough to excite the budding artists in the audience, the developer also announced that the incredible indie building game, Minecraft would be available to be used in conjunction with Kinect.But aside from satisfying both camps in its gaming audience, Microsoft rolled out a string of content aimed at piquing the interest of non-gamers and expanding on its console's capabilities as a family hub. Along with the announcement that Xbox 360 owners would be able to access YouTube through the dashboard, Microsoft announced that its browser, Bing, would allow users to search for content on Sky, Zune and Xbox LIVE Marketplace. This news came wrapped in a slogan as snappy as it was simply put: "You say it, Xbox finds it."Overall it was a pretty strong showing for E3's opening keynote and Sony and Nintendo have a relatively tough act to follow. Naysayers may quibble that Microsoft's briefing didn't live up to the gold standard set 2009, but then it's worth pointing out that its competitors haven't managed that either so far. For now, Microsoft seems intent on attracting the biggest audience possible and it's doing it by extending its reach without diluting what attracted gamers to the Xbox 360 in the first place. That in itself, deserves much praise.
Steve Jobs launched a slew of new services on Monday evening, including an online music offering that promises to let people listen to songs bought online on any Apple device with an internet connection.The iCloud service will be free to use and be available in the autumn. For an extra $25 a year, users can use the service to access any songs on their computer."Some people think the cloud is just a big disk in the sky," said Jobs. "We think it's way more than that."Jobs said the service would be increasingly important "for those people who want to be completely PC-free", suggesting that in future people will want to operate using solely their phones and tablets and bypassing computers altogether. "The idea of the PC as the digital hub has broken down in the past few years," he said.Jobs, who has remained chief executive of Apple despite being on medical leave for the past six months, looked gaunt as he appeared in front of a crowd of more than 5,200 developers and media at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. After receiving a standing ovation at the opening, he gave a few brief words of welcome before quickly handing over to Phil Schiller, head of product marketing. Jobs returned almost 90 minutes later to introduce iCloud.The company also showed off new software for the iPhone intended to make it more competitive with Google's Android phone software, which has roared past Apple's iPhone to take a 36% share of the smartphone market.The iOS 5 software, which will run on iPhones introduced since June 2009, mimics a number of features available on the Google software.But Apple also indicated that it is seeking to undermine BlackBerry maker RIM's position in the market, by offering iMessage, which allows people to send messages directly to other iPhones or iPads – very like the BlackBerry Messenger feature which has proved hugely popular with teenagers and users in Middle Eastern countries. RIM's stock has fallen by 40% in the past three months as investors worry that its growth has stalled compared with Apple and Android phones.Apple's iCloud may have required an enormous investment. It is understood to have built a data centre in North Carolina with an estimated cost of $1bn and measures half a million square feet.In 2004 Jobs was treated for neuroendocrine cancer of the pancreas and in 2009 had a liver transplant. Doctors have questioned whether the 56-year old could be suffering the effects of immunosuppressive drugs needed for the transplant.Apple's launch of iCloud contrasts with similar offerings from Amazon and Google, which launched theirs in March and May. Amazon's "music locker" immediately ran into criticism from the record industry after its launch because it did not seek their permission to let users listen to music stored in their online lockers – a system that some labels argued required a per-play payment.Google managed to sign a number of the record labels, but not enough to cover everyone, and so its content is limited. Apple's only covers songs bought from its iTunes Music Store, and not any of the user's own content.For users, however, the lockers are cumbersome because they have to upload any tracks they want to listen to, which would be a slow process even for the few hundred tracks that people typically own.Apple also sought to emphasise its strength in contrast to rivals, especially companies making tablets to compete with its iPad. Scott Forstall, head of the iPhone software team, said a total of 25m iPads have been sold – implying that 5.5m iPad 2s have been sold in the past two months. At that rate, Apple could surpass its Christmas sale of 7.3m for the spring quarter, even while dozens of rivals struggle to sell more than half a million.Forstall said that more than 15bn songs have been bought from the iTunes Store, 14bn apps have been downloaded for the iPhone, iPod and iPad, there have been 130m downloads from the iBooks store, and that developers have received $2.5bn on sales of apps.
Today, Steve Jobs came out of his medical leave early to  reveal Apple's new cloud  service, the iCloud, at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference in California. In a world of iAppliances, it is easy to get overwhelmed. For example, is it possible to watch programmes from the iPlayer on my iPad? Is my iPod synced to my iTunes? What kind of iRain is likely to fall from the newly launched iCloud? Let's start at the very beginning.What is the 'cloud'?Once, you would do your work on your  personal computer and save it onto your hard drive. And there it would sit, accessible only to you (and maybe a few other select users on a local network), and could only be manipulated (edited) if you had the right software on your device. The cloud overcomes this limitation – all you need is connectivity (pretty much universal, with the internet), and a cloud provider (a company that facilitates access to the cloud or their data servers). This means that any computer which is connected to the internet (including mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets) is connected to all the same applications and files. In terms of online storage, it creates better conditions for collaborative work; for example, a change made to a Word document would be available to users on different computers because the information is synchronised across all computers. The need for carrying around physical storage devices is eliminated. Hundreds of millions of us already use the cloud everyday, to share photographs, music and video clips. It is, like love, all around. The cloud signals, by and large, the end of "stuff".Where is all the information  in the cloud actually stored?The information in the cloud ranges from the personal but unimportant to the highly sensitive. So where is it all kept? If it is lost, can it be recovered? And is it secure? The data in the cloud exists on servers, and these are mirrored onto other servers to keep data secure and available. That way, if one cluster of servers falls over, then data is available from servers in another data centre or elsewhere in the same location. For example, Google's index is mirrored across thousands, if not millions of servers. So if your data was to be lost, it is more or less guaranteed that they would find it.While it would be easy to find the information, it is no surprise that organisations do not willingly yield the details of where the physical servers are located. And why would they? No one wants to be held to ransom or attacked. Even so, if an attacker were to gain physical access to the servers, it is unlikely that they would gain any  really useable data.Uses of the cloudWeb-based email (like Gmail or Hotmail) has been acting in the cloud for a long time. People use their email accounts to back up the files on their personal computers – and this information can be held securely and indefinitely in the cloud. In addition to being a hugely successful online retailer, Amazon also provides cloud-computing services by renting out space on its  powerful servers to customers worldwide. In April an Amazon cloud failure took out social-networking sitesFoursquare,RedditandQuora.What is the iCloud?It is, quite simply, a content-sharing  service on the cloud. Sources from the  music industry have indicated that Apple has signed up with the four major music labels – EMI, Sony, Universal and Warner Music, to provide a music-streaming  service in the US. Some are suggesting that the iCloud is designed to be the new iTunes – in which music, videos, podcasts etc will be available for streaming.What are the best  cloud-based sites?Dropbox.comandYouSendIt.comare just two of the most used cloud-based sites. Dropbox was created in 2007 by two MIT students who were "tired of emailing files to themselves to work from more than  one computer". It's a free service that  let you share your documents easily. YouSendIt.com allows you to store and send large files over the web.Spotifyis a music-streaming service launched in 2008. Previously free, it  recently capped its free usage at 10 hours a month, with a premium membership allowing for unlimited listening at £9.99 a month. It has approximately 10 million users.Amazonlaunched its cloud player in March, which gives users 5Gb of storage space to upload songs and play them from any number of Android devices.Google Docs is a free web-based storage service. It allows users to create and edit text, spreadsheet and slide show documents in real time with other users. Google has also released Music Beta, a streaming service announced last month.
Mary Wycherley (Twitter name:  @marytwocats) and Martin Carr tweeted live about their home birth from Sunday evening until Monday morning. Here are some highlights.Martin_CarrHer waters have gone. We're going to need a bigger boat.marytwocatsOh man I've knackered the couch with amniotic fluid.marytwocatsall is relatively calm right now. 10-15 mins contractions. Bob Dylan documentary going on now. Cheers for the support! XmarytwocatsBugger me that was a biggun [contraction].Martin_CarrOh great, I've run out of beer. This would never happen in the hospital.marytwocatsI just asked @Martin_Carr to pass me the Tens machine and he gave me a webcam. Oh lordy.marytwocatsOk. Gonna try and catch a few zzzz's.marytwocatsSleep not panning out, well it is for @Martin_Carr but not me. Next move bath.marytwocatsHello! Bath doing wonders. Managed an  hour and a half breathing through contractions.marytwocatsI am still in control of this mothership. Feels pretty good. 8 mins apart. Rest of house quiet.Martin_CarrThings are moving now. Midwife has been called.  @marytwocats is on the Tens machine. She is ace.Martin_Carr@marytwocats is in the pool. Gorky's Face Like Summer is on, the creeping sunlight at the window. Wow.Martin_CarrThese midwives are ace. "We love it when you want to poo. It makes us happy."Martin_CarrIt's a beautiful girl. Crying. Amazing.marytwocatsSorry I left y'all hanging! Got a bit mental there for a bit. Anyway @marytwocats is well and truly back in the room. *Kisses guns*
PC shipments will only grow by 4.2% this year compared to 2010, according to IDC, which has almost halved its forecast from a 7.1% prediction in February.Falling shipments in the first quarter, an "increasingly conservative" economic outlook, "relative saturation" in developed markets and competing products such as Apple's iPad and other tablet computerswill mean slow growth this year, says Loren Loverde, IDC's vice president for worldwide consumer device trackers.But he forecast that the market will return to double-digit growth in 2012 and 2013, and exceed 500m in 2015, with overall annual growth of 10% to 15%.IDC PC sales and forecast, 2010-2015. Mature markets (desktops: blue; laptops: red); emerging markets (desktops: yellow; laptops: green)Yet the cut follows a pattern in the past few years in which early analyst optimism about PC sales has been tempered by new data about economic forecasts and encroachment by devices such as tablets.The principal reason for the cut in forecast, says Loverde, is a slowing in consumer purchases which have driven PC growth over the past five years: the rise of netbooks helped drive purchases in emerging markets as well as replacements in more mature markets.Roughly 19m netbooks were sold in mature markets in 2009, compared to 6.6m in 2008; at the same time the corporate PC business actually shrank due to the fallout from the banking crisis.But netbooks' success gave way in 2010 to cheaper notebooks and tablets, where 31m and 17.9m were sold.  "Consumers are recognizing the value of owning and using multiple intelligent devices and because they already own PCs, they're now adding smart phones, media tablets, and e-readers to their device collections," said Bob O'Donnell, vice president, Clients and Displays. "And this has shifted the technology share of wallet onto other connected devices."Possible improvements to PCs such as better battery life and "instant-on" technologies will probably not arrive until late in 2012 with Microsoft's expected release of Windows 8.In the first quarter of 2011 corporate buying rebounded slightly, up 3.0% year-on-year, but falling consumer spending of 4.4% depressed overall PC sales by 1.1%. The consumer decline was largest in the mature markets where PCs were first seen - North America and western Europe - where the fall was greater than 10%. Says IDC: "modest growth in the commercial sector, a cautious outlook from PC makers, disruptions including the Japan earthquake and nuclear disaster, the Arab Spring, and reduced economic projections (including government stimulus) will keep overall growth in single digits the rest of 2011."Points to note in this:• the desktop PC in the mature markets (the blue chunk at the bottom) is pretty much dead - as in, showing no growth. It's even forecast to shrink as a category in the next four years.• the desktop PC in emerging markets isn't showing much life either - showing sub-5% growth year-on-year through the forecast period.• laptops are where all the growth is: 20% compound growth overall from 2010-2015 for emerging markets (the green chunk at the top), and 7% annual compound growth for mature markets (the red chunk).• the ratio of laptops to desktops in the mature markets is already nearly 2:1, and forecast to grow to 3:1. Unless there's a lot of people out there building their own laptops, this suggests that "building your own PC" is even more of a minority sport than it sounds, given the millions of PCs shipped to corporations by the likes of HP and Dell every quarter.• the ratio of laptops to desktops sold in emerging markets is already more than 1:1, and is forecast to grow to more than 2:1. Again, it's all about the mobility.• This might look like fantastic news for Microsoft: so many more PCs being sold. One problem: piracy. Piracy is so bad in emerging markets that Steve Ballmer recently said that Microsoft gets only one-fifth as much money per PC sold in China as it does in the west. Those emerging market sales might not be such a blessing.• Does this mean thatsmartphones are killing the PC? It sounds like the opposite. Well, not so fast. First, we don't know if this is indeed how things will pan out. Second, by 2015 you can be confident that smarpthone sales will be running at around 1bn per year. That sort of penetration - allied to tablets - might mean that people decide they don't need a PC. Unless, of course, IDC is being sneaky and defining anything that runs Windows 8 and is sort-of-sometimes PC-like rather than a tablet in there.It's certainly going to be interesting to watch how this all develops.PC sales real + forecast 2010-2015PC Shipments by Region and Form Factor, 2010-2015 (Shipments in millions)RegionForm Factor20102011*2012*2013*2014*2015*Mature MarketsDesktop PC57.754.95654.553.453.3Mature MarketsPortable PC108.8105.4116.7127.3141.3153.6Mature MarketsTotal PC166.5160.3172.7181.7194.6206.9Emerging MarketsDesktop PC88.192.196.3100102.6104.9Emerging MarketsPortable PC92.3109.2129.5156.7190.6229.7Emerging MarketsTotal PC180.5201.3225.8256.7293.2334.6WorldwideDesktop PC145.8147152.3154.5156158.3WorldwidePortable PC201.2214.6246.2283.9331.8383.3WorldwideTotal PC347361.6398.5438.4487.8541.5source: IDC
Block 15.45pm:The queues are up and filing in and the lights are going down. If you need reminding about what to expect from today's presentation, have a look at our guide towhat to expect and not to expect.Of course the developers in line have had plenty of time to buff their tweets (that's not a euphemism.. we hope). One of our favourites so far came from Emily Caffrey, whotweeted"If I'm correct, the One More Thing will be a live performance of a real Lion devouring the Lodsys team." She also pointed to amysterious black banner- no doubt to be unfurled and unveiled once the keynote is over - and wondered if this is the mythical iPhone 4S. ("No", replied other devs.)Other favourite tweets included "Free the iPhone 5! They've suffered enough!" (but we can't find it on Twitter's New'n'Improved Finger-lickin' Good Search).Your guesses please too for the music playlist for those awaiting the start... "Hey, You, Get Offa My Cloud" by the Rolling Stones? "[I've Looked At Clouds from] Both Sides Now" by Joni Mitchell? Something more recent (please)?Block 26.00pm:There's no live stream from this year's WWDC, so we'll be doing our best to aggregate from as many credible sources as we can - not least the thousands of devs in the Moscone Centre...For now, James Brown is playing, and there's just a few minutes to go. Watch this tongue-in-cheek warm up if you're feeling itchy:Block 36.04pm:And we're off! Steve Jobs has taken the stage, looking disturbingly gaunt, while the audience shouts "we love you".Steve Jobs takes the stage at WWDC. Photo: EngadgetJobs' intro is short: "We've got some great stuff to talk about: OS X Lion, iOS 5, and some kind of interesting new cloud stuff," and then he hands over to Craig Federighi, senior vice president of the Mac division.Block 46.14pm:Federighi starts with the stats: Apple has sold 64m Macs, and year on year the PC has shrunk 1% while Mac has grown 28% (this is Apple talking, remember) for the past five years. There are 250 new features in OS X Lion, he says, but he'll be listing ten.Incidentally Gizmodo (barred from Apple events since the phone-nicking incident) somehow has alive stream running. I wonder if whoever that brave recorder is will be able to capture Apple's heavies heading...So those ten features:• Multitouch gestures fully supported including multitouch tap to zoom, which means the death of the scrollbar. We won't miss that.• Devs can make all their apps run in full-screen.• Mission Control is an uber-expose, showing everything you're working on at once. (Devs are familiar with these features as they've had access to the beta for a couple of months...) Swipe from one app to another, and get to Mission Control with a three-fingered upwards swipe.•  Photo Booth has some face detection features.(We'll come back to these! Meanwhile Gizmodo has been SHUT DOWN and put on Apple's naughty step.)He's moved on the Mac App Store...Block 56.33pm:Simon Maddox, a dev who's there has just retweeted this. Take with a pinch of salt: Apple TV, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPod Touch - are all getting iOS5 beta, it would appear."LEAKED: URLs for iOS 5 betas, new Lion developer preview, iCloud beta, and more! (NOT A JOKE)http://t.co/Eus1v0G"Block 66.35pm:Ok, so the Mac App Store. He bigs it up, etc etc, and says it is built into Lion with in-app purchases and push notifications plus a sandbox feature built in for extra security.• Launchpad... make a pinch gesture on screen and all your apps will appear.• Resume... brings you back to where you left off, with everything from windows to tools just as if you put them down on your digital desktop...• Auto Save... does what it says on the tin, though you can switch it off or revert back to a previous version.• Versions... he demos many, many pages of versions...Block 76.42pm:Mail has been "completely overhauled" with two or three column view, and much improved search that includes search suggestions. Mail will distinguish between a person or subject, then allow rules on those searches. There's a conversation view that simplifies threads by cutting out things like forwarded messages, and there's also now search by date.He mentions, but doesn't elaborate on, the Windows migration feature, built-in FaceTime, Filevault 2, a Lion Server add-on and 3,000 new APIs. (The devs coo at that...)Developer John Henry Barac, who's there,tweeted: "Much smarter search in mail in osx lion. Start to search and mail will quickly prompt you with fields that search might apply to." And then: OS X lion will not be available on optical disk... Only via the app store, and at $29.99!"That's a first. It's a 4GB download that can be used on all your authorised Macs. Out in July.Next up: Scott Forstall (senior vice president of iOS) on iOS5. This will be a good one...Block 86.51pm:Forstall says: "We've sold over 200m iOS devices." That gives Apple, by comScore's calculations, 44% of the mobile operating system market, conveniently crushing those gleeful stories about Android become the predominant mobile OS. iOS 44%, Android 28%, RIM 19% and all the rest 9%.The stats, they cometh:• 25m iPads sold since launch 14 months ago.• More than 15bn songs sold through iTunes.• 130m book downloads sold through iTunes.• 90,000 iPad-specific apps and 14bn apps downloaded from the App Store in total.• $2.5bn paid out to developers (cue pictures of big cheque on screen, signed by Steve)• 225m accounts signed up for one-click, credit card purchasing.And as for iOS 5?Block 96.57pm:Forstall says there are 1,500 new APIs for iOS 5. First new feature? Notifications. Hurrah! An end, at last, to the intrusive push notifications - more than 100bn of those have been sent already. But that doesn't make them right, Scott.Notification Centre aggregates notifications from all apps, and there's a nod to Android's very efficient notification bar because with iOS, you access notification by swiping down from the top bar. Depending which apps you're using, it will list missed calls, texts, emails, football scores, Facebook updates etc, all in one list.Next: Newsstand. This manages subscriptions to multiple publications, so they automatically queue up within Newstand.Twitter gets special mention: ""We want to make it even easier for all our customers to use Twitter on all their iOS products,' says Forstall. There's single sign-on, within settings, which can be shared with any app that uses Twitter, so photo apps for example. iOS currently send 1bn tweets per week...Block 107.05pm:And then there's Safari. (Obligatory bigup: Safari handles two thirds of all mobile web browsing, says Forstall. Android has 27% share.)Safari now has a 'reader' feature that strips all unnecessary content and makes it easier to read a story. This will be great for news sites. Unless it strips off their ads, of course. Content is emailable and tweetable, and there's also a 'reading list' feature. So that's blown Instapaper off course, then.• TABBED BROWSING! Oh hallelujah.• Reminders can be about anything, and can include lists, dates, locations... and they sync with iCal too. It looks like you can set up geographic triggers too: "I can set a location to remind me to call my wife when I leave the convention today. It'll set up a geofence," said Forstall.On Steve: A typical astute observation from John Daring Fireball Gruber: "A word from He's here, but this is the first post-Steve keynote." It's true - a minute or so, and he was gone.Block 117.13pm:And the camera... iPhone 4 is soon to overtake the Nikon D90, based on the camera popularity recorded by Flickr uploads, it would appear, Flickr. Opening the camera function will bypass the password, but won't make existing pics accessible. Volume up button now takes pictures, too.Photos can now be edited - crops, rotations, red-eye reduction and one-click enhance - right on the phone without needing an app.• Mail on iOS will include rich text formatting, indentation control and you can drag addresses into send fields. There's also a dictionary that works across iOS 5 and will work with all apps. The keyboard can be split in two (this is more for iPad!) to allow a bigger view of the email you're writing.• By the way, that tweet earlier was legit: http://t.co/Eus1v0G. More in a moment...• Game centre: There are more than 100,000 game and entertainment titles in the App Store and 50m Games Centre users, and it's a social service too that includes friend discovery.Block 127.25pm:Charles is very excited about this. iMessage, the native messaging system, can now be used across iOS devices with new read and delivery receipts and real-time typing notifications. And it works across wifiand3G.And praise the heavens: you can now sync your iTunes library over wifi. No more goddamn cables. TFFT.iOS 5, says Forstall, will ship in the Autumn.Block 137.30pm:And Steve Jobs is back. To talk about iCloud. Steve saves the best bit for himself, you see. Take that, Gruber."You'll basically sync it to your Mac and everything will work fine. And it did, for the better part of 10 years, but it's broken down in the last few years," he explains. (You're telling me - I don't bother syncing any more because I can't be bothered with iTunes' tantrums or the sodding cables. Which is fine until I lose my phone, of course.)Well, it bothers Steve too, so Apple is going to move "the centre of our digital lives into the cloud.""iCloud stores your content in the cloud and wirelessly pushes it to all your device. It automatically uploads it, stores it, and pushes it to all your devices."He admits it - Mobile Me was "not our finest hour". Oh no. No no no. It really wasn't, was it? All those Mobile Me apps have been rewritten to work with iCloud, so contacts, calendars, Mail, books, apps - they are all updated automatically through the cloud.Mobile dies today. iCloud will have no ads, and will be free. How is this possible?! Hail the end of the $99 annual MobileMe subscription! There won't be many people at MobileMe's funeral, that's for sure.There's also Documents in the Cloud, so you can share documents you are working on between all devices. Keynote and Pages too.Block 147.40pm:Jobs says there are iCloud Storage APIs for devs to work with, and these will work across Macs and PCs as well as all iOS devices.NEXT! Photo Stream. This is about what iCloud means for photos. All iOS devcies will automatically push photos to the cloud from the native Photos app, and then sent to other devices; The Pictures folder on a PC and Photos on a Mac, as well as Apple TV. So take a photo on your phone and it instantly appears on your desktop too.This is one to watch out for: this will only store that last 1,000 photos. If you want them permanently stored move them to an album. In iCloud, they only live for 30 days. Ruh-roh. That smells like trouble.Block 157.49pm:And here it is, finally, arriving fashionably late... iTunes in iCloud.You buy music in the same way from iTunes, but can now download that same track to all your devices. If you were wondering how long it took Apple to twist some music industry arms to agree to multiple downloads of the same track, here's Jobs: "This is the first time we've seen this in the music industry - no charge for multiple downloads to different devices."Buy it on your iPhone, and it will automatically appear on your iPad, etc. Up to ten devices, in fact. "We're making it free," said Jobs "...and we're very excited about it. So that's iCloud. It stores your content and pushes it to all of your devices, and it's integrated with all your apps."Time for a dig at Google Music: Jobs says competitors can't do that Apple thing of making so "it just works".iCloud will be default on all iOS 5 devices with 5GB of mail storage. Developer beta launches today.Block 167.59pm:iCloud will ship (do virtual products still 'ship'?) with iOS 5 this autumn. And, for his final trick:It's about ripped music. (Oh, Dan Sabbagh will have something to say about this.)Do you sync your library over wifi or cable, buy the songs again on iTunes (nil points) or... do you use iTunes Match. I don't know how they've pulled this off, but this is likely to be very bad news for Spotify.iTunes Match: It's basically an amnesty for ripped music . In minutes, said Steve, you can have your entire music library in the cloud.(What, even if you're into Burzum? That might not be in the 18m-strong iTunes catalogue...)iTunes Match is $24.99 per year; Jobs compares it to Amazon's Cloud Drive at $50 per year and Google's as yet unknown service because both reply on lengthy uploading, he said.Block 178.08pm:Steve thinks we need some proof that Apple is up to this. Cue picture of Apple's third data centre. (It's a warehouse in a desert. All looks very data centrey. And not unlike a set for Alien, as if designed by Apple.)So that's it. Steve leaves the stage. No streaming music service, but a cloud based backup service that puts content on all your devices, and the one last thing was iTunes Match, which scans your music collection and then gives you the same collection in the cloud. Provided it's in Apple's music industry-approved catalogue. We have no idea on a UK date for this, though iCloud's US release date is the Autumn.Steve Jobs has left the building. "Everything," says devAnthony Herrontweeting from the Moscone Centre, "is NDA from here on out..."Well, what did you make of that?
Back in the 8- and 16-bit days, Mario and Sonic were the bitterest of rivals, as a consequence of their representative duties for Nintendo and Sega – who were then locked into a fierce battle for supremacy in the console market.Then Sega's Dreamcast flopped, and it opted to retire from the thankless business of making hardware. But it was the lure of a big, fat official Olympic Games licence that finally finessed their rapprochement just under four years ago.The resulting Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympics arrived when the legions of early-adopting Wii owners had played the console's launch line-up to death, and it was a smash hit. Now, with the Wii's replacement looming, the fun-loving duo are returning for what will surely constitute an appropriate last hurrah for Nintendo's mould-breaking console (although they have another foot firmly in the present, as Mario &amp; Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games will also appear on the 3DS).Hands-on with the WiiWe were given the chance to play several of the events on both versions of the game in the suitably bombastic surroundings of the Tower of London. On the Wii, it was instantly obvious that the tried-and-tested Mario &amp; Sonic formula hasn't been subjected to any dubious meddling. As ever, you take part in mini-games based on real Olympic events, as well as "Dream" events which take the merest inspiration from anything recognisably sporting but display more inventive gameplay.Sega was at pains to point out that it has striven to differentiate London 2012 from the original game, and the events we played were all new. First up was Equestrian, taking place in a facsimile of Greenwich Park. This involved holding the Wiimote horizontally, tilting it to turn, shaking it to speed up (if you attempted too tight a turn at too high a speed, you fell off) and timing the jumps, before a sprint-finish. Not particularly demanding, but fun within the game's family-friendly context.Canoeing was a timing game, best played with two players per canoe – most of the events allow four-player co-operative play, many simultaneously, although some (like Equestrian) dictate that participants take turns. Badminton felt like a potential four-player co-op favourite, closely resembling Mario Tennis, complete with the ability to choose from a massive roster of Sega and Nintendo characters, each with a quirky powered-up smash that required forcing your opponent onto the defensive and timing your Wii remote-waggle precisely.The two Dream events we played were much more left-field. Dream Discus turned out to be an on-rails flying-and-collecting game not unlike something from the realms of recent Sonic games – whatever character you choose stands on a discus and is fired along a course. Forward movement was automatic, although you could move left and right, in order to pick up rings, avoid obstacles and jostle your fellow players. It was another game at its best played by four people, although bots are substituted for humans if it's just you at the controls.Dream Long Jump was an intriguing side-scrolling platform effort, in which competitors strive to get the furthest distance into a long side-scrolling level, by jumping on clouds, balloons and the like, and avoiding the inevitable giant, slow-moving bullets. Extra spice was added by several means of hampering your competitors' efforts – by, for example, jumping on larger clouds and causing them to break up, or jumping onto thunderclouds and unleashing lighting bursts.Hands-on with the 3DSOn the 3DS, a similar format prevailed, but it became instantly clear that the two versions were developed independently, with no duplication of events. Naturally, many availed themselves of the 3DS's unique attributes, especially the motion-sensors. At times, there were pleasant echoes of WarioWare.Judo was the first game on offer – essentially a beat-em-up given a rock-paper-scissors mechanic. Rowing was another timing-based effort that required rotating the analogue circle-pad – simple but surprisingly enjoyable.Balance Beam was rather more inventive, requiring you to trace shapes by tilting the 3DS (rather like one of those Labyrinth games), in order to pull off moves. Breaststroke used the 3DS's microphone, encouraging you to blow into it whenever your character's head surfaced – definitely not one to play on public transport.And Race Walk, that most ludicrous of sporting events, was perhaps the most compelling of all the games on show, as you had to move the stylus from side to side in time with music, which hilariously broke down if you faltered.What do we think?Mario &amp; Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games is a comfort-blanket of a game, and we mean that in a complimentary way. It won't win any prizes for advancing the cause of games in general, nor should it try to do so. But it is infinitely reassuring, especially for we Brits, with its recognisable London backdrops.On the Wii, it provides a last fix of that classic, family and party-friendly gameplay which the console is all about – and, this time around, even the more hardcore gamers might be pleasantly surprised by some of the retro-inspired Dream Events.On the 3DS, it provides a modicum of inventiveness, too. Once again, Mario and Sonic have got together to front what will surely be a big hit.
When Jeff Moss, popularly known as the Dark Tangent, started holding underground hacker conferences in Las Vegas he knew he had a problem. All previous gatherings had been strictly invitation-only to ensure privacy. Moss wanted his convention to be open to all hackers, and that would inevitably draw the unwelcome attendance of undercover FBI agents. "I knew law enforcement would show up whether I wanted it or not, so I decided to put them on notice."Moss initiated a game at his events called Spot the Fed. If a delegate detected someone they thought was a cop they could stand up and denounce them. If correct, they would win a T-shirt printed with the logo: "I spotted the Fed."The game became an instant sensation. "People were really excited about it," Moss says. That was in the 1990s. Since then Moss's annual conference, Defcon, has turned into one of the largest hacker meetings in the world and those early examples of outed Feds trying to pass undetected among the Defcon crowd have also grown into an entire industry, a specialism of modern policing, with highly trained and computer literate FBI and secret service agents running an army of informants who now pervade the hacker community.Master SplyntrA window into how the Feds do business has been opened in a book by Kevin Poulsen of Wired. He had a former life as a database cracker under the handle Dark Dante and was sentenced to 51 months in jail, partly on the testimony of a couple of his co-hackers who, as he puts it, had the heat put on them and "dropped a dime".In Kingpin, Poulsen tells the stories of several audacious FBI and US secret service operations using undercover agents and hacker informants. [The secret service, established in 1865 to target currency counterfeiters, now protects VIPs and investigate crime].Poulsen profiles the FBI agent Keith Mularski who targeted networks of criminal hackers, or carders as they are known, who specialise in credit card and identity theft. Mularski went undercover, using the hacker handle Master Splyntr, which he borrowed from the TV cartoon Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.The FBI agent took over the management of the DarkMarket crime forum frequented by more than 2,000 carders where they would buy and sell personal data for use in credit card fraud. For three years, unbeknown to the hackers who were congregating there, DarkMarket was turned into a sophisticated FBI sting operation.Working with an undercover officer from the Serious Organised Crime Agency in London, Mularski's ploy led to 56 arrests across four countries, and brought down some of the biggest names in the world of ID-theft. The catch included DarkMarket's founder, a Sri Lankan-born Briton called Renukanth Subramaniam, aka JiLsi, who was sentenced to five years in prison in the UK last year.Kingpin also recounts the stories of criminal hackers who were strongarmed by the FBI into becoming informants. David Thomas, a fraudster using the handle El Mariachi, was forced to co-operate after he was caught arranging an illegal $30,000 scam. FBI agents created an intelligence-gathering mission around him. The bureau set him up with a computer, a flat from which to operate, expenses and regular payments of $1,000 a month, in return for which he provided the agency with information on the hackers who passed through his crime forum, the Grifters.Then there was Operation Anglerphish, an information gathering mission based around another prominent carder, Brett Johnson, aka Gollumfun. He turned informant in 2005 after he was accused of using forged Bank of America cheques. The secret service arranged for him to be released on bail, then set him up with a computer in their South Carolina field office from which he entered into dialogue with scores of illegal hackers on the forum Carders Market. Poulsen records that every message that crossed Johnson's computer was recorded and displayed on a plasma screen on the secret service's office wall.CumbajohnnyThe informant to end all informants was Albert Gonzalez, Cumbajohnny as he was known in cyberspace, who was involved in hacking for many years and attended the Las Vegas Defcon in 2001. He was jailed after he was caught stealing from a cash machine in New York, which gave the secret service the leverage they needed to force him to work for them.They had Gonzalez sprung from jail, and under the codename Operation Firewall helped him establish a closed network or VPN (virtual private network) for carders in which cyber criminals could trade stolen credit card details. It acted like a giant honey trap. A team of 15 agents monitored and recorded the activities of scores of top carders as they communicated with each other through the network.For his pains, Gonzalez was paid a secret service salary of $75,000 a year.Operations Anglerphish and Firewall were among the most audacious but disastrous attempts by the FBI to infiltrate and disrupt hackers. In the case of Anglerphish, Johnson managed to outwit the secret service and steal some $130,000 in illegal tax refunds while working as their informant.Gonzalez's triple crossing was even more jaw-dropping. He managed to pull off what is believed to be the biggest fraud in cyber history while working on behalf of the secret service. He cracked into credit and debit card databases and stole millions of identities, while simultaneously pulling his federal salary. He was sentenced in March last year to two concurrent 20-year prison terms.But Poulsen believes the FBI and secret service have had victories, smashing several hacker forums and destroying the sense of invulnerability their members had previously enjoyed."The carders' sense of invulnerability is shattered, their commerce is tariffed by paranoia and mistrust, the veil of secrecy that once protected hackers and corporations alike has mostly evaporated," he writes.The FBI will not comment on its methods, nor on how successful it has been in crawling under the skin of the hacker community. Its spokeswoman said agents follow guidelines on the use of informants set by the attorney general, and each case is different.Kevin MitnickKevin Mitnick, dubbed the world's most wanted hacker when he spent three years on the run from the FBI for cracking into banks and telecoms companies, has studied all the big hacker criminal cases over the past 20 years. In almost all cases, he says, hackers have been turned into informants out of the desire to save their own skins faced with long prison sentences."I'd say that 99.9% of informants are doing it because they want to reduce their own criminal sentences. In nearly every case, hackers get scared because they fear the government will throw the book at them."Mitnick knows what he is talking about. In a forthcoming memoir, Ghost in the Wires, he tells how his long-term hacking partner, Lewis de Payne, co-operated with the authorities . "We were close hacking partners for 20 years, so it was disappointing, though not exactly surprising. He had lots of bravado – he wasn't scared, he wouldn't cave – but the moment the Feds came after him, he collapsed."Mitnick refused to play ball with the FBI by informing, and for that stubbornness was rewarded with a five-year prison sentence from which he emerged in 2000. "I refused to co-operate as it was against my moral fibre to reduce my sentence and hand it to somebody else. So I sat in prison much longer than I otherwise would."In most cases, the tool used by the FBI and secret service to turn naturally anti-authoritarian hackers into agents of the state is quite simple: fear. A hacker is picked up and charged with various crimes. Just as they are starting to contemplate spending the rest of their youth behind bars, they are given a glimmer of hope. Co-operate with us, the Feds say, by "proffering" information against others, and we will grant you limited immunity so that nothing you say can be used against you. If the information proves useful, we will lop years off your sentence.It is the same time-worn technique applied to drug dealers or mobsters or any other community that stands outside the law – get the little guy to turn on the big guy. But it has been especially effective when applied to hackers who lack the collective resistance to police pressure afforded by a mafia family or organised drug gang. "Hackers like to talk tough behind the keyboard, but as soon as the handcuffs are slapped on them and they face federal indictment, everything changes," says Mitnick.The system for turning hackers into informants is morally corrupt, in Mitnick's view, because it involves a material inducement. "The snitch is getting paid in terms of less time in jail in exchange for their testimony. I have a problem with that, it's no different to paying someone $10,000 for their testimony, it's still payment even if it is in reduced sentence not money."Jennifer Granick, an expert on cyber law who has represented several prominent hackers in cases involving informants, says such plea bargaining can distort the legal process. "The reduction in sentence is typically in proportion to how useful the information is that's given. That's a perverse incentive to lie, as the bigger the story you give the more it will be in your benefit."As for Spot the Fed, the game is still being played at Defcon conventions in Las Vegas. Moss says it's not quite the soaraway hit it used to be. On the one hand, federal agents have become much more adept at blending in with the crowd. In the old days they would wear the wrong shoes or use the wrong vocabulary, and could be detected a mile away. Today, they've got the hacker look down to an art.On the other hand, Moss says, FBI agents are often all too happy to be publicly identified. "These days it's got to the point where undercover agents will out themselves, just to get the T-shirt that says 'I am the Fed'."
The only entrance requirements for becoming a hacker are an inquiring mind and plenty of time. These are things that young teenagers - especially, though not exclusively, boys - tend to have.The classic - and outdated - picture of the hacker is of a teen sitting in his bedroom, obsessively coding something impenetrable on his own, waiting to unleash a terrible virus that will wreak havoc on computers around the world.In fact modern hackers are a gregarious bunch, who have grown up in a world where instant messaging and video chatting makes it possible to be connected to people at all times.Hacker conferences are often friendly events: Eric Corley, published of the hacker underground2600 magazine(who styles himself Emmanuel Goldstein, after thefigure of hate in Nineteen Eighty-Four), is a watchful but otherwise outgoing person. Conferences tend to be fun affairs, with people showing off their latest hacks.The initial lure of hacking – getting past the security hurdles on computers that are intended to turn the vast majority of people away – is simply the achievement. There's also the attraction of the fact that machines will do what you tell them, without argument, again and again. Once mastered, it's a delicious power.Hacking knows no national boundaries: China, the former Soviet states and eastern Europe all have produced dangerously effective hackers. The US, Germany and Britain do so as well. Some of the better hackers may be persuaded to work for governments. The suspicion is that in China the most successful are given no option.Hacking is possible because modern computer systems are so complex that there will always be a flaw to be exploited somewhere.The web offers hackers a bell curve of targets: most are fairly secure, some are very secure, but there's a long tail of sites running outdated software that can be exploited.Roughly half of the world is using Microsoft's Windows XP, which is 10 years old and – in its original form – riddled with security holes. Many of the copies used in the far east are pirated, and Microsoft refuses to let them be updated, which leaves the holes "unpatched".This is meat and drink to hackers, who can often call on widely distributed "hacking kits" that let would-be "l33t haX0rs" (elite hackers) target sites by clicking a few buttons.Many start their hacking career by breaking into websites to deface them; this is regarded by their elders as the lowest form of hacking (getting caught is even lower).The more time they spend doing it, the sooner they realise that a certain level of skills will make it possible to make money, either by stealing credit card details and using them to buy virtual goods, or by getting paid to create "malware" that others will pay for.That might be programs that will silently take over a computer, or subvert a web browser so it goes to a particular site for which they get paid, or lace a website with commercial spam.That is where the road forks. The commercial hackers do not go to conferences, and keep out of the public eye as far as possible, which can be hard when you are making serious money from it.They are the ones who the security and police services try very hard to keep their eyes on by any means possible, including infiltration and coercion.
The underground world of computer hackers has been so thoroughly infiltrated in the US by the FBI and secret service that it is now riddled with paranoia and mistrust, with an estimated one in four hackers secretly informing on their peers, a Guardian investigation has established.Cyber policing units have had such success in forcing online criminals to co-operate with their investigations through the threat of long prison sentences that they have managed to create an army of informants deep inside the hacking community.In some cases, popular illegal forums used by cyber criminals as marketplaces for stolen identities and credit card numbers have been run by hacker turncoats acting as FBI moles. In others, undercover FBI agents posing as "carders" – hackers specialising in ID theft – have themselves taken over the management of crime forums, using the intelligence gathered to put dozens of people behind bars.So ubiquitous has the FBI informant network become that Eric Corley, who publishes the hacker quarterly, 2600, has estimated that 25% of hackers in the US may have been recruited by the federal authorities to be their eyes and ears. "Owing to the harsh penalties involved and the relative inexperience with the law that many hackers have, they are rather susceptible to intimidation," Corley told the Guardian."It makes for very tense relationships," said John Young, who runs Cryptome, a website depository for secret documents along the lines of WikiLeaks. "There are dozens and dozens of hackers who have been shopped by people they thought they trusted."The best-known example of the phenomenon is Adrian Lamo, a convicted hacker who turned informant on Bradley Manning, who is suspected of passing secret documents to WikiLeaks. Manning had entered into a prolonged instant messaging conversation with Lamo, whom he trusted and asked for advice. Lamo repaid that trust by promptly handing over the 23-year-old intelligence specialist to the military authorities. Manning has now been in custody for more than a year.For acting as he did, Lamo has earned himself the sobriquet of Judas and the "world's most hated hacker", though he has insisted that he acted out of concern for those he believed could be harmed or even killed by the WikiLeaks publication of thousands of US diplomatic cables."Obviously it's been much worse for him but it's certainly been no picnic for me," Lamo has said. "He followed his conscience, and I followed mine."The latest challenge for the FBI in terms of domestic US breaches are the anarchistic co-operatives of "hacktivists" that have launched several high-profile cyber-attacks in recent months designed to make a statement. In the most recent case a group calling itselfLulz Securitylaunched anaudacious raidon the FBI's own linked organisation InfraGard. The raid, which was a blatant two fingers up at the agency, was said to have been a response to news that the Pentagon was poised to declare foreign cyber-attacks an act of war.Lulz Security shares qualities with the hacktivist group Anonymous that has launched attacks against companies including Visa and MasterCard as a protest against their decision to block donations to WikiLeaks. While Lulz Security is so recent a phenomenon that the FBI has yet to get a handle on it, Anonymous is already under pressure from the agency. There were raids on 40 addresses in the US and five in the UK in January, and a grand jury has been hearing evidence against the group in California at the start of a possible federal prosecution.Kevin Poulsen, senior editor at Wired magazine, believes the collective is classically vulnerable to infiltration and disruption.&nbsp;"We have already begun to see Anonymous members attack each other and out each other's IP addresses. That's the first step towards being susceptible to the FBI."Barrett Brown, who has acted as a spokesman for the otherwise secretive Anonymous, says it is fully aware of the FBI's interest. "The FBI are always there. They are always watching, always in the chatrooms. You don't know who is an informant and who isn't, and to that extent you are vulnerable."
Yes, like everyone, you're too impatient to wait until Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) actually starts: you want to know what's going to be unveiledright now!Let nobody say that the internet has in any way whatsoever affected our ability to endure delayed satisfaction. (Perhaps unrelated:children who are able to sacrifice short-term gratification for longer-term reward do better in later life. OK, where were we?)We know that there are going to be at least three things announced this Monday at WWDC when Steve Jobs (first surprise: he has been on medical leave since January) will come up and show off iOS 5, Mac OS X 10.7 ("Lion") and iCloud.That we know any of what's going to be in the speech is a surprise: usually Apple just keeps it a complete secret.Wild cards: the possibility of some hardware of some sort. New iPhone? New Time Capsule? New cable? Who knows? It's not as if WWDC hasneverseen new hardware; in fact it's been about 50-50 in our recollection. Not always thrilling – there was the year everyone got a (gasp!) webcam – but hardware, nevertheless.So, what should you expect? Here's our guide to what's up, with extra help on how likely they are.LikelyiOS5:• Better multi-tasking• Deep integration of Twitter and Facebook• iCloud integration so you can play/stream music over Wi-Fi and maybe 3G• New notification system to replace the dire "stop everything! You've received a text message!"modus interruptus, and instead something more like Android's pull-down bar• Widgets – another Android, um, borrowing – that let you link directly to turn your Wi-Fi/3G/sound/whatever on or off.Lion• Availability in the autumn• Priced at $129• update process made feasible through the Mac App Store• Dropbox-like synchronisation between devices, which will bridge the gap to the iPad (which otherwise requires horribly convoluted efforts to transfer files wirelessly)iCloud• You hook up (yet another new version of) iTunes, it scans your music library, all the songs you own "appear" in the cloud for you to listen to when you like, where you like, on an authorised Apple device.• Music discovery system to find new stuff, rather like Last.fm, powered by Ping. (RememberPing?)Hardware• Actually, nothing falls into "likely" here, though the Time Capsule wireless backup hard drive is long in the tooth.Wild cards• Some commentary on patent-holding companies that are suing Apple developers.Less likelyiOS5• Fix for thealarm clock bug• OTA (over-the-air) OS updates. Apple is a slave to iTunes here, but if Google's Android can manage incremental updates that are downloaded during quiet periods, it isn't witchcraft. The challenge is how to revert if your phone is bricked.• Split-pane views of multiple apps on the iPad, rather like Microsoft showed off on Windows 8 last week.• An App Store for Apple TV (see below)Lion• Lower price than $129; Apple likes to make money by dangling features in front of peopleiCloud• TV and movie episodes you've bought "appear" in the cloud too. Not very likely, because the TV and movie studios have been silent on this, and don't really like the idea of their stuff being available via the cloud.Hardware• Apple TV update. OK, so it was introduced in September 2010, and all three of the people who bought it really love it. But what is it really for? Maybe it need a touch of iCloud, plus some apps, and it can really make TV into something that Apple can get its hands on. Not that anyone else – Google or Microsoft included – has managed this.Wild cards• Someone from Microsoft showing up to demo the next version of Microsoft Office for Mac running on Lion. That stuff issooo2001.Really improbableiOS5• New folder system that reorganises itself according to what apps you actually useLion• Immediate on-sale as soon as Jobs finishes speaking.iCloud• That it will be free. Apple learnt its lesson about free cloud services years ago with iTools, which hax0rs used to store hacked files by the thousand; part of the logic of moving to the paid-for .Mac (as it became) was to flush them out.Hardware• iPhone 5, to go on sale in July. There hasn't been enough noise from the supply chain (to which people are listening very carefully) for this to be likely. Expect it in September.Wild cards• Apple to buy Lodsys and MacroSolve, the two companies that have been hassling app developers over claims of software patent infringement.Utterly impossible• Steve Jobs welcoming Steve Ballmer onto stage and announcing that they're going to put Windows Phone 7 onto the iPhone. Seriously, we suspect that if Jobs and Ballmer ever touched hands, it would be like matter and antimatter meeting (you decide which is which). If anyone knows of a documented occasion when they've met, we'd love to hear from you.
The troubled games industry will try to shake off its worries over falling sales for three days in Los Angeles this week  – principally by showing off Nintendo's next-generation Wii, and by embracing the online games and apps that are replacing the big-name blockbusters.At the E3 trade show at the Los Angeles Convention Centre, Nintendo will unveil its successor to the hugely successful Wii games console. Sony, meanwhile, will try to put worries about hacking attacks behind it by showing off a new handheld device.The most keenly awaited product for the 40,000 industry insiders is Nintendo's next console. Known as Project Café, the new console will feature HD visuals and a unique joypad, with a 15cm (6in) touchscreen display, motion controls and camera. This device could act as a secondary viewing option if the household TV were unavailable, or display game information such as inventories and maps."Think of an F1 game," said Chris Dring, of the industry news site MCV. "The real sport has those computer screens on the steering wheel that let the driver control every element of the car engine. Project Café will let a developer put all of that on the touchscreen, while using the controller as a steering device."Industry insiders also wonder whether Nintendo is looking to get in on the idea of the multi-screen living room, in which people watch TV together using a large display but interact with the content through individual tablet devices."We will scratch our heads over Café thinking, 'is this brilliant or is this ridiculous?'" said Nicholas Lovell, an industry analyst. "Historically with Nintendo, we've always started at 'ridiculous', but ended up at 'brilliant'."That was certainly the case with the first Wii, which was derided by hardcore gamers when it launched in 2006 itslow-powered processor and TV outputcompared to Microsoft's then year-old Xbox 360 and Sony's unlaunched PlayStation 3. But the Wii, with its radical wand-like controller, had the last laugh, selling 86m at a profit, compared to 54m Xbox 360s and 50m PS3s, which have barely made a profit."The idea of a second screen, whether that's an iPad, a smartphone or a touchscreen games controller, is the future of interactive television," said Lovell. "So you might have a whole family watching Britain's Got Talent, but all interacting with it in different ways via their own screens – with mum voting on acts, while the kids are criticising their hairstyles on Twitter,". Project Café may well be a harbinger of that era."Certainly it will be key for Nintendo. Although the Wii is the most successful machine of its generation, sales of hardware and software have been steadily declining this year. At the same time the Nintendo 3DS handheld console, which features a glasses-free 3D display, has failed to sell as well as expected since its launch in March.E3 will show a host of fresh 3DS releases, including new Super Mario, Mario Kart, and Resident Evil titles. But a well-received console announcement could re-invigorate Nintendo's entire business.In the background, another key issue will be the rise of online gaming and connected services. With retail sales of games falling most publishers are looking at new ways to exploit their key brands, and while the creators of social and casual titles, such as Farmville and Angry Birds do not get a look in at E3, their influence is being felt.Activision is launching a subscription-based social-networking service for fans of its Call of Duty shooter titles, while Ubisoft is pushing Ghost Recon Online, a free-to-play version of its hit military shooter series, which will allow players to purchase in-game items.But those who accuse the games industry of sometimes lacking imagination will point to Lara Croft, making yet another appearance in the seemingly endless franchise that first began in 1996. In the newest version she has reverted to her early 20s, and is shipwrecked on a tropical island – a prequel that even some producers down the road in Hollywood might think stretches things a bit.Lara Croft is back in a new Tomb Raider game that sees her shipwreckedSony is still reeling from ahacking attack on its gaming network, which has potentially jeopardised the personal data of more than 100 million PlayStation Network customers. The company has now brought its gaming service back online after a security upgrade, and will be looking to divert attention towards its new NGP handheld device. The sleek console, designed to compete with Nintendo's 3DS, features a 12cm OLED display, two cameras, movement sensors, wireless internet, and an innovative touch pad promising new types of game interaction."The games publishers are certainly jumping aboard," said Dring, "but there is a debate about whether there is room for a high spec, high-tech dedicated handheld, when people can now download advanced games on their smartphones for a few pounds a time. "Microsoft is unlikely to reveal a successor to its Xbox 360 at the event, and will instead concentrate on pushing its Kinect motion control technology. Launched last year, the device has shifted more than 10m units, but has yet to find favour with hardcore gamers. The company is hoping a Star Wars Kinect game, which lets fans wield an imaginary light saber, will help address this.But of course, whatever happens, this industry event could be overshadowed by a meeting taking place several hundred miles away. Coinciding with E3 is Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference, and there are rumours that Steve Jobs may make announcements about a possible Apple console, or gaming set-top box. "The timing can't be a coincidence, it just can't," said Lovell. "Apple is trying to draw attention away from E3. And an iPad 2 with an HDMI connection to a big screen is a very interesting, multifunctional threat to the traditional games industry."
The troubled games industry will try to shake off its worries over falling sales this week at the American E3 games event,  by showing off Nintendo's next-generation Wii, and by embracing the online games and apps that are replacing the big-name blockbusters.At the E3 Expo trade show, held at the Los Angeles Convention Centre, Nintendo will unveil its successor to the hugely successful Wii games console. Sony, meanwhile, will try to put worries about hacking attacks behind it by showing off a new handheld device.The most keenly awaited product for the 40,000 industry insiders is Nintendo's next console. Known as Project Café, the device will feature HD visuals and a unique joy pad, with a 15cm (6in) touchscreen display, motion controls and camera. This device could act as a secondary viewing option if the household TV were unavailable, or display game information such as inventories and maps."Think of an F1 game," said Chris Dring, of the industry news site MCV. "The real sport has those computer screens on the steering wheel that let the driver control every element of the car engine. Project Café will let a developer put all of that on the touchscreen, while using the controller as a steering device."Industry insiders also wonder whether Nintendo is looking to get in on the idea of the multi-screen living room, in which people watch TV together using a large display but interact with the content through individual tablet PCs."We will scratch our heads over Café thinking, 'is this brilliant or is this ridiculous?'" said Nicholas Lovell, an industry analyst. "Historically with Nintendo, we've always started at 'ridiculous', but ended up at 'brilliant'."That was certainly the case with the first Wii, which was derided by hardcore gamers when it launched in 2006 itslow-powered processor and TV outputcompared to Microsoft's then year-old Xbox 360 and Sony's unlaunched PlayStation 3. But the Wii, with its radical wand-like controller, had the last laugh, selling 86m at a profit, compared to 54m Xbox 360s and 50m PS3s, which have barely made a profit."The idea of a second screen, whether that's an iPad, a smartphone or a touchscreen games controller, is the future of interactive television," said the Lovell. "So you might have a whole family watching Britain's Got Talent, but all interacting with it in different ways via their own screens. Project Café may well be a harbinger of that era."Certainly it will be key for Nintendo. Although the Wii is the most successful machine of its generation, sales of hardware and software have been steadily declining this year. At the same time the Nintendo 3DS handheld console, which features a glasses-free 3D display, has failed to sell as well as expected since its launch in March.E3 will show a host of fresh 3DS releases, including new Super Mario, Mario Kart, and Resident Evil titles. But a well-received console announcement could re-invigorate Nintendo's entire business.In the background, another key issue will be the rise of online gaming and connected services. With retail sales of games falling most publishers are looking at new ways to exploit their key brands, and while the creators of social and casual titles, such as Farmville and Angry Birds do not get a look in at E3, their influence is being felt.Activision is launching a subscription-based social-networking service for fans of its Call of Duty shooter titles, while Ubisoft is pushing Ghost Recon Online, a free-to-play version of its hit military shooter series, which will allow players to purchase in-game items.But those who accuse the games industry of sometimes lacking imagination will point to Lara Croft, making yet another appearance in the seemingly endless franchise that first began in 1996. In the newest version she has reverted to her early twenties, and is shipwrecked on a tropical island – a prequel that even some producers down the road in Hollywood might think stretches things a bit.Sony is still reeling from ahacking attack on its gaming network, which has potentially jeopardised the personal data of more than 100m PlayStation Network customers. The firm has now brought its gaming service back online after a security upgrade, and will be looking to divert attention towards its new NGP handheld device. The sleek console, designed to compete with Nintendo's 3DS, features a 12cm OLED display, two cameras, movement sensors, wireless internet, and an innovative touch pad promising new types of game interaction."The games publishers are certainly jumping aboard," said Dring, "but there is a debate about whether there is room for a high spec, high-tech dedicated handheld, when people can now download advanced games on their smart phones for a few pounds a time. "Microsoft is unlikely to reveal a successor to its Xbox 360 at the event, and will instead concentrate on pushing its Kinect motion control technology for the Xbox 360, which uses a camera to translate user movements into game actions. Launched last year, the device has shifted more than 10m units, but has yet to find favour with hardcore gamers. The company is hoping a Star Wars Kinect game, which lets fans wield an imaginary light saber, will help address this.But of course, whatever happens, this industry event could be overshadowed by a meeting taking place several hundred miles away. Coinciding with E3 is Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference, and there are rumours that Steve Jobs may make announcements about a possible Apple console, or gaming set-top box. "The timing can't be a coincidence, it just can't," said Lovell. "Apple is trying to draw attention away from E3. And an iPad 2 with an HDMI connection to a big screen is a very interesting, multifunctional threat to the traditional games industry."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOf Data Scientists, Big Data, the City and Dancers &gt;&gt; Rev Dan Catt's Blog"You can't just turn your Data Scientist eye onto something and say 'Oh we'll throw this into MapReduce, it'll be awesome', you need to have been part of that data, to have lived it. We don't have Big Data where I work at the Guardian, we have lots-of-data, we look at Big Data out there and attempt to consume the signals. I came from Flickr which had fairly big fast data, the Guardian is positively quaint in comparison (in terms of what it generates). I set myself the task of getting immersed in the flow of news, trying to understand how the organization worked, the signals, the input, the output. The difference between news on a Monday to news on a Friday, the waves that Google and other sites can throw at you and so on. Living in the data, watching its rhythms, the pulse, the flow. I'm getting there, it takes a while, maybe I'm just old :)&#10;"To deal with big data you have to have been in it, not a Scientist but as a Dancer."Malware episode puts Mac users on notice &gt;&gt; Seattle Times"If you're reading this column, you are likely sophisticated enough to not fall for such nonsense, starting with clicking in the link on the Web page. You might have already turned off the Safari Open Safe Files option, or use a browser like Firefox or Chrome that requires additional steps to install this malware.&#10;"But how many of your friends, relatives, and colleagues are going to be this credulous? And Mac Defender is just the first effort to make any impact. Don't be fooled by the fact that in this release you have to enter a credit-card number to be scammed. Future Mac malware will be just like that under Windows, with the potential to install all manner of viruses, like keystroke loggers, spam email programs, and the like."Very good, well-argued piece with an unavoidable conclusion.Apple hires the guy who hacked together a better iOS notifications system &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Back in February, I wrote that MobileNotifier (a replacement notifications system for jailbroken iOS devices) would be the one thing that would make anyone want to jailbreak — and I stand by it. Months later, my iPhone is still jailbroken, almost solely so that I don't have to go back to Apple's built-in system.&#10;"It seems I'm not the only one who was impressed. Sometime in the last week or so — just days before they announce iOS 5, which is expected to come complete with a new (and hopefully less terrible) notifications system — Apple pulled MobileNotifier's developer, Peter Hajas, under their wing."Expect to see the results later on Monday.Xbox: now that's entertainment &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft Blog"Just for starters, we've sold more than 53m Xbox 360 consoles, and Xbox has been the top-selling console in the last year. There are more than 30m Xbox LIVE members. And more than 10m Kinects have sold to date. Those are pretty big numbers for a device that, until recently, had primarily been purchased by hardcore gamers. But something interesting has happened in the last few years. While people are still playing a ton of video games, 40% of all Xbox activity now is non-game. Put another way, we're seeing an average of 30 hours of video consumption per month per Xbox, a number that is growing fast."The Myspace sweepstakes drag on - another bid deadline Friday as sale deadline looms &gt;&gt;  AllThingsD"Yes, Myspace is still for sale."But, no, no one has yet made a good enough bid – in other words, at the more than $100 million level its owner, News Corp., has sought – to knock out anyone else."Who'd be the underbidder? Actually, everyone.Buying apps &gt;&gt; DilbertThanks @rquick for the pointer.Dynamic Public Transport Travel Time Maps for Greater Manchester &gt;&gt; MapnificentThis is exactly the sort of thing that we want open data to create.Apple is definitely working on location-aware iCal &gt;&gt; Cult of Mac"Got a flight to catch? iCal takes note of your location, combines that with the route to the airport and says, "You've gotta leave in ten minutes if you wanna be there in time."&#10;"The system also takes into account current and predicted traffic conditions, public transport schedules, and weather — adding extra time if the roads are clogged or a storm is expected."AppleInsider reported that Apple has filed a patent regarding geo-location data in iCal, but we have word that engineers been working for months to implement the system."Intriguing, because we've seen pretty much the same thing being implemented in Microsoft's upcoming "Mango" version of Windows Phone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's the Monday of the pre-E3 press conferences. Get your live streams ready!
A US private sector affiliate of the FBI has become the latest target of a hackers' collective, which recently penetrated the online security defences of Nintendo and Sony.Nearly 180 passwords belonging to members of the Atlanta chapter ofInfraGardwere stolen, according to the non-profit organisation, which connects businesses with law enforcement authorities.Copies of the passwords – which appeared to include users from the US military, cybersecurity organisations and major communications companies – were posted online by the anonymous hacking collective,Lulz Security."Someone did compromise the website," the Associated Press was told byInfraGard Atlantapresident, Paul Farley. "We do not at this time know how the attack occurred or the method used to reveal the passwords."InfraGard started out as an FBI programme and now works with the bureau in the exchange of information concerning terrorism, intelligence, criminal and security matters.Lulz Security claimed, in a statement, to have used one of the passwords to steal nearly 1,000 work and personal emails from the chief executive ofUnveillance LLC, a data leak intelligence company based in Delaware. The group claimed it was responding to a recent report that said the Pentagon was considering whether to classify some cyberattacks as acts of war.The FBI said on Sunday it was aware of the incident and that steps were being taken to mitigate the damage.Details of the attack on InfraGard came after Nintendosaid it had been targeted by Lulz Security, which describes itself as a collective of hackers who attack weakly protected websites for fun. The group published aserver configuration file purportedly from a Nintendo secure serveron the internet after a separate security breach.A Nintendo spokesman said on Sunday: "We are always working to make sure our systems are secure." Nintendo is preparing to launch a new online service this week at E3, the annual video games conference in Los Angeles.On Thursday, Lulz Security boasted of a major breach in which tens of thousands of Sony users' details were posted to the internet.Sony has contacted the FBI.The incidents are the latest in a series of high-profile hacking attacks. Themilitary firm Lockheed Martinand the US public news service PBS have also come under attack recently.Hackers thought to be based in China last week broke into Gmail accounts used by US government officials while Anonymous, the hackers' collective that launched a series of attacks against financial institutions, recently made public more than 10,000 emails it stole from Iran's ministry of foreign affairs.
When he was diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes last summer, Tim Smith was given a blood sugar monitor, and a notebook with a pencil. The monitor, obviously, to test his sugar levels; the notebook to note them down so he could tell his doctor.Given his job in IT for Sainsbury's, Smith wasn't about to use something so low-tech as pencil and paper. "I would have lost it or torn it," he says. A few years ago, he says, he probably would have taken the readings and entered them in an Excel spreadsheet on his PC, to make pretty graphs.But this was 2010, and so he turned to his smartphone, and quickly found an app – Glucose Buddy – that let him take his readings anywhere he liked. They'd be uploaded to the internet, so he could access them any time. Graphs? Of course. Alarms to remind him to take a reading? If he wanted. Advice on diet? Available for a cheap upgrade to the free app.Smith is just one of the millions of people around the world who now own a smartphone, and the number is growing rapidly. In the first three months of this year, just under half of all the 45m mobile phones sold in western Europe fell into that category – able to browse the web, send and receive email, and run custom-written apps. That's as well as storing contacts and calendars, sending text messages and (how quaint) making phone calls. Worldwide, smartphones represent 24% of all mobiles sold worldwide between January and March – up from 15% a year before. The tipping point when they make up 50% may only be a year or so away. And before the end of the decade, every phone sold will be what we'd now call a smartphone.Smith's use of his iPhone is typical of the way smartphones are used: to connect to the internet, hold data, run programs, organise our lives. They're fast replacing what we perhaps wrongly thought was an embedded part of our lives: the PC. Notice what Smith, an IT professional, didn't do: he didn't use a PC, and he didn't fire up Microsoft's Excel spreadsheet program. That's indicative of a huge shift that's coming to computing, and was behind Microsoft's $8bn splurge in May when itbought the Skype internet telephone service, and behind therumours that Microsoft is going to buy Nokia, the Finnish company that makes the most mobile handsets and smartphones.In this shift, there was an earthquake at the end of 2010. PCs had always sold far more than smartphones (which only date back to 2003 or so). In the first three months of 2010, 85m PCs were sold worldwide, compared with 55m smartphones. Optimistic analysts forecast that the crossover might happen in 2012. Instead, by the last three months of 2010, 94m PCs were sold – and 100m smartphones. Analysts believe that this trend will never reverse. (It continued in the first quarter of this year: 82m PCs, 100m smartphones.)"Smartphones will keep growing in sales approaching the billion-plus levels of total handset sales before this decade is done," says Tomi Ahonen, a former Nokia executive who now has his own mobile industry consultancy. "The trend of PC sales is stagnant or at best modest growth, selling around 300m per year."Microsoft is concerned about what is happening with mobile, because it knows it is the future, and&nbsp;threatens the two PC-based monopolies – Windows and Office – that have earned&nbsp;it billions over the past couple of decades.The change that smartphones bring is computing power in the palm of our hands or in our pockets. It is internet connectivity almost anywhere on earth. That's going to have profound effects. Horace Dediu, another former Nokia executive who now runs the consultancy Asymco, says: "Besides being powerful, they're going to be ubiquitous. Not only in the hands of nearly every person on the planet, but also with them, or by them, all day long. They will be more popular than TVs and more intimate than wallets."They're going to do far more than wallets (although they can already serve that function: a system called NFC, for Near Field Communications, is being built into smartphones and will let you pay for small items with the press of a button). All the things you can now do with a smartphone would have seemed like science-fiction only a decade ago: translate signs, translate words, take voice input and search the web, recognise a face, add another layer to reality showing you the quickest way to a tube or restaurant or the history of your immediate surroundings, show you where your friends are in real time, tell you what your friends think of a restaurant you're standing outside, show you where you are on a map, navigate you while you drive, contact the Starship Enterprise. Well, perhaps not the last one. Even so, "A smartphone today would have been the most powerful computer in the world in 1985," observes Dediu. In fact, today's phones have about the same raw processing power as a laptop from 10 years ago. And every year they close the gap.The element of personalisation and intimacy takes smartphones beyond what we've had before. Our mobile phone used just to be a repository of our phone contacts, some photos and texts. Now it's our emails as well, our photos, our Twitter and Facebook accounts (and, by proxy, friends), plus all those apps and games that we've downloaded to give it our own personal experience.Yet ironically these new, more powerful phones are more not less disposable than the "feature phones" they are replacing. Ten years ago, if your phone was stolen, you faced a nightmarish fortnight trying to get your friends' numbers into your replacement phone's address book. As for the photos, videos, games and ringtones (remember ringtones? Record companies do, wistfully) you had stored? Gone for ever.Not so nowadays. The other week a friend had her iPhone stolen from her hand as she walked down the street. After a brief attempt to catch the thief, she wiped the phone remotely from her computer. Then she called her mobile carrier and reported the phone stolen. The next day she picked up a fresh one and installed all her old apps, emails, contacts and photos on it. Within a few hours, she was back atstatus quo ante. See if you can manage that if your PC is stolen or its hard drive&nbsp;dies.Smartphones' really dramatic effect though will be on people in developing countries, where electricity supplies may be expensive or discontinuous, and the cost of a PC prohibitive, says Carolina Milanesi, who studies the mobile market for the research company Gartner. "Look at what a difference internet cafes have made in developing countries. Now imagine everyone having that capability – surfing the web, having an email address – in the palm of their hand." And even the thirstiest smartphone only needs charging once a day, and consumes less electricity than a PC. Says Ahonen: "The mass market consumer will increasingly find the smartphone is 'good enough' for most PC types of uses – similar to how the cameraphone was good enough to replace most cheap consumer cameras, and the clock on the phone replacing wristwatches, and so on."Some might doubt the economic benefits of the smartphone in remote lands. But even normal mobiles can make a huge difference. For example, ocean fishermen in Africa discovered they could phone ahead to coastal markets to find the best prices for their catches. Imagine an app that fed that data directly to their phone: the benefits would multiply for a comparatively small extra cost. And that's before you start thinking about using them for healthcare. For Smith in the UK, uploading his blood sugar levels is a convenience; in a country where medical help is a day's trek away, it could be a lifesaver.For that reason, Milanesi suggests, PC penetration in those countries may never reach the levels it did in the west. You don't need a PC on your desktop when you have the equivalent in your hand. "People are still thinking that the 1.1bn smartphones that will be out there in 2015 will all cost $600 [£370]," she says. "But we'll get to 1.1bn&nbsp;because some of them will only cost $75 [£46]."Or even less, suggests Ahonen: "If we take today's top phones with a 3.5in screen, 3G, Wi-Fi, 8-megapixel camera, full web browser – that kind of phone will cost $10 to sell profitably in 10 years. That means that anyone on the planet – even the poorest in Africa, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Paraguay etc – if they can afford a $25 phone today, they can easily afford what we consider a top smartphone of today – and buy that as a new device – in far less than 10 years."It's also much easier and cheaper to add internet connectivity over a mobile network than to build physical telephone lines: countries such as China and India with their vast and distributed populations have far more penetration of mobile systems than of fixed phone lines. That's part of the reason why smartphones – especially cheap ones based on Google's free Android mobile operating system, and made in&nbsp;their millions by "white box" firms – are taking off in those&nbsp;countries.And that's where Microsoft gets edgy. For most people in the west its name is synonymous with computing: Windows powers at least 95% of all PCs. For every PC sold, Microsoft's finances suggest it gets $56.50 in revenue, and makes $39.90 in&nbsp;profit – because once it's made one copy of Windows, it can make 100m for barely any extra cost. That's the joy of&nbsp;monopoly.But on mobile phones, Microsoft hasn't been able to get any traction. Its new Windows Phone OS, launched in October, was on 1.6m handsets out of that 100m sold, less than 2%. Its Windows Mobile product sold more but is officially being shunted off into the shadows and hasn't been updated for two years.Instead the dominant share belongs to Google, which gives Android away in return for providing its services – search, maps, access to apps in its "Market" (equivalent to Apple's App Store). It gets users for its search engine and adverts; mobile handset makers get a free, flexible product. Android now powers more than a third of all smartphones sold from various manufacturers, and the proportion is expected to keep rising. Google expects searches from mobile to exceed searches from PCs in 2013 – though that might happen sooner.Yet Nokia, which kicked off the smartphone business with its N9000&nbsp;"Communicator" years ago, isn't thriving. The competition – from Apple at the high end and Android at the low end – is chewing up its business so badly that when Stephen Elop, a Canadian ex-Microsoft executive (previously in charge of the Office division), took over as chief executive in September, he decided that its software wasn't up to the job – and signed a huge deal to put Windows Phone on future Nokia smartphones. As part of the dowry, all those phones will use its Bing search engine; but it is to pay Nokia billions of dollars in&nbsp;return.With the PC market showing early signs of a global slowdown, might this be Microsoft's salvation? The trouble is it might not yield much in the way of profits. Compared with that near-$40 in profit per PC, each Windows Phone handset licence generates about $15 revenue. Profits? Not really.In that context, Microsoft's $8.5bn purchase of Skype looks like a plan to try to capture revenues from future smartphone users who already use the service to avoid high overseas phone call charges. The fact that the Skype purchase had strong support from Bill Gates, one of the technology's true visionaries who can see the landscape some distance off, means that is probably a big part of the plan. Compared with the money from putting Windows on PCs, the money from Skype and Windows Phone looks like slim pickings. But it might be all Microsoft is left with. There's no guarantee, after all, that giant companies will continue to be so.What does Milanesi think the effect will be on society of the broader spread of smartphones? The analyst becomes less effusive and more reflective. "I think we're becoming worse at communicating with people because of these devices," she says. "Look around a restaurant or coffee bar at how many people, couples even, are sitting across from each other and they're both looking down at their&nbsp;mobiles."Of course you'd never dream of getting your chunky laptop out in such circumstances. But because your smartphone is smaller, more personal, its promise of new information is more seductive. And so we use it."There's a part of this that's useful, where you get information where and when you need it – such as maps or prices," says Milanesi. "But then there's also the aspect where my eyes are constantly diverted by a little screen. And we lose that human side of ourselves, which I think is quite&nbsp;worrying."It's a strange vision of a connected world where we're all a little more disconnected. One thing is certain though: we're all going to have one.• This article was amended on 6 June 2011. A phrase in the original described Nokia as the Finnish company that makes most mobile handsets and smartphones. Elsewhere, the piece quoted Tomi Ahonen as seeming to say that today's best smartphones would likely cost $10m a decade from now. These points have been corrected.
Nintendo has become the latest victim in a wave of hacking attacks, the Japanese gaming company confirmed.The firm said its United States unit's website had been hacked but that no company or customer information had been compromised.The news comes after a huge security breach at its rival Sony compromised personal details of tens of millions of its gaming customers' accounts, including credit-card numbers.A hacker group called Lulz Security, or LulzSec, published a "server configuration file" purportedly from a Nintendo secure server on the internet.Via Twitter, LulzSec said it was not targeting Nintendo. "We sincerely hope Nintendo plugs the gap," it said. LulzSec later said the security hole had been plugged. "Re: Nintendo, we just got a config file and made it clear that we didn't mean any harm. Nintendo had already fixed it anyway," the group wrote.A Nintendo spokesman acknowledged a breach. "We are always working to make sure our systems are secure," he said. The attack comes as Nintendo prepares to launch a new online service this week at E3, the annual video games conference in Los Angeles.LulzSec also hacked some of Sony's sites last week. "We recently broke into SonyPictures.com and compromised over one million users' personal information, including passwords, email addresses, home addresses, dates of birth and all Sony opt-in data associated with their accounts," LulzSec said in a statement. Sony has contacted the FBI.The incident is the latest in a global wave of high-profile hacking attacks. The military firm Lockheed Martin and the US public news service PBS have also been attacked recently. Last week hackers based in China broke into Gmail accounts used by US government officials. Anonymous, the hacking group that launched a series of attacks against financial institutions in defence of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, recently made public more than 10,000 emails it stole from Iran's ministry of foreign affairs.The incidents come as the US government rewrites its military rulebook to make cyber-attacks a possible act of war.
Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, will make a rare public appearance on Monday to show off a new music subscription and content sharing service called iCloud, and new software to power the iPhone.Jobs, 56, is unexpectedly breaking his medical leave from the company to appear at its Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco.Music industry sources indicate that Apple has now signed up the four major music labels in the US – Sony, Universal, EMI and Warner Music – for iCloud. It is thought that it will provide a music streaming service in the US similar to that available in Europe from Spotify. However it is not clear whether the music elements of iCloud will initially be available outside the US.Reports by the New York Post suggest that Apple has had to make upfront payments to the labels of between $100m (£61m) and $150m to secure their business and ensure that it gets a lead over Spotify and rival music services launched in March and May from Amazon and Google.Jobs is also scheduled to show off the new version of the software to run the hugely successful iPhone – but analysts are not expecting to see a new version of the device itself before September. They think that Apple is shifting its timing so that iPhone releases come closer to Christmas, in order to boost seasonal sales.The Apple chief will have an audience of app developers who may also be keen to know how the company is going to protect them from a growing number of threats from patent holders in the US, where software can be patented. In the past two months more than a dozen developers for the iPhone have been sued by companies which claim to have patents covering the systems they use, and demanding payments. The developers, though, hope that Apple will seek to protect them because if developers are scared off there will be fewer apps for the iPhone and iPad – which will hit Apple's sales.Jobs's presence is surprising because he announced in January that he would be taking time away from the company for unexplained medical reasons. It is believed that they are related to his surgery in 2004 for neuroendocrine cancer in the pancreas, a treatable condition, and a subsequent liver transplant. Jobs appeared very gaunt in pictures published this year, such as at a dinner with Barack Obama in February and his only other public appearance, to launch the iPad 2 tablet in March.
Continuing the story of Geralt of Rivia from the first title and picking up the plot immediately where it left off,Assassins of Kingsbegins, appropriately, with the assassination of a king. Our hero is blamed and subsequently tasked with clearing his name by hunting the real killer, with whom he shares a mysterious connection. Initial play ranges from the disappointingly easy to the infuriatingly difficult. However, once through the first hour, you become ensnared in a beautifully created world with stunning visuals, sounds and a well-written story, during the course of which there are many player-orientated choices that don't just affect the immediate plot but are far reaching and game-changing in the long run. Inevitably, it's resource-heavy but impressively, even if not run at top spec, it looks pretty amazing on lower settings.There's a good 25-30 hours of adventuring to be had fromWitcher 2before reaching a climax that, sadly, isn't really worthy of the story that precedes it, but which should not serve as a disincentive from taking the journey in the first place. It should be noted, however, that it is a trip liberally peppered with some extraordinarily explicit content; its 18 certificate is not offered lightly.
At first sight it looked like an April Fools' joke. A branch of the US intelligence service called theIntelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity(IARPA) announced that it would be pouring millions of dollars into a "Metaphor Programme". "Perhaps it's a red herring," observed a colleague, entering into the spirit of the thing. But then we remembered that the US intelligence establishment doesn't do jokes, on account of it comprising lots of smart folks whose sense of humour was surgically removed at birth. So I read on."The Metaphor Programme," said the solicitation (ie call for research proposals) from IARPA's Office of Incisive Analysis (I am not making this up), "will exploit the fact that metaphors are pervasive in everyday talk and reveal the underlying beliefs and worldviews of members of a culture. In the first phase of the two-phase programme, performers [IARPA's intriguing term for researchers] will develop automated tools and techniques for recognising, defining and categorising linguistic metaphors associated with target concepts and found in large amounts of native-language text."Ah! So it's computational linguistics on steroids. But why would US spooks suddenly develop an interest in an area that has hitherto been the preserve of humanities scholars? The answer has to be that they now hoover up every digital communication across thye globe, but lack the capacity to extract meaningful information from the resulting torrent of data. Given the scale of that torrent, the only way to analyse it is by using computers. The problem is that while computers are good at processing data, they're hopeless at understanding it.Which is where metaphor comes in. The spooks' conjecture is that understanding how humans use metaphors might provide an efficient way of extracting meanings from messages. So the project's goal, says its programme manager, Heather McCallum-Bayliss, is to "exploit the use of metaphorical language to gain insights into underlying cultural beliefs by developing and applying a methodology that automates the analysis of metaphorical language".Dr McCallum-Bayliss's presentation explaining theprojectmakes fascinating reading. "Understanding the shared concepts and patterned behaviours of a culture is a significant challenge," she writes, "because cultural norms tend to be hidden. Even cultural natives have difficulty defining them. Having a system that could discover and structure cultural beliefs and perspectives would be valuable to novice and seasoned analysts alike."An intelligence analyst, it seems, "needs to know the worldviews of the various cultures that she deals with. She presents a cross-cultural problem to the Metaphorical Language Analysis System to gain an understanding of the contrasting perspectives of the parties involved. The system offers two capabilities to the analyst. One will show cultural contrasts in the metaphors used for abstract and social concepts: Life is a Game vs. Life is a Struggle. The second will present a structured representation of the metaphors that expose insight into the views and goals of the protagonists in the situation."Analysis of McCallum-Bayliss's presentation suggests that it owes much toMetaphors We Live By, a celebrated book by George Lakoff, a linguist, and Mark Johnson, a philosopher, which argues that metaphor is not just a device of the poetic imagination but something that is pervasive in everyday life. Our ordinary conceptual system, the thing that determines how we think and act, is, they believe, "fundamentally metaphorical in nature".The inference is that if you understand how people in different cultures use metaphor, then you will have gained insights into how they think, and how they view the world. In their book, Lakoff and Johnson demonstrate this by conventional linguistic analysis. The hunch that is driving the IARPA project is that it may be possible to automate this kind of analysis.At this stage there's no way of knowing if the hunch will turn out to be a pipe dream or a potentially sinister reality.What's interesting is that serious people are apparently willing to pour large amounts of money into exploring it. But its audacity fits well with IARPA's declared mission to invest in "high-risk/high-payoff research programmes that have the potential to provide our nation with an overwhelming intelligence advantage over future adversaries".The agency says that it is determined "about taking real risk", that it is not looking for "quick wins", "low-hanging fruit" or "sure things" and that "failure is completely acceptable as long as "results are fully documented". Coming from a government organisation, this is fighting talk indeed.But most of all, it supports the theory that there really is no such thing as "useless" knowledge.The thought that their work might one day fuel the "war" on terror will have generations of literary scholars revolving in their graves. And that's a metaphor too.
