Yesterday the Guardian searched for a list of forthcoming singles and albums onwww.amazon.co.uk.We then logged on to a pirate site to try to find them. Searching under artist or tracklisting, we were able to download free the following unreleased tracks, each in less than five minutes.&#183;Victoria Beckham's new single, A Mind of It's Own, which is not released until Monday.&#183;Break Me, from Alaskan singer Jewel's much awaited album, This Way, not released until the end of February.&#183;Former US teenage television star Brandy's new single What About Us? from her forthcoming album Full Moon, due to be released on February 25.&#183;Rock City, the new Royce   Da 5' 9" track featuring Eminem, due for release on February 26.None of these tracks was available for download on legitimate music sites. To download already released tracks on these sites costs a small fee. AOL's MusicNet.com, for example, charges $9.95 (&#163;7.05) a month, which allows users to access 100 downloads a month from a selection of more than 78,000 songs.
In a typically thoughtful piece, web usability guruJakob Nielsentalks about how computer companies can differentiate themselves and compete.
Google has launched its firstAnnual Programming Contestwith a $10,000 cash prize. Code has to compile on GNU/Linux 2.2 or 2.4.
BT's attempt to enforce its patent on hyperlinking has been quiet for some time, but USA Today has covered the storyherebecause it comes up in court next week. Nice to see it includes alink* to Doug Engelbart's ground-breaking demo (unfortunately in RealVideo format). It changed the world. * Neil covered the original story in June 2000here, and the Engelbart demo page was mentioned inWebwatch.
Usual reminder: you can read today's Online with linkshere
Last month watchdogs from the National Audit Office (NAO) had been due to bark at the government's online presence. But the NAO has revised its Government on the Web report, the influential study it published three years ago. Then it complained about too many "hard to navigate" and "disconnected" websites and sternly concluded that the government had lost the e-initiative it had shown in the mid-1990s and could do a lot, lot better.But this being Britain, watchdogs are reluctant to bare their teeth. Whitehall departments under investigation always get the chance to comment in advance on their findings. Getting "clearance" for the NAO's findings on web   activities is taking longer than expected and the final study probably will not appear until this spring. The last time the NAO reported, the government anticipated criticism by creating the E-envoy's office in September 1999 to oversee targets for e-commerce, public access to the internet and to make all government services available online by 2005. This time it may try something similar and announce a new and ambitious set of targets for e-government.Yet our sneak preview suggests the NAO will conclude that generally things have improved. The roughly 1,000 separate sites maintained by central government are easier to access and contain much more data. E-envoy Andrew Pinder will win praise for his "campaigning" style   since his appointment in January last year.But the NAO is also going to say that there remain wide variations in performance between departments. "E-government gives us a tremendous opportunity to focus much more on organising around service-users with the aim of maximising take-up," the latest annual report from the E-envoy's office said. But the NAO finds the "joining up" just has not happened. For example, it is still hugely difficult to track policies and spending on children between the various departments formally responsible.The NAO has looked in detail at customs and excise; though its own homepages are a pretty miserable affair, its electronic outreach to business wins commendation. VAT is now being processed and paid online, though customs and excise staff caution against techno-euphoria and say management changes precede changes in technology. The Department of Trade and Industry, which won plaudits last time round, is reckoned to be doing well - but so it should, given the techno-enthusiasm and policy responsibilities of its secretary of state, Patricia Hewitt.The Department of Work and Pensions (DWP), formerly known as the Department of Social Security, is still under-performing. The poor people who are its main clients are least able to get hold of the information they need. My own attempt to learn more about web management at the DWP was met by a demand to submit questions by email, not a ready sign of a self-confident department open to the world. Some things do not change. In the thick undergrowth of government, quangos and sub-departments seem to have resisted the push to improve. I last accessed the homes pages of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission over 18 months ago when visitors were tersely informed it had registered thousands of hits and, therefore, "response may be slow and access difficult". The site still carries the same message, suggesting more capacity is no priority.The NAO is worried whether the state is getting value for the millions it is spending, especially in local government. Anoraks alert. The NAO is not the same as the Audit Commission, the official watchdog over councils, so why is it investigating councils? There is, publicly denied of course, deep rivalry between the two beasts and the NAO has found a loophole: because the Department of Transport, Local   Government and Regions (DTLR) has a &#163;350m programme to encourage online activity in the town halls, it says it is justified in studying what councils are doing in response.Just before the first NAO report, the government had created the office of the E-envoy and then announced a string of measures to "drive up the quality of government websites". The E-envoy has certainly been trying. Latest guidance to official webmasters is a long list of what should be on official sites. Yet results are patchy. My basic test is phone numbers - whether sites contain phone numbers for follow-up purposes - and many fail.The E-envoy points to improvements in accessibility of official websites for those with learning difficulties or disabilities. Progress is being made in the way information is presented. Departments are being encouraged to   expand metadata, ie cataloguing references that would improve the reach of search engines and assist in managing records - important not just for the Public Record Office but also eventually to help searches under the new freedom of information law.But the E-envoy - as the NAO report will highlight - is a persuader not an enforcer. All he can insist on is interoperability of systems, not what departments do with them or put on them. Each department has an "information age champion" but the earlier NAO recommendation that targets for websites and ICT were built into agreements between departments and the Treasury has not been followed up. The Treasury itself has a creditable enough record in making information available quickly on its web site but it is organised, like many other Whitehall sites on the assumption that users are clued up. To make anything of some government sites requires at least a GCSE in British constitution. For example, on UK online, you are presented with two different A-Zs, one for "central government" and one for local and you are assumed to know the difference. Is it apparent? What about, say, regional development agencies. Are they local or central. UK online solves the problem by failing to list them on either directory: it is far from comprehensive.The biggest changes during the past two years include the creation of the central portal UK online and, recently, NHS Direct Online, though that is only one of a bewildering array of official health information sites. The DTI tells a tale of thousands accessing its main site - 110,000 unique users identified during last October - and of new sites dedicated to providing consumer advice and information for exporters. In addi  tion there is the oddly titled Tiger.gov.uk "designed to provide a user-friendly guide through UK employment law." At present it covers maternity rights and the national minimum wage and with links (eventually) to local social security offices - it is a characteristic of government websites that you get passed like a parcel between different departments and their sub-agencies.Official policy is to package information in ways people can use. UK online goes for "life episodes" - having a baby, learning to drive, moving house. The latter heading clicks you through to property prices and Highways Agency information on road works. A spokesperson for the DTI noted that since the first NAO report, many more consultation and policy documents have been made available online. The department is itself using the web as a forum for discussion: members of its broadband stakeholder group exchanged thoughts online, and the Office of Science and Technology's researchers' forum linked scientists in firms and universities, allow ing them to swap ideas, find collaborators and find out about grants.Another product of note from the past couple of years is the Government Secure Intranet, connecting departments and offering civil servants email and internet access, though there are still many thousands without either. In principle, civil and other public servants can now communicate better. Relations between the centre and local government ought to be smoother thanks to Info4local, a DTLR portal listing publications and links relevant to local authorities; its twice-daily email alert service has nearly 13,000 subscribers.As for councils, local authorities are as variable in their web presence as in their use of ICT at large. The days when council tax can be paid online are far off even if in some councils you can now book squash courts online.Some councils have invested heavily in their web presence, among them Hampshire. It claims its website is the most comprehensive of its    kind anywhere in the world. The man who did the work, John Fox, has now moved to Salford as its webmaster . It is full of information and easy to navigate. Some councils, however, offer stodgy bog-standard fare. East Cambridgeshire's site - this is the council based at Ely - could be anywhere, while the site servicing Ken Livingstone and the Greater London Assembly lacks the sophistication you might expect from a well-resourced council in a big city.Some councils are now having second thoughts about their presence on the web at all. "Is it really in our interest," one London borough chief executive asks, "to put loads of information up for free, as if we were Guardian Online?"An unpublished survey by the Audit Commission has found only 21% of councils to be "ambitious" in their thinking, against 40% deemed "unconcerned" and 38% "overwhelmed". A national strategy for "e-government" at the local level is in the offing.
EtherlordsPC	&#163;24.99 Fishtank Interactive 	****Mention the word turn-based strategy and you can be sure 80% of your audience will turn off immediately. With the exception of Sid Meier's Civilization series, turn-based strategy games have been out of vogue.And then out of Germany sneaks Etherlords, turn-based for sure but also addictive and good-looking. Of course, acquiring territory and crushing the enemy is   still your main objective, but this is undertaken on your behalf by "heroes". Heroes have special powers, which increase depending on how much they fight and how many of the map's resources you find and control to feed them with the magical powers of Ether.Combat is initiated by simply spotting an advancing enemy on the map and walking up to it. This takes you to a separate screen where the battle takes place, with your chosen hero now able to use his spells to fight the enemy. Here, each turn is split into three parts, for movement, attack, and defence - making each battle a slow but always unique experience as spells are tried out and strategies perfected.It's unlikely that Etherlords will convert anyone who thinks turn-based games have had their day. However, it is just as gripping as a real-time strategy and lasts a whole lot longer. It also goes to show that these titles need not look as dull as the recent Civilization 3 - the time has come at last for big battles and flashy graphics and Etherlords is the proof. Check it out. (MA)WipEout: FusionPS2 	 &#163;39.99 Sony/Sony 	***So here it is, 18 months late. If you've been worried that the name Fusion implies a bloated, jazz-rock version of the WipEout you know and love, with masturbatory guitar solos and a strangely tinny drum sound, read on.WipEout ships don't pitch up and down any more, but stick grimly to the track. The racecourses - pretty variations on snow, sand and cyberpunk cityscapes - feature loop-the-loops, plus numerous shortcuts and alternative routes that make   it feel less like a serious racer than a snowboarding game.Ship combat is much more frenetic. Enemies pack together, firing off rockets, missiles, and even quakes like there's no tomorrow.This can be amusingly chaotic, though equally often it is unfairly frustrating.   Worse, the frame-rate often suffers unforgivable chugging. And call me a futurist pedant, but I don't believe that even in 2160 it will be possible for craft to fall through solid walls and racetrack floors as regularly as they do here.It is now a legal require ment for every racing game to offer an RPG-style career mode, with driver "personalities" and a vehicle-upgrade economy, and Fusion duly delivers. Progression is rather enjoyable, as new track areas are opened up and your opponents become more powerful.But sadly, with its alarming bugs and its combat imbalances, Fusion is no longer a purist Zen racer. It doesn't have the gorgeously understated trance aesthetic of WipEout, nor the hallucinatory vividness of 2097.Compare it to the Rollcage or Extreme G series, which it resembles far more, and it comes off very well, but it has abandoned what made WipEout unique. Hope you like our new direction. (SP)GorasulPC	&#163;29.99 JoWooD Productions	***If you're talking role-playing games, there's only one benchmark: Baldur's Gate (and its sequels). And in terms of size, depth and the sheer number of features, Gorasul doesn't compare badly at all. Your hero, Roszondas, can play as one of six different classes (fighter, mage, etc), take on up to three allies, enter 40 locations, complete over 100 quests, and do battle with 60 types of monster. He can use an array   of weapons, ranged and melee, and cast spells both offensive and defensive.Gorasul even (gasp) offers possibilities that the best-ever RPG does not. You get to choose a weapon "companion", which gains experience as you do and becomes increasingly powerful; it even offers useful advice. You also have "dragon skills", which, like limit breaks in Final Fantasy, kick in automatically when you're low on health.While Gorasul's interface borrows extensively from Baldur's Gate, the bits that are all its own aren't up to scratch. Casting spells and manipulating inventory items is the devil's own job; it's almost impossible to persuade party members to do different   things at the same time; and you'll find your adventurers taking roundabout routes to places that are feet away.Some of the backgrounds are pretty, the spell animations are effective, and the interface screens look great. But as the game progresses, so the landscapes become duller, and the character models look like melted Star Wars action figures.Finally, the dialogue - the   game was translated from German - often leaves you feeling like you're watching a particularly painful episode of 'Allo 'Allo. Most of the time this is just irritating, but when it comes to solving complex verbal puzzles, you might as well stick a pin in the screen for the right answer.It's a bit like taking a Rolls-Royce and putting a Robin Reliant engine in it. (AB)
So you want to create a weblog? The simplest way is to build one using Blogger, the web service featured on the front of Online last week, which already boasts around 400,000 users. The launch of Blogger Pro two weeks ago has added a new layer of choice and function to the service. This week, we'll concentrate on creating a very simple weblog stored on Blogger's own web hosting service, BlogSpot. Next week, we'll show you .1 Signing up with BloggerGo to www.blogger.com . On the right hand side of the homepage you'll see a box marked Sign Up - think up a username and type it in, along with a password. Click on sign up. The subsequent screen will ask you to enter your name, organisation and email, and agree to the terms and conditions of service.2 Create a blogYou are now returned to the front page, which has changed: Your Blogs box has replaced the sign up/login boxes on the right hand side. Click on Create a new blog. You will then be asked to enter a title for your blog, and a description, and to determine whether this is a public blog, or not. If you don't want the great unwashed looking in on your blog, say no. Otherwise, yes is good. Click on next.3 Position your blogYou are then asked where you want to put your site. If you choose BlogSpot, you don't have to worry about gaining, or buying, use of another server, or its location on the internet. Next week, we'll look at using your own server. For now, make sure the Host it at Blogspot option is checked, and click on next.4 Name your blogYou are then asked to suggest a name for your blog at Blogspot. Choose carefully - this will be the address people type in to visit your page.5 Choose a templateNext, you get to choose a template for your blog (below). You don't have to keep this template - if you're handy with HTML, or if you have a web design program, you can create your own later. But you need to pick one for the moment - I've gone for "juicy", created by a Blogger user called Susan.6 Click on finish!Blogger then creates your blog, with the address http://www. (yourblog).blogspot.com To find your site on the web, subsitute (yourblog) for the name you entered for your weblog. Then you arrive in the...7 Editing screenSee above for an explanation of what the various buttons on the editing screen do.8 Creating entriesCreating your first blog entry is simply a case of typing in the editing screen, and clicking on post and publish when you want to make it available for the net to see. But here are a few important points: * To create a link to another website you need to type the full address, with appropriate HTML tags and the   http:// prefix. So, for a link to the Guardian's website, you need to type the following (and you need to be precise, or it won't work): link to the Guardian That would create a link with the text "link to the Guardian" underlined and in blue. Don't forget thecommand!  * For bold type, typebold* For italics, type italic9 Editing entriesYou can edit entries, even after publishing them. Click on the edit link at the foot of the post you want to change. It will appear in the editing window. When you are finished, click on post and publish to make it available to your readers.10 More helpBlogger has a great help and discussion area if you want to learn more, or run into trouble. Go to Blogger.com/howto1 Posts:brings you to this main editing screen2 Settings:where all the details for your blog are stored3 Template:contains the HTML code which determines how your words are displayed. You can also pick a new template from the template menu4 Archive:organise the way Blogger saves your old posts5 Team:you can let other people post to your blog, and invite them from this menu6 My blogs:a pulldown menu that lets you flip between blogs, if you have more than one7 Post:saves your entry, but does not make it visible on the web page8 Post and publish:saves, then publishes, your latest post9 Publish:this button only appears when there are posts, or changes to the template or settings, which are not yet published on the web10 View web page:a link to your webpage, to let you see how it's looking11 The editing window:type your blog entries here!
What computer do you use?I have a Sony Vaio that's about two years old. I started out on an Amstrad Word Processor, which was very primitive and had an exceedingly green screen but it was still a delight to use. I've still got a clunky old desktop, which I refuse to throw away for sentimental reasons as I wrote my first novel on it.Is the word processor now mightier than the pen?It has transformed the writing process completely. I think if Tolstoy had owned a word-processor he would have been a briefer, if not better, writer! He probably would have found it much easier to edit and rewrite too _ War &amp; Peace would possibly have ended up about 350 pages long! I also have extremely bad handwriting, which makes the computer even more advantageous.How has technology altered our cultural landscape?For people like me the information that's now at your fingertips, in terms of research, is vast. It makes research and editing fantastically easy, which in turn makes for better books if you utilise that resource. In that sense I am hugely pro-technology. As regards the reliability of the information on the net... it's reliable enough for me!Any disaster stories?Oh God yes! My computer is always crashing. I somehow thought that because there are no moving parts in computers they'd be alright! Instead they've given me some of the most depressing experiences of my life. There is nothing more upsetting than when your computer goes wrong, as you can never quite recapture what you've lost if you're writing fiction. Once you have imagined something you can never really 're-imagine' it.I have always been Windows-based, all the most boring, standard stuff. Because I don't fully understand computers it's my fundamental belief that no one really understands them - and there's an amazing overconfidence about knowing how they work. One can come across 10 different people who are blas&#233; about being able to fix them until you sit them in front of it and they go "Oh_that's really surprising!"Do you think e-books will capture the imagination?No. I could be wrong but the book, as an object, is always going to be the more attractive option. I hope they don't take off as I still consider e-books a fringe activity. The copyright aspect of the net still concerns me, though it's probably quite good for the punter!Favourite sites?I don't really surf much at all other than for research. I use Google  and Copernic  for searching, as they are all you could ever need. I would like search engines to get more precise as they're still quite vague.
Switch offThe problem with digital TV is that, unlike analogue, it has only two states - working or broken. Should I buy a box to improve the signal quality of Channel 5 - which in Norfolk is transmitted on a power of less than 2% of the other channels - I will, no doubt, suffer from picture freezing, sudden loss of sound and other distractions I have seen at the homes of other viewers in the area. Digital TV must be more reliable for 95% of the population to allow analogue switch off.Tony Meacocktonyandpatmeacock@compuserve.comTorch itSince I haven't got a mobile phone, from which appliance would Lucy Kimbell (Feedback, January 31) suggest I construct my identity? Something the same size as a mobile phone, such as a torch, or would my washing machine do the trick?Peter Bendallbendallpeter@hotmail.comClear viewWhile Wal&#233; Azeez (January 24) gives the impression that electronic data interchange (EDI) is expensive, complex and proprietary, correspondents (Feedback, January 31) seem to think XML offers a simple and low-cost solution. Neither view is quite true. EDI is about machine-to-machine business: it used    proprietary networks when there was no internet, and devised the EDIFACT, X.12 and Tradacoms syntaxes when there was nothing else.Now there are alternatives, but do they mean a radical change in the way we do business? The internet is cheaper than the old EDI networks, but that has to be weighed against the difficulty, for smaller businesses, of running a reliable, secure service on a 24/7 basis. And XML? It is a markup language for creating markup languages. You need to define your tags before you can trade, and that's a problem. Many competing "standards" have emerged, stalling user-uptake.  Much useful work is being done by ebXML but there's no guarantee that theirs will become the single, de facto standard. Until every application is XML-aware, simply switching to XML brings no benefit at all, which is why established EDI users don't bother. The hard problem of e-business is not technology. It is this: you do business differently to me. Your data is not quite like my data; your processes are not like mine. EDI, XML? Plus &#231;a change.Richard Griffithsrgriff@cix.co.ukHapless huntFantastic! According to Iain Bruce (The mobile manhunt, January 31), you'll soon be able to play real-time man  hunts from your mobile phone. When two players meet, the only thing either will know for certain is that they possess a fairly new, posh and expensive mobile phone. Here's an alternative vision: you are in a crowded high street, pursuing your quarry using your phone. The handset beeps again and then, just as you close in, a hand clasps your shoulder, spins you round, you get punched in the face, then your assailant grabs your phone and legs it. Even better, the assailant only needs to steal one expensive phone then sit down and wait for other hapless victims. What a marvellous triumph of technology over security.Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@sheffield.ac.ukKosher pipsThe rabbi (Lemons add zest, Science, January 31) is not examining a lemon, but is checking an Etrog, a symbolic citrus fruit used on the Jewish festival of Succot. The etrog must have a full "pip" at the top of the fruit or it is not Kosher.Oliver Lovatoliverlovat@stoneashdown.orgHelping handI use Microsoft because it came bundled with the PC. My customers wanted the results in Microsoft format, so I needed to buy Office. Then my ISP gave me more Microsoft software "free". Being a home worker now after 30-plus years of office    support gives me a good appreciation of Jack Schofield's articles, which have helped me at least as much as the help files have.Mike Parslowmike.parslow@innoman.freeserve.co.ukPure fictionGary Wilkinson (Working the web, January 31) states that the Arthur C Clarke Award is "organised by the academic Science Fiction Foundation". This is not true. The Science Fiction Foundation is one of three organisations who supportthe Award by providing judges; the other two are the British Science Fiction Association and the Science Museum. The organisation of the Award is independent, as I should know, since I do it.Paul KincaidAdministrator, Arthur C Clarke Awardclarke@appomattox.demon.co.uk
The reporting of computer and communications security in the mainstream media is often puzzling. Why do some risks merit a big story, while others go unnoticed. This is largely because the subject is taken out of its organisational context and it is important to see security risks in that context. The first step is to be clear what we mean by a risk: a risk    is the overlap between a threat and a vulnerability.If there is a vulnerability in a system, such as there being no lock on my front door, but there is no corresponding threat (because my house is empty and there is nothing to steal) then it may make sense to leave the vulnerability in place rather than spend money removing it. Conversely, if there is a threat but no corresponding vulnerability then it is also not worth losing sleep. This is why newspaper reports about security problems have to be assessed carefully, because they don't always have a realistic view of the overlap.Take, for example, the widely reported discovery by researchers in Cambridge: that there are circumstances in which the security of a cryptographic processor used in many automated teller machines may be compromised. This was inevitably reported as a discovery of critical importance to financial systems of the western world. What the researchers actually reported was that someone with unchallenged authority in a bank branch who could get uninterrupted access to an ATM (eg, a bank    manager) could, with a degree of technical knowledge of ATM hardware, cryptography and IBM software (eg, not a bank manager) obtain the PINs of cards used in that ATM after a couple of days of "cracking time".In summary then, a technologically sophisticated bank manager might be able to execute a plot to steal a couple of hundred pounds a day (presumably, only for a few days) from a few accounts. While it is true that the old adage - that if you want to steal money from a bank, then you should work for one - applies, I would have thought that this particular scam would be some way down the "to do" list of criminal masterminds working for large banks.  In particular, if you are a bank manager, there must be a great many better ways of stealing money. Cracking the security of PINs out of your branch's ATM might yield a few thousand pounds before investigators noticed the link.Yet just a couple of months ago a bank executive was sentenced to four years for stealing &#163;1.7m in a fraud uncovered by accident. Looking at the "ATMs    cracked" story in a banking context highlights a crucial point: the person most likely to get away with the money is not the bank robber, but the bank manager. In fact, the overwhelming majority of cybercrimes are inside jobs.The headline told you that, for example, a man who illegally accessed other people's online stock trading accounts had been sentenced to more than three years in federal prison. Looks like hacking: did he use keyboard sniffers, line tappers or database hacks? No, read a bit further and you find (of course) that it is just old-fashioned fraud with a cyber veneer. He had a lay friend who worked in a company payroll office: the man accessed Etrade accounts using names, home addresses and social security numbers provided by his accomplice. So who should you be   worried about? Teenage hackers, sneaky competitors, the Russian mafia, international terrorism or middle managers in your invoicing department? And, more importantly in business, how do you decide where to spend money to minimise your exposure?There is a way of evaluating threats and vulnerabilities to allocate countermeasures expenditure in the most effective way: it is called risk analysis.  Working as I do for an organisation that has carried out IT risk analysis for systems as diverse as equities settlement, retail electronic payments and a manned space mission, it seems that the old 80-20 rule applies: a few vulnerabilities account for the majority of the risks, so directing the budget at those vulnerabilities makes the most sense (even if they are unglamorous). Don't panic about IT security. If you do your risk analysis and allocate your meagre countermeasure budget accordingly, you can sleep comfortably at night.
To text or not to text is a question more and more organisations are having to ask themselves. Text messaging is fast becoming a mainstream means of communication. The Institute of Chartered Accountants recently sent out a set of exam results as text messages. They were also available online but more than half the students opted to receive them in an SMS format. Who can blame them? It sounds a lot less painful than having to look with everyone else at a very public noticeboard.The messages also included a helpline number for students who didn't make the grade. The technical delivery of this new service was handled by MindMatics, a mobile marketing company, which believes that other educational bodies could soon follow suit."Students can receive the messages anywhere," says Daniel Payne, business development manager for MindMatics. But is there a risk you might be sent wrong ones?Payne says the chances of that happening are minimal. "They were fully checked at both the institute's end and at our end. One particular message can only be sent to one number."Text messaging is also sweeping into other areas of our lives. Anticipating the smoothness of a train or road journey is difficult at the best of times, but text messaging promises to put us more in control and less at the mercy of traffic jams and other frustrating obstacles such as leaves on the railway line.Orange ) has a journey minder service that it runs in conjunction with the RAC. You go on to the operator's website to register your route and ask for it to be monitored. You can then specify that you want to be alerted to delays of longer than, for example, 15 minutes. As you are driving, you receive a message with a number to ring that will   provide you with a summary of the trouble so you can make other arrangements."It gives people the information to make the decisions. It does not give you the alternative routes. That is something we are looking at," explains Errol McGlothan, Orange's UK travel manager.And if you are still prepared to put up with Wap services, Orange has launched a new mobile service that delivers real time train arrival information using a special Wap interface ( http://rtti.kizoom. co.uk/ ) that links up with more than 275 major railway stations across the UK.Airlines are also planning text messaging services. Flightstore, which creates interactive shopping portals for airlines that are linked to retailers by satellite, is in talks with Virgin, Singapore Airlines and Swissair."It is possible to send a text message down to the ground using a handset. The SMS   system is not in an aircraft now. But we anticipate launching in the second quarter of this year," says Charles Vine, sales and marketing director for Flightstore. "It will have a practical use as well. You might want to text your favourite curry house and make sure something is ready when you get home."Flightstore provides interactive shopping portals for Lauda Air, an Austrian-based airline. Orders for CDs or other goods and services are beamed by satellite to retailers via Flightstore's servers. Orders are confirmed either by email or telephone messages. And eventually,   text messages could fulfil that role as well. An effort is being made to link goods and services to existing in-flight entertainment. So if the in-flight movie is Moulin Rouge, there's a good chance you'll be able to buy the soundtrack through the satellite-based service.Steve Wunker, director of the UK Mobile Marketing Association, expects there to be a proliferation of new text messaging services this year. "A text message can reach people any time, any place with a high degree of reliability. Email is not necessarily as predictable in reaching people when you want to."Many teenagers receive about 30 text messages a day, according to the MMA, and Wunker believes the market is a long way off saturation, . as, by their nature, text messages have to be brief and to the point. So be prepared for more SMS messages coming soon to a phone near you.
My parents, who live some distance away, have just bought a new PC running Windows XP. At work, I can "proxy" someone else's machine and talk them through whatever (non-computer) work they need help with. I can see what is on their screen and control their computer as if I were sitting at their desk. Is there  anything similar for home PCs?Kevin GreerJack Schofield:Remote Assistance is already built into Windows XP, and you can control your parents' PC remotely via Windows Messenger. They can select Tools in that program, then Ask for Remote Assistance, to send you an instant message or email. You then enter a password and click the Take Control button. Seewww.microsoft.com/windowsxp/pro/using/howto/gethelp/remoteassist/. The catch is that both computers must be running Windows XP. However, you don't need to buy XP to do this. Microsoft Windows NetMeeting 3 has been providing Remote Desktop Sharing for years, for free. Seewww.microsoft.com/windows/NetMeeting/Features/RDS.Alternatives include VNC (Virtual Network Computing), which is free fromAT&amp;T Laboratories in Cambridge),PC Anywhereandwww.laplink.com. Many people use these programs, not to control someone else's PC, but to access their own, when they are out.User ID galoreEven with light use of the internet, I have accumulated something in the order of 50 different user IDs and passwords, which are becoming increasingly difficult to manage. Surely someone has attempted to provide a decent solution. I use Windows 95.Peter MahoneyLondonJS:There are several programs that will look after passwords, and you can find a brief round-up atbipolaror go tohotfiles, select PC Downloads and type password keeper into the search box. Gregory Braun'sPassword Keeper 2000seems to be quite well regarded.In the longer term, many companies are working towards a "single sign-on", including Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo. For example, one option in Windows XP is to log on to your PC using your Microsoft.Net Passport ID. Everyone who uses Hotmail has one. This provides access to Hotmail and many other websites (there's a list atwww.passport.com) without logging on again. You can edit your details at www.passport.com . At the moment, I would not trust any of these systems for anything serious, such as shopping or banking.Some of Microsoft's rivals have belatedly woken up to this idea and launched theLiberty Allianceproject to develop an open standard sign-on system. This is a very good thing. Unfortunately, they don't seem to understand the difference between identification (which is generally not necessary) and authentication (which is). You can use Passport for authentication without telling it your real identity.Back upIn Windows 95, I backed up my data using the Microsoft Backup program. Now I have a new PC with Windows Me installed, I have not been able to find a way to get this data on to my new machine. Am I missing something?Gerry TierneyJS:Yes, you are missing the Microsoft Backup program which, unlike PC Health, is "not a core component of Windows Millennium Edition". However, it is still available on the Me CD. Seesupport.microsoft.comor search for Q264541 on Google.Backchat&#183;Windows 95 users don't have access to the msconfig program that helps control which programs are loaded at start-up (January 31). However, Graham Jump from Consolve Consulting confirms that a copy taken from Windows 98 (C:\Windows\System\msconfig.exe) works fine. Alternatively, you can download a copy fromwww.tech.advice.com. Andrew White from Exeter also suggests an alternative $20 shareware program, GigaBest'sWindows Startup Manager 2.0.&#183;Last week, I mentioned that you could see the full text and headers of an email in Outlook Express by right-clicking on a message, selecting Properties, clicking the Details tab, and then the button marked Message Source.As Hugh Baker and others suspected, if the Preview Pane is turned off, this is one way of examining messages without opening them. And if the Preview Pane is turned on, Steve Mayer points out that you can do it quicker by pressing Ctrl-F3.
Palm did not have a good year in 2001. The once market-commanding personal digital assistant pioneer saw its share of US retail sales plunge from 2000's 71% to 58% last year, according to the latest figures from research team NPD Techworld.In Europe, Palm made a third of the handheld computers sold last year, down from over half the year before, market watcher IDC reports. While the blame for the decline can be laid at any number of doors - fierce trading conditions; intense price fights; the bungled launch of new PDAs leaving a mountain of unwanted older ones - Palm is clear about how it will turn the situation around: an advanced version of its eponymous operating system and a more powerful hardware platform to run it on.The system software, Palm OS 5, was unveiled this week in San Jose at PalmSource, the company's annual shindig. The code is currently being tested before a final release "late spring or early summer", according to Steve Sakoman, chief technology office of Palm's recently spun-off Solutions Group subsidiary. Yet for such a major upgrade - it's not every day a    company moves to a completely new but incompatible processor architecture, from UK-based ARM - OS 5 is surprisingly short of headline-grabbing features.Sakoman says the enhancements focus on three key areas: communications, security and multimedia. So in comes 802.11b wireless networking, along with a Crypto Manager module that provides RC 4 data encryption and the web-derived Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) technology to protect information sent across these wireless links. The multimedia enhancements come, says Sakoman, through a "collaboration with Sony", one of Palm's better known licensees and potential buyer of Sakoman's subsidiary, if the web's latest rumours are to be believed. The improvements include support for high-resolution colour displays, allowing Palm the opportunity to jazz up its user interface, Sakoman says."We've also integrated a sound manager so users can record sound and play it back through a 16-channel mixer." But the fact that there is still no support for MP3 files will be a disappointment for Palm users. That, says Sakoman, is for licensees to add, if they wish. Sony's Cli&#233; already does.   That response typifies a crucial problem facing Palm's OS team: where to draw the line between the provision of a fully featured operating system and leaving not only room for licensees to add features to differentiate their products but space for third parties to add value.But given Microsoft's drive to pack PocketPC with features, Palm runs the risk of seeming too simple. Or, indeed, underpowered. Hence the move to ARM's much faster, more sophisticated processor, away from the Motorola Dragonball line that has powered Palm OS    devices to date. The adoption of the very chip that underpins almost all PocketPCs is a clear sign that Palm knows it needs to compete on speed as well as its traditional simplicity. It also allows the operating system to deliver more powerful features. Odd, then, that Palm OS 5 isn't doing so.Or rather it is, but developers won't get the benefits directly. Written from the ground up, Palm OS 5 is a modern operating system with memory protection for greater stability, and multi-tasking and multi-threading support for enhanced perfor  mance. But for now, admits Sakoman, these features are turned off' for developers. The reason? Compatibility."Developers don't want to freeze out owners of the 20m Palm-based PDAs out there," says Sakoman. "When a user beams an application to another user, we want to make sure that application works. So we want developers to continue to code for Dragonball." OS 5's key component, then, is the emulation system that allows old applications to run on the new processor. Apple used a similar mechanism when it launched the first   PowerPC-based Macs: convert code from one processor's instruction set to the other's on the fly. With all OS routines running "100% ARM-native", Sakoman believes even old apps will run faster - though he won't specify by how much.Over time, he says, Palm will "expose the APIs (application programming interfaces) for the new OS's core features to developers", but with ARM-based devices not expected to become available until towards the end of the year, this is likely to happen later rather than sooner - particularly given Palm's desire to delay the inevitable split between users of old technology and the new. And to avoid a drop in sales while users wait for faster, ARM-based products.In the meantime, says Sakoman, some new OS 5 features may make it to the current version, OS 4, but that, he adds, "is up to licensees", including the hardware division of Palm.  And that's the real issue: how well can Palm maintain clear blue water between its two operations and yet still hope that the hardware operation can once again take a commanding lead in the market. With the two teams' goals now separate and divergent, Palm may yet require something more than a faster processor and slick OS to regain its former glory.
PC owners jealous of their Apple-owning friend's highly desirable iPod MP3 players need covet no more. For not     only is there now software available that enables the iPod to function with Windows based operating systems the first serious challenger to the Apple gadget is about to reach the UK market.Coming at     the end of the month is the £350 Archos Jukebox Recorder 20 (right); a hard disk-based palm-sized MP3 player     that rivals the iPod in almost every department. Its trump card is its 20GB hard drive - which is four times larger     than the one supplied with iPod.Archos claims that this will store up to 300 hours of music (or 500 audio CDs) in     MP3 format at its standard download rate of 128kbps. The recorder is also among the first gadgets on sale in the     UK to come with a USB 2.0 lead. Developed by Intel, this second generation version of the ubiquitous USB     connection is designed for use with MP3 players, camcorders and portable hard drives.Whereas USB 1.0     transfers information at 12mbps, the USB 2.0 interface shifts data at up to a much speedier 480mbps - even     faster than the 400mbps offered by the Firewire (also known as I-link and IEEE 1394) connection as used by the     iPod. This enables the Archos Jukebox to be filled with tracks in a matter of minutes rather than hours. The     downside is that the first PCs sporting a USB 2.0 input won't go on sale in the UK until later in the year (the lead     is backwards compatible with USB 1.0 connections). Furthermore, a faster Firewire connection offering transfers     of up to 800mbps is on the horizon. A line-in input coupled with an MP3 encoder means the Archos is also capable     of recording music from any source (CD/hi-fi) and not just via a PC. Its blue and silver styling isn't quite as     alluring as the iPod, and the unit is much bulkier than its Apple rival. It is compatible with Windows 98 and higher     or Mac OS 8.6 and higher operating systems. www.archos.comInternet radioDutch manufacturer Philips has confirmed that its micro hi-fi system with internet radio facilities     will go on sale in the UK in the summer. The Streamium MC-i200 (right) uses a broadband connection to access the     thou sands of radio stations currently transmitting via the net.British buyers should be aware, though, that the     unit isn't entirely plug and play. In order for the system to be connected to a cable or ADSL broadband modem, it     needs to be first hooked up to a home network router that is not supplied in the package. Philips has also inked     deals with a variety of music content providers to enable users to personalise the music the system plays. For     example, they can access music they have stored in a secure online jukebox provided by the MP3.com site.Alternatively, they can listen to themed music channels that play tracks in a certain genre or by a certain artist,     via the MusicMatch Jukebox website. Other sites offering services include classical music provider Andante, AOL,     and Radio Free Virgin. Users will be able to find out what they are listening to as the system offers artist and     track information on its LCD screen supplied by Gracenote's online CDDB system. In addition to its internet radio     facility, the Streamium also features a built-in CD player and a conventional AM/FM radio tuner. The price of the     system is expected to be between £350-500.Philips is also hoping to make its mark in the mobile phone market     with a new GPRS-equipped model, the Fisio 820 (left). Available in the spring via the Orange network, the 820     features a large colour LCD display, Bluetooth connectivity, and voice command and dial. The company is also     reducing the cost of DVD home video recording this spring by launching a pair of models, the DVDR980 and     DVDR985 set to retail for around £800 and £900 respectively, slightly cheaper than existing DVD recorder home     decks. Both are compatible with Philips' new write-once DVD+R discs, set to retail for around £6-£8 - less than     half the price of the existing rewritable DVD+RW discs.
Sir Christopher Bland, the chairman of BT, yesterday admitted to MPs that the take-up of high speed internet services has been low. He undertook to provide details of a cut in the price of broadband access to boost demand "within weeks rather than months"."We have to address the question of prices," he told the Commons select committee on culture, media and sport. The business needed a new broadband strategy "that sets more ambitious targets for BT than we have had in the past".Ben Verwaayen, who took up his post as chief executive last week, is expected to make plain his desire to transform the group into a force in broadband services when he reports BT's results tomorrow. So far a few hundred thousand British consumers have broadband, well behind the numbers in Germany.Graham Wallace, the chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, told the hearing that the poor take-up of broadband was BT's fault. The company should be forced to demerge its network of local telephone exchanges and phone lines - known as the local loop - to increase competition.He said the turmoil in the global telecoms market had left BT in too dominant a position, an issue the competition commission should examine. "Maintenance of the status quo is not an option if we want a vibrant competitive telecoms market in the UK," he said.
Thisjust in: during last weekend's Super Bowl, more people used their TiVo digital video recorders to replay - in slow-mo - Britney Spears' Pepsi ad than the match itself. Should we be surprised?
Is GNU/Linux more secure than Windows NT/2000? You may think so, but you may well be wrong. Indeed, figures published bySecurity Focusshow that Windows 2000 came 5th equal in the number of vulnerablilites recorded by BugTraq in 2001, with the top four places all being taken by different Linux distributions. What this means, if anything, was pretty thoroughly worked over on theSlashdotWeb site where the Linux geeks hang out. (Someone even noticed the difference between an operating system, such as Windows 2000, and an application, such as Outlook Express.) The fact is that there isn't enough detail in the numbers to know whether they mean anything or nothing, and Security Focus warns as much in its introduction. But at least they could shake some of the the birdseed out of the brains of the dimwits who think that Linux has no insecurities at all. Certainly the US government has no such illusions. DARPA is now funding an Audit Portal tohelp plug open source security holes. This is going to be important as Linux and similar programs come into wider use, as we hope they will, because nobody actually knows how buggyanygeneric software is. The one thing we know for sure is that the larger the number of people who use a program, and the longer they use it, the more bugs they find.
IBM's research division has developed a prototype PC module the size of anindex card, and will unveil it on February 11, Reuters reports.
Quick round-up time: * Fujitsu Siemens could be first to launch a PocketPC palmtop based on Intel'sXScaleversion of the ARM processor. * The increase in thespeed of chips(based on an observation known as Moore's Law) is not slowing down. [Free subscription required] * IBM hasstopped makingtheTransNotenotebook computer that combined a ThinkPad with a pad of paper. * The US government reckons that54% of Americansnow have Internet access. [Subscription required] * AOL Homepage users have been hit byglitches. * An Associated Press writer -- apparently one naive enough to read what the largely anti-Microsoft US press writes aboutWindows XP-- has actually tried it. It works.
Palm, losing market share in the handheld market, is now playing catch-up with Microsoft-based PocketPC technologies. We alreadyknowit is expanding the operating system to offer similar features, and moving the hardware to an ARM chip like the Compaq iPaq. Palm also has to try to compete in the lucrativebusiness marketthat Microsoft has targeted, whileavoiding Apple's mistakes. And to show it is back on track, Palm is now offering developers asneak peakat what's coming soon in PalmOS 5.
"A recent overlooked Web trend -- overlooked by the mainstream media" columnistJohn Dvorakdeclaims, when revealing the amazing blogging phenomenon to the astonished masses. What a pityThe Guardiandoesn't count as "mainstream media", because we started writing about blogging years ago -- I can't find the first, now, by Jim McClellan, but it was certainly before mySix of the Best: Weblogslist in Webwatch on August 24, 2000. Dvorak's revelations will come as an even bigger shock to tech columnistDan Gillmor,from that obscure non-mainstream Silicon Valley newspaper, The San Jose Mercury News. He has been blogging professionally and in public sinceOctober, 1999.
On the whacking topic, I likeBuzzWhack
The Independent ran theGooglewhackstoryyesterday, without mentioning any earlier versions of the idea.
A meme is born: if you haven't already, you'll be getting a link tothis picturein your inbox very soon. (Don't worry - it's not naughty).
BT will this week attempt to revitalise Britain's attempt to become one of the European leaders in the provision of broadband internet services.In his first public appearance since taking office, BT's chief executive Ben Verwaayen will pledge on Thursday to reduce dramatically the cost of high-speed internet services to kick-start demand, while chairman Sir Christopher Bland will defend BT's broadband record to a committee of MPs.Any move to cut prices is likely to lead to a fight with telecom regulator Oftel and infuriate rivals, but BT's senior management believe it is time for the company to get tough. They have become increasingly fed up with taking the blame for the slow take-up of high-speed internet services and with what they consider to be unfair comparisons with other countries.Only a few hundred thousand people in Britain use broadband - which delivers data at up to 10 times the speed of traditional modems. That compares with more than 2m customers in Germany. BT argues that high broadband penetration in other countries is due to heavily subsidised subscription packages, which Oftel prevents BT offering.Mr Verwaayen, who officially took up his post on February 1, is expected to use the company's third-quarter results on Thursday to admit that BT has been slow to build demand for broadband, but that the company is committed to reducing prices.British consumers pay about &#163;40 to &#163;50 a month for high-speed internet access through their existing phone line and slightly less for cable-based services. BT's wholesale arm charges its own internet service provider BT Openworld and other ISPs such as Freeserve from &#163;25 upwards per month for the use of the line and the technology to operate broadband.Privately BT's management admits that a full-scale consumer service is unlikely to gain significant take-up until the retail price dips under &#163;30. To produce services at that level would require BT to slash its wholesale price in half. The company is understood to be considering this option although Mr Verwaayen is not expected to put an exact figure on price declines on Thursday.Two days before Mr Verwaayen's speech Sir Christopher, along with BT's head of broadband and its senior adviser on regulatory affairs, will go before the select committee on culture, media and sport.Faced with a barrage of criticism from MPs the BT team is expected to argue that the government's initial focus on increasing broadband usage by allowing competition into BT's local exchanges - a process known as unbundling the local loop - was misplaced. Instead take-up will be driven further by the provision of low-cost wholesale services by BT to other operators.
When I last crossed Silicon Valley by car, I was surprised by the number of people I saw decked out in whites, playing cricket. Practically all of them were, it seemed, Indian software engineers. With the bursting of the dot.com bubble, some of them are now heading home in a "reverse exodus", the Merc reports from India. Naturally there's a website --www.return2India.com-- to help.
Serious code-monkey, or just fancy yourself as a bit of a programmer? Microsoft is launchingTerrarium, a sort of game where you will be able to design creatures and swap them peer-to-peer. The game download will be available on February 18, and the aim, of course, is to get people familiar with using its next-generation VisualStudio.Net. (We blogged the February 13 launchbelow.)
Miguel de Icaza, leader of the Free Software Foundation'sGnome(GNU Object Model Environment) project, has given Microsoft's .Net a ringing endorsement in a LinuxWorldinterviewwith The Register's star reporter, Andrew Orlowski. He wants to see version 4 of Gnome -- the open desktop developed for GNU/Linux -- based on .Net, which he has studied in depth as part of theMonoproject to develop an open source version of the .Net Development Framework.Update: a later story by the same author suggestsRichard Stallman, GNU's founder, is"surprised and dismayed"by Icaza's comments.For latecomers,GNUis where Stallman started developing what is now usually calledLinux, long before Linus Torvalds became involved. The"open source initiative"started as a breakaway from Stallman's"free software"by removing the moral and philosophical dimensions to make it more appealing to businesses. Stallman is giving atalkat the Skeel Lecture Theatre, Queen Mary College (Mile End) at 7pm on Tuesday, February 12. All welcome.
[ViaWebvoice:] Washington, D.C. (SatireWire.com) — In a strong sign that Arthur Andersen finally understands the extent of the trouble it has caused and is willing to do something about it, company executives today announced the firm has changed its name.
A blogger is born... youngRobbie Grace Crippsis laying claim to being the world's youngest blogger.Shewas born on Friday, and it's lovely to see Onlineblog is already one ofherthree favourite blogs :-) [Update: Robbie is a she, rather than he, I've now been told. Sorry.]
Following joystick digit, mouse elbow, and central palmar blister, hand-arm vibration syndrome is the latest computer game affliction to be reported in medical journals.The condition is known as vibration white finger among miners and other users of drills and heavy equipment, but a 15-year old Liverpool boy may be the first recorded case associated with a vibrating computer game.Doctors who investigated the boy's condition suggest the government may need to consider making it compulsory to issue a health warning with the game.In a letter to today's British Medical Journal they report how they first saw the boy after he had suffered from painful hands for at least two years."His hands became white and swollen when exposed to the cold, and subsequently red and painful on warming."He played up to seven hours a day playing on his Sony Playstation and was particularly fond of driving games using vibration mode on the hand held "rumble board".The doctors, from Liverpool children's hospital, point out the similarity of his condition to the syndrome, which was officially recognised as an industrial disease in 1985, and for which sufferers claim compensation and disability benefit. There has also been development of non-vibrating tools and changes in working practices.The doctors call for research into the possibility of children developing the condition."Children spend long periods playing domestic computer games. The seven hours a day the patient reported is excessive, and exceeds the manufacturers' recommendation, but we must assume that this is not an uncommon occurrence."John Sills, one of the doctors, said the boy had gone to see his GP after having had difficulties doing some sanding for his mother."It leads us to further worries about the sedentary nature of our youth today," said Dr Sills.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe said yesterday that it put warnings inside covers of its computer games, stating the need to take a quarter of an hour break every hour, and pointing out the potential for epileptic seizures. The company had also told its game developers to limit the use of vibration mechanisms; the Liverpool case was the first one of hand-arm vibration it had heard of.Millions of Playstations had been produced. "If it had been a general problem, we would have picked that up by now," said the firm.
A team of sociologists at Columbia University in New York has set up an online research project to discover if everyone with computer access really is only six emails away from everyone else.The Small World research project will test the "six degrees of separation" theory, which posits that any given person can reach any other individual through a network of personal contacts.The project - led by Columbia sociologist Duncan Watts - will test a theory formed by a Harvard psychologist, Stanley Milgram, in 1967. Dr Milgram found that randomly selected people in Omaha, Nebraska took an average of six steps to send a letter via personal contacts to a target person in Boston.Dr Watts' study will see if the theory applies worldwide, using email. Volunteers are being signed up on the team's website.Dr Watts said the point of the study is to found out how messages move through social space, and to find out if Dr Milgram's conclusions are valid."The issue is regarded as settled, but it really isn't, either theoretically or empirically," he said.The six degrees theory has already become popular online, with a game that asks players to connect Kevin Bacon to any other Hollywood actor in only six moves.
Every blogger should read Neil's excellent story about the man behind the system in this week's Online (orhere). Made me feel guilty about complaining when it hasn't worked....
I-Worm.BadtransII is now top of the unpops, streets ahead of Sircam and MyParty. Oh, Kaspersky has just publishedThe Virus Top Twenty for January.
"Britain Meets Its Future at High-Tech Show" says the Reuters headline. This is a story aboutJapan: Gateway to the Future, an exhibition that has just opened at the Science Museum. Nice to know the UK has a future, even if it is only as a market for Japanese goods.
The Merc has a Q&amp;A with "dissident" Hewlett-Packard board memberWalter Hewlett.
The last in CNet'sCEO Visionseries are Oracle'sLarry Ellisonand Red Hat'sMatt Szulic. The two software companies are somewhat differently sized. Red Hat's annual turnover would not make much of a difference to Oracle's quarterly profits.
Buckingham Palace has closed down one of its two official websites, royalinsight.gov.uk, it was confirmed today.The closure, which comes just days after the website posted details of the Queen's engagements for her golden jubilee, leaves the royal family with just one official site, royal.gov.uk.A message posted today on the site reads: "From the end of January the Royal Insight Web magazine will no longer be produced at this site. You can continue to search the archives from 1998 to 2001 here."It directs readers to royal.gov.uk.Royalinsight was set up in April 1999 to provide regular updates of the royal family's official engagements. It followed the launch in 1997 of royal.gov.uk, which until now has focused on the history of the monarchy.A palace spokeswoman said royalinsight has been attracting 100,000 hits per month, compared with up to 1m page impressions for royal.gov.uk.A monthly "magazine" published on royalinsight, containing reports on the previous month's royal engagements and a "mailbox" containing answers to emailed questions from readers, will now appear at royal.gov.uk.Recent royalinsight magazine features have included the Duke of York's visit to Ground Zero in New York and a new portrait of the Princess Royal. Users could also download royal wallpaper and go to a calendar of forthcoming events.Buckingham Palace today said that it had decided to close royalinsight because it wanted to "streamline" the British monarchy's official presence on the web."We wanted a single site which would provide core information - such as details of the history of the monarchy - alongside essential information such as the Queen's jubilee plans," the palace spokeswoman said."It was difficult for people to bookmark too many websites."There were also technical "content management" reasons for scrapping royalinsight, the spokeswoman said."Royal.gov.uk is more technically flexible. We couldn't update insight as often as we would have liked."The palace did not have direct access to royalinsight, which was produced by the Press Association. Royal.gov.uk is produced "in house" at Buckingham Palace.It is not known if any members of the royal family have ever seen their official websites, but the palace spokesman said the Duke of York "takes a keen interest" and the Queen "sees a selection of emails"."They occasionally make suggestions on what they'd like to see on the website," the palace spokeswoman said.Future plans for royal.gov.uk include webcasts and video and audio clips.
I am a Hackney solicitor defending children and young men who are charged with the robbery of mobile phones. I live in Hackney. My son has been robbed on more than one occasion, including once when he was threatened with a knife. Over the years my home has been burgled three or four times and I have had two cars broken into. It's not very nice.But I find the comments, of Lord Chief Justice Woolf appalling and misconceived (Leader, January 31). Many of the children and young people I deal with have had terrible lives through no fault of their own. Many have spent their entire lives being raised on the squalid and decaying estates of Hackney. They attended underfunded schools with a   chronic shortage of teachers, while social services have for years been stretched to the limit. Adult unemployment is twice the London average.Many of these children, for that is what they mostly are, have no chance in this world. Sending them to prison will just about guarantee they emerge fully qualified robbers who will reoffend.A prison environment is tough and rough. In 2000 Sir David Ramsbottom, chief inspector of prisons, described Feltham, the largest juvenile jail in western Europe, as "rotten to the core" and "unacceptable in a civilised county". The conditions were described as "disgraceful and appalling".Fifty percent of young prisoners on remand and 30%   who had been sentenced had been diagnosed with a mental disorder. Thirty-five percent were not living with either parent prior to going to prison. Fifty percent were not attending school; 75% were on the books of the local social services and 10% were homeless. In the 10-years leading up to Sir David's report, 18 children had committed suicide and another 944 had caused themselves harm.Prison for children is not the answer. But decent housing, education and jobs would go a long way - as would the restoration of benefits for 16 to 18-year-olds, which may prevent them from stealing someone else's phone.James NicholLondon
Here's aninvestment opportunityyou should follow up......
Save the Children has opened a Web site to link British andPalestinian refugee children.
Britain's Cyber-Rights &amp; Cyber-Liberties has published a 5th year statementhere.
A big thumbs-up to theInland Revenueand its online self assessment service, which I was using (last minute, again) yesterday. Breathtaking stuff: a government website which does what it says on the tin, without fuss. There's some complicated things going on in the background too and - gasp - it works flawlessly on a Mac. E-tailers take note.
Salt Lake 2002PlayStation 2 £39.99 PC £29.99 ATD/Eidos **You have to feel a bit     sorry for any game based on a licence as unexciting as this. The Winter Olympics have     always lacked the glamour of their summer equivalent.Despite the antics of Eddie the     Eagle, Brits have never taken to snowy sports and this videogame is unlikely to change     opinions. Based on the upcoming games, Salt Lake 2002 recreates six events, including     downhill skiing and bobsleigh. Initially, it all looks promising.The visuals are crisp and     cold, while the commentary and presentation are spot on. However, there are only six     events. Yes, 17 years after Winter Games on the Commodore 64 - which had 10 events     on a tape-loading 64k computer - Salt Lake 2002 only offers six. This would have been     excusable if each one was diverse and varied.Unfortunately, the two skiing events are     mediocre, while a third downhill event replaces skis with a snowboard to little effect.     SSX fans tempted by tricks on the freestyle aerial event will be disappointed. Only the     bobsleigh and the ski jump offer any real thrills. The bobsleigh in particular is well done,     simulating the speed and insanity of two people plummeting down an icy tube. The saving     grace should be the multiplayer mode but even this is mainly turn-based rather than     split screen. There is some fun to be had in going for Olympic gold. But even if the     Winter Olympics are essential viewing for you, the game itself will mainly disappoint. A     ho-hum licence and lack of events mean Salt Lake 2002 barely scrapes bronze. (GH)Monsters, Inc: Scare IslandPlayStation 2 	&#163;25 Disney/Sony	**If you have booked a seat for next week's release of Disney's Monsters, Inc, the latest computer-animated film from Pixar, then you are a target for the game of the film. If you want something stimulating, however, you -    or your kids - are not going to get excited about this one. Monsters, Inc: Scare Island is a simple 3D platform game, similar to Spyro the Dragon.But where the Spyro games were cute, colourful and challenging enough for the 12-30 age group, Scare Island is a plodder.    This may mean it is accurately targeted at the under 10s, but I suspect even they will get through it pretty quickly. The plot is straightforward. You play either of two monsters, Sulley or Mike. Your task is to collect lots of green, primordial ooze until your power level is high enough to scare a nerve to death. This isn't a bad game. It just isn't as rich or imaginative or innovative as the games Sega and Nintendo were doing a decade ago with Mario. Now that's scary. (JS)Dark Age of CamelotPC £19.99 Wanadoo ***Dark Age of Camelot draws on a     mish-mash of Arthurian legend, Celtic folklore and Norse mythology. This online     role-playing game has the advantage over standard Dungeons &amp; Dragons fare of     introducing familiar locations such as Hadrian's Wall or the land of Beowulf and replacing     the ridiculous names found in most RPG such as EverQuest. There's no proper story,     although you do get to team up with other players and go on the usual quests, as well as     join sieges and battles against other players.But online RPGs are not about becoming     lost in a complex bit of fiction. They are about dressing up in robes and silly hats     without anyone seeing your face. They're about hacking away at monsters with no other     purpose than gathering experience and making your character stronger. And, most of     all, they're about pretending to be a dwarf and sitting down to chat for hours with     someone pretending to be an elf.As with all online games, newcomers will find it an     intimidating experience at first, especially because this one has been out in the States     for some months now. But Camelot has certainly thrown its rather shiny gauntlet into     the online arena. EverQuest's days of domination could finally be over. (MH)
CNet is reportingLinuxWorld 2002.
The Wall Street Journalhas redesigned its subscription site, and as a paid-up user, I'm delighted to say the result isn't too bad. The pages still download quickly and the text is legible, which is more than you can say for the majority of rubbish on the Web nowadays. The changes have also made the site more advertiser friendly, offering "larger branding units for their advertisements and better placement options", which is not why I fork out $59 a year. However, as WSJ.com's income tumbled 29% in Q4 last year in a slump that hit all online publishers, this is not exactly a surprise.
AOL is playing nasty again,blockingusers ofTrillianinstant messaging software. ("Trillian is everything you need for instant messaging. Connect to ICQ, AOL Instant Messenger, MSN Messenger, Yahoo! Messenger and IRC in a single, sleek and slim interface.") AOL claims it is a security issue. But imagine what the press would say if Microsoft pulled this sort of stunt against a tiny rival....
Better late than never department: theSoloTrek hasflown! Clickherefor the video....
You leave the office ready to see a client, and you hesitate. You ought to have something with you. The client's address? A document from your main computer, perhaps? A spreadsheet for sales, or perhaps some device for picking up your emails?To some it begins to sound as though they need to have a laptop computer with them, preferably with a GPRS phone for a decent internet connection. There can be good arguments for that and it's covered elsewhere in this issue. The alternative, though, is to carry a computer in your pocket: one of the so-called PDAs (Personal Digital Assistants), often referred to as organisers, but most of which are capable of doing a great deal more and which can be a good deal cheaper.It's odd, then, that according to research organisation ProData, only 3% of small and medium-sized businesses were using the things in 2001, forecast to rise to only 6% by 2004. They are bigger in some business sectors than others: you're more likely to have one supplied by your employer if you're in business services, where the devices have 14% penetration, while 20% of companies spending over £500 on mobiles have also bought PDAs.Whether or not you need a PDA as opposed to a laptop - or in addition to one - will naturally depend on your needs and your budget. It often surprises people that if they need to do some word processing, spreadsheet work and emailing, then most modern PDAs will do the jobs without a problem after the addition of a few accessories.There are three basic types of PDA: those based on the Palm operating system, the ones from Psion and the ones based on Pocket PC from Microsoft. If you want a colour screen you can pay for it, but the main concern for the smaller trader should be how much a device actually does. In this respect the monochrome models from Palm, Handspring and others offer good value; Palm has 50% of the market.In spite of not using the Microsoft operating systems and software, a Palm will happily synchronise all of the appointments you enter on to it with your PC, take Word and Excel documents, and even sports a book reader, if you care to read books on a screen that small. Expect to pay £100-plus for a basic model which will do all of that. A smaller, more powerful version, the M505, will cost more than £300. Handspring also uses the Palm operating system and its organisers tend to be slightly cheaper.The second most common system is Microsoft's Pocket PC. This is the one you get on the Compaq iPaq and products from Toshiba and Hewlett-Packard. But people looking for bargains should stop here: there's precious little under £300. The reasons are numerous. First, the software applications that come preloaded are Microsoft products which will integrate seamlessly with your copies of Word and Excel on the desktop (although the version of Microsoft Money that's preloaded will only exchange data in dollars), not that there are many quibbles with the efficiency of the third-party products on the others.Second, there is generally more memory on the Pocket PC devices: the starting point is 32kb rather than Palm's 8kb on the M105. It needs this to power a look and feel that will be familiar already to Windows users: full colour, a picture viewer and, on most models, a microphone that will take your voice memos and transfer them to your PC so you can play them back in the office. You'll also be able to play MP3 and Windows Audio format music and other sounds. And there's an earphone socket - not that businesspeople will want to pay over the odds for entertainment.Both Palm and Microsoft devices have attracted the accessory makers with executive cases, extra memory and other items. The most useful is probably the optional keyboard from either the PDA's manufacturer or more cheaply from a third party like Targus; expect to pay £80-plus for these. They also attract a lot of third party software: maps are available for both, and Dixons has recently started selling a docking station for cars so that the iPaq can act as an in-auto mapping system.Psion, with its Epoc system, basically invented the pocket organiser market when they really were just organisers. In spite of pulling out of selling to consumers last year, the company remains committed to businesses and will sell its Series 5mx and Series 7 to anyone who needs one. Again, these link to common office applications through a cable, and unlike the competition they have their own keyboards. Psion is less interested in bells and whistles than a lot of its competition, reasoning that employers won't want their employees playing games or listening to MP3s, so it doesn't supply these functions (although games are available from third parties).The business value is very straightforward, as Andrew Fisher of communications company Redhouse Lane explains. "The greatest power of the PDA for the business is that it gives you the ability to keep yourself organised, synched and use those little 10-20 minute parts of the day to do those things that get lost or you always put off."PDAs don't suit everyone. Although they can carry presentations, the screens are hopeless for more than one person and if you're going to carry a monitor and cables around for your presentation, then you might as well carry a laptop. If your need is for your own information and documents, or info you can share verbally with others, then the smaller and cheaper PDA is something you should seriously consider.That's what I call fast foodWhenever you pop into your local supermarket or grocer for some sausages or yoghurt, you probably never stop to consider how they got there in the first place.UK-based chilled food distributors like Kerry Foods now routinely order deliveries through hand-held Psion Teklogix computers. The days of written orders and faxes to delivery depots have been consigned to the past. Executives at Kerry Foods are keen to harness new wireless technologies to give themselves "mobile advantages" in what is generally regarded as a highly competitive marketplace.The Psion computers enable the firm's van salesmen to take orders electronically, calculate discounts, and to print out invoices on the spot. The mobile computers store sales histories and keep the sales force informed about all the latest promotions.At the end of the day instead of struggling back to the office with mountains of paperwork, the sales force put their hand-held computers into cradles; the individual orders are electronically consolidated on to one PC and sent via ISDN lines to a central distribution hub. The food is dispatched the next day.Mike Skinner, business development manager, cannot get enough of the new technology which he sees as a powerful integrated sales tool which sharply reduces errors. "What it allows us to do is to manage the business effectively," he says." It makes us more productive and efficient." By introducing a smoother flow of information into the business, he argues that sales managers can download and access data on customer orders far quicker so the business can enjoy a better idea of how it is performing against targets, which helps when it comes to projecting future sales.Most of the products that Kerry Foods distributes in its temperature-controlled vans can have a shelf life as little as three days and so efficient delivery and accurate forecasting is essential. The introduction of the hand-held computers has not only generated administrative savings but has ensured that customised products can appear on the mobile computer lists which match sales agreements.But what are the shortcomings of this new approach? "It can be quite daunting for someone not used to a computer," Skinner says, explaining that extensive training is required. "The problem is when they go down. Then you have to rely on paper. It typically happens if the battery suddenly dies."Kerry Foods is working in partnership with Psion to consistently update software, which obviously incurs more costs. "It's an evolutionary process," Skinner explains. "Bolt-ons have been added."Guy-Franck Nakach, managing director of morthern Europe for Psion Teklogix, believes that mobile wireless solutions are not beyond the budgets of most SMEs, although he admits that it requires a significant upfront investment before a company sees any returns. Analysts in this space recommend that companies of all sizes review the processes that are critical to their businesses before adopting wireless solutions. It's largely a question of assessing whether or not those processes could deliver advantages to the business if there was a swifter exchange of information.Nakach believes companies in most European countries are generally reluctant to embrace mobile solutions for cultural reasons. "I don't think the UK market is behind the continent at all." He says there are similar barriers to wireless adoption in France and Germany. "The interest is there. It is proven and yet SMEs seem to hesitate to invest. It represents a new way of working and different habits." At this stage, he believes it will only be the companies who are prepared to cross a certain threshold in the cultures of their organisations that will gain the benefits of mobile working.The area of after-sales management is where Psion believes mobile devices could be of most benefit. Proponents of this new technology suggest that in the future it could become a severe competitive disadvantage if sales representatives have to go back to the office in order to fulfil a customer's requirements, rather than doing it there and then with a mobile computer.
