Technology begets the future and, thanks to Steve Jobs, it sketched the next phase in the evolution of lame-brainedHomo sapiens. The headquarters of Apple in Silicon Valley are located in a galactic street called Infinite Loop and Jobs felt at home in such an abstract location. His preferred non-colour was white and the transparent buildings he helped design had spiral staircases of glass shaped like coils of DNA. He was, he believed, "enlightened", a luminary to be ranked with Gandhi or Einstein.As Walter Isaacson says in this incisive biography, Jobs behaved like a Nietzschean superman, using his will – transmitted through an unblinking stare – as a remote-control device that compelled others to do his bidding. As a child, he made his parents sell their house and buy another one that was beyond their means so he could qualify to enrol in a better school. As an adult, he drove his silver Mercedes at the speed of thought and parked it straddling spaces reserved for disabled drivers: the normal rules were for ordinary mortals. When first diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, he refused surgery and thought he could zap the malignancy by applying mental force, backed up – since this was ditzy, faddish California – by a regime of "organic herbs, juice fasts and frequent bowel cleansings".At his best, Jobs mimicked the serene demeanour of a Buddhist priest, just as the white or silver gadgets he sold exemplified a style that Isaacson calls "techno-Zen". He negotiated multimillion dollar deals while walking barefoot through the countryside and bought himself a mansion in which he had to sit cross-legged on the floor because he disapproved of possessions and had theoretical objections to furniture.But at his worst, as a colleague said, he resembled Rasputin. He screamed that underlings were "fucking dickless assholes" before abruptly firing them, and his vindictive temper worked like a guided missile. During a dispute with Google, he declared that he intended "to go to thermonuclear war on this".Jobs attended Apple's first Halloween party dressed as Jesus Christ, while his most devout admirers cast him in the role of God the Father, the creator of new worlds. Product launches were staged as re-enactments of Genesis, unveiling inventions that looked, as Jobs said about the 1988 Macintosh, like visitors "from another planet. A good planet. A planet with better designers".Customers believed in his wares with a cultish fervour. The iPhone was soon nicknamed "the Jesus phone" and when Jobs turned up at his local Apple store as it went on sale he was greeted, according to Isaacson, as Moses might have been "if he had walked in to buy the Bible". The iPad's arrival provoked a journalist to refurbish the metaphor by remarking: "The last time there was this much excitement about a tablet, it had some commandments written on it."Yet the saviour stank, physically and sometimes morally. The young Jobs abhorred deodorants and seldom showered, confident that his vegan or fruitarian diet laundered him from within. Despite his preachy claim that paying for music downloads disseminated "good karma", he sometimes lied to colleagues and competitors and stole the credit for ideas that belonged to others. He was a man of the media age, inept at unmediated human relations – an adopted son who resented his abandonment by his birth parents but abandoned a daughter of his own born out of wedlock; a disengaged and narcissistic lover, who during his affair with Joan Baez insisted that she should have a particular Ralph Lauren dress, took her to the mall to see it and then after scooping up a few shirts for himself left her to buy the dress using her credit card (which she declined to do). Revealingly, he importuned Isaacson to write this biography because, he said, "I want my kids to know me". Did he think that a book was a proper substitute for parental attention and care?Isaacson catches these contradictions with unerring skill and partly justifies them by placing Jobs at the awkward intersection between two generations with opposing creeds. Born in 1955, he belonged to the bratty clan of baby-boomers who rebelled against the suburban conformity of their parents. He dropped out of college and simultaneously dropped acid, visited Indian gurus and idolised Bob Dylan. But although he emerged from the counterculture, he became an emblem of corporate culture and even commissioned Issey Miyake to design a uniform for Apple employees.He may have disdained material encumbrances, but his business relied on inciting consumerist desires in others. The revolution he dreamed of in the days of flower power turned out to be electronic, not political. The former hippie sold his iPods and iPhones to hipsters who have no interest in changing the world but simply want to enjoy it as they groove to their pocket library of iTunes and loll on digital clouds cyber-chatting with friends they have never actually met. Isaacson almost blasphemously calls into question the purpose of the gadgetry that is now compulsory if you want to be young, stylish and hyperlinked: iPad apps, he says, place the world at your fingertips, and in doing so allow you to "waste glorious amounts of time".The biography is honest and therefore often harsh, but it confers on Jobs a kind of tragic desperation when, with the onset of cancer, he discovers that his infinitely looped and ingenious mind is housed in a fallible body. So cerebral that he disliked eating and preferred to starve himself, he was eventually eaten alive by his greedy tumour.Isaacson laments Jobs's infantile tantrums, while recognising that this childishness – exemplified by his Pixar blockbusterToy Story– turned his products from tools into delightfully frisky playthings. When you remove the cover from the iPad&nbsp;2, as Isaacson puts it, the screen "pops to life like the face of a tickled baby". That beautiful phrase sums up Jobs's bequest: he did redesign the universe and he reminded us to be amazed by it.
Once a marquee PlayStation star, platform hero Ratchet has found himself rotated to the reserves in a line-up packed with cinematic blockbusters of theResistanceandUnchartedvariety. Further proof that his regular formula is now considered rather staid comes in All 4 One's new emphasis on co-operative play, with puzzles, combat and even basic movement mechanics engineered specifically for collaboration. It's all very inventive and fun: on a basic level players bridge unjumpable gaps by firing each other from vacuum cannons or forming chains using electronic whips, while bickering is inevitable when it comes to jointly steering a raft down a hazard-strewn river.Other Ratchet mainstays also remain. Droll robot sidekick Clank and punchable hanger-on Captain Qwark make up the game's foursome with regular antagonist Dr Nefarious, ensuring the Saturday morning cartoon humour is spot-on. Ratchet might no longer be a front-line operator these days, but he's still on good form, even if you need three friends to best appreciate it.
It's rare for any game to receive unanimous praise, but whenArkham Asylumcame out in 2009, players and critics alike were wowed by a superlative Batman experience that transcended the thoroughly stale superhero genre. Unsurprisingly, then, expectations for the sequel are high.WhereAsylumwas all tight rooms and claustrophobic psychological battles,Arkham Cityunleashes Batman to roam the streets of Gotham – still trapped, but in a sprawling urban prison, within which the mysterious Hugo Strange has confined all of the metropolis's evildoers. Naturally, this includes most of our hero's nemeses – all of whom interweave with the main story while providing a plethora of tasks to occupy your time. The sheer amount there is to do can be overwhelming, as you tune into hoodlums' conversations and decide whether to follow up new leads on the primary plot or focus on your enemies' latest nefarious scheme – but it soon becomes invigoratingly immersive. Even if you choose to stay focused on the core action, the city lives on to be explored, the side missions fulfilled once the game is completed. And trust me, you'll want to.After the bravura opening, you steer Batman through the dark night sky, zipping between buildings using the Batclaw, gliding from rooftop to rooftop, the flight mechanic a pleasure. The same can be said for the impeccable combat system. It's smoothly brutal as you counter, punch and kick, switching between combatants. Of course, this comic-book hero is but a mere mortal, so stealth and intelligence are required, hiding in shadows to take out armed henchmen one at a time – firing off a smoke grenade in an emergency.All of this would be enough, but when encapsulated in a riveting story with countless secondary missions, from hunting down a rogue sniper to hundreds of puzzles from the enigmatic Riddler, it's simply breathtaking. And that's without mentioning segments where you play as Catwoman, providing a refreshing change of pace with her more Spider-Man-like movement, and the challenge maps – tasking you with stylishly taking down waves of enemies. If there's a better game this year we'll be very lucky indeed.
A flaw in Apple's location services system in its new iOS 5 software is increasingly suspected of being the cause of rapid battery drain for some owners of the iPhone 4S.A growing number of people have found that the "Setting Time Zone" element of the Systems Services within the broader Location Services product seems to be operating even when there is no chance that the user would have moved to a different location or time zone. An icon beside the setting, which indicates whether it has been used in the past 24 hours, suggests that it is running repeatedly to access the phone's location even when there is no apparent reason to do so.Location services can prompt large drains on any smartphone's battery: they use a combination of the Wi-Fi network name, where available, plus mobile mast data and GPS sensor input, to calculate the phone's position. The mobile mast data, for example, is usually calculated by comparing the strength of signals from the three nearest phone masts and triangulating against them. However if such a calculation is made too often, by polling the masts, it will begin to use battery power unnecessarily.On iDownloadBlog, Oliver Haslamsuggests: "it appears that iOS 5′s GM release introduced a bug that causes the Setting Time Zone function to keep the location tracking circuitry running constantly, draining battery power considerably. Switching it off may mean that your iPhone will no longer set its own time zone when you travel, but that's a small price to pay for having your iPhone last more than 12 hours on a full charge… We have tested this method on 4 different iPhone 4s handsets, including an iPhone 4 and an iPhone 3GS. All have reported drastically improved battery life after switching 'Setting Time Zone' off."Some commenters have suggested they see little difference, but the purple icon beside the setting indicates that it is active - and for many people will have been active during the past 24 hours.Apple's use of location services is deeply integrated into the iPhone 4S and iOS, but others have suggested that it is consuming too much battery power. "Two years working with dedicated GPS units taught me to be extremely careful with GPS settings: [it] kills battery very fast," David Hamilton, a web and Java consultant,remarkedon Twitter.Discussions on Apple's support boards are still ragingover what specifically could be draining the battery so much more rapidly. Apple has not so far made any comment, but the Guardian reported on Friday that itsengineers have begun contacting some peoplewho have been reporting exceptionally rapid use.The Guardian's own latest tests on an iPhone 4S found that it achieved 36 hours of battery life with a mixture of Wi-Fi, mobile data, and combined use, including 6 hours' using apps, phones, browsing and some location services. The majority of that included having the "Setting Time Zone" tab activated. There is no data yet from the ongoing tests about what effect disabling it has had.• The "Setting Time Zone" setting can be found in Settings -&gt; Location Services -&gt; scroll to bottom to "System Services" -&gt; Setting Time Zone.Updated: corrected name to iDownloadBlog, not iDownload
Apple engineers are contacting some iPhone 4S owners to try to solve problems with battery life on the new device, after some people have seen dramatic drops in longevity compared to previous models.One owner has told the Guardian that Apple contacted him directly and asked him to install a monitoring program on the phone to try to diagnose the problem, which is so far unexplained.Update:bug in location services may be to blame.In its data sheet for the iPhone 4S, which was released earlier this month, Apple quietly noted that thestandby time for the new phone would only be 200 hours- compared to 300 for the iPhone 4, and 250 hours even for the original 2007 iPhone. The company did not offer any reason when asked why by the Guardian, but noted that other lifespans such as 3G talktime were as long or longer than previous models.One owner who was contacted by Apple told the Guardian: "My battery life was extremely poor - 10% drop in standby every hour. I noticed that the usage figure was roughly half that of standby, even when the phone was not being used, so I assumed something was crashing or running in the background. I switched off all the new features including Siri and location services, but it was still really poor. I also tried setting up a clean phone with no apps but it is still really poor."I then got a call from a senior [Apple] engineer who said he had read my post and was 'reaching out' to users for data and admitted this was an issue (and that they aren't close to finding a fix!) and asked lots of questions about my usage and then asked if he could install the file below and that he would call back the day after to retrieve the info. I extracted the file from my Mac after a sync and emailed it to him. He was incredibly helpful and apologetic in the typical Apple way!"Users of the iPhone 4S have been surprised by how rapidly the phone's battery appears to drain, especially compared to the iPhone 4. The 4S incorporates a more powerful dual-core processor, the A5, than the iPhone 4, but the same amount of RAM.According to iFixit, the iPhone 4S has 5.3 watt-hours' capacity - 0.05Wh more capacity than the iPhone 4.In some cases the short life has been blamed on corrupted contacts imported from Apple's MobileMe or iCloud services, or from Google's Contacts list; deleting and then reinstalling them sometimes seems to fix the problem.The problem has generatedhuge discussions on Apple's support boards, with some people finding that backing the phone's contents up to their computer and then restoring it improves the life.The Guardian's own tests on an unrestored iPhone 4S using Google Contacts and MobileMe suggest that the phone drains fastest when mobile data is switched on, while Wi-Fi usage makes little difference to battery consumption. Neither location services, which try to orient the phone based on Wi-Fi and mobile data information, nor the voice-driven "assistant" Siri, appear to affect battery drain particularly.
What's going on in the tablet market? We know about the smartphone market: Samsung is theclear leader(Strategy Analytics estimatesthat it has gone from shipping 7.5m in the third quarter of 2010 to 27.8m in the same period this year – an amazing improvement by any standards).But when it comes to the tablet market, things are much less clear. Samsung doesn't give out numbers for its smartphone sales, but it doesn't even mention its tablets in itsthird-quarter resultsHow about Motorola Mobility? It was the poster child for Android tablets, getting the first bite of Honeycomb (Android 3.0) with its Xoom tablet, launched amid much fanfare bychief executive Sanjay Jha at CES in January.Well, Motorola announced its third-quarter results on Thursday night. How did that go? Well, let's rewind briefly. In the first quarter,its financials say,  "The Company shipped a total of 9.3 million mobile devices, including 4.1 million smartphones and more than 250,000 Motorola XOOM tablets." Given that it didn'trelease the Xoom until the end of February, that wasn't a bad figure, since it only had one month for sales.In the second quarter?Here you go: " "The Company shipped a total of 11.0 million mobile devices, including 4.4 million smartphones and 440,000 Motorola XOOM tablets." If it managed 250,000 in its first month, you'd hope for more than an average of 147,000 per month in the second quarter.And for the third quarter? FromMotorola's press release: "The company shipped a total of 11.6m mobile devices, including 4.8m smartphones and approximately 100,000 Motorola XOOM tablets."The trajectory of that set of figures for the Xoom - 250,000 to 440,000 to 100,000, or 790,000 shipped (note: not necessarily sold) - doesn't offer big hopes for its future success. Sales seem to have fallen off a cliff. (The same applies to RIM, where tablet shipments have gone from 500,000 to 200,000, and now it'sdelaying the software update that would let them get email separately until at least February, even while it's giving big financial incentives to retailers to sell them. And let's not even mention the late, lamented TouchPad.)Given the calculations – which look robust enough – that there are3.4m Honeycomb tablets out there, that suggests that the Xoom has 23% of that market. (Andy Rubin, head of Android,suggested to AllThingsD earlier this monththat the total number of tablets out there is "around six million": see the 6.52pm entry.)Who's sold the other 2.6m Honeycomb tablets (if we assume that all the Xooms have sold)? At a rough guess, Asus, Acer and Samsung – and Samsung almost certainly has the majority too of non-Honeycomb tablets, having shipped more than 2m in 2010.In fact, when it comes to rivalry to Apple, one comes around again to Samsung. It's a giant company and it has the heft in all sorts of ways to challenge Apple, once it has the software, because it has the manufacturing volume to push down prices to the point where it directly challenges Apple on virtually any price point.However, if Samsung does indeed have the lion's share of the Honeycomb market, that's still not a lot. In the same period that those Honeycomb tablets have sold 3.4m, Apple has sold more than 25m iPads. In the period that Rubin says those 6m have been sold, Apple has sold just short of 40m iPads.This is precisely the same situation as the questionposed by the datafrom Net Applications back in July: where are all the other tablets? Why aren't they selling?Quite possibly because – as has been said – the tablet market is more like the music player market than the phone market. Phones go through carriers, and have all sorts of subtleties (such as GSM v CDMA, and different frequencies within those, which is why you don't get the iPhone on T-Mobile in the US, for example).But tablets are much more about content and apps - which is why the expectations are so high that Amazon's Kindle Fire will make a dramatic difference here, because it comes with far more content available almost immediately. (Amazon's brilliance in making the Kindle app as cross-platform as possible, so you're more likely to buy an ebook because you can read it on any connected device, can't be overstated.)For now, though, Honeycomb tablets really aren't cutting it. The Xoom looks like a bust; it will be very interesting, if and when Google decides quite what it wants to do with the handset business of Motorola Mobility (which it's buying, so it can get its hands on its mobile patents and defend Android), whether the Xoom gets an extended lease of life - or faces the chop.If Google keeps the business, expect the chop. There's a passage in the Steve Jobs biography which reveals that in January 2011, when Larry Page had decided that he was going to take over as chief executive of Google again, that he tried to build bridges with Jobs, who had just announced his final medical leave. Jobs, despite being furious over Android, could afford to be altruistic; he told Page to focus Google more tightly on what it wanted to do, and not to have multiple schemes going at once. It's noticeable that Google has cut back on the number of things it's doing since Page took the reins. Making tablets – and especially tablets that aren't showing any market penetration – isn't where he'll want to go. Samsung is perfectly capable of taking Apple on there.Update: using the figures provided by Motorola, I've estimated its sales pattern - assuming that sales were greatest at the start, and tailed off gradually after that point. If anyone from Motorola has better numbers, please do get in touch.Motorola Xoom: estimated monthly sales based on publicly available data from financial reports.
Samsung zoomed past Apple to take the smartphone crown in the third quarter, and become the biggest mobile phone maker by revenue, after it announced strong growth in its handset division as part of its quarterly results.The company also said it expects strong sales of its smartphones in the coming quarter, with new models backed by Google due to debut in the UK and elsewhere during November.The company was pipped though by Nokia, which remains the world's largest seller of mobile handsets by volume. Apple meanwhile has dropped from being the biggest smartphone maker and mobile phone company by revenue in the second quarter to rank behind Nokia and Samsung in revenue.Although Samsung declined to give figures for its smartphone or feature phone sales, Jae Lee, a Daiwa Securities technology analyst, estimated that in the third quarter it sold 28m smartphones – well above Apple's figure of 17m for the period.In the second quarter, Apple was reckoned to have just outdistanced Samsung with 20m iPhones sold, but saw a rapid slowdown in the third quarter as would-be buyers awaited a new model, while Samsung piled on the pressure.The two companies are locked in a series of legal battles around the world over alleged patent and "trade dress" infringements relating to the iPhone, Samsung's phones and the iPad and Samsung's Galaxy range of tablets. Samsung did not give any indications about tablet shipment figures for the quarter in itsearnings release.The company said its telecommunications business hit a record in quarterly sales of 14.9 trillion won (£8.37bn), a 37% increase from last year, with growth mainly due to strong Galaxy smartphone sales. Operating profit hit 2.52tn won, a new record for the divison.Nokia previously announced that it had shipped 107m handsetsin the period, generating €9bn (£7.9bn) of revenues. Apple had mobile revenues of $10.98bn (£6.8bn) for the quarter.The Korean electronics company said quarterly net income fell by 23% year-on-year to 3.44tn won following weaker demand for its flat panels and computer chips – of which it is the world's biggest manufacturer. Group revenues grew by 3% to 41.27tn won.A Samsung spokesman, Nam Ki-yung, wouldn't comment on whether Samsung had passed Apple in smartphone sales, saying the company no longer provides its sales figures for handsets. Samsung did say, however, that handset shipments jumped more than 20% from the previous quarter, and that its global smartphone sales were up fourfold from last year.For the period last year, the research companyGartner calculatedthat Samsung shipped a total of 71.7m handsets; a 20% rise would indicate that it shipped just over 86m in the three months from July to September.The company's display panel business suffered a quarterly loss of 90bn won and its revenue of 7.08tn won was down 13% from a year earlier. Samsung's semiconductor businesses had sales of 9.48tn won, a drop from last quarter."Looking ahead into the fourth quarter, when industry demand is traditionally at its peak, Samsung expects sales of mobile devices to remain strong and flat panel TV shipments to increase," the company said in a statement.Samsung also said the third quarter saw increased demand for flash chips used in mobile devices and enhanced revenue in the business that creates mobile application processors and image sensors.The gains in smartphones came despite the South Korean electronics giant being locked in a global patent battle with Apple, which began legal action in April against Samsung for what it says is uninhibited copying of its iPhone and iPad designs.Apple says the product design, user interface and packaging of Samsung's Galaxy devices "slavishly copy" the iPhone and iPad. Samsung fought back with lawsuits of its own, accusing Apple of patent infringement of its wireless telecommunications technology.Earlier this month, Samsung asked Japanese and Australian courts to block sales of Apple's new iPhone 4S in those countries over alleged patent violations. They have not so far done so. Samsung is alsoappealing against an Australian court's decisionto temporarily ban sales of Samsung's new Galaxy tablet computer.In an attempt to win sales in the market between smartphones and tablet PCs, Samsung on Friday unveiled a new Galaxy Note, the Yonhap news agency reported.The Galaxy Note is smaller than tablet computers but offers the same features as other wireless devices with applications. Its 5in screen is bigger than the Galaxy S2 smartphone, and a digital pen can be used to write on the screen, Samsung said.Yonhap says the Note will debut in Europe next month and then later in China, South Korea and other Asian countries.
The hard-workingMichael DeGustacaused a stir in the Twittersphere on Thursday by announcing the results of a study in which he demonstrates that it's very hard to find an Android device that's running an up-to-date version of the OS. The study –Android Orphans: Visualising a Sad History of Support– goes on to say that this is bad for consumers and bad for developers. (It also suggests that things in the iPhone garden are rosy, or at least green – the colour he uses for phones that can run the latest OS.)But is it? I say that developers who claim Android fragmentation is ahuge problemare making a mountain out of a molehill.Multiple versionsWhat people call "fragmentation" in relation to Android refers to the fact that any given selection of Android phones in active use may be running one of a number of versions of Android.Typically, Google refer to these versions with an alphabetically-incrementing dessert-related/cake-related name: E for Eclair (v2.0/v2.1), F for Froyo (v2.2), G for Gingerbread (v2.3.x), H for Honeycomb (v3.x) and now the latest version, I for Ice Cream Sandwich (v4.0).Michael's survey is helpful in understanding that typically Android devices in the field are running versions of the operating system which are out of date. If you refer to his survey, the line for the HTC Droid Incredible (released at the end of April 2010 in the US) shows that its spent half of its life running an up-to-date version of Android, and half its life running one that's a version behind.What's not clear in the study is that an "old" version of Android is still a verymodernversion of Android.To illustrate: Froyo was released in May 2010, and Gingerbread was released in December 2010 – that's a gap of a mere seven months. It's easy to forget the pace of Android development, and in such an environment of pace, fragmentation ends up beingnecessary. Without "fragmenting" the platform – in this case without having a stream of new versions hitting the market – you cannot create adequate competitive pressure in the market. As Apple, and to an extent Microsoft, keep innovating, it's essential that Google is moving Android along at breakneck speed.But it's no wonder that updates are getting behind. Google is moving too fast for its partners in carriers and handset makers. Remember the seven-month window between Froyo and Gingerbread? Google is used to moving that quickly. A company like HTC or Samsung is not. Nor are carriers (which test software updates thoroughly before allowing them to be rolled out over their network). The mobile phone market and its incumbent members are used to moving at much slower pace than this.Where's the problemIf we look at the other features, I'm not sure there's that much of a problem. Google maintains anup-to-date list of deployed versionsbuilt from analytics run against the Android Market. This shows that, at the moment, the biggest single percentage accessing the Market in the past fortnight goes to Froyo (v2.2) with 45.3%.But this is where the label of "fragmented" is unfair. As well as having a "major.minor" version number like "2.2", each version has anAPI level. This API level describes the set of features that software developers can address. Eclair has an API level of7. When building software, the developer will mark the application with a minimum API level. Thus if you take an application with level "7", it will run on that version of the operating systemand higher. Ice Cream Sandwich, the latest v4.0 release, has an API level of14. So a Froyo application will happily run on every version of Android from Froyo through Gingerbread and Honeycomb to Ice Cream Sandwich.Of course, the problem is that if you target API level "7" you can only access features that were in that version of Android. So what are you missing out on if you go that low?What Google addedThis articleon the Android SDK website provides detailed links to all of the changes that happened between versions. The work that they did in the 12 months between Eclair and Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS) is all good stuff related to platform improvements. The major functional API changes relate to things like near-field communications (NFC), VoIP and media improvements.Because the changes over the last year have been generally incremental, if you target an older version like Eclair (which will cover 98.5% of extant Android devices) or Froyo (86.8% of devices) you can hit most of the features available in the platform. By aiming low you will hit the maximum customer base with the advantage that customers will automatically take advantage of improvements in the platform such as those related to performance and security the higher up the chain they go.Kindle Fire? Amazon, we have a problemHowever, in all this there is a far more sinister problem than just having a lot of versions out there in the field.Android is a mix of stuff that is open, and stuff that Google retains ownership of in order to keep some control over the platform. When Amazon recently announced theKindle Fireit didn't mention Google or Android. That's because this isn't an "Android compatible" device. Importantly it's missing a link back into the Google-managed Android back-end services infrastructure, which Android device makers achieve by licensing the Google Android Market app. (ThisFAQhas more information on this.)You will be able to download apps for Fire from Amazon's ownAmazon Appstore for Android, but because this Amazon Appstore willnotlink into Google's back-end services, this will limit the features available to the developer and this is the real fragmentation issue.My view is that Android tablets will probably never gain traction in a market that contains Apple's iPad and which will haveWindows 8 on ARMiPad-clones competing for space next year.But the Kindle Fire will almost certainly be a massive success. Which means that if you want to support in-app payments you're going to have to detect if you're running on an Android-compatible device or a Kindle Fire and run a different operation. Same with your C2DM capability and the same with future capabilities that stream out of Google HQ.Thatis the real danger of fragmentation on Android. It's not just an issue of a lack of updates hitting the phones that are out there.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
More than nine in ten of the world's top 100 brands have now released mobile apps, according to anew reportfrom analytics company Distimo.It finds that 91% of the companies listed in Interbrand's 2011 Best Global Brands chart have a presence in at least one of the major app stores, up from 51% when Distimo last checked 18 months ago.The company says that each brand has 24 apps available on average, although this figure is skewed by large publishers like Disney (636 apps – this is across all the app stores) and Sony (285 apps). Strip them out, though, and the average is still 15.The report also finds that 86% of the top brands have a presence on iPhone, while 66% have at least one iPad app. 59% are on Android, but a mere 26% are on BlackBerry, and just 9% on the Nokia Store. However, Distimo notes that this time last year, less than 20% of the top 100 brands had Android apps available, so Google's platform is picking up steam."This report reveals that the 2011 best global brands have realized over the past 18 months that app stores offer a viable channel to promote their brand, reach consumers, and for a subset of brands – sell content," explains the report.Naturally, media companies are the keenest category of brands, with an average of 247 apps each, some distance ahead of computer software brands (36 apps per company) business services (31) and automotive brands (29). Distimo also finds that only 27% of the top 100 brands are trying to make money directly from the App Store from paid apps: the rest are focusing on free apps.It's valuable data, even if much of it is unsurprising to anyone following the apps market over the period covered by the report. However, Distimo's focus is understandably on the number of apps, rather than the quality of the apps themselves or the strategies that brought them to the app stores.With 2,343 branded apps available from companies on Interbrand's Top 100 list, there are plenty of high-quality, engaging examples. Media brands like Disney, MTV, the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal (to name but four) have won plaudits for their experimentation and effectiveness in apps.Outside the top 100, though, there is still an argument to be made that too many branded apps are uninspiring, unengaging and fail the 'Why would anyone want to use this?' test.The buzz around mobile means that there are plenty of creative people within agencies working on app ideas for their clients. Perhaps 2012 will be the year when a higher proportion of the resulting apps actually appeal to smartphone and tablet owners.
A collection of 16 apps for you today:MSN OnpointMicrosoft is going after the female Windows Phone owners market with its latest app, MSN Onpoint. It's aimed at "busy" women: "We've handpicked stories &amp; videos from leading magazines and websites so you don't have to. We throw in the occasional eye candy and racy joke because, well, you deserve it..."Windows PhoneShoebox by 1000memoriesPeople are already using their smartphones to take photos of old printed photos, to preserve the images and share them on sites like Facebook. Shoebox is an app that aims to make the process easier, scanning photos and uploading them to the 1000memories community, as well as pushing them to Facebook and Twitter if desired.iPhoneOXM Presents HaloAn iPad app for Halo? Calm down, it's not the game itself, sadly. Instead, Future's Official Xbox Magazine has put together a celebration of Microsoft's action franchise, including coverage from old issues of the magazine and interviews with Halo's creators.iPadSoundCloudAudio service SoundCloud already has excellent iPhone and Android apps, but now it has updated the former with a native iPad version too. The features remain the same: record and share audio, but it makes good use of the larger screen with tactile waveforms and more room for social features.iPadNokia PulseNokia's new location app is out in beta, and called Nokia Pulse. The company is pitching it as an easy way to add your location to any conversation: "as instant, private, and simple as sending a text, but far more useful and engaging".Windows Phone / SymbianAlice Cooper – Welcome 2 My Nightmare – Air RockAlice Cooper is back, Back, BACK! And he has an iPhone app to go with his new album that gets fans to air-drum and air-guitar along to some of the tracks, while also remixing them and challenging friends to out-do their efforts on Facebook and Twitter.iPhoneLoopseque KidsLoopseque Kids is the work of music developer Casual Underground: an iPad app that aims to be "the first step into magical world of music and adventures" for children. That means learning rhythms and melodies through a colourful circular interface.iPadPuzzle Quest 2Popular puzzle/RPG hybrid Puzzle Quest 2 is now available on Android, with its well-known formula of match-three puzzling, spells and monsters.AndroidColorcode VJColorcode VJ is a very interesting app aimed mainly at professional musicians and DJs who want to be able to trigger visuals – videos, images and text – from their iPad.iPadParliament Week 2011Parliament Week is a new scheme that aims to get the British public more interested in its political workings. This iPad app is part of the effort, with Parliament Week, History of Parliament and Artfinder teaming up to present more than 50 Westminster-related artworks by artists including Monet, Turner and Gainsborough.iPadLittle FearLittle Fear is apparently a "byook". What's that? According to the company behind it, it's "The successful union of books and movies. A byook stages fascinating stories by incorporating images, animations and sound effects". In this case, the content is a short story inspired by Stephen King and Edgar Allan Poe.iPhoneGamebook Adventures: Temple of the Spider God"It's a book. It's a game. It's an RPG. It's a Gamebook Adventure!" explains the excitable App Store listing for this, a book-app inspired by the heyday of Fighting Fantasy print books. It's the work of Tin Man Games and author Jonathan Green, who has worked on a range of sci-fi titles in his time including Doctor Who, Star Wars Clone Wars and Warhamer 40k.iPhone / iPadBatchAnother photo-sharing app for iPhone? Batch makes its simplicity its reason for downloading. The aim being to share batches of photos with friends who have the app or wider contacts on Facebook and Twitter, with real-time features included.iPhoneDivorce UKLaw firm Mills &amp; Reeve has launched an app offering guidance and tools for couples considering divorce, including an explanation of the legal processes and likely practical and emotional issues.iPhoneWall Of SoundNothing to do with the record label of the same name, this is a music discovery app for iOS that presents songs and albums as cover-art thumbnails, while serving up similar songs as preview clips, which can then be purchased.iPhone / iPadSwatch Snap DanceThe latest quirky branded app comes from watch-maker Swatch. Its Snap Dance app involves recording six short dance moves, and then combining them together. An animated gif for the apps era! Sort of.iPhone
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid Orphans: visualizing a sad history of support &gt;&gt; the understatementInteresting, though what's hidden is the extent to which carriers are slowing this down, and to which handset makers are slowing it down.The Silent Cyber War &gt;&gt; Kate's CommentKate Craig-Wood of Memset: "As a hosting company we are players in a constant cyber war going on quietly behind the scenes that most people are not aware of. We have been successfully defending ourselves and our customers against hackers, script kiddies and DoSers for as long as I've been in the industry (since 1998). The weapons (bot nets and internet connections) have got bigger and the complexity of the systems and hacks has become more sophisticated, but we have evolved too. "We host 20,000 of Britain's largest and busiest Web sites. In just the last week our automated denial of service (DOS) protection system, affectionately known as the "DOS-squasher", blocked just over 200 attacks aimed at our clients. None of them even knew that anything untoward had happened." Plus 50 break-in attempts on her personal server in a week. Put like that, it's quite scary.Nokia &amp; Mobile Ads Money Talks &gt;&gt; Inner-ActiveAn infographic prepared for Nokia World showing that though you might not realise it, lots of people click on ads on Nokia apps. Counter-intuitive. Our question (which isn't answered in the graphic) is what the actual numbers are, and how that translates into per-handset figures. Then we'd really start to know about Nokia's value.SoundCloud » SoundCloud for iPad"There's one particular iOS app you all have been asking and patiently waiting for. Everyday, we read your tweets, comments and messages asking us when we'll be releasing an official iPad app. They say that 'good things happen to those who wait' so today, we're super excited to tell you to it has finally arrived: SoundCloud for iPad. It's gorgeous." There's one for Android too.Samsung's hopes for iPhone 4S injunctions in France and Italy are alive but fading &gt;&gt; FOSSPatents"Even though I can't claim to know the procedures for preliminary injunctions in those jurisdictions, the fact that the courts in France and Italy take more time and let Apple launch the iPhone 4S in the meantime doesn't bode too well for Samsung. It's still possible that Samsung could win in one or both of these countries after a second hearing, but if judges feel strongly that there's a solid case for a preliminary injunction, then they grant a preliminary injunction right away or at least pressure the defendant into a deal under which it will hold off on launching the accused product until the court has decided (for example, the Federal Court of Australia convinced Samsung twice that it was better to postpone the launch of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, and ultimately ordered a preliminary injunction)."Apple retail &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansBenedict Evans does the sums on Apple's newly disclosed retails figures: $1195 revenue per square foot, down from $14267 billion people and you: What's your number? &gt;&gt; BBC NewsVery nifty tool from the BBC. Turns out I'm the 80,152,602,740th person to have lived since history began. Good, solid number, that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Hewlett-Packard is to keep its PC division rather than selling it off, the company has announced, reversing a plan first aired byformer chief executive Leo Apotheker - who was firedin September after a boardroom row over his plans for the business.But the Guardian understands that HP is to shut down its webOS division, acquired for $1.2bn in April 2010 when it bought Palm, and make the staff there redundant or shift them elsewhere inside the company. That could mean losses of up to 500 jobs as the business which created the short-lived HP TouchPad and smartphones is closed.The dramatic reverse comes in a statement on its website, where HPsaysthat the "continued combination of HP and its Personal Systems Group [is] expected to deliver greater customer and shareholder value"."HP objectively evaluated the strategic, financial and operational impact of spinning off PSG. It's clear after our analysis that keeping PSG within HP is right for customers and partners, right for shareholders, and right for employees," said Meg Whitman, HP president and chief executive officer, in a statement. "HP is committed to PSG, and together we are stronger."Under Apotheker, HP had been considering selling or spinning off its PC division, which is the biggest in the world with around 17.7% of the global market. Despite its dominance, thePSG is also the least profitable division within HP.But new chief executive Meg Whitman has reviewed the wisdom of the plan and decided against it as part of a strategic review. HP's statement says: "The data-driven evaluation revealed the depth of the integration that has occurred across key operations such as supply chain, IT and procurement. It also detailed the significant extent to which PSG contributes to HP's solutions portfolio and overall brand value. Finally, it also showed that the cost to recreate these in a standalone company outweighed any benefits of separation."No such statement has been made about the webOS group - but top-level staff have been leaving it and the Guardian understands from internal HP sources that staff within the group expect imminent closure. "There's a 95% chance we all get laid off between now and November, and I for one am thinking it's for the best," one webOS employee told the Guardian. That would affect more than 500 jobs.HP has already suffered losses from the top of the webOS division, with Richard Kerris, whoresignedearlier this week as HP's vice-president of webOS worldwide developer relations, moving over to mobile phone company Nokia to do essentially the same job.Despite HP's attempts to find a potential buyer or licencee for webOS - which ran on the short-lived TouchPad - there has been no apparent interest outside the company. Sir Howard Stringer, chief executive of Sony, told the Guardian on Thursday that he had no immediate interest in buying or licensing it after completing theacquisition of the rest of the Sony Ericsson business. And early suggestions that HTC might purchase it have also fallen away.Some have suggested that Amazon might buy webOS, seeing the presence on the Amazon board of ex-Palm chief executive and HP executive Jon Rubinstein, who previously worked for Apple. But there is no indication that Amazon is interested in acquiring another operating system; it is using its own version of Google's Android software for its new Kindle Fire device.Some analysts cheered HP's decision as the right move, adding they were happy that Whitman made the announcement so rapidly. She had previously said the company would make a determination about the business by the end of the year."The fact that Meg pushed this decision very quickly is absolutely cleaning up the mistakes of the past," said Gartner analyst Mark Fabbi.Forrester Research analyst Frank Gillett said HP never should have considered removing its PC unit, and the move to keep it "seems like the right decision for the business given market conditions.""Hopefully it's the beginning of showing they've got the process and people in place to work these things through," he said. "But it is puzzling that it was hard for them to figure out."Gillett thinks HP may now be able to thin out its PC family similar to what Steve Jobs did at Apple in order to resuscitate the company in the '90s and focus on just a few devices with attractive features."It's something they have the potential to do that few others do," Gillett said.
So, are you buying Battlefield 3 today? Have you played it? What do you think?!
Nothing free lasts forever; and it's damn hard to make money putting ads on maps. That seems to be the conclusion to draw from Google's decision to put limits on its Google Maps API.In apost on the Google Geo Developers blog, the product manager for the Google Maps API, Thor Mitchell, says that there is indeed now going to be a limit on how many API calls you can make.The new usage limits will allow you to generate up to 25,000 map loads per day per API, and up to 2,500 map loads for "styled maps". Beyond that, you'll either have to modify your call so your app makes fewer calls, or - wait for it - "purchase a Maps API Premier licence".And how much will that cost? "Contact sales", says thelinked page, unhelpfully. Programmablewebsaysthat it will cost about $4 per 1,000 page views, and adds that "unless high-traffic sites are fully based on maps, they are unlikely to go above the limit."That's hard to evaluate, since 25,000 isn'tthatmany calls.Although won't immediately be cutting off those whose applications exceed the call rate, it's clear that the easy days are over. And of course it also raises the question of whether Google has found that it's too hard to monetise maps, or that the API calls are bypassing the best ways it has of monetising them. (Given that the number who will have to buy a licence is likely to be very small, the inference is that it's trying to stop what looks nearly like abuse.)But as Andrew Turner of FortiusOnepoints out, putting barriers up - even if they're distant - is always dangerous:Google has also worked to monetize maps, often subtly through sponsored map markers, and other times more directly through in-map ads. Each of these decisions brought discussion and disent but it was difficult to argue with the fact that the tool was still free to use. Google has clearly put real value in content and engineering into Google Maps. The quality of geocoding, data availability and power of the API has always been extremely capable and arguably the best of breed.Now, with a very direct pay requirement being imposed this will dramatically change the adoption of GoogleMaps. Developers will have to consider very carefully how they will afford the potential – and optimistically likely – fees that the service will require as it becomes successful.It's this sort of barrier that theFree Our Data campaignpushed against so hard in the Ordnance Survey's model for online maps: if you start charging at some point, you're always going to put off people who might have accidental success, or whose success was built on using "free". (The campaign also had other arguments - that in effect the map data was paid for by us, the taxpayers.)Obviously, Google, as a business, is free to charge as and how it wants. But it will be interesting to see if this changes how developers approach the use of the maps APIs.
Google has launched its answer to Twitter's trending topics, called What's Hot, for Google+.As described the video above, What's Hot collects the most popular publicly shared items from across Google+. The feature sits on the left-hand side of users' Google+ streams.Google also launched avery coolinfographic for each public post,called Ripples, meaning you can see how your post spread like wildfire across the fledgling social network. Reports that this feature was inspired bythis dissident Googler's accidental misfireare as yet unconfirmed.Google+ users – yes, there is more than 40 million of you – can also edit their uploaded photographs as part of thenew features rolled out across the service on Thursday. And hello, crusty Google Apps users, you can now join Google+ too. This could lead to the video element Hangout - shared video chats - becoming used inside enterprises which have got Google Apps. (It's also something that Google Apps users have been champing at the bit to get.)What's Hot might just be the biggest update to Google+ yet. It promises to change the social network from a rather formal, bare, insipid place, into a more vibrant, live information-sharing environment – like Twitter, but with more words.Vic Gundotra, Google's senior vice president of engineering, alluded to Google+'s need to expand in his poston the company's blog:"Google+ users share and receive billions of items every day—on a wide range of topics, in nearly every country. Circles give you a personal lens on all this activity, helping you focus on updates from your family or your favourite celebrities," he said."But sometimes you want to know what the world is so excited about. Whether it's breaking news or beautiful photos, you just don't want to miss anything. With this in mind, we're launching 'What's Hot' on Google+, a new place to visit for interesting and unexpected content."
Sony has issued a riposte to Apple and Nokia in the smartphone wars by spending more than £1bn to take full control of its handset manufacturing joint venture, Sony Ericsson.Hot on the heels of the launch of Apple's iPhone 4S and Nokia's announcement this week ofa renewed foray into the market in partnership with Microsoft, the Japanese electronics corporation pledged to create an integrated approach to its smartphones and push its content across "four screens" – smartphones, PC, TVs and tablets – all manufactured by Sony.Speaking in London, Sony's chief executive Sir Howard Stringer said that the £1.05bn purchase of Ericsson's 50% stake in the manufacturer, ending a decade of partnership, would enable it to ramp up its smartphone efforts and defend its TV and PC manufacturing franchises by letting consumers connect with content "wherever they are, whenever they want".While 2012 is predicted to deliver record smartphone sales, Stringer has now ensured it will also trigger a battle to sell consumers whole "families" of devices. Apple is expected to fulfil Steve Jobs's long-held dream of creating an internet television, with analysts at Jefferies estimating an initial manufacturing run of between 5 and 10 million units in the second half of next year. Apple will seek to persuade customers to build up a library of films and music stored on Apple's servers via its iCloud service, which can then be accessed from any of the Californian company's devices.Sony has been developing its answer to iTunes, the Sony Entertainment Network, which streams Sony-produced films, games and music to a devices including its Bravia TV sets, Vaio PCs, PlayStation consoles and Sony Ericsson phones."We have metamorphosed from an analogue to a digital company," Stringer  said. "Admittedly it's taken us a long time, but we now have the potential to do the things that American companies like Microsoft and Apple have. It would have been quicker if we hadn't had to fight our way through the lethal attacks from Mother Nature such as earthquakes and tsunamis… We felt that we had all the elements, we deliver more entertainment than anybody – we do billions of discs, many many movies, millions of devices, and the PlayStation Network surprised everybody when they found out we had 90 million members. The fact that we have tied all this together, the last piece of the puzzle, makes me very optimistic that we can catch up very quickly."Analysts say the smartphone market will grow by 32% in 2012, to 612m handsets worldwide."I would hope this will give Sony Ericsson a new lease of life," said Richard Windsor, electronics sector analyst at Nomura. "One of the themes that's emerging from the smartphone and tablet markets is the importance of content and apps to build loyalty. It's no secret that there have been conflicts limiting Sony Ericsson's access to Sony content from its film and TV studio and record labels while it was a joint venture. I hope that by taking complete control it will be able to put this content onto these devices more easily."Analysts at Liberum Capital said in a note that Sony Ericsson's share of less than 2% of worldwide handset sales left it in a "fragile" position. "While Android-based smartphones are not yet seeing a very aggressive pricing environment due to very strong consumer demand, the situation could change very rapidly in the event of a weakening of the market. This could easily push the business back to significant losses as seen in the past."For Ericsson, the payment means that it can exit the mobile phone business effectively without ties, and focus on building mobile and wireless networks, where its expertise lies.Sony Ericsson was created in 2001 from "two companies which were bleeding" in the handset business, said Stringer, who was not in charge of Sony at the time. For a while the joint venture was profitable, but the advent of Apple's iPhone in 2007, and then of cheap handsets running Google's Android software, destroyed its high-end market share as it struggled to attract customers with Nokia's Symbian software. It abandoned that for its smartphones and has now thrown in its lot with Google.
Chinese hackers are suspected of having interfered with the operation of two US government satellites on four occasions via a ground station, according to a report being prepared for the US Congress.According to Bloomberg, the draft of a new annual report by theUS-China Economic and Security Commissionincludes the claim that in October 2007 and July 2008 hackers used the connection from a ground station to affect the operation of the Landsat 7 and Terra (EOS AM-1) satellites, which are used for earth observation. The allegation was made by the US air force in a closed briefing.The commission is concerned that the hack might have been carried out by Chinese government-sponsored hackers trying to found out how vulnerable the satellite control systems were to cyber-attack.The report, which is due to be released next month, warns: "Access to a satellite's controls could allow an attacker to damage or destroy the satellite. An attacker could also deny or degrade as well as forge or otherwise manipulate the satellite's transmission."The hacks are believed to have been carried out via a commercial satellite station in Spitsbergen, Norway that the US space agency Nasa uses for data transfers over the open internet. It is one of four used for Landsat 7 control; the others are on American soil.According to the Landsat 7 handbook, the mission operations centre can send data including orbit changes and manoeuvres. That could potentially mean hackers might be able to send faulty data which could make a satellite enter the atmosphere in an uncontrolled manner. That could lead to it burning up, possibly resulting in large pieces landing on Earth at unpredictable locations.The draft report does not give more detail on the form that the attacks took, and does not directly blame the Chinese government for carrying them out or sponsoring them. But the claims are part of a long-standing pattern in reports from the commission, whose purpose is to monitor and investigate the national security implications of the US's trade with China.The Landsat 7 satellite saw 12 minutes of "interference" in October 2007; the Terra then suffered two minutes in June 2008. In July 2008 the Landsat 7 had another 12 minutes' interference. Finally in October 2008 the Terra was affected for nine minutes.In a previousreport on China's ability to conduct cyberwar(PDF), the commission noted: "Attacks on vital targets such as an adversary's intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems will be largely the responsibility of EW [electronic warfare] and counterspace forces with an array of increasingly sophisticated jamming systems and anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons." At the time, it pointed to China's tests of anti-satellite weapons which could fire electromagnetic pulses at orbiting systems, destroying them.The Chinese government has repeatedly been accused of being behind hacking attacks against western companies and infrastructure, as well as the hacking of dissident groups. It has consistently denied the accusations.
I want to help my granddaughter sort out her computer when she gets in a mess with it.  We live 300 miles apart, and we both run Windows 7 Home Premium. Is there a cheap or free system to do this?Peter BradyAs it happens, it's already built into Windows 7, though not many people seem to know about it. And no, it's not Windows Remote Desktop, it's Windows 7 Easy Connect. This is an addition to the old Windows Remote Assistance program, and it takes a different approach to security.Remote Desktop allows you to log on to a distant computer, usually your own PC, and use it exactly as though you were sitting at its keyboard. (Obviously the screen refresh will be slower, but that's how it works.) It therefore has similar log-on requirements -- you need an account and a password -- and restrictive security requirements. After all, you don't want someone else using your PC while you're out. Remote Assistance is based on the idea that someone else is sitting in front of their own PC, and they want you to connect to it. This doesn't need an account, and Easy Connect will create the password for you.The simplest way to run the program is to start typing Assista… in the Start menu search box and pick it from the list.When you run Windows Remote Assistance, it gives you two options: "Invite someone you trust to help you", and "Help someone who has invited you".If you want to invite someone to help you, WRA offers another three options. These are:• Save this invitation as a file• Use e-mail to send an invitation• Use Easy ConnectIf you pick Easy Connect, then WRA will generate a random 12-character password. If we assume that your granddaughter is the one asking for help, this is the password she will send to you, usually in an email or via an instant message. At this point, you will go through the same procedure, except for selecting "Help someone who has invited you". This will pop up a box that says "Enter the Easy Connect Password". Do that, and you're connected.This only works with Windows 7 PCs, and the password only works for a single session. Also, since the PC's name is used to generate the password, it won't work if the computer doesn't have a name. (The name is in Advanced System Settings, under the tab marked Computer Name.)People who don't have Windows 7 or don't know about Easy Connect will generally use either LogMeIn or TeamViewer. Geekier users (and IT help desks) might prefer the open sourceUltra VNC, but TeamViewer actually has VNC under the hood.LogMeInis a remote desktop application. It uses the secure LogMeIn website to connect machines, so you just log in to the site then log in to the PC that you want to use. LogMeIn Free is fairly basic but does the job. There are also paid-for versions for business use, including LogMeIn Pro and LogMeIn Rescue. I've used it for many years and have found the free version both flexible and reliable. The main problem is trying to remember the command to exit full screen remote and thus get back to your own desktop (it's Ctrl+Alt).TeamViewer, like Easy Connect, is often used to generate a session-limited password that your granddaughter would have to tell you each time, but it can be installed to provide permanent remote access. There's also a securebrowser-based optionmore like LogMeIn. It's a powerful program and has many fans, but it does more than you really need. It is free for non-commercial use.If anyone remembersGoToMyPC, that's still available as a commercial offering, though largely superseded by the same company'sGoToAssist, GoToMeeting and GoToWebinar. These are aimed at the business and corporate markets. They're all owned by Citrix Systems, which bought the company in 2003.I don't think it really matters which software you use, as long as it works. Windows 7's Easy Connect makes the connection easy, and doesn't require any installation, so try that first. If you need unattended access (to log on to the PC when your granddaughter is not there), then LogMeIn works well, but you should both give some serious thought to the privacy implications.
We must be doing something right. The Guardian has won the prize for the best games coverage in a national newspaper at the Games Media Awards – our fifth GMA in five years.This was despite tough competition from our sister paper the Observer, the Daily Telegraph, the Sun and the Star on Sunday. As ever, the awards were voted for by a cross-section of games industry professionals, and covered all aspects of the video games press, from specialist writers to broadcast.Other awards went toEurogamer, for best games website;Edgefor best games magazine; ShortList for best games coverage in a mainstream magazine;Rock, Paper, Shotgunfor best games blog; andSentUAMessagefor best broadcast/podcast. IGN's Keza MacDonald took the coveted award for specialist writer (online) and Christian Donlan was voted best specialist writer (print). The Scotsman's Dave Cook won the best regional columnist award, and VideoGamer's Martin Gaston won the rising star award.The final award, games media legend, went to the veteran journalist Colin Campbell, now head of news and features at IGN in San Francisco, who is credited with setting the blueprint for games coverage on the web. With 25 years of games journalism experience behind him, Campbell has written for the Guardian in the past.The comedian Greg Davies – famed for his character Mr Gilbert in Inbetweeners – compered proceedings at Vinopolis in London, adeptly holding down persistent heckling and raucousness from the headline sponsor Grainger Games, whichgenerated a kerfuffle in the Twittersphere.It's gratifying to receive consistent recognition for our games coverage, but we won't slip into complacency: we intend to use this latest accolade as a means of improving both the quality and depth of the Guardian's games coverage. So, it's more vital than ever that we receive your input, in the form of comments and contributions to Chatterbox. In the meantime, keep reading, and following us at@gdngames.
Famed for his explosive SAS memoir Bravo Two Zero, and now the author of dozens of fictional military thrillers, Andy McNab is a pretty good person to go to if you're concerned with creating an authentic combat game. The decorated ex-soldier worked with EA Dice through the last year of development on Battlefield 3, helping with mission design, dialogue and motion capture sessions. He has also written a tie-in novel, Battlefield 3: The Russian, which explores the activities of special forces operator Dima, who appears as a non-playable character in the game.But what has hereallybeen able to draw from his covert missions in hotspots around the world? And has his work as a security adviser helped in the task of describing war to a bunch of coders and artists? We spoke to him last week, to find out.You haven't been heavily involved with a video game before. What drew you to Battlefield 3?The story. It's as simple as that. Normally, when you're approached by a games company, they just want you to jump on at the end as a marketing tool, or do a bit of motion capture. But when the call came from EA Dice, I went out to Stockholm and the guys there just seemed to get it – they wanted to progress the story-side. You've got to have a lot more than just shooting in games now, you've got to have that sense of engagement.The first things EA Dice showed me were the scripts – and they had a sense of character, of emotion, of connection. That was what did it for me. And my first job was helping with the writing, coming up with plausible bridges between missions, doing some of the dialogue. Military speak is very progressive and positive. No one says, "Well, we'll try to get to X by 9am", it's all about youwilldo this, Iwilldo that, thiswillhappen. The point of that is, if you start with a moment of doubt, when things get worse, doubt becomes failure. It's got to be positive from the start. And it's all about brevity – military language is not as formal as we think it is.And I spent time with the designers and artists, looking at the aesthetics – the right use of weapons, different ranges of fire, operations in urban and desert environments. I worked with the stuntmen and actors in the motion capture studios, showing them how to hold their guns. The team just wanted everything to look right.This may sound like a stupid question, but are there moments in Battlefield that have reminded you of genuine missions you've been on?Oh yes, certainly some of the urban stuff. There's quite a lot of action in Tehran, and through the Middle Eastern architecture, it does look very similar to Iraq. The tank section of the game is based on the earthworks that were built along the Iran/Iraq borders during their war. There were huge infantry battalions based around these earthworks. Four or five years ago, I was flying along the border with the Americans – I was working for a private security company at the time – and I saw these almost medieval constructions.So I took a couple of pictures and when we were going through the tank levels in the game, I dug out them out, sent them over and Dice produced exact replicas in the game. There's an American tank commander who served out in Fallujah and now works for EA Dice in the US – he said the tank level is better than a military simulator.A lot of people aren't comfortable with the idea of gamers indulging in war simulations for fun. Are you completely OK with it?Yes! People have always been fascinated by war – games are just another medium for that. There have been war films since the beginning of cinema – you could go along to the Saturday morning pictures and watch John Wayne kill 100 Japanese soldiers in 10 minutes. It's all part of the same thing. And the big arguments about games inducing violence – they're a load of nonsense; violence has always been there. And possibly, the reason the crime rate is declining in the US is that people are now staying in and exploring violence through games rather than going out and beating people up.It's the same with films and books. I've been blamed for a bank robbery in America somewhere; I've been blamed for a couple of murders. But look… take Chicago and Toronto: they're separated by two lakes, nothing more, the TV is the same, their influences are the same, but Chicago's crime rate is up here and Toronto's is way down there. How can that be? Is it a cultural thing? I don't know.Are the emotions that you experience in shooter anywhere near the emotions you genuinely face in real-life missions? Are there any similarities at all?Yes, there are. Once you're engaged with the character, you're part of it. You get fear, anxiety, you get the same rush of endorphins if you're successful; obviously it's all at different levels because it's just entertainment. You don't get wet, cold and hungry! Also, some people have gamers down as solitary and geeky, but that's not the case. It's very social, you're in touch with 16 other gamers in Japan, the US, all over the world.And soldiers tend to be very good at shooters don't they?Absolutely. The military uses games to as a teaching tool; soldiers in training havealwaysused games. Conflict is progressing, it's becoming more about stand-off attack – you don't want to face the enemy, because people get killed. So war is becoming much more technical and soldiers do play a lot of games. They get it.Which are some of the key weapons in Battlefield, do you think? Which are the most authentic?The RPG works very well, certainly in the urban environments. We spent a lot of time working on that, getting it right, especially the signature left by the back blast. Everyone always expects a big explosion from an RPG, but you don't get that – it's designed to penetrate armour.And with RPGs in shooting games you'll often get a guy who'll just stand right up and fire. Well, in real-life, sometimes you see them sometimes you don't; what you're looking for is the signature of the back blast, which is quite distinctive, it's a noisy signature. That's in the game, and it should help players find where the fire is coming from.The M4 carbine is in a lot of games, but it works very well here. The animation in BF3 captures the way that soldiers manipulate these weapons, the different fixtures on the safety catch, whether it's on single shot or auto, all that sort of stuff. Even down to the moments where you have stoppage and you'll just tip the gun to see what's going on – if the working parts are back, you need a new magazine. So you'll just tip and look. That's in the game animation. Geeky things like that.We spent a lot of time talking about the helicopter gunships, the 40mm cannons, the way that bullet casings come down like rain – that really does happen. So we played with that. Also, they asked me if the gunship would just stay still and hover over the battlefield. I said of course it will; the crew are like, "We've got a big gun, we're heavily armoured, what are you going to do about it?" There's this attitude, "wewillgo forward" and we've got to get that in the game.It's about changing people's perceptions. If you have a line of machine guns pointing one in one direction, you think they're going to stitch the wall in a nice line – it doesn't work that way. When rounds fall, they fall in an oval shape, so instead of having the guns facing outwards, you have two slightly turned to each other – that way you have a bigger Beaten Zone. So often you'll get players asking, what's that machine gun doing up there? And actually, it's doing its job because you want the fire to be coming in from the flank, so the Beaten Zones cross. The Germans worked it out in the first world war. That's why we lost so many soldiers at battles like Passchendaele.You've also talked a lot about ensuring a lived-in look for the vehicles, and about how tanks end up being heavily customised by their crews…Yeah, I mean, people live in them! They customise them as much as possible. If they can get hold of a barbecue, they'll stick it on there. Some crews, certainly in Iraq, they were nicking air conditioning units and trying to rig them up in the tanks. They plug in their iPods. That's their home. Even in mechanised battalions, in Warriors and all that, they'll get as much of their equipment as they can on the outside, to make sure they can make the inside more comfortable. Everyone wants chargers for their phones in there! And there are mugs everywhere because they're continually getting brews on….There's a lot of cynicism among the soldiers in Battlefield 3 – they're often very sceptical, even sarcastic, about their mission objectives. Is that realistic?Yes, I think it's in every soldier's job description! They've always got to moan, they've always got to be saying, 'what the fuck's he on about… oh well, we'll get on and do it'. It's not all, 'yeah, let's go!'. It's not like that, people aren't like that. Everyone just takes the piss out of each other all the time. When they're not taking the piss is when you've got to worry.The multiplayer element of Battlefield 3 really highlights the importance of good communications between infantry and air force. Is that realistic?There are occasions where infantry just talk directly to the pilots. There are voice procedures, but if you've got a guy on the ground screaming for support, the pilot can just say "Shut up, where are you, what can you see? Mark it for me." Then they come in and say "Right. I've got it."But there is a lot of chaos and confusion?Yes, and I've explained that to the team. With the night mission in Tehran, when you're coming in to the city, I spent ages talking to them about the light flares and what they do as they descend – the shadows they cast, the usual confusion… we've played around with that a lot.Can I ask you quickly, as a security adviser, what do you think about the current situation in the Middle East and North Africa? Did anyone see the Arab spring and the fall of Gaddafi coming?No. There's this thing called "the future character of conflict", and both in the commercial military world and the state military world missed all this, it didn't hit anyone's radar. If anything, people were getting more concerned about central Asia. It remains to be seen whether this is all a good thing. I think everyone is relieved that Gaddafi is dead rather than going to the ICC – no one wanted him there. Why would they? It would give him a voice. Now it's cut, it's done, he's dead.Now it's about keeping out of the way of the NTC, because there's that void to fill – they have to manage themselves. As soon as it was over, they were saying, "OK Nato, out!." That's the right way to do it. It's been about mentoring the NTC. They've got to be in charge of their own destiny. You don't want the Europeans stomping around out there.If you were still in active service with the SAS, where do you think you would be now?In Afghanistan probably, in a task force there. Since November, most of the Nato special forces have been all about malleting the leadership of the Taliban. The process of transition has begun in the country; the Afghan national army control Kabul now and have actually been quite successful. So the plan is to remove the hardcore leadership of the Taliban so you're left with people who you can negotiate with. I was out there just before Cameron in November last year and I got a brief that the task forces had malleted about 1,400 Taliban in a 90-day period. It was a huge operation. That's what it's all about – the run up to the point at which combat troops are withdrawn; they're going no matter what – late 2014, probably 2015. They will go, because it will be election time.So where do you think the next conflict hotspots will be for western powers?There are many of them – and again it's about assessing the future character of conflict. What all military forces do is assess energy and food security and the routes to and from trade partners. Food and water, we're all right on, so it'll be energy and trade routes – conflicts on the east and west coasts of Africa, possibly. The Americans, I think, still have an aircraft carrier fleet off the west coast protecting that flank. Our energy out of north Africa seems pretty secure now, it's the east and west coast that might be problem…Battlefield 3 is released on Friday for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
Warner Bros has refused to give DVD rentals chain Blockbuster its latest films, including The Hangover Part II and the final Harry Potter movie, in a row over the 28-day DVD sales window.The Hollywood studio wants to enforce the industrywide 28-day window between the date new DVDs go on sale and the date they are available to rent.Blockbuster has resisted efforts to enforce the window, and earlier this year rented retail DVDs of Horrible Bosses and The Green Lantern inside the 28-day window without Warner Bros' permission.The move is the boldest yet by a Hollywood studio trying to revive flagging DVD sales. Physical films sales fell 19% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2011 to about £1.3bn, in a period when home streaming through online services such as Netflix and LoveFilm grew rapidly.Kevin Tsujihara, the president of Warner Bros home entertainment, indicated inan interview with the Financial Timeson Thursday that the studio will next year move to expand the already contentious window."[Blockbuster] felt it was important to continue to offer day and date rental, so rather than work with us they went around us," he told the FT."The question is: how do we make ownership more valuable and attractive? We have started the process of creating a window in bricks-and-mortar DVD and Blu-ray rental."Warner Bros has similar 28-day window agreements with the online streaming services Redbox and Netflix in the US.Tsujihara suggested that those services may have to wait longer to offer film rentals to viewers when talks to renew the agreement begin next year."The Netflix and Redbox deals are going to be expiring at the end of the year and beginning of next year and it's likely we will try to extend those windows," he told the FT.The move is likely to be fiercely contested by the rental services, some of which are already feeling the pressure from US broadcasters and studios.Netflix saw its shares plunge 32%, to $79.40 (£49.65), in the past week after itposted a loss of more than 800,000 subscribersand said that next year's expansion in the UK and Ireland would push it to a global net loss.Blockbuster had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.
Nintendo, the world's largest maker of video games, has forecast its first annual loss in at least three decades, as the yen reaches a postwar high and competition increases from mobile phone and online games.The Kyoto-based maker of the Wii console forecast a loss of ¥20bn (£165m) for the year ending March 2012 asit reported half-year results on Thursday. This compares with the ¥20bn profit it originally predicted, and analysts' forecasts of ¥12.2bn. Nintendo has not reported a full-year net loss since at least 1981.With around 80% of revenues coming from Europe and the Americas, Nintendo is feeling the effects of western currency devaluations. The yen is at a postwar high against the dollar and at a decade high against the euro, making its products painfully uncompetitive.Profits have been dented by online games such as those developed by the Zynga franchise, which are hugely popular on  Facebook, and mobile phone games such as Angry Birds, forcing Nintendo to slash the price of portable consoles."Nintendo faces a very harsh time now," said Daiwa SB Investments portfolio manager Koichi Ogawa. "Competition in the video game industry is getting severe, and Nintendo must fight for customers who are using smartphones and tablets."After selling just 710,000 units from April to June, the Nintendo 3DS price tag was cut by 40% in August, setting the retail price at £150 in the UK. Sales more than tripled during the following three months."Sales of the Nintendo DS hardware and Nintendo 3DS software were weaker than expected," the company said in a statement. "In addition, the yen appreciation was beyond expectation." Japan's currency gained 13% against the euro last quarter and 4.5% against the dollar, according to Bloomberg data.
A selection of 19 apps for you today:Modern Combat 3: Fallen NationName ring a bell? Gameloft's military first-person shooter is clearly inspired by the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare series, but does a good job of bringing the idea to smartphones and tablets. The latest version includes a 13-mission solo campaign and online deathmatching.iPhone / iPadCodifyCodify is really interesting: an app that aims to help people code on their iPad, making their own games and simulations, with touchscreen-focused controls to tap and drag elements. It's based on the Lua programming language.iPadSkiftaQualcomm-incubated Android app Skifta is all about people accessing their library of music, videos and photos stored on their home computer, while also streaming content from their handset to DLNA-certified TVs, stereos and games consoles. It's just emerged from beta.AndroidMy Town 2US startup Booyah has been pushing location-based gaming since the original My Town, which was like Foursquare crossed with Monopoly. My Town 2 is more CityVille crossed with Foursquare: players have to build a virtual town using familiar social game mechanics (veryfamiliar if you've played CityVille Hometown on iOS), with the twist that businesses are based on those near you in the real world, with your check-ins boosting their virtual performance. Intriguing.iPhone / iPadDon't Let the Pigeon Run This AppDisney's latest iOS book-app is based on illustrator Mo Willems' popular Pigeon books, and gets kids to create their own Pigeon stories by answering questions and then shaking their device, while also recording their own voice.iPhone / iPadAdobe CarouselAdobe's latest iOS app focuses on photos, helping people edit their shots before storing them in the cloud, so they can be accessed from any iOS or Mac device. The app uses a subscription model paid using Apple's in-app purchases system: $59.99 a year or $5.99 a month in the US, and the equivalent elsewhere.iPhone / iPadSnow Patrol Fallen EmpiresSnow Patrol released their first iPhone app back in 2008, but now have a new one for new album Fallen Empires. It includes "exclusive in-the-studio video content and behind-the-scenes photos from the band's amazing live shows", with the promise of more content to come in 2012.iPhone / AndroidBooksy: Learn to Read PlatformiPad app Booksy wants to help children learn to read, based on the US education system. That means two free books delivered within the app, and more for purchase via in-app payments of £0.69 each. "Think of it as training wheels for books. It gives kids independence and security while providing help and support," explains the App Store listing. A parental dashboard monitors progress.iPadGrey Goose Le FizzFree booze? It's a selling point. Bacardi sub-brand Grey Goose has a new iPhone app offering a free glass of Le Fizz when buying a meal at participating venues. Naturally, the app offers a guide to those venues in the UK too. It's been released by Rippll.iPhoneShantae: Risky's RevengeShantae has already been a critically-acclaimed game on Nintendo's DS, but it has now made the leap to iOS as a free download, with players invited to pay in-app to unlock the full thing. "High octane, hair-whipping, belly dancing, monster slaying action" is promised.iPhone / iPadSmartr ContactsXobni's Smartr Contacts Android app has been released in beta, and wants to make "all the people you've ever exchanged emails, calls or SMS' with, instantly searchable from your Android phone". The app is free, and creates profiles for anyone you've contacted, with a Pro version in the works to connect it with other versions for Gmail, Outlook, BlackBerry and iPhone.AndroidNMA.tvTaiwanese company NMA has won a firm following for its quirky 3D animations, acting out the topical news stories of the day. Having complained recently about Apple rejecting its app, the two companies appear to have settled their differences: NMA.tv is available for download on iPad.iPadScoutYo dawg! I got an app on my apps-phone so I can find apps for my apps-phone... Xzibit would surely approve of Scout, the latest app-discovery app for Android. It asks people questions about their preferences, analyses the apps they already own, and makes recommendations. There is also a group of "App Critics" who provide their own curated lists.AndroidRiptide GPDeveloped by the team behind console game Hydro Thunder Hurricane, Riptide GP continues the water-racing theme, with fast-paced jetski action and the ability to race against friends' times.iPhone / iPadChuggington Terrific TraineeKids' TV show Chuggington gets its second iOS app in the form of Terrific Trainee, published by Starz Media. It's a game with 16 missions and a range of characters to play. For now, it seems to be a US-only release.iPhone / iPadSongineer – Instant ComposerMusic tech firm Amidio's latest iPhone app wants to get people making music "literally in seconds", using pre-defined layers of beats, bass, keyboards, lead and "atmo", sequencing them in 32-step patterns.iPhoneTwitchTVWatching other people play games on their consoles or computers? There's now an app for that. TwitchTV is the work of livestreaming company Justin.tv, based on its website of the same name. Watch experts play the likes of Halo: Reach and World of Warcraft: Cataclysm while chatting to friends.iPhoneCecilia AhernHarperCollins has released an iPhone app for author Cecilia Ahern, offering a mixture of quotes, news, audio book samples, videos of other readers talking about their favourites, and a feature to upload your own videos too.iPhoneiBrewRemember when pouring a branded virtual pint was the cutting edge of apps innovation? Happy days. It's more complex than that now. The new iPhone app for Green King Ale gets people to actually brew a pint, choosing ingredients in the right quantities and from the right areas.iPhone
Sony is taking full control of mobile phone joint venture Sony Ericsson, buying out its Swedish partner for €1.05bn (£920m), in a bid to catch up with rivals such as Apple and Samsung.The Japanese electronics giant said the mobile phone operation would be integrated into its consumer division – which includes TVs, tablets, PCs and the Sony PlayStation – bringing to an end a decade-long joint venture with the telecoms company.Sony said the deal included a "broad intellectual cross-licensing" agreement on intellectual property and ownership of five essential families of patents for wireless mobile phone development."We can more rapidly and more widely offer consumers smartphones, laptops, tablets and televisions that seamlessly connect with one another and open up new worlds of online entertainment," said the Sony chairman and chief executive, Howard Stringer."This acquisition makes sense for Sony and Ericsson, and it will make the difference for consumers, who want to connect with content wherever they are, whenever they want. With a vibrant smartphone business … our four-screen strategy is in place."Earlier this month Sony Ericsson broke even in its third-quarter financial update for 2011. It holds a market share of 11%, by value, of the Android phone market – representing 80% of the company's third-quarter sales.
Spotify's next frontier may be the world of iPhone games, judging by a tweet from entrepreneur and investor Sean Parker. He has hinted at a partnership between the streaming music company and iPhone games developer RockLive."Look out for something fun coming out by @spotify &amp; @rocklive. More info coming soon,"tweeted Parker, who is an investor in Spotify, and recently threw a no-expense-spared party for the company during Facebook's f8 conference in San Francisco.RockLive also hinted at a partnership on its own Twitter feed,tweeting"Really cool stuff in the works with us and @Spotify. Stay tuned and follow the both of us!" Spotify's PR team had no further details of the two companies' plans at the time of writing.RockLive describes itself as an "entertainment network that connects its community through mobile games and apps". It has so far released two iPhone games:Mike Tyson: Main EventandMad Chad.The company'sblogreveals that it's working on a third game called Heads Up, and also hints at a separate partnership with social videos service Chill, which has a strong music element.What could RockLive be doing with Spotify? It's possible that the developer is one of Spotify's first commercial partners for its libspotify API, which waslaunched in late August.It enables iOS app developers to access the Spotify catalogue, albeit only for users who are paying subscribers of the music service. At the time, Spotify blogged of its hopes that the API "will enable a new category of iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch applications with Spotify inside and allow for more immersive music experiences within iOS apps".iPhone games pulling songs from Spotify as the soundtrack, or something more ambitious? We'll have to wait for an official announcement, or at least hope Sean Parker decides to spill a few more beans on his Twitter account.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCodify: coding on the iPad &gt;&gt; TwoLivesLeft"Codify for iPad lets you create games and simulations -- or just about any visual idea you have. Turn your thoughts into interactive creations that make use of iPad features like Multi-Touch and the accelerometer." Brilliant. Watch the video.How to draw the Atari logo (and others) with 100% CSS; No javascript! No images! &gt;&gt; Eccspert.comIncludes the CSS3 code. Works on Chrome, Safari, Firefox... and this one includes a moving version of Pong. Bookmark this one. (Makes an interesting test for mobile browsers too.)Apple wins slide to unlock patent | News | TechRadar UK"Apple has been awarded a patent covering the slide-to-unlock functionality on the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. "The familiar touchscreen mechanism was subject to an trademark application back in 2009 and Apple has finally been given the all clear to add this to its ever-growing army of patents. "The patent filing states: 'A device with a touch-sensitive display may be unlocked via gestures performed on the touch-sensitive display. "'The device is unlocked if contact with the display corresponds to a predefined gesture for unlocking the device.'" Hmm. "Predefined gesture" could include Android's really sleek method of unlocking a screen via a pattern. That, of course, didn't appear until its first phone, the Android G1.. in November 2008. Not sure the US Patent Office has done its work here. Or, if the filing predates it, will Apple pursue this, too?Nokia Windows Phone: A Pricing Advantage? - Wireless WorkerBen Smith: "Sitting in the auditorium witnessing the Nokia World keynote live, my first thought on the two new Windows Phone devices was how aggressively they were priced: EUR420 for the high-end Lumia 800 and EUR270 for the 'affordable' Lumia 710. It may have been because the technical specifications had been leaked so comprehensively, but I considered this would be the real post-event talking point." Nokia used to think there was absolutely zero market that would pay over EUR400 for a mobile phone. Interesting how the market has shifted.Richard Stallman speaker visiting requirements &gt;&gt; mysociety public listA fascinating read. In effect, a mini-autobiography.Windows 8 to increase PC production costs &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Microsoft's new Windows 8 OA 3.0 verification system will add complication and costs for ODMs (Original Device Manufacturers) who create and build PCs for the big name OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers). These costs will, undoubtedly, be passed on to us, the consumers. "According to DigiTimes, the issue revolves around Microsoft's new activation system for Windows 8. (Note: The DigiTimes piece inaccurately refers to OA 3.0 as being incorporated into the BIOS. What we are actually talking about here is UEFI firmware, which all Windows 8 certified systems must have.)" The keys will be embedded in the firmware, rather than PCs shipping with a certificate of authentication. Something about this sounds like an accident waiting to happen.Passwords of 93,000 Politicians, Reporters, Bloggers Leaked &gt;&gt; Falkvinge on InfopolicyConfusing tale, but huge implications.National Security Agency helps banks battle hackers &gt;&gt; Reuters"The FBI has helped banks avert several potential attacks by alerting them to vulnerabilities in their computer networks, and by flagging possible hackers before they struck, he said." Interesting that the feds claim to already know who these hackers are..Identity thief nabbed with over 300,000 victim profiles &gt;&gt; CNET News"A California man was sentenced to eight years in prison for identity theft after federal police GPS-tracked his phone and discovered a hard drive with over 300,000 victim profiles during a raid of his home." He was on parole for identity theft when arrested; found via some help and "internet searching". Unclear where he got the IDs from.Steve Ballmer Staged An Emotional Event With Bill Gates To Keep Employees Happy, Says Book &gt;&gt; Business InsiderFormer executive says Bill Gates "broke down and cried" when defending the company from "those who call us a selfish monopoly that takes advantage of users"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday. Let the game-related chatter commence.
Here's a neat hole in the iPad's security, asshown by Cesare Garlati of BringYourOwnIT in the videoembedded above. See that guy reading his business email on his super-locked-down enterprise device? The one which locks instantly and needs a passcode?OK, here's what you do: after he's put it down from reading his email (that bit is important), grab it and slap on a Smart Cover (if it hasn't got one; all the best thieves use them).Press the power button at the top until you get the "Power off" message; flip the smart cover over the iPad so it shuts off the screen; flip it back open, and then press the "Cancel" button.As Garlati says in the video, "Boom, you're in." You're straight back intowhatever application was just running.Helluva security hole. (We don't know if it exists in versions of iOS before 5.0. Anyone? Bueller?)Note however what he says in the closing seconds of the video: once you crack the iPad in this way, you can do anything -except press the Home button to get to any other application. That will leave you still locked out. This only gives access to the former frontmost app. (If you pressed the Home button before locking the machine, that would be Springboard, which "runs" the Home screen.)As he points out, it's a serious security hole which definitely needs fixing. The fact that you can't navigate away from that front app however suggests that the simple way to defeat this hack is to play a game before you put down that enterprise iPad. Oras Garlati puts it on his blog, "Given that the access gained in this way is limited to the foreground application, the obvious workaround is to instruct the users to close any foreground application before locking the iPad."We prefer the games option. Well, it's a good excuse for the next level of Angry Birds, anyway.
One of the original selling points of Amazon's Kindle was that the device weighed no more than the average paperback. In the brave new world of the e-reader, bibliophiles could  load their gadgets with the complete works of Proust, Tolstoy and Dickens without fear of spraining their wrists on their way to work.So imagine the consternation among gadget fans when it emerged this week that the Kindle actually weighs more when it is fully loaded with books.John Kubiatowicz, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, tackledthis vital question for the New York Times. He explained that e-readers store data by trapping electrons, and while the number of electrons in the gadget's memory does not change, it takes more energy to hold them in place than to leave them roaming free. How much more energy? Around a billionth of a microjoule for each bit of data&nbsp;stored.Working from Einstein's famous equation, which states that energy and mass are equivalent, Kubiatowicz worked out how much the weight of a Kindle might change as the books built up. He compared an empty four-gigabyte Kindle with a full one, in&nbsp;which half the electrons were trapped, requiring an extra 17 microjoules of energy.Popped into Einstein's formula, this gives an answer of around one attogram, meaning the weight of a full Kindle was a billionth of a billionth of a gram more than a factory-fresh one. Which isn't so bad, considering that 10,000 books – a fraction a Kindle can hold – might weigh five tonnes. An attogram, very roughly, is one tenth the weight of a small virus.From the world of academia come calming words for anyone alarmed at the finding. "If you left your Kindle on a sunlit windowsill you'd probably absorb more energy, and hence gain weight," says Richard Jones, professor of computer systems at the University of Kent."If Professor Kubiatowicz is really struggling with the extra weight, he's welcome to come to Edinburgh where it's cooler, and the lack of thermal energy in his Kindle will more than compensate," adds Graeme Ackland, professor of computer simulation at the University of Edinburgh.
Francisco Jeronimo, research manager, IDC"Will these devices be enough to reverse Nokia's current performance? Nokia has been struggling in the smartphone segment since 2007. It will take a lot more than just a couple of phones to bring Nokia back, but what we are seeing today is an excellent first step and Nokia has shown it can change its culture, readapt and refocus on growth, by delivering devices that combine the best of hardware with unique services at the right price and at the right time. We foresee a brighter future to Nokia now compared to a year ago."Robert Fahle, head of mobile at RTL Group"Lumia has an attractive price in the high-end market, a little bit cheaper than the iPhone. But the screen size isn't big enough, whereas Samsung offer bigger displays. Size is key in the market and although Apple screens are similar you never know what they are going to come up with next and Apple has a tablet. There is no Nokia tablet to compete."The biggest decision will be can the co-operation with Microsoft work. On the one hand, Mango is quite a good operating system and offers some new features and it's easy to use. And it's not a copy of the Apple or Android user interface. On the other hand it will need a lot of marketing to bring it to people's attention. This might be the last chance for Nokia."Carolina Milanese, research vice-president, Gartner"Today was about proving that Nokia can deliver. It's like a baby starting to walk. The first step without falling is very important because it's going to give you that confidence to walk on. The majority of people expected one device and they gave us two. The handsets from a design perspective are competitive, on price too. Are they truly differentiated against an Apple or an Android? Not really. Trying to persuade someone on iPhone to change is going to be very hard, but the majority of people on Android today are there more for the user interface and the hardware, not for the whole ecosystem. Getting them to switch is easier. The biggest criticism of Nokia was they had this vision but they couldn't execute. Today they showed they can."An Orange employee on the Lumia 800"It's just one of the best mergers from a handset and a software perspective. It's probably the greatest designed body I've seen. With the colours, they have come back to one of their past ways of differentiating phones. Everything else is black or white or grey."Benedict Evans, analyst, Enders Analysis"Next year Nokia and Apple will be the only people selling smartphones that aren't generic slabs of black plastic."Nick Dillon, analyst, Ovum"Having replaced its own Symbian platform with Microsoft's, this is essentially a restart for the handset manufacturer, which has struggled to adjust to the new dynamics of the smartphone market following the launch of the iPhone in 2007. Considering that Nokia had very little, if no, input into the Mango release of Windows Phone, the company has done well to differentiate its devices against those from other Windows Phones licensees."Dillon praised Nokia's decision to create its own navigation and music services for the new devices, and the high-end Carl Zeiss camera. "While none of these on their own are standout features, they at least provide Nokia with some ammunition for its marketing and sales team to market the devices in an increasingly competitive market."
Nokia is taking the smartphone battle to Android with the launch of a new handset in a collaboration with Microsoft that represents a last-ditch bid to shape computing's new frontier.With Apple and Google's Android now dominating the smartphone market, the world's largest phone maker is pinning its hopes of a business turnaround on the success of two models unveiled by chief executive Stephen Elop at the annual Nokia World event in London.The first Nokia handsets to run on Microsoft's Windows Phone interface, the Lumia 800, priced €420 (£365), and the Lumia 710, at €270, are aimed squarely at the mid-market, which is dominated by the Android operating system.The phones were produced in a frantic eight-month period after Elop decided to abandon the "burning platform" of Nokia's own operating software in favour of Windows Phone.The Lumia phones run on its latest iteration, 7.5 Mango, which has had a limited distribution so far on handsets by HTC, LG and Samsung. In competition with Google's free Android software, Microsoft has struggled to get Windows Phone onto a wide range of handsets, with just 2% market share in mid-2011, according to analyst IDC.Microsoft will be hoping that Lumia, which Elop described provocatively as "the first real Windows phone made by anyone", will deliver its software to a much wider audience. With sales of PCs declining in favour of mobile connected devices, Microsoft's influence over consumer technology will fade unless it can make its presence felt on smartphones and tablets.The US behemoth is understood to be lavishly bankrolling the Lumia launch, paying unspecified billions to Nokia as a thank-you for using its software, and the new advertising campaign will have a budget three times higher than for any previous Nokia range.The Lumia 800 will be released in November in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, with customers able to pre-order immediately from nokia.com, and 31 networks and independent retailers committed to marketing the product. Its case is a slimmer version of the colourful N9 released by Nokia earlier this year.Hong Kong, India, Russia, Singapore and Taiwan will get the handset before the end of the year, with further markets early in 2012. The United States is not on the list, because Nokia has no Lumia models yet that will work on 4G superfast mobile internet, which is already in use in across the Atlantic.The cheaper Lumia 710, which echoes the iPhone with its curved edges and white or black casing, will be available first in Russia and the far east, before heading west in 2012.Proclaiming a "new dawn"  for Nokia, Elop said: "Eight months ago, we shared our new strategy and today we are demonstrating clear progress of this strategy in action." He added: "We're driving innovation throughout our entire portfolio."Elop is keeping one eye firmly on developing markets, unveiling four "Asha" handsets named after the Hindi word for hope, aimed at the "next 1 billion" users in those parts of the world where most people's first experience of the internet will be via a mobile phone.Having decided not to adopt Android as an operating system, Nokia has seemed frozen in the headlights of its progress. Since the beginning of 2010, the Finnish firm's market capitalisation has halved from $52bn to $25bn, and over the same period its share of the smartphone market has declined from 39% to 16%. Revenues have slumped, and operating profits of over €1bn for its phones division were as low as €132m in September.A former Nokia executive, Anssi Vanjoki, once said that by adopting Android, rivals like HTC were just like Finnish boys who "pee in their pants" in winter for temporary warmth.That decision allowed rivals HTC and Samsung to race ahead, but some experts believe that Windows Phone Mango is distinctive enough to have been worth waiting for. Its interface has been welcomed as an improvement on the design of Apple and Android. Benedict Evans at Enders Analysis said: "Next year, Nokia and Apple will be the only people selling smartphones that aren't generic slabs of black plastic."
The last Nokia phone I owned, I loved. It was a6310iand it had an "it just works" quality to it that's reminiscent of the way that Apple kit works today. OK, so getting the thing online was a pain, but this was 2002 and none of the cool kids were doing that.When the iPhone 4S was available for pre-order last week my finger hovered over the "Buy Now" button. The hesitation was there because next week, we had Nokia World coming up and we all knew that the new Nokia Windows Phones units were going to be announced. Those of us wanting Microsoft to make a success of the smartphone market and offer Apple some serious competition anticipated great things. Disappointment came in spades.Calling in sickThis morning I woke up with a bad cold. Intending to be on Twitter from the start of the keynote, I blearily tuned in towards the end, just before the part where they cut over live to the Nokia factory in Finland for a live link. (This struck me as strange; it felt like they were proactively disproving an inability to ship?) But anyway, in the box and on the lorries there were. It looked good. I was too ill to properly remember the price, but knew it was chump change and flipped over to Mobile Safari to buy …PredictablePredictably, at the time the promised link on the Nokia website hadn't materialised and you could not pre-order as promised in the keynote. (Why people doing these launches seem to be unable to match their online presence rollout with the speeches is beyond me – they must be tested to destruction ahead of time.) But, in the end it worked andhere's the link.But what's this –Pay monthlyis the only option?Twitter friendAlex Norcliffecontacted Carphone Warehouse and Phones 4U. Both confirmed the availability of the unit on contract-only. But Twitter friendJeevan Takharfound this link offeringpre-order of sim-free unit from Clove Technology. They then want on to confirm to Alex that theydo not have an order placed yet but we have confirmed that stock will be available to us.Whither sim-free Windows Phone?This is a total,facepalmmoment.When the iPhone 4S went on pre-order, the 1,300 or so people I follow on Twitter bought one. Well, I'm exaggerating, but a solid proportion of them did. (Caveat: not a scientific sample – small and self-selected.) In total, figures show more than4 million units shifted in the first weekend of availability.Four million. For Windows Phone to succeed, Microsoft needs to generate that sort of sales excitement.What makes this ridiculous is that Microsoft knows this. The company's people know that if you want to get your stuff adopted you have to get out there at a grassroots level and get it into people's hands. The thing about a phone is that it literallyisin people's hands, so any geek can walk into pretty much any environment and excite all and sundry about this wonderful new device. "Hey, is that a Nokia Windows Phone?" "Yes it is …" "Wow, that's looking pretty good!" "Why don't I show you?" "Hmmm, that Android unit isn't looking so clever now. This requires further thought."Clove has the SIM-free unit listed at a cost of £369+VAT (£442.80). That's cheap. Really cheap. (Compare the cheapest iPhone 4S: £499.) Cheap enough for any geeky guy or girl who loves new tech to reach into their pocket and buy one, regardless of whether they'll form a long-term love affair with the thing.But it's not the same proposition if you're tied into a contract. It's like having a whirlwind holiday romance where you start by booking the wedding for your return. Microsoft need people to fall in love with Windows Phone, and an expensive, contractual commitment isn't the way to do that. Remember, the attraction for Microsoft in partnering with Nokia is that people do fall in love with Nokia's kit in a way they don't with an HTC or a Samsung. (Although HTC has the highest "retain" factor as a mobile brand after Apple, according to research.)Admittedly, there are 12-month contracts – Vodafone will do one for £199 down and £36 a month, ie £631 over the year – but wait for it,they bundle between 250MB and 750MB of data per month. On an iPhone challenger. The iPhone is about data, not about voice! It's just error piled on error piled on error.Nokia has always made beautiful units – they're the only consumer electronics firm out there with the chops to make something as beautiful as Apple – and the Lumia is beautiful.But Nokia and Microsoft have managed to make a misstep at the crucial point. For this to work, Microsoft needsbrand envoys– people who are proud to be out there toting this thing. What they have right now isn't that. They have a whole load of pissed-off wannabe brand envoys whose fingers are once again hovering over the iPhone 4S "buy now" button. That's sad.(You can seeall the Lumia 800 contracts, TCOs and prices on our handy spreadsheet.)Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
What's real and what's hype in mobile location services?Groupon, Foursquare, Microsoft, Ford and BMW kick the tyres of geo-focused applicationsThere's a lot of excitement around location-based mobile apps, but a lot of hot air too. A panel of experts aimed to sift the two at the Nokia World conference, with representatives from Groupon, Foursquare, Microsoft's Bing division, Ford and BMW.Doug VanDagens, global director of connected services solutions at Ford, talked about his company's idea of "the vehicle as a platform… and through that platform being able to hook up to agnostic services".Groupon's vice president of business development and mobile Michael Shim was also on the panel. "I'd say location is a pretty key element of the future of the company," he said. "Certainly when we started out three years ago, we didn't need to have very well developed mobile services to support what was then a fairly basic daily deals service."Shim said that location as a context has given Groupon the ability to do "a whole bunch of things that we didn't think possible with our core service". The company thinks of itself as much as a "local discovery platform" as just a deals service, as a result.Foursquare's vice president of mobile and international, Holger Luedorf, drew a distinction between his company and Groupon, saying that for Foursquare, "the commerce is almost the by-product".Instead, he talked about Foursquare's traditional aim of sparking serendipitous meetings with friends who happen to be near one another, while also providing useful recommendations of places to go. The commerce element comes when Foursquare's merchant partners create special deals for people who check in using the app.So what's next? Erik Jorgensen, senior vice president of Bing Mobile and Places at Microsoft, claimed that search is going to "fundamentally change" in the next year. "Geocoding and the physical universe is critical," he said."When you look at Windows Phone, today we have a service called OpenScout which gives you that idea of what to see and do around you. How that gets smarter and smarter and more pro-active really is the future."The panel were asked about likely forces of disruption over the next year for the location industry. Shim said that the continued evolution of mobile payments technology and services will be crucial, especially when they tie into location-based apps. "Those things can really come together and have an explosively disruptive effect."Jorgensen talked about "concierge advertising – how users get brought to services that are interesting to them", and had some surprisingly harsh words for his own company's app store, as well as rivals."Today if you look at the app stores on Windows Phone or Apple or Android, it's a place you have to go to sift through all the crap that's there to find an app, and you may not even know what it's called," he said. "The point where an app is installed at the point a user wants to use them, that's going to be a big point."Luedorf said he'd like to see persistent location sensors on devices that don't drain their batteries. Mobile operators have told Foursquare that they could help in this regard with their own location APIs, but Luedorf was unimpressed. "For a company of 80 people, it's almost impossible to implement these on a carrier-by-carrier basis," he said.He was also asked about how soon the new Foursquare Radar feature will be available on devices other than the iPhone. It pings people when they are near a friend or a location that's on a Foursquare list that they subscribe to.Luedorf said that push notifications are a key factor, but came back to the idea of battery life as a barrier in Windows Phone's case particularly."We are working very closely with Nokia and the Microsoft team on further developments. As soon as we realise that Radar will work on the Windows Phone with a reasonable battery life, we will enable it… If it wouldn't drain it in less than five hours, we would consider it."
Are you in line for one ofNokia's new Lumia 800 smartphonesrunning Windows Phone 7.5 (aka "Mango")? Then you'll have to be in it for the long run – there don't seem to be contract-free offers.Thecontracts on offer– mainly from Vodafone if you want anything less than 24 months – mean you'll end up paying a total of at least £631 (cheapest total cost of ownership – TCO – on a Vodafone 12-month £36/month contract) and up to £1,104 (Vodafone 24-month £46/month contract).That comes in £160 cheaper than the cheapest 24-month iPhone 4S, from Orange, according toour spreadsheet on iPhone 4S prices.Here's the spreadsheet. Generally, Three works out cheapest for a given combination (where it competes) and its unlimited data and texts offerings seem pretty compelling – assuming, of course, that you can get coverage. (Three's site does let you check that first.)Nokia Lumia 800 total cost of ownership (12, 18, 24-month contracts)24-month contract TCO£26/moc£30/mo£33.50/moc£35/mo£38.50/moc£40/mo£46/moVodafone8238439038649249841104Three720792960Orange744864984MinutesVodafone1003005006008009001200Three500500500Orange6009001200Data (MB)U = unlimitedVodafone250500500500750750750Three1000UUOrange500500500TextsVodafone500UUUUUUThree500050005000OrangeUUUMonthly contractVodafone263133.53638.54146Three303340Orange313641Handset costVodafone19999990000Three000Orange00018-month contract TCO£31/mo£36/mo£38.50/mo£41/mo£43.50/mo£46/mo£51/moVodafone757747792738783828918MinutesVodafone100300500600600800900Data (MB)Vodafone250500500500750750750TextsVodafone500UUUUUUMonthly contractVodafone313638.54143.54651Handset costVodafone1999999000012-month contract TCO£36/mo£41/mo£46/mo£51/moVodafone631631651671MinutesVodafone3006009001200Data (MB)Vodafone500500500750TextsVodafoneUUUUMonthly contractVodafone36414651Handset costVodafone1991399959Nokia Lumia 800 spreadsheet
Angry Birds has been hugely popular in the developed world, notching up more than 400 million downloads across various devices and platforms. Now its developer, Rovio Mobile, has its sights set on emerging markets too.The company has made a version of Angry Birds for Nokia's Series 40 handsets, which continue to sell strongly in the developing world. The partnership between Rovio and Nokia wasannounced at the Nokia World conferencein London, alongside a new range of Asha Series 40 phones."We're really excited about making the Angry Birds experience available to the world," said Rovio's marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka, speaking in an apps-focused session at the conference."We can reach totally new audiences in India, in Africa and all the emerging markets. We're really excited about that. We have 400 million-plus downloads, but hopefully we can add another 400 million together with Nokia in the next few months."Talking to The Guardian before the panel session, Vesterbacka confirmed that the Series 40 version of Angry Birds will be sold in Nokia's own apps store, but that a demo version will also be preloaded on its handsets, with players able to buy the full version in "a couple of clicks".Nokia's senior vice president of developer experience and marketplace, Marco Argenti, was also speaking during the session, and said Rovio's decision to look beyond smartphones is a sensible one."The usage of apps on S40 is as high as in the smartphone category," said Argenti. "The Nokia Store does 10 million downloads a day, of which a third are coming from our Series 40 mobile phones. And in fact that number was around 10-12% at the beginning of the year."Argenti said that Nokia is seeing strong app downloads in India, China and Vietnam, for example, along with Mexico and Brazil.Making Angry Birds a hit in emerging markets is important strategically for Rovio, not least for the other elements of its business like plush toys and its animation ambitions."We haven't seen ourselves as a games company for a long time," said Vesterbacka. "We've now sold over 10 million plush toys, so a million a month, and we also have other products: board games, card games, and we've recently launched our first book."The Angry Birds Bad Piggies cookbook was announced earlier in 2011, and is expected to ship to pre-orderers in October and November. Vesterbacka admitted that the decision to launch a cookbook may have surprised fans – a comic may have been a more obvious choice – but hinted that Rovio may switch from print to e-books for future Angry Birds books."We're very interested in the digital side of publishing," he said. "You can expect to hear more about Rovio books in the not-too-distant future. We're building the first entertainment brand on the planet with a billion fans. Right now we have 400 million downloads, but we're only getting started."Vesterbacka was asked about the HTML5 versus native apps debate, and said that while Rovio is currently focused on native Angry Birds games on mobile, it's not shunning HTML5."We have 70 million unique users on our HTML5 game online, so we're deeply versed in HTML5," he said. "For us it's not so much about the technology, it's about using whatever is there to create the best possible experience for our fans."He also talked location, and Rovio's ambitions to combine the virtual and physical worlds. The company worked with retailer Barnes &amp; Noble in the US on something called Magic Places, providing special features for players who went into their stores and played Angry Birds on their devices."You just walked into the store and boom, you had special features," he said. "I think that there's a lot that can be done by really creating these kinds of experiences when people in a particular area... We could have made all of this Nokia World an Angry Birds Magic Place and offer special features."Vesterbacka was also asked about Rovio's revenues, but declined to share any details with the audience at Nokia World. "We're doing okay, we have 400 million-plus downloads, and we're insanely profitable. We can fund our own growth."However, he did reveal that Rovio intends to break Angry Birds out of its current single-mechanic gameplay into other genres and forms. "You can expect to see other Angry Birds games, just like Mario," he said."When Mario drives a car, it becomes Mario Kart. When he goes to space, it becomes Super Mario Galaxy... Our birds will do things and go places, and they will go to unexpected places. And some of those places will turn out to be games."
The former chief executive of Myspace has spoken for the first time about the demise of the once-dominant social network, admitting that News Corporation should have relaunched the site as "an entirely new brand".Ina comment piece for the CNN Money website, Mike Jones said that Myspace faced "a variety of organisational challenges" under parent company News Corp, but said it was ultimately held back by failures of marketing.Jones stepped down as the chief executive of Myspace after two years in August, following its$35m acquisition by a group of investors including Justin Timberlake.Rupert Murdoch, News Corp chairman and chief executive, gave his frankest assessment yet of the Myspace debacle at the company's annual shareholder meeting in Los Angeles on Friday. He admitted making a "huge mistake" by not selling the social network for $6bn shortly after News Corp paid $580m for it in 2005."We then proceeded to mismanage it in every possible way and all of the people concerned with it are no longer with the company," he toldshareholders.Jones said that it was a "mistake" to keep the Myspace brand after it wasrepositioned as a social entertainment hubin October last year."We found that regardless of how much we improved the product or the marketing message consumers' memories about the brand were too strong to allow them to view Myspace with fresh eyes and an open mind," he added. "We could not escape their images of animated GIFs."Jones said that a bigger marketing budget might have changed perceptions of Myspace, which lost its position as the leading social network to Facebook shortly after News Corp's purchase and never recovered. But he also pointed out that brand campaigns at other internet giants such as Yahoo had failed."I don't think a large consumer campaign would have significantly changed the outcome for Myspace," he said. "In the end, I believe Myspace would have had a better chance for success if we had relaunched it as an entirely new brand."Jones said that Myspace also struggled because, unlike Facebook, it did not have a product that enticed users to visit the site every day. He suggested that Myspace should have required users to sign up with their real-life name, as Facebook does.The former AOL executive also suggested that cutting huge swathes of staff did not deliver the results that News Corp had wanted. He described how "even significant staff changes often do not result in the desired increase in efficiency".
Are mobile phones changing the news industry? An easy question to answer: just look at the number of TV networks, newspapers and news sites that ran the mobile phone footage of the captured Muammar Gaddafi earlier in October.The topic of news and mobility was probed at the Nokia World conference this morning in a presentation by CNN's international business correspondent Richard Quest.He started by wondering how the sinking of the Titanic in 1912 might have been covered if Twitter had existed at the time, drawing a direct parallel to the 2009 emergency landing of US Airways Flight 1549 on the Hudson River in New York, and a famous Twitpic of the passengers waiting to be rescued."We've already seen in this one instance the way in which we're getting a convergence of mobile phone, social media, and it all creates a new environment in the news world," said Quest.He moved on to the protests across the Middle East earlier in 2010, and the role mobile phones played in getting footage and opinions out to the rest of the world."It doesn't matter if it was in Cairo or Bahrain, Syria or Yemen, this small device has managed to bring home the reality of what's happening in the world, and in doing so has changed the way people like me do our business," said Quest.He cited stats claiming by the end of this year "there will be more mobile phones than toothbrushes in this world… Which sad bugger worked out that sort of statistic?"Quest also referred to the Gaddafi death, pointing out that even US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton got the news on her own mobile – the moment, and her shocked expression, was captured by TV cameras."It's a small empowering powerful device, but be under no illusion: with that device in your pocket, you are all your own citizen journalists," said Quest. "I don't think you can do the job as well as I can. But certainly together, we can all benefit from the almighty mobile."Quest was asked how the growth in mobile and social media usage changes the team around him at CNN: what new skills and roles are needed to gather and filter the huge amounts of information out there on newsworthy events?"Not only do you have to have the infrastructure to go out and gather the news and bring it in, but when you have iReports and citizen journalists sending in their material, you have to have an infrastructure in place to guard against rogue stories and exaggerated facts," he said."Your credibility is like your virginity: once it's gone, it ain't coming back! The world is replete with stories of newspapers and television companies that have been roundly hoaxed. Whenever there's a big story with vast potential to get social media content and find out what's happening, your first object is to prod into that, and then test it to see whether it's valid. If you don't do the second part, you're basically a bilge pump."Quest said that every TV newsroom meeting now has a section on what stories are buzzing on social networks, but warned that social media still does not drive the agenda in terms of the big story of any day."The big story of the day is always going to be driven by what's happened, and by the facts and the events," he said."Where there is a component for social media is what people are saying about it and how people are reacting to it. That is no different to the days where you had the radio phone-in and people sending letters to the editor."Quest ws asked about young people's news habits, and whether they're abandoning printed newspapers for screens, whether TV, tablets or mobile devices."I hope I'm wrong, but I think the victory of the screen is going to win out," he said. "It raises the fundamental question: is the quality of reading and comprehension as good when you read it on a screen as when you read it on a physical paper?… I do worry that the days of the physical paper are seriously numbered."
When we spoke to Dax Ginn (marketing game manager at Rocksteady)earlier this year, he made it sound like you started work on Batman: Arkham City before Batman: Arkham Asylum was finished. Were the games developed in tandem?No, we didn't develop anything in tandem! We really were kicking ideas around at that time – we certainly hadn't started development. As a studio we tend to focus on one thing at a time so everyone was focused on finishing Arkham Asylum.Once that was done, we started thinking about where we could go next. Arkham City was a rough idea for what we wanted. We did a couple of concept drawings for it – which you can actually find in the game – but that was far as we got with it before Arkham Asylum was done. (Laughs) We're not smart enough to develop two games of that size at the same time!Dax also said that the game was driven by technical considerations. Did that extend to some of Batman's gadgets and capabilities? Did you have ideas you had to shelve and then wait to put them in this game?There's never really any concept of waiting, to be honest. We started Arkham City with a blank slate, really, mainly because we believe passionately that we have to make the best game we can possibly make. That's what we do with all our resources. If we come up with a good idea that we want to see in the game, we put it in the game, unless it's literally five minutes before release. I'm trying to squeeze in every idea I possibly can way after the production team says, 'Right! This has to stop!'.There's no concept of holding any ideas back. I just feel like it's so rare you get the chance to release a game which has this level of anticipation swirling around it. We need to make the best game we could possibly make – then we'll worry about what comes next.With that in mind, were there any ideas that landed on the cutting room floor with Arkham City?There weren't actually. What tends to happen is that we come up with some ideas, try them out and then they kind of morph into other things. We'll try something out, decide it wasn't very good, but that we liked a bit of it … our process is very iterative. There's nothing really that just drops into our game fully formed. It might be that we change the effect of a device or a mechanic, but there's nothing we throw out completely.Batman: Arkham CityOne of the game's strongest aspect is the story, which was penned by (Batman Animated Series writer) Paul Dini, but I imagine you had some idea of where you wanted Arkham City's plot to go before he got involved. Without getting too spoilerific, there are some pretty major developments in the game's story…[Laughs] Indeed!How many of these developments were set in stone from the beginning? Did you, for example, know how you wanted the plot to end?We did know right at the start. Paul Dini flew over right at the start of the development with a guy from DC we work very closely with, and all of us kicked around ideas. We knew exactly where we wanted it to go – without getting into spoilers – right up to the end.We knew the major plot points, and as the game developed we filled out the journey there. So we started the game knowing five or six main beats, but the rest is down to the development process. There's a lot of stuff in the game, which, if you play it through a second time, will make more sense the second time you play it.Part of the fun of doing a Batman game has to be using his villains…It certainly is!How did the hierarchy of the villains come about? Did you know exactly which villains you wanted it and how they all slotted into the plots and subplots? Did some villains start off as main protagonists and then have their roles diminished?It tended to happen more the other way round (laughs). We tended to have a villain have a walk-on part and then we'd decide, 'Hey we really like this character, let's give them more to do!'. Once the characters were in the game, we could then use them and fulfil their potential in the story a bit more.We knew we wanted the Joker in right from the start, for obvious reasons. We also wanted Two-Face and The Penguin, because they're both big iconic Batman characters, and we also needed two characters the players would believe would be battling for control of the streets. Out of all of Batman's villains, those two have the most clout.Batman: Arkham CityHugo Strange came relatively early on as well. It was one of those questions we had of, 'Who do we want running the prison and who would present a more interesting challenge to Batman?' We quite liked the idea of having a character who knew who Batman was and could threaten him in a completely different way.The Riddler in this game looms larger than in the last game and many of the puzzles guarding his trophies are fiendishly hard to crack. Was that your intent from the beginning? To punish the player in this way?(Laughs) Not so much about the punishing thing – I agreed with everything up until them. No, but the last game was more a trophy collecting game where you only had to be aware of your environment and investigate it a bit more.We really wanted to up the Riddler's game in this one, which made sense in terms of the game and the plot. The Riddler is furious with Batman for humiliating him in Arkham Asylum, so in this game he really pulls out the stops to beat him. It wasn't meant to be punishing … but challenging, intellectually stimulating, yes. You also get to prove you're better than Riddler. Like you mentioned earlier with the rogue's gallery – they're all so different and all have different motivations – so it was great to tap into that. Riddler's number one motivation is proving how much smarter he is than Batman.We spent about three weeks coming up with the trophy locations and trophies and challenges and riddles for Arkham City. It was a lot of fun.Batman: Arkham CityI imagine the beta-testing for the Riddler content was pretty exhaustive?The testing was … well there was a lot of it. It's an open world game so you can go anywhere and it's easy to break the logic on a lot of stuff. We're really committed to putting out very high quality and really polished experiences. We'd never want release anything that had a ton of bugs in it.I think the nice thing about the trophies is that it's an optional extra and you can do them when you want. You not locked into doing them and you can take your time. And as you uncover more and more of them you can unlock the Riddler rooms which are some of my favourite stages in the entire game.How did the other playable characters come about? Was it always the idea to have Robin and Catwoman available for the player to use?Playable Catwoman came very early on because we wanted a playable character who was a very nice counter to Batman – someone who wasn't as morally rigid. Catwoman provides that, she's far more… flexible than Batman. Morally, I mean. She also has an interesting relationship with him as well, so we could bounce them off each other.We aso talked about Robin and what we could have as DLC [downloadable content] – but that conversation came much later.Batman: Arkham CitySpeaking of DLC, what can we expect for Batman: Arkham City in the coming months?The main thing we're doing is the challenges for Robin and we're doing some avatar skins as well …Any story-based DLC?[Smiles] I don't think I'm allowed to talk about that at this stage.Arkham City is huge and I've heard a rumour that this is the last open world game Rocksteady are doing because it was such a huge undertaking? Is that true?Who is spreading that rumour? (laughs) No, that isn't the case at all!When we started the game we didn't sit down and say 'Let's make an open world game'. We looked at what we be a fun game to make and a fun game to play. That's what drove the open world decision. If we felt there was a story that was worth telling for a character that didn't involve an open world, we'd do that. It's more about what we think is a good fit, what will be fun and what gets the team inspired, rather than picking a genre for the sake of it.It was an awful lot of work  - no doubt about that – there was a lot of late nights and a lot of weekend working, but we think it was all worth it. So that would never put us off a similar experience in the future.Did you ever worry that you were cramming a bit too much into the game?Ah … er … the scheduler said that! (laughs) I worry all the time – I guess that's what I'm paid to do. I just felt that it was the most exciting thing we could do at the time and the team were really driven to do it. We wanted to make the best Batman game of all time. That was the end game.
Block 1511.27am:So, to sum up, Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop has launched what he hopes will be Nokia's "new dawn" with two smartphones, the Lumia 800 and the Lumia 710.These are the first smartphones to use Microsoft's Windows Phone interface, with the 800 aimed at higher end customers and the 710 targeting the mass market.With an eye on Nokia's massive user base in the developing world, he also launched a range of hybrid phones under the name Asha. Some models can hold two SIMs, a feature clearly targeted at countries such as India and China where many users like to swap between networks to take advantage of varying signals or tarriffs.Named after the Hindi word for "hope", the Asha phones run on Nokia's S40 operating system."Eight months ago, we shared our new strategy and today we are demonstrating clear progress of this strategy in action. We're driving innovation throughout our entire portfolio, from new smartphone experiences to ever smarter mobile phones," said Elop."From the Nokia Lumia 800 to the Nokia Asha 201, we are bringing compelling new products to the market faster than ever before. I'm incredibly proud of these new devices – and the people of Nokia who have made this happen."Nokia Lumia 800The stunningly social Lumia 800 features head-turning design, vivid colors (cyan, magenta and black) and the best social and internet performance, with one-touch social network access, easy grouping of contacts, integrated communication threads and Internet Explorer 9. It features a 3.7-inch AMOLED ClearBlack curved display blending seamlessly into the reduced body design, and a 1.4GHz processor with hardware acceleration and a graphics processor. The Lumia 800 contains an instant-share camera experience based on leading Carl Zeiss optics, HD video playback, 16GB of internal user memory and 25GB of free SkyDrive storage for storing images and music. The estimated retail price for the Nokia Lumia 800 will be approximately €420, excluding taxes and subsidies.Nokia Lumia 710The purposely built, no-nonsense Nokia Lumia 710 can be personalised with exchangeable back covers and thousands of apps to bring the Lumia experience to more people around the world. The Nokia Lumia 710 is designed for instant social and image sharing, and the best browsing experience with IE9. It is available in black and white, and offers black, white, cyan, fuchsia and yellow back covers. With the same 1.4GHz processor, hardware acceleration and graphics processor as the Lumia 800, the  Lumia 710 delivers high performance at an affordable price. The estimated retail price for the Nokia Lumia 710 will be approximately €270, excluding taxes and subsidies.Block 1410.57am:My colleague Stuart Dredge's first take on Nokia's tie-up with Angry Birds for its Asha developing world handsets:Angry Birds for Series 40 feature phones is a very big deal for its developer Rovio Mobile - not least to break its brand in markets like India, China and Latin America. It's easy to get carried away with the company's figure of 400 million downloads already - actually, there may be just as big an opportunity beyond smartphones. The key thing will be how good the game is when boiled down for less powerful phones.Block 13Nokia Lumia 800. Photograph: Sang Tan/AP10.55am:Reaction from Nick Dillon at analyst firm Ovum to the new Lumia handsets:For consumers, they [Nokia] will need to have a clear and simple answer to the question: 'why should I buy this instead of an iPhone or Android?'"Considering that Nokia had very little, if no, input into the Mango release of Windows Phone, the company has done well to differentiate its devices against those from other Windows Phones licensees. Nokia has included its Nokia Maps, which provides free offline navigation on both devices. Additionally, Nokia has brought its experience in imaging with an f2.2 Carl Zeiss camera which features touch to focus, a function which is unique to Nokia's Windows Phone devices. Nokia has also brought another of its assets, Nokia Music to help differentiate the devices. In addition to offering access to its music catalogue in 38 countries, Nokia will also provide free access to a Pandora-like radio streaming service which uses the Nokia Music catalogue. While none of these on their own are standout features, they at least provide Nokia with some ammunition for its marketing and sales team to market the devices in an increasingly competitive market."Block 1210.33am:The Lumia 800 is shipping now in the UK, France, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands and will be on sale in November. Then it will go to Hong Kong, India, Russia and Singapore early in the new year.The Lumia 800 will be priced at about €420 (£365 or $585), the 710 about €270 (£235 or $376), excluding taxes and subsidies.Block 11Nokia Lumia 710. Photograph: Nokia/EPA10.27am:Elop is back on stage to unveil another model, theLumia 710.Described as an "affordable" model, it has the same processor as the Lumia 800, but a 3.7-inch display. It has all the same Nokia apps as the 800. It comes in black and white, or with a backing that matches the user's colour choices of Windows Phone tiles.Elop says Lumia means "light" - it is a new dawn for Nokia. Maps and navigation connect the real with the virtual world. The device will act as a platform for sensors to give contextual environment information. It will track public transport in 450 cities worldwide. Nokia View turns the camera into an augmented reality lens. Nokia has reached 10m app downloads to date on existing devices. It collaborates with Sesame Street and Foursquare; it is a global leader in locally relevant content.He says 31 operators and retailers have committed three times the marketing investment than for any previous Nokia device for the Lumia and will promote it as a "hero" device.Steven Overman, VP of marketing creation, goes on stage.Lumia will be marketed at the 25-year-old in all of us. The campaign tagline is "The Amazing Everyday".Overman jokes that Nokia is going to fill the world with tiles. He says it's about time somebody altered the existing smartphone interface.Block 1010.19am:On sports Nokia has hooked up with ESPN. One app brings together all ESPN mobile content. App sort info by leagues, teams, and these can be pinned to the start screen.Nokia Music is free with no sign-up process.Shields says Nokia brings out the best in Windows Phone and sets a new standard for smartphones.The Pocket-lint websitehas pictures and a hands-on of the Lumia 800. It says:Put against the latest batch of Windows Phone 7 devices out there, the Nokia Lumia 800 looks to be the one that stands out the most. It makes the HTC Radar look boring, and gives the HTC Titan (with its poor screen resolution) a good run for its money in performance too.Nokia needs that impact, something this device certainly offers, but will it be enough to sway the iPhone and Android masses? That's going to be the tough question to answer.Block 910.03am:People Hub function allows contacts to be put into groups such as colleagues etc. Each person has a photo tile next to their latest Twitter or Facebook updates.Lumia camera pictures can be shared to Facebook and tagged from the phone.Word, Excel and Powerpoint documents are all readable and connected to the Office hub.The games platform is Xbox branded and creates an avatar for the phone owner.Nokia has invested in navigation, music and sports apps. The navigation app comes with free voice-guided navigation. You must download and install maps before driving to reduce roaming charges, but maps can be updated on the road if you get lost.Block 89.55am:Nokia's Kevin Shields leaps onto the stage – he previously worked for Microsoft and has been leading Nokia's product development for smartphones.The Lumia 800 looks awesome, he yells. It has a single-piece injection-moulded polycarbonate shell, a camera with a Karl Zeiss lens, and a curved screen.There's a demo of the Windows Phone interface. Weather apps show the forecast in the tile without having to open the app. There are tiles that show updates for each friend or family you pin to the home screen.All these are existing Windows Phone 7.5 Mango features.Block 7Nokia Lumia 800. Photograph: Nokia/EPA9.49am:Elop is back on stage to unveil the new Windows phones.First up is theLumia 800. It has a sleek form, inky black glass, and is available in cyan, black or magenta. It's based on the N9 chassis."Lumia is the first real Windows Phone made by anyone," claims Elop.The intention is to be world leaders in design and production.Block 69.44am:The Asha handsets are a budget range aimed at developing countries. The Asha 200 and 201 look like colourful BlackBerrys with messaging services and MP3 players. Loud enough to listen to as a radio. Asha 300 has keyboard, touch, colourful case.Block 59.25am:Nokia Mobile vice-president Blanca Juti has replaced Elop on stage. She is talking about the developing world customers, in Beijing, Delhi or Sao Paolo, who are demanding their own connections to the internet. They want something affordable, irresistible, easy to use, exciting.Block 49.22am:Who will be the next billion phone users? Nokia produces 365m phones a year and the plan is to drive that higher.Today it is introducing four new Symbian S40 phones: theNokia Asha 200, 201, 300 and 303. Asha means "hope" in Hindi.Block 39.18am:People are tapping NFC devices on transport and in shops around the world. Early demand for its smartest smartphone yet the N9 has been high.For many the phone will be people's first experience of the internet.Block 29.17am:Colin Giles, VP of sales, is on stage to introduce the event and Stephen Elop. Says Elop was so excited, he had been emailing staff at 5am.Block 18.30am:Good morning and welcome to the Guardian's live blog from Nokia World in London with me, Juliette Garside.Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop will take to the stage at 9am this morning to unveil the kit he hopes will allow the world's biggest handset maker (by volume) to rejoin the smartphone race.Apple and Google's Android are in the lead, and there is a lot of catching up to do. The Finnish giant's worldwide share of the smartphone market languishes at 16%, down from 39% at the beginning of last year.In February Elop abandoned the "burning platform" of Nokia's in-house operating system, Symbian, in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone. Today he will unveil Nokia's first Windows handsets, at the Excel centre in London's docklands.Along with my colleague Stuart Dredge, we'll bring you the first details, plus reaction and comment from the floor.
BT has been given 14 days to block access to a website accused of promoting illegal filesharing "on a grand scale" by Hollywood studios, in the first high court ruling of its kind under UK copyright law.Justice Arnold handed down a written judgment to BT – which, with about 6 million customers, is the UK's biggest internet service provider – to block its customers' access to the website Newzbin2 at the high court in London.The judge backed the argument brought by a coalition of Hollywood studios, including Warner Bros, Paramount, Disney, Universal, Fox and Columbia, which have argued that Newzbin2 has made millions profiting from exploiting other people's work.Wednesday's court order also allows for the blocking of any other IP or internet address that the operators of the Newzbin2 site might look to use to continue to offer copyrighted content to users.The judge said that limiting the blocking order to the Newzbin2 site would be "too easily circumvented to be effective" because the site's owners have already made available software that could allow users to get around a BT block.He backed the studios' proposal that BT should also move to block "any other IP address or URL whose sole or predominant purpose is to enable or facilitate access to the Newzbin[2] website"."Furthermore, I do not consider that the studios should be obliged to return to court for an order in respect of every single IP address or URL that the operators of Newzbin2 may use," he added.The court said BT must foot the bill for the cost of implementing the web block on Newzbin2.BT, which argued that the creative industries should pay, has estimated the cost to be about £5,000 and £100 for each subsequent notification.Arnold rejected an attempt by BT to include an undertaking for the studios to reimburse the telecoms company for any losses it might incur from a site being blocked, such as from any legal action to fight the move.The judge also said BT customers would not be able to make claims against the company for breach of contract because its broadband package is covered under an acceptable use policy that explicitly says copyright must not be infringed.The order is viewed by the creative industries as a landmark that could set a precedent for the widespread blocking of illegal filesharing websites by ISPs, helping to stem the flow of digital piracy in the UK."The law is clear. Industrial online piracy is illegal and can be stopped," said Lord Puttnam, president of the Film Distributors' Association.Chris Marcich, managing director of film industry trade body the MPA, said today's "win" would allow for more investment in digital services from TV, film, music and publishing companies."Securing the intervention of the ISPs was the only way to put the commercial pirates out of reach for the majority of consumers," Marcich added. "This move means that we can invest more in our own digital offerings, delivering higher quality and more variety of products to the consumer."BT said it is "helpful" to have a court order to bring "clarity" to the site blocking process.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Apologies, I am just back from hosting my breakfast session at GameCity and realised I hadn't done Chatterbox. So here it is!
The intense competition between iOS and Android means any statistics that seem to shed light on the two platforms' respective performances are quickly seized on by journalists and bloggers, especially if they lend themselves to claims about who's "winning" in the smartphone and tablet wars.The truth is that both Apple and Google are winning if judged on momentum, with BlackBerry sliding – admittedly from a high market-share starting point – and Microsoft still awaiting a sales surge from its new Mango software and the first Windows Phone handsets from Nokia.Even so, analyst firm ABI Research's latest report fuels the debate around iOS versus Android, claiming that Google's platform overtook Apple's for mobile app downloads in the third quarter of this year. The company estimates that Android accounted for 44% of overall downloads, while iOS took a 31% share.The company has hailed Google's strategy of making Android free for manufacturers to use (well, free as long as you don't count the patent-related payments a number of manufacturers are making to Microsoft)."Being a free platform has expanded the Android device install base, which in turn has driven growth in the number of third party multi-platform and mobile operator app stores," says ABI's research associate Lim Shiyang. "These conditions alone explain why Android is the new leader in the mobile application market."The leader for reach, certainly.ABI estimatesthat there are now 2.4 Android smartphones in people's hands for every one iPhone, and sees the ratio expanding to 3:1 by 2016. It should be noted that we're only talking smartphones here, rather than tablets or non-cellular devices. Google said earlier in October that 190m Android devices have been activated so far, while Apple's last figure for iOS was 250m thanks to sales of iPad and iPod touch.Activation and sales figures are good for corporate willy-waving, but app developers are digging deeper into the respective performances of iOS and Android. Reach is one important metric, but revenue potential is another. Apple's recent announcement that it has paid out $2.5bn to iOS app developers was calculated to highlight the fact that for paid apps, its platform is still more lucrative for paid apps.ABI says that when it comes to mobile app downloads per user, iPhone still outguns Android two to one. "Apple's superior monetisation policies attracted good developers within its ranks, thus creating a better catalog of apps and customer experience," says the company's practice director of mobile services Dan Shey.That's as maybe, but Google is clearly alive to the need to continue improving its Android Market store. Its Android bossAndy Rubin admitted at the recent AsiaD conferencethat Google has work to do. "We're a search company, we know how to find things, and while we haven't applied all of that logic to the Android Market just yet, we're actively doing it," he said.Android is already a hugely appealing platform for app developers focusing on reach over revenues (or at least reach in order to drive revenues from advertising). An ever-increasing number of freemium social games are also making the leap from iOS, now that Google has its own in-app payments system.Paid app developers and publishers continue to complain about handset fragmentation, poor discovery and piracy issues on Android, but many of them are knuckling down to support the platform anyway, recognising its potential.With this in mind, ABI Research's figures shed less light on whether Apple or Google is winning in the smartphone market than they do on the fact that iOS and Android have fast become the two key platforms for many app developers. The focus now is as much on the battle between Microsoft and RIM to break out beyond their core existing developer communities to become a strong third horse in that race.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAn Update on BlackBerry PlayBook OS 2.0 &gt;&gt; The Official BlackBerry Blog"First off, we have decided to defer the inclusion of the BBM™ application to a subsequent BlackBerry PlayBook OS release. We are committed to developing a seamless BBM solution that fully delivers on the powerful, push based messaging capabilities recognized today by BlackBerry® users around the world and we're still working on it. In the meantime, BlackBerry smartphone users will be able to continue to use BlackBerry® Bridge™ to securely access BlackBerry Messenger on the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet's high resolution display."Amazon Building Millions More Kindle Fire Tablets Than Planned &gt;&gt; Business InsiderWhat UK?The Key Difference Between Apple And Amazon Will Be Seen Next Quarter &gt;&gt; parislemon"...As a result of those record sales, Apple could see a $40 billion quarter in terms of revenue — that will undoubtedly lead to record profit. Meanwhile, Amazon, even with record sales, is warning that their numbers could dip. They may even lose money next quarter. Possibly a lot of money."The Tablet Revolution &gt;&gt; Project for Excellence in Journalism (PEJ)"Eighteen months after the introduction of the iPad, 11% of U.S. adults now own a tablet computer of some kind. About half (53%) get news on their tablet every day, and they read long articles as well as get headlines. But a majority says they would not be willing to pay for news content on these devices, according to the most detailed study to date of tablet users and how they interact with this new technology."The F*****d Up World That is Personal Identity Theft Fraud Investigation « OUseful.Info, the blog..."Suppose you get a letter, with your name and address on it, asking you to call an "Investigations Manager" for retail finance outfit. The number appears to check out, although forum posts seem to come down 50/50 on 'is this a scam or not'. "You call the number and get given another number - again, the crowd is split. The "official body", CIFAS, is even less useful... "You call the second number and immediately they start asking you for personal information "so they can check it against the data they were provided with" that was used to set up a potentially fraudulently created account. "This is wrong, wrong, wrong; broken, broken, broken."S.978: Commercial Felony Streaming Act - U.S. Congress &gt;&gt; OpenCongress.orgGreat website, not sure about the proposed legislation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
In 1955 the computer scientist John McCarthy, who has died aged 84, coined the term artificial intelligence, or AI. His&nbsp;pioneering work in AI – which he defined as "the science and engineering of making intelligent machines" – included organising the first Dartmouth conference on artificial intelligence, and developing the programming language Lisp in 1958. This was the second high-level language, after Fortran, and was based on the radical idea of computing using symbolic expressions rather than numbers. It helped spawn a whole AI&nbsp;industry.McCarthy was also the first to propose a time-sharing model of computing. In&nbsp;1961 he suggested that if his approach were adopted, "computing may some day be organised as a public utility, just as the telephone system is a&nbsp;public utility", and that this could become the&nbsp;basis of a significant new industry. This is the way that cloud computing is&nbsp;sold today.However, when obliged to choose between the time-sharing work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and AI, he chose AI. He said: "The ultimate effort is to make computer programs that can solve problems and achieve goals as well as humans. However, many people involved in particular research areas are much less ambitious."In AI, McCarthy tackled such problems as whether it was "legitimate to ascribe certain beliefs, knowledge, free will, intentions, consciousness, abilities or wants to a machine or computer program". This led to a heated argument about whether thermostats could be said to have beliefs. This is not an idle debate.In the US, Nest has just announced a self-learning thermostat.In other papers such as Free Will – Even for Robots, and Deterministic Free Will, McCarthy explored ideas of robot decision-making. He wrote a science fiction story,The Robot and the Baby, to "partly illustrate my opinions about what household robots should be like". His robot's reasoning is displayed in&nbsp;a&nbsp;Lisp-like manner as R781 decides to simulate love for Travis, the human baby. The story includes lines such as "(Required (Not (Cause Robot781) (Believes Travis (Person Robot781))))". The computer industry joke is that Lisp actually stands for Lots of Irritating Single Parentheses.McCarthy was also involved with computer chess, as one of the ways of exploring computer decision-making, though he quickly became disillusioned. "Unfortunately, the competitive and commercial aspects of making computers play chess have taken precedence over using chess as&nbsp;a&nbsp;scientific domain," he said. "It is as if the geneticists after 1910 had organised fruit fly races and concentrated their efforts on breeding fruit flies that could win these races."He was born in Boston to an immigrant Irish father, Jack McCarthy, and a Lithuanian Jewish mother, Ida&nbsp;(nee Glatt). They lost their house in&nbsp;the depression, and the family moved&nbsp;via New York and Cleveland to&nbsp;Los Angeles, hoping the climate would help improve Jack's health. Jack&nbsp;and Ida were&nbsp;labour union organisers and, for&nbsp;many years, communists, leaving the&nbsp;party due to disillusionment over events in&nbsp;the&nbsp;Soviet Union. Ida also worked as&nbsp;a&nbsp;journalist for the Federated Press.In his teens, McCarthy taught himself calculus from textbooks used at the nearby California Institute of&nbsp;Technology. At the age of 17, as a&nbsp;Caltech student, he was assigned to&nbsp;a&nbsp;graduate class.In September 1948 McCarthy found his life's work. He attended theHixon Symposium on Cerebral Mechanisms in Behaviour, a Caltech conference that included papers on automata, the brain and intelligence, andWhy the Mind Is in the Head. According to a celebration of his work published inAI Magazine, "from that time on, his chief interests related to the development of machines that could think like people".McCarthy graduated from Caltech in 1948, then gained his PhD in mathematics at Princeton in 1951. At&nbsp;Princeton he became friends with another student, Marvin Minsky, who shared his passion for AI. They collaborated on numerous projects over the next decade, which included co-founding the AI lab at MIT. The initial request was for a room, a keypunch and two programmers, which came along with six graduate students. The&nbsp;lab was a&nbsp;huge success, though the interests of&nbsp;the founders diverged. As AI Magazine noted: "McCarthy became increasingly committed to the logicist approach to AI. Minsky came to&nbsp;believe that it was wrong-headed and&nbsp;infeasible."In 1962 McCarthy switched coasts, moving back to California and founding SAIL, the Stanford AI laboratory, at Stanford University. He continued his work there as an emeritus professor after his official retirement in 2000. He was developing another computer language calledElephant, based, he&nbsp;said, "on two slogans. One is that an elephant never forgets, and the other is 'I meant what I said and I said what I&nbsp;meant. An elephant's faithful 100%.'" His numerous honours included a&nbsp;Turing award (1971), Japan's Kyoto prize (1988) and America's National Medal of Science (1990).McCarthy married three times. His&nbsp;second wife, Vera Watson, an IBM computer programmer and researcher, was killed in a climbing accident in 1978 in the Himalayas. He&nbsp;is survived by his third wife, Carolyn Talcott, and&nbsp;their son Timothy; by his daughters, Susan and&nbsp;Sarah, from his first marriage, to&nbsp;Martha Coyote, which ended in&nbsp;divorce; by two grandchildren; and&nbsp;by&nbsp;his brother, Patrick.Wendy M Grossman writes:John McCarthy liked arguing with smart people, shunned fools and small talk, and from his beginnings as a communist, gradually shifted rightwards to conservative republicanism. His curiosity was wide-ranging, as was his taste in reading. He particularly liked the novels of Georgette Heyer, and you would be as likely to find those alongside his Kindle as you would spare copies ofLogicomix, the&nbsp;graphic novel tracing the quest for the foundations of mathematics. Earlier this year, he emailed me to look for help in understanding a reference to cheap tin trays in a John Masefield poem.He could be oblivious to danger. In early 2006, en route to meet his daughter and son-in-law for dinner, the distractions of conversation made his driving terrifyingly erratic. I suggested we swap. To my horror, he immediately pulled over at the side of a crowded highway, crammed with high-speed rush-hour traffic, and immediately got out of the car. With trucks whooshing past with inches to spare, he began shuffling sideways around the car leaving the door wide open.Fortunately, nothing hit him (or the car), and the grandfather of AI lived to make more conference appearances, collaborate on some additional papers, and convene the 50th anniversary of the 1956 Dartmouth conference.•John McCarthy, computer scientist, born 4 September 1927; died 24 October 2011•John McCarthy's homepage•John McCarthy interview
Google faced down demands from a US law enforcement agency to take down YouTube videos allegedly showing police brutality earlier this year, figures released for the first time show.The technology giant's biannualtransparency reportshows that Google refused the demands from the unnamed authority in the first half of this year.According to the report, Google separately declined orders by other police authorities to remove videos that allegedly defamed law enforcement officials.The demands formed part of a 70% rise in takedown requests from the US government or police, and were revealed as part of an effort to highlight online censorship around the world.Figures revealed for the first time show that the US demanded private information about more than 11,000 Google users between January and June this year, almost equal to the number of requests made by 25 other developed countries, including the UK and Russia.Governments around the world requested private data about 25,440 people in the first half of this year, with 11,057 of those people in the US.It is the first time Google has released details about how many of its users are targeted by authorities, as opposed to the number of requests made by countries."For the first time, we're not only disclosing the number of requests for user data, but we're showing the number of users or accounts that are specified in those requests too," said Dorothy Chou, a senior policy analyst at Google."We believe that providing this level of detail highlights the need to modernize laws  like the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, which regulates government access to user information and was written 25 years ago—long before the average person had ever heard of email."Brazil made the most content removal requests in the first half of this year, according to the report, followed by Germany, the US and South Korea.
British police authorities ordered the removal of 135 videos from YouTube in the first half of this year because of a perceived threat to national security, according to figures published by the video sharing website's owner Google.The US technology giant reported a 71% rise in content removal requests from the UK government or police, compared with the final half of 2010, with almost 200 YouTube videos requested to be taken down following complaints about privacy, security or hate speech.Google revealed the figures inits biannual transparency report, part of an effort to highlight online censorship across the world.The report showsthat private information about 1,443 British users or accounts was demanded by law enforcement agencies between January and June this year. It is the first time Google has revealed how many users the data requests relate to.Google received 1,273 overall requests for user data in the period, compared with 1,162 requests for information in the second half of 2010.The UK government made 65 content removal requests from all of Google's products in the six months to June, up from 38 requests in the previous half year.Fears over national security saw take down requests for 135 videos from YouTube, with a further 62 for privacy, security or hate speech issues.Almost 30 items were requested to be removed from Google search after two court orders relating to privacy and security, the report shows, with 14 items because of defamation issues.Google said it fully or partially complied with 82% of requests from the UK government, police and courts.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Games exclusive to a single console have apparently been subjected to 1940s-style rationing these days, but rumours of their death have clearly been exaggerated.In recent years, the burden of providing a reason to buy a PlayStation 3 rather than Xbox 360 or Wii has been shouldered by Naughty Dog's action-adventure franchise Uncharted, so the third iteration, subtitled Drake's Deception, is the company's great white hope for this Christmas. So it's a good job that, like a polar opposite of the England football team, it seems able to feed off the pressure and achieve new heights.As ever, Uncharted superficially adheres to the blueprint established by the Tomb Raider games, in that the game's protagonist, Nathan Drake, divides his time between acrobatic leaping, climbing and swinging around, shooting and solving puzzles. That's where the resemblance ends though. Uncharted 3 has a cinematic grandeur that would make Lara Croft choke with envy.Talk of adhering to blueprints, commendably, is slightly misleading in Uncharted 3's case. From the beginning, it makes clear its intention to avoid the predictable and obvious, mixing up its gameplay and exotic locations cleverly. It begins with Drake and his mentor Sully, unarmed, taking part in a great brawl in a London pub. Which illustrates two things: first, the game's hand-to-hand combat engine has been massively improved (although it takes a back seat once weapons enter the equation). And second, that the franchise has raised its game in terms of virtual acting to a level only previously occupied by LA Noire. Those tiny incongruities that remind gamers they aren't actually controlling a Hollywood movie have been ruthlessly eradicated, and the dialogue is vibrant rather than clunky.The game's narrative flow, as tortuous as we have come to expect, also provides an extra level of immersion. It soon busies itself by filling in a crucial chunk of back-story, as you flash back to control a teenage Drake in Cartagena, Colombia – where he first encounters Sully. The game then returns to the present day, apparently competing with itself to take you to ever more exotic locations as Drake's treasure hunt takes shape.You wouldn't say that Uncharted 3's gameplay is fantastically innovative. It's very much a traditional game, and takes care to be forgiving for those who wouldn't describe themselves as hardcore gamers. It does, nevertheless, feel fresh and ground-breaking. It flows magnificently, and is much more tightly plotted than the average movie, despite lurching across the globe. Drake and Sully's banter compares favourably with that of the best-buddy movies, and is leavened by the occasional reappearance of various allies from previous Uncharted games. The (British, and nicely observed) baddies dog you every step of the way, so bouts of adventuring are usually followed (or even preceded) by shoot-outs. Drake even gets to show off his horsemanship skills at one point. As ever, the shooting places great emphasis on plundering guns and ammo from dead enemies, and different classes of enemy (including heavily armoured tank characters), keep that side of the game interesting. Uncharted 3 is gratifyingly keen to make its shoot-outs more challenging and hectic than its predecessors.Graphics-wise, Uncharted 3 is beyond impeccable – it is one of the finest looking games ever. The trademark rich, colourful and vibrant environments are present and correct, and the cities are better populated, and therefore much more convincing, than before. And there are a couple of unexpected aspects to the game. At times – thanks to a baddie with a habit of firing darts filled with mind-bending drugs – proceedings become positively psychedelic. And Drake and his cronies have become much more humorous than before, never knowingly sparing the wisecracks.Decades ago, all the talk in the world of games centred on beating Hollywood at its own game – but what we got, instead, demonstrated how difficult that was. But Uncharted 3, perhaps for the first time, represents what we all hoped games would eventually evolve into. Its production values are sky-high, and it puts you at the centre of a gloriously rich and irresistible world, controlling a character who is heroic, but also convincingly human. It's also mildly didactic, and feels less dumbed-down than any mainstream movie we've come across in years. For once, you're able to forget that it's a mere collection of ones and noughts: the sheer slickness and believability of Uncharted 3's production and characters ought to induce widespread self-flagellation in Hollywood.• Game reviewed on PS3
The UK's digital economy is banking on a government initiative in east London called Tech City that leverages the innovation of a grassroots start-up scene. But what's behind the name? Is there enough to ensure a thriving and sustainable cluster? Old Street is already being colloquially called "Silicon Roundabout", but what are east London's enterprise strengths, and where does it need a boost?The Tech City Talks series looks at an initiative announced last year by the prime minister, David Cameron. He pledged £200m for technology and innovation centres around the country - happy marriages of research and development aimed at bridging the gap between industry and university departments. One of the centres became a monster: Tech City.So was Cameron surfing a wave of techno-hype or has his announcement propelled a groundswell? In this discussion, we ask how far the government has gone in its promises to build the digital entrepreneurship capital of Europe. Is there any meat on the Tech City skeleton, or is this a new age Cool Britannia led by the UK web pioneers from the last decade of web innovation?The panellists for this discussion are Eric Pickles, secretary of state for communities and local government; Alexandra Deschamps-Sonsino, founder and CEO of Designswarm and co-founder of Tinker London and part of the Really Interesting Group; and Tara Solesbury, a digital media and creative industries consultant).Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Young British teenagers would be less worried at being deprived of television than losing access to the internet or their mobile phones, as attachment to the medium slides among the young, according to new research from Ofcom.Yet Britain's youngsters also watch more TV than at any time in the past five years, the survey found – though a growing amount comes through using online catchup services such as the BBC's iPlayer. On average, they watch 17 hours 37 minutes per week, up from 15 hours 37 minutes in 2007.Internet use has also become pervasive, with 95% of 12- to 15-year-olds having internet access at home through a computer. But the research by the communications watchdog also points to a "digital divide", in which only 80% of children in lower socioeconomic groups have access to the internet at home, compared to 98% in the richest ones.Ofcom chief executive Ed Richards said: "The almost universal use of the internet at home by 12 to 15s – both for their education as well as their entertainment – is a positive step forward."The annual survey was carried out in spring with 1,717 in-home interviews, and focused on attitudes to communications technology by parents and children. It found that 28% of children aged 12 to 15 said they would most miss their mobile, and 25% would most miss the internet if deprived of them – compared to only 18% citing television. A year ago mobile was the most desired, while TV was level-pegging with the internet at 24%.Attachment to TV seems to be sliding across all age groups, having dropped steadily among even the 5- to 7-year-olds, from 64% citing it as what they would miss the most in 2007, to just 48% now. Among eight- to 11-year-olds, the figure has fallen in that period from 51% to 39%, and among 12- to 15-year-olds from 28% to 18%. Yet catchup services such as the BBC iPlayer and 4OD are proving popular: just over a quarter of children aged 5 to 15 have used them, rising to nearly a third for those aged 12 to 15.Radio listening is also in decline, with around half of those aged 12 to 15 not listening to any sort of radio, according to the survey results.Parents are increasingly taking more care of their childrens' online usage, with the living room being the most common location for internet use, although a third of 12- to 15-year-olds have internet access in their bedrooms. The majority of those aged 5 to 11 use the internet with an adult in the room, but lone usage increases with age: half of those aged 12 to 15 used the internet alone. However, that figure has fallen since last year."The research also shows that parents and children are increasingly aware of how to be safe when using the internet," said Ofcom's Richards. "But risks do remain. Better understanding – amongst parents as well as their children – is the key to helping people to manage content and communications, enabling them to enjoy the benefits of media use while protecting themselves from the potential risks."Smartphone usage is also growing: around half of all children aged up to 15 have their own mobile phone, and the proportion with a smartphone such as an iPhone, BlackBerry or Android phone is growing fast, having risen from 36% a year ago to 46% now. The use of mobile phones generally is also growing strongly among children aged 8 to 11, rising from 55% a year ago to 61% now.Games console popularity seems to have hit a plateau, at between 81% and 92% depending on age, though the figures are almost unchanged from a year ago.
Rockstar has officially announcedGrand Theft Auto V.The latest title in the multimillion-selling crime adventure series has no official release date as yet, but the publisher is promising a teaser trailer on 2 November.No console platforms have been mentioned either, leading to speculation that GTA 5 may not arrive until the next generation of Xbox and PlayStation machines. However, the game is almost certain to have been in development for at least two years, meaning a late 2012 release is not out of the question.The Grand Theft Auto series has sold 115m units since the first title arrived in 1997, making it one of the biggest game franchises in the world. The last instalment, Grand Theft Auto IV, has alone shipped more than 22m units since its launch in 2008.For the last year, gaming news sites have been speculating wildly over the possible setting for GTA V. In March, Rockstar's parent company Take-Two held acting auditions for an unnamed project, the casting call for which provided details for a selection of characters, including mobsters, movie agents and wannabe starlets – suggesting to sitessuch as Kotaku, a possible Hollywood setting for GTA V, although Rockstar did not comment on the casting session or on the nature of the project.Certainly, the 2004 release, GTA: San Andreas featured an area named Vinewood, heavily modelled on Hollywood. The series has also pastiched a number of films over its history, including Scarface and Boys in the Hood.
