Your organisation's website is a reassuring presence on the computer screen: it's there as default when you log on to the net. You don't think much about what keeps it there: that's someone else's job. Then one day you log on; your URL comes up but the page is different: it's a maze of financial services or ones offering Viagra sales. It might even be a hardcore porn site.What's happened? Your site has slipped down the fatal crevasse on the net: the awkward interface between your internet service provider (ISP) and the domain registration system.Because the URL is the unique identifier of your site for the whole of the world wide web and that address is held on the server of your ISP, it is easy to forget that the domain and the URL are not identical and need to be maintained separately. At the level of the code, the domain name needs to be translated into the internet protocol (IP) address for the site to function. And to make sure you don't lapse, you need to keep your subs up to date to both the ISP and domain name registrar.Neither can you afford to be late, even by hours, because a new breed of net predator has appeared - the nappers (as in caught napping).These are organisations that trawl for expired domains, and install their own sites, rather like bacteriophages taking over a bacterium. There are two motives: they target sites with many hits - the Poetry Soci ety was a recent high-profile victim (300,000 hits a month) - and when they take over the site, they exploit these hits to try to sell their own wares.Sometimes this seems a bit unlikely, as in the Christian sites reputedly hi-jacked by Russian porn operators, but you never know. If the site doesn't yield much, it can always be sold back to the original owner, who will then be relieved of both anxiety and a lot of cash.One result is that, according to RuleSpace, an American web-filtering company, in the past 18 months, the number of web pages with "adult content" has grown almost four times as fast as the overall number of web pages.So, why are so many web sites caught napping, and how can it be prevented? Internet service providers are legion but there are very few   domain registrars. Ideally, since there can only be one domain for every site in the world, there should be one worldwide registrar. And there was, until three years ago: Network Solutions maintained the entire .com, .net and .org domain system, but the system was then deregulated.The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) governs the technical and policy functions of higher level domains but registration is in the hands of many approved registrars worldwide. In the UK, there are eight such high-level registrars.The Poetry Society's case is interesting because its one-time service provider Totalweb is also, unusually, a domain registrar. The Poetry Society's domain had been registered with Net work Solutions in 1998, but when the Society moved ISPs in 1999, the new ISP, Totalweb, asked Network Solutions to transfer the domain to their own registration arm, Totalregistrations, without telling the Poetry Society. The domain was then registered with a body other than the one understood by the Society to be the registrar.In May 2001, the Poetry Society asked for its domain (www.poetrysoc.com) to be pointed to a new web host (Aitcom) because Totalweb didn't support a particular e-commerce function needed for the site.The Society also asked for the administrative contact details on their domain name to be amended. Totalweb appears to have taken this as a request to transfer the domain name, but despite this did not make the transfer,   nor did they amend the contact details, although they did point the domain to the new server as requested. The Poetry Society had no idea that their request for the administrative contact details to be changed had not been acted upon.In January, Totalweb were told via email that poetrysoc. com was due for renewal. The email was sent to them because they had not updated the contact details as requested. Their own memo says: "No action taken as a domain transfer request form received for the domain poetrysoc.com." Therefore, their registration arm sent a delete request to the registry and the Poetry Society's domain name was deleted.To cut a tangled business short: the Poetry Society's valued domain name had fallen between the cracks of   the new ISP, Aitcom, the former ISP, Totalweb, and the registrar, Totalregistrations. Totalweb say: "When the domain name was hosted with Aitcom it should have been their responsibility to transfer the domain from the Totalregistrations registry to the one they use so as to avoid any complications at renewal time." They have not said why they didn't act upon their client's request in May 2001 or, if more information was required, why they didn't contact their client to explain.The moral is that although you may think your ISP will tell you when the domain registration is lapsing, they probably won't. To be sure, you have to deal directly with the domain registrars.The Poetry Society's story ended relatively happily. After vigorous work by Jane Mutimear of Bird and Bird, the intellectual property specialists, the company that snapped up the Society's domain agreed to return the web site to the Society, but not before considerable money had been spent on reprinting leaflets, setting up a new site, legal advice and so on.If you're worried about your domain, you can check the status of a domain at any time, whether yours or somebody else's, by going to www.whois.net and typing in the URL. You can also find advice on the Icann site  and InterNIC.Some of the sites that did not find out in time and are in napping limbo are: the Hobby Electronics Mini Tutorial (now Free Picture Gang Bang); the Geosciences Information Centre (Free Lesbian Porn); the Balkan Institute (Big Girl) and the Bergenstein Literary Pages (Black Chick). There are hundreds, if not thousands, of such sites. I'm not going to give the URLS: you don't want to see what's on them now, do you?
In garden sheds throughout the land, philanthropic geeks and armchair anarchists are constructing aerials from brass pipes and copper wire, ready for the revolution. One day, they hope, everyone will have free access to the internet from pavements, parks and precincts across the UK via community wireless networks.What started less than two years ago as the dream of a handful of techies now has real momentum. Free networking groups have sprung up across the UK, in London, Reading, Luton, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Brighton and Sheffield to name a few. Consume.net, the de facto hub for the UK's disparate groups, maintains a searchable database of UK public access points, or nodes. There are 56 nodes in operation across the country, with 80 in testing and a further 431 proposed."We're on the edge of an explosion," says James Stevens, co-founder of Consume. His optimism seems well-founded. Wireless "Wi-Fi" networking equipment is now cheap enough for high-street stores to include access points and cards with their home PC bundles. They don't require any complicated set-up and work straight out of the box. Coupled with the boom in low-cost broadband internet to the home via ADSL and cable, a growing number of people can offer the use of their spare bandwidth to anyone passing by with a wireless device.While some internet service providers (ISPs) contractually forbid users to share their bandwidth, there's not much they can do about it since it's impossible to tell who is using the connection. In most quarters, there is tacit acceptance of the practice, and some are even support ive. Vortex, of the east London community networking group Free2Air.net, says: "More forward-thinking ISPs recognise what we're doing is a valuable community resource. It's a myth that such initiatives will steal business from them." He is even in tentative talks with a couple of ISPs over sponsoring or hosting free networks.However, Vortex believes the real power of these networks will be manifest when local nodes connect to one another, so rather than offering isolated local gateways to the internet, they provide an alternative public network for local communities. To set up a true node requires technical knowledge. But this will change as switch-on-and-go products hit the market (see box).Wi-Fi networks run on the 2.4GHz radio band, which has    been set aside by the government for non-commercial use, which means no one is allowed to charge for use of the network. "We had a broad discussion with the Radio Authority during which it became clear   there were no legal obstacles to operating as we were suggesting," says Stevens.Despite this, the spread of free networks faces a number of obstacles. One is public trust. Anonymous public net works risk becoming seen as a haven for illegal activity. Some enthusiasts argue that being able to access the network anonymously is not merely a convenience, but a point of principle. Others think some form of user access control is necessary to build confidence. The US website Nocat.net is developing software that will allow the creation of user accounts. Consume also advocates that groups restrict access to signed-up members.Adding user access control as standard will also stop users inadvertently logging on to unprotected networks not meant for public access. Peter Galbavy, an internet industry veteran and proponent of free networks, says: "There are a lot of people making wireless LANs available without knowing it. Not many ethical people will use them knowingly, but a lot will   do so mistakenly. People with ADSL or cable and a wireless LAN at home may find someone over the road is using their internet account."A bigger problem is noise on the network. The 2.4GHz band was only designed for short-range wireless networks. But as they proliferate, connections will become slow and unreliable. Stevens says: "Bluetooth devices are on 2.4GHz, your local supermarket bar scanner is on 2.4GHz, office networks are on 2.4GHz - the noise level is just going to come up and up. Longer term, 2.4GHz will be unusable." However, new wireless networking products that operate on the 5GHz band are coming on to the market. Although it will take a few years for these to become standard, they also offer better resource allocation and power management, which should alleviate the noise problem.Some think community networks could suffer as high-speed wireless services such as 3G become ubiquitous. But mobile operators will adopt aggressive business models to recoup the huge amounts paid for 3G licences. For the user who wants a wireless network connection without paying huge fees or negotiating their way through ad-saturated portals, community networks could become a peaceful park off the main information highway. They might not be as slick as their commercial counterparts, but Stevens thinks they're worth fighting for. "This is an open system built by volunteers. Don't get too disenchanted with early disappointments."Node building for non-nerdsWireless access points are bundled with some new PCs or can be purchased for around &#163;150. You'll also need an antenna. Good online resources are Consume.net, Personaltelco.net  and www.freenetworks.org.Node-building proper is a more technical business. There is, as yet, no simple application you can download, or kit you can just plug in and switch on. But this is   about to change. Consume. net's James Stevens says: "Within months people will be able to buy a box that has a 14MB flash card with the whole operating system on. They will order that directly from free network organisations and they'll have a node up and running that talks to another node if there's one nearby, routes internet traffic and offers local services. This is the key to the growth of community Wi-Fi networks."
Almost 40 years ago, Marshall McLuhan - known for the phrase The medium is the message - talked of media as extensions of ourselves. Goodness knows what he would make of mobile phones, which weren't part of his remote horizon. They are not so much extensions as parts of ourselves.The mobile phone is the first interactive device that the vast majority of people   (excluding the very old and very young) carry wherever they go. Many even keep them bedside for an early morning call. Yet the revolution has happened so fast we are only just beginning to alter our lifestyles to it. And in some cases, we haven't even started to.Take the wrist watch. It is now redundant but hardly anyone realises it. Look around you. People with    mobile phones still look at their watches if they want the time or the date. That is completely unnecessary now because mobiles have clocks and calendars with backlit screens for night viewing, and   they can be updated remotely.It remains to be seen whether this leads to a repeat of the slide-rule syndrome: no manufacturer of slide rules started making electronic calculators even though their business was about to be destroyed, and no maker of calculators had previously been in slide rules. Watchmakers, be warned.Manufacturers of mobile phones are thinking a lot about functions they can put in phones and they have now reached a critical stage.   Miniaturisation of the sets has just about reached the limits of usability. They can't be shrunk in size much more.But the components within them will continue to shrink, leaving space for all sorts of new functions. Over the past few years, phones have absorbed MP3 players, blood pressure monitors, diaries, web browsers, emailing facilities, radios, clocks, games and thermometers. And they are about to incorporate cameras.What next? Television may soon be thrown in (the screen is already there), as well as bar code scanners, location devices, multimedia messaging, TV consoles, telescopes,   optical scanners and web-linked health checkers: anything that can be miniaturised.The limiting factor is not the availability of gizmos but the infrastructure. The cross-network problems that plagued Wap may also prevent the much faster GPRS ("always on" to the web) from fulfiling its potential with the upcoming multimediamessaging service (MMS).Unlike texting, MMS needs GPRS and so far it only works on three out of Britain's five networks. There is nothing lonelier than a medium without a message.
One of the dilemmas facing programme makers is just how seriously to take fans. Unlike movies, where disapproval is beyond studio control once the edit is complete, fan-reaction is very much part of the TV-making process. Top sitcoms such as Friends are often rewritten on the fly to take live audience reaction into account, whereas soaps positively thrive on public interest in particular characters or storylines. Of course, the flip side is when fans decide to rebel.Although audience reaction has made an impact for decades, it was usually compounded by other factors. In the 80s, Lorimar revived Dallas' Bobby Ewing only after ratings fell sufficiently to make it a deal-breaker and only after an entire series had passed.  These days, tribute sites and bulletin boards spread discontent further and faster. Witness the current furore over the sci-fi series Stargate SG-1, where protest over the departure of Daniel Jackson (one of the show's main characters) is said to be jeopardising the chances of a lucrative movie franchise and spin-off series.What began as a trickle of discontent was quickly whipped up by websites such as www.savedanieljackson.com,    resulting in 1,000 calls to MGM's president Hank Cohen when the defining episode was screened in the UK earlier this year, with a subsequent advertising campaign in US and UK periodicals. "We expect MGM to be pragmatic," says the site's Allison Butler. "They've catastrophically misread the audience for their show, reducing the role of the most popular character and actor, consistently shedding female and adult viewers as they've done so, to the point they lost him along with us."Actor Michael Shanks, who played Jackson for five seasons, confesses to being bemused by the whole affair.  "It's very nice to see a group of people go to that amount of effort to bring it into the public eye even more than the show would do itself," he writes. "At the same time, it feels like a little bit too much in the sense that if people have the money to do something like that, you really wish it was going towards something that    was helping people."While the Stargate backlash was unexpected, the warning signs have been there for years. In the mid-80s, Paramount had to sideline the much-hated Wesley Crusher from Star Trek: The Next Generation as the bile flowed, most notably from the infamous, but now defunct, newsgroup news:alt.wesley.crusher.die.die.die."TV producers seem to be using the internet as a focus group but this only works if you are open to the views of all the fans," adds Butler. "Even so, there are many such examples of successful fan campaigns." However, not all producers take criticism well. Since the release of Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace, fans have been up in arms about the hugely irritating Jar Jar Binks. So copious has been the disapproval that entire webrings have been devoted to the subject www.angelfire.com/on/ninjzz/jjwr.html including the amusingly cruel "Jar Jar Torture Page". Despite this, Binks is scheduled to make a reappearance in Episode 2, opening next month. Even more brazen was last summer's finale to Xena, Warrior Princess, where the show's mainly teenage audience was forced to endure their heroine being killed, defiled and beheaded. The reaction was predictable but futile. "I don't know what else to say except that I am completely heartbroken,"    writes one traumatised fan. "I feel betrayed by TPTB (the production company)."Admittedly, most of these websites and petitions tend to concern sci-fi programmes, which have a tendency to attract viewers with too much time on their hands and too few friends. Nevertheless, the combination of interactive TV and the internet could soon be a more significant indicator of commercial viability than audience ratings, in which case producers really should start checking their in-boxes more often.
Live lineLive Your Life, an online reality game show, was launched yesterday on MSN. In a cross between Big Brother and Luke Rhinehart's the Dice Man, five ordinary    people have given control of part of their lives to an internet audience for 15 days. Each contestant is contractually bound to accept one decision a day decided by a potential audience of millions, although each has one "joker" to use if things get too sticky.What kind of decisions are the contestants devolving? Nothing too serious, says MSN. Just small things such as whether the contestants should ditch their partners, move house, sell their car and so on. At stake: a &#163;10,000 prize awarded to the most popular contestant.JodiBelgium's pioneering net.artists Jodi - Joan Heemskerk and Dirk Paesmans - have just launched their new work, Untitled Game. It is a homage to John Romero, the game guru of Id Software, who helped invent the first-person shooter with Wolfenstein 3D in 1992, then went on to break the boundaries of gameplay with Quake. Both games have been deconstructed by Jodi and are now available as abstracted, skeletal versions. Shorn of most of their rendered surfaces, colour and sound effects, both    games become something else entirely, but this is one of the best ways to see how such games work.School searchEduseek, a search engine for schools, has just been launched. Eduseek.com boasts 20,000 hand-selected links and is suitable for teachers and pupils. Like Google, the design is minimal but highly effective, and while the site features a bit of news, it is really just a search engine and not a portal. To promote the launch, Eduseek is offering all    UK schools a free website.Blog watchWeblogs abound these days, but few are as stylish as the one at www.rebeccablood.net. Not only does Rebecca tell you where she's been surfing, she also offers one of the best critical histories of the blogging phenomenon. But all is not as it seems. Scratch the surface and you will see that the site is built around her new book, The Weblog Handbook, to be published later this year. Still worth a bookmark, mind.Lynch webThe web is getting increasingly commercial, partly because we don't pay for content. So ads are getting bigger and more pervasive, and sponsorship is becoming more common. Some sites are trying to charge small amounts of money for "premium services", but would you pay $10 for a website? Surreal US film director David Lynch seems to think so, and has produced a website of his own. The site is full of Lynch's usual mix of the frighteningly mundane and the utterly bizarre. There are many scenes from the cutting room floor and some special web animations for those willing to cough up. But most of the content is streaming media, so you will need a fast connection.Trade fairMaketrade fair.com is a new online campaign, backed by Oxfam, timed to coincide with the World Bank/IMF spring meeting in Washington this weekend. It wants us to recognise that "increased prosperity has gone hand in hand with mass poverty", and that "obscene inequalities between rich and poor are widening". Make Trade Fair wants to build on the success of campaigns such as Jubilee 2000, which have helped begin to shift the burden of debt away from the world's poorest countries. Now Oxfam wants to campaign for a level playing field, so that the third world can avoid getting into debt by having a    fairer share of world markets. The campaign is backed by a number of celebrities including Bono, Johnny Vegas and Ken Livingstone. The site also offers a number of templates to allow you to email world leaders including President Bush, as well as informative multimedia pages describing how world trade creates inequality. And while the site features some flashy animations, they are sparing and do not slow it down.Muse hereThe great things about online galleries and museums are that you don't have to go very far to visit them. Now, a new site makes the task even easier by collecting the best ones together in one place, a Museum of Online Museums (MoOM). Unlike the 24hr Museum, the site is US-based, and it tends to promote American galleries over the rest of the world. However, it is a valuable resource.
How important is the computer to modern composers?There are composers who don't use any technology and those who work only on computer. I fall somewhere in between as I have a passion for electronic gadgets and old analogue synths but I still write principally at my grand piano. Film directors expect the demos to sound like an orchestra and the computer allows that.What software is essential to you?I mainly use music software. Logic Audio  for sequencing and also its notator function lets you visualise the notes. Recently I've been getting into Reaktor, which uses the computer to generate the sounds. There's some really good, experimental music software coming out of Germany just now.Mac or PC?I have a Titanium Mac and a PC. In all, I have six computers, lots of synthesizers and several samplers... I'm just a sad techie really! I'm a bit of a Mac man but I got the PC because everything works on it and you get so much software for it.Favourite gadgets?I'm surrounded by so many gadgets it's hard to pick favourites. The best thing out just now is the iPod. You can store up to 1,000 MP3s and you get 11 hours' battery time. The only frustrating thing about technology is that one month after you've bought something, they're releasing a version with twice the memory. I bought a Motorola Timeport GPRS phone   which is really great. It's also triband so it'll work anywhere.R U in2 SMS?or Do You Text?I do text but I guess I'm from that generation that, even though I am fairly tech-savvy, I find it a bit clunky! I still feel that email is a more "solid" option. Text messages are maybe a key to the future of speech, though, in that everything will one day be abbreviated!Do you use a personal digital assistant?No, mainly because I haven't seen one that looks attractive! That's the secret of technology - it's great when it works but it has to look good as well. For anyone who was brought up on Joe 90 there has to be an aesthetic to it!Microsoft - saint or sinner?Microsoft bought some Apple stock - an indication that they need the innovation of Apple. The biggest players aren't necessarily doing the most interesting stuff. I followed the row about the Internet Explorer monopoly but if you owned Microsoft you'd probably be trying to do the same! It's great that Apple are still operating, though I wonder why our UK tech industry is so quiet.&#183;Craig Armstrong's new album, As If To Nothing, is out on Melankolic.
Beaten by a girlI was delighted to read Rhianna Pratchett's thoughts on the "novelty value" of girl gamers. I play games. I am a girl. The two aren't necessarily related. I once worked in a shop that specialises in games and was regarded as something of a novelty - to the extent that staff from other branches rang up to find out if it was true that there was a girl talking knowledgeably about games... However, despite all this, there is always some pleasure to be taken in uttering the statement: "You've been beaten by a girl..."Lucy Anscombelucy@doog.eidosnet.co.ukChoice sitesIn the Online cover piece (Show me the money, Online,    April 11), you failed to mention Nochex.com, which is probably the service of choice for UK auction users and almost certainly the biggest and most important service of its type in the UK! Give it some publicity and help out one of the better UK sites.Luke Phillipslukep@dai.ed.ac.ukEmail in a hatHas Paul Astles ("Does anyone else find it absurd that Online's Adobe Photoshop competition requires entrants to send in answers on a postcard and has no provision for email entry?", Feedback, April 11) ever tried to draw an email out of a hat?Adam Williamsonaw280@cam.ac.ukQuality controlSorry, Alistair Kilgour (Feedback, April 11), but I have to disagree! The audio and video quality perceived by the digital TV viewer is likely to be no better (and possibly inferior) to what that viewer would experience on a good quality receiver in a good analogue reception area. In theory, it should be better, but the maximum possible number of channels    will be allocated (for maximum financial return), which means that the bandwidth allowed to an individual broadcaster will not be enough to provide superior audio and video quality - even if he wanted to. The biggest problem that still has not been addressed sensibly is that of programme recording. With the analogue system, it is possible to buy for about &#163;80 a decent Nicam stereo VCR, which will allow the recording of one programme while watching another, the recording of an assortment of programmes on different channels in the viewer's absence, PDC, Videoplus and the possibility of archiving by simply removing the cassette.At present, to get anywhere near that capability on digital TV, one has to spend initially at least &#163;300 and then pay out a monthly subscription of around &#163;10. And this for a ridiculously complicated device that even decides that I might like a programme recorded!If I want to archive a recording, then I still have to download on to my VCR. I have no objection to paying a licence fee for good programmes, but I refuse to pay a subscription either for programmes or a machine    that would just infuriate me. As far as I am concerned, the Digital Delay can become permanent!Derek Roughtonpandder50@hotmail.comCrusaderThe picture of Richard Stallman and his rucksack at a railway station (On the groovy train, April 11) reminded me of a homeless, rootless individual, only differentiated by his laptop. I read that Stallman lived in his office at MIT for 11 years. A man with a crusade!Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comSleep easyIn reply to Mick Harper's dilemma (Feedback, Green sleeves, April 4) there is a solution that will allow him to save money and sleep easy in bed while also doing his bit for society in general. Buy the &#163;19.99 printer, keep the cartridges, and donate the printer to a local school or a charity. They may already be buying printer cartridges in bulk, or may be getting them at a special rate, and if you ask around, I'm sure you'll find someone who'll benefit from taking the empty printer off your hands.   PS. What's the name of this local computer store?Philip Brocklehurstphilip.p.brocklehurst@btinternet.com
Silicon Valley has always had a liking for the revolutionary. Take the famous Apple ad during the Superbowl of 1984, featuring a lone runner, IBM as the embodiment of oppression and the liberating introduction of the new Macintosh. So it is no wonder that Silicon Valley has embraced a technology and business model that promises to provide high-speed internet in the air, turn every individual into a cell in a revolutionary grassroots network and undermine cable and telecom companies at the same time.The basic technology behind this revolution is a    standard called 802.11b - now redubbed Wi-Fi - which makes use of lightly regulated wireless frequency. New are a series of clever businesses, such as Joltage Networks, that use pyramid marketing techniques to recruit us. Think of Tupperware parties - for wireless internet.Wi-Fi took off about three years ago as a way to connect a local network without cluttering up the office with blue Ethernet cables. The equipment - a network access point base station and a receiver card for each computer - became cheaper as sales increased. Soon, public-spirited individuals - OK, some San Francisco techno-hippies such as Brewster Kahle - placed these antennae in windows or on roofs, spilling internet access on to the surrounding streets for anyone with a laptop and a Wi-Fi card to enjoy.As the cost of setting up a Wi-Fi access point fell - $150 for the box plus the cost of an internet connection - more than 10,000 access points have sprung up across the US and other countries. This wireless technology has come out of nowhere to challenge the wireless companies' 3G networks as conduits for high-speed net access. However, the networks are patchy. I crossed several states in the US recently without detecting an access point.Companies such as Airwave    and MobileStar, which tried to put Wi-Fi in cafes and airports, have gone bankrupt or undergone restructuring. A national Wi-Fi network has been a pipe-dream - until now. It is dangerous to get excited about a small company such as Joltage, which employs fewer than 20 people, enjoys no institutional funding and faces the hostility of the telecoms and cable industries. But Joltage, a New York company that made its debut at PC Forum, the elite annual tech industry event, produces a clever piece of software that turns any Wi-Fi access point into a node of a global network, and provides a financial incentive.Wi-Fi has grown out of the West Coast idealistic belief that free internet access is a basic human right, and the failure of corporate IT departments to properly secure their wireless networks. But Wi-Fi needs to move beyond its hippy and hobbyist phase. Joltage charges users $2.95 per hour for access to the wider network. Half of the net revenues are to be distributed to the cells.So, with just a few users a day, a contributor to the Joltage network can offset    the cost of a DSL or cable internet subscription. A cafe, or someone with an apartment on a busy street, could make a substantial profit. And when you plug in a Wi-Fi card into a laptop you could stumble across the neighbour's node, and be prompted to sign up right there with your credit card. If this seems reminiscent of the viral marketing schemes of the 1990s, one ought not be surprised: Andrew Weinreich, founder of Joltage, was behind SixDegrees, the online service that tracked social networks. Whether or not Joltage succeeds, the scheme enjoys compelling economics, and will likely work in some shape. Most individuals in the US pay $50 per month for their high-speed internet connection, but use less than 1% of the bandwidth on offer. For a cost of $150 for the equipment and a few minutes setting up the software, they can have wireless access in the home, and offset the cost of their connection.The vision: US cities and suburbs blanketed by a high-speed wireless network as soon as 2005; a massive infrastructure implemented not by the lumbering telecom giants but by hobbyists and small entrepreneurs. The only hitch: Wi-Fi cells require a fixed-line connection to the internet, and the telcos typically include a clause forbidding the sharing or resale of a connection.Joltage requires contributors to its network to agree to the terms of use, but its growth depends on violation of those terms. To begin with, the telecom companies may turn a blind eye. The ability to recoup some of the cost of a DSL or cable connection might encourage sign-up rates. However, once every second house is a Wi-Fi cell, and an area is saturated in wireless internet, what is the point of a fixed-line connection?And, just as the music industry went after companies such as Napster, the telecom industry is bound to attack Joltage as soon as it succeeds. Fortunately, by the time they try to shut down Joltage and other wireless internet networks, a new wireless technology will be ready to come to the rescue - mesh network technology. SkyPilot Network unveiled just such a system, also at the PC Forum, which allows data to bounce from roof to roof within a neighbourhood, at volumes that increase as the network becomes more dense. Mesh networks have evolved from efforts by the US military to build a communication system that will withstand a nuclear attack. This movement will be hard to suppress.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Electronic mail has been the "killer application" that has brought people on to the internet. It could soon become the one that drives them away because they can no longer be bothered to find the handful of real mail in a tsunami of spam.If your email address has been published anywhere, then sooner or later, that could happen. Spammers use robot software to "scrape" websites, message boards and newsgroup postings, sucking up addresses. There is a lot of talk about direct marketing by email, and so-called "permission marketing". The reality is that thousands of spammers are sending   millions of spams to tens of millions of email addresses, without knowing or caring anything about the unfortunate recipients. This isn't marketing, it's abuse.At the moment, only about 10% of the email reaching British mailboxes is spam or UCE (unsolicited commercial email). In the US, the figure has already reached 20%, according to Brightmail, a company that filters it out. Jupiter Media Metrix reckons the amount of spam will double by 2006.My first Hotmail box is an example. I have had it a long time, and I use it when web sites ask for an email address. Logging on about once a week, I usually find   300-400 spams, along with three or four pieces of genuine email. The spams typically offer ways to restructure my finances or make money from home. I get multiple offers of college degrees and supplies of Viagra, plus invitations to visit pornographic websites. Last week, almost the only useful piece of email came from Hotmail, warning me that the mailbox was close to its storage limit.This type of spam is not just annoying, it is insulting. No one except the most innocent newbie would respond to it. Alas, even a tiny response rate can be worthwhile to spammers who can send 10m or even 100m spams a day without paying for them.The problem is that the cost to society is enormous. A study for the European Commission, published in January last year, estimated the cost to consumers at 110bn euros per year, and while the figure has been widely quoted, it comes nowhere near the real costs. Think $100bn a year instead.The EU study based its cost estimate on the old-fashioned idea of using a dial-up connection with a modem, and paying 12 euros per month for 10 hours' connection time. There are another two important costs to consider, starting with the cost of operating and maintaining the internet's email network. This includes the phone lines, routers, countless computers, farms of hard drives, and all the people needed to operate them. If 20% of email is spam, then 20% of the overheads can be attributed to spam. I can't see the email portion being less than $5bn a year.Far more significant is the cost of people's time. If the average user gets 20 spams a day, that's 7,300 per year. If each message takes only 10 seconds to download, scan and delete, that consumes about 20 hours a year. If your time is only worth $10 an hour, that is still $200 a year. And for 600m users, the cost comes to $120bn a year.The EU study envisaged users getting, on average, 60 unwanted messages per day, On that basis, spam will cost internet users around $1bn per day. And if you allow more than 10 seconds per spam, the cost is much higher.Unfortunately, stopping spam is not a simple matter. Internet service providers must bear the brunt of the battle, because they carry and deliver spam. But governments, corporate users and individuals must also contribute by introducing anti-spam laws, using software to block spam, and by changing their behaviour. For example, most users should avoid publishing their "real" email addresses on the net and use temporary ones, or a service such as Sneakemail.Another point is never to reply to spam, even if offered   an address to unsubscribe from the list. This works with reputable companies, but with spammers, it merely confirms that they have found an active email address.Of course, one of the problems is that users describe all kinds of unwanted email as spam, and Joyce Graff, an analyst with Gartner, distinguishes four types:* Pure trash: senders with fictitious names offering morally objectionable materials, get-rich-quick schemes, and so on.* Chain letters, hoaxes and urban legends. They are often forwarded by people you know, but originate as someone's idea of a joke.* Honest companies trying to do business. The recipient probably agreed to receive promotional email, perhaps by taking part in a competition and not reading all the fine print.* Occupational spam, such as interoffice memos with very large distribution lists, and messages sent to everyone in the building.The most urgent need is to eliminate the pure trash. It should not be impossible. As Brightmail's US-based vice president of marketing, Francois Lavaste, says: "Spamming is a criminal activity. Most of the messages are scams."Common examples include recommendations for worthless shares, Ponzi or pyramid marketing schemes, and straightforward attempts at fraud, often in letters from Nigeria. Someone trying to pull the same stunts in Abingdon or Albuquerque would be   investigated and perhaps prosecuted. That should happen on the internet as well. In February, America's Federal Trade Commission finally filed civil lawsuits against six individuals who used a massive spamming campaign to promote a pyramid investment scheme. But in general, governments have not done enough to tackle the problem.ISPs could also do more to stop spam at its source, by adapting or perhaps simply enforcing their acceptable-use policies. For example, spammers usually try to avoid detection by forging the From: and Reply To: addresses in their emails: there is no way that can be considered an acceptable use of the internet. Indeed, in some places, such as California, it is illegal to send mass commercial email without a valid return address or a freephone number so recipients can ask to be removed from future mailings. That should be the minimum required under UK law, too.Users can put pressure on ISPs by reporting spam, and by forwarding it to independent spam trackers such as SpamCop. Complaining to the ISP does make a difference, says Lavaste. "Customer complaints are the biggest ongoing cost for an American ISP, and typically they have about a third of their staff doing support or dealing with them. Every time a customer calls, it costs them a lot of money." American ISPs are installing spam filters to cut the cost of dealing with all the complaints.Reporting spam to services such as Spamhaus, SpamCop and Maps, the Mail Abuse Prevention System, also helps because they blacklist the internet (IP) addresses used to send it, and sometimes they blacklist the ISP. When legitimate customers find their mail is being rejected, they complain, which motivates the ISP to deal with the problem as quickly as possible. However, given the volume of spam nowadays, it is only worth reporting spam if you do it when it arrives. If a spammer is about to send 10m emails, it is a big help to have the address blacklisted after the first 100,000 or so.Brightmail tackles the problem by using a network of hundreds of thousands of dummy email addresses. "We use them to attract spam, and we use those attacks to write rules so that our software can filter them," says Lavaste. If a spam fits a familiar pattern, he says the response can be out in seconds.The main drawback with   filtering is that wanted mail can be thrown out with unwanted mail. In one of the best examples, America Online bounced some acceptance letters that Harvard University had emailed to students. Companies that write amateurish rules for filtering software on their own servers can also cause problems. For example, they ban the word "breast", thereby rejecting useful messages that may be about cooking, swimming or cancer screening. But this is an argument for more intelligent filtering, not for no filtering at all.Whether filtering is as aggressive as AOL's or as feeble as Hotmail's, some spam will always get through. Some users will find it worthwhile to install spam defences, such as MailWasher. This free software checks email before you download it, and sorts it into categories such as Virus, Possibly spam, Probably spam, Chain letter, and Blacklisted. You can set MailWasher to bounce spam back   to its sender and delete it from the server: you never see it, and to the spammer, it looks as though your address is invalid. The ability to download headers without messages, or to preview messages, means users should be able to avoid rejecting important mail.This type of software has not yet come into widespread use, but it will. Last week, McAfee bought a similar program, Novasoft's SpamKiller, and is expected to market it heavily. Thor Ivar Ekle, the Norwegian who first wrote the program as a hobby, says: "I've been a one-man venture since 1997, and in some ways that takes its toll. With the full resources of McAfee behind the program, it is going to be easier to take it to a higher level."In some more advanced places, such as California and the state of Washington - home to Microsoft, Real Networks, Nintendo of America and others - users can take spammers to court. Last April, Ellen Spertus, once voted Sexiest Geek Alive, was the first to win a suit under California's anti-spam law, and was awarded $50 in damages. In Seattle, Bennett Haselton from Peacefire won four lots of $500 from spammers in cases that cost $21 each to file, and Bruce Miller, a freelance writer, has collected about $4,000, mainly through out-of-court settlements. Hasleton has a useful website and Miller is writing a book to help people bring cases. If enough people do it, it could put spammers out of business.The British government is a long way behind in fighting spam. However, in December, an EU directive attempted to establish a kind of opt-in system "which will be implemented in the UK in due course," says a department of trade and industry spokesman. Companies will only be able to send unsolicited commercial email where customers agree to it or have an existing relationship. "Where there is no relationship at all, it's restricted."This will be a huge step forward. The industries that use fax machines and phones for direct marketing have lists that enable people to opt out, by registering their desire not to be contacted. However, the e-MPS (Email Preference Scheme) run by the Direct Marketing Association in the US has already shown this doesn't work. Spammers don't care which country you are in, whether you are male or female or a child, whether or not their product is legal, or even if it works. Why should they care whether you are on a list that says you don't want spam?Another problem, particularly in the US, is achieving a balance between the right to free speech and the freedom to spam. Forrester Research in Boston has observed that direct mail marketers are "fouling their own nests", and some pressure groups and politicians are doing the same. For example, Bill Jones, a Californian political candidate, has spammed voters more than once, most recently with messages that, according to Wired, had forged headers and were "routed through the server of an elementary school in Chonnam, Korea" (see link below).Technically it may not be spam, since political messages are not "commercial". Users don't care. You can't win hearts by doing things people hate, and the right to free speech is meaningless if it is only the right to have your unwanted message deleted unread, along with dozens of spams promoting quack medicines and financial scams.But in the end, there is no easy way to stop spam, given an email system designed, as Ekle says, "when the internet was an innocent, academic place". And with no secure internet email system on the horizon, Ekle reckons it won't be possible to eliminate spam until everyone has a permanent internet connection - "like your power line or your phone line" - with a fixed IP address that makes everything traceable. "I am not an advocate for taking people's privacy away," he says, "but the IP address is something we should be able to publish without worrying."
Unwanted helpWhen I received a letter from the Microsoft Corporation Security Center, Norton Anti-virus said it had detected a virus. I deleted it unopened, as it seemed    unlikely that Microsoft would mail anyone about any security problems. Please comment!S RoxburghJack Schofield replies:Wise move! The message appears to come from Microsoft but it is a fake. The attachment includes a worm called W32.Gibe@mm. For details, see theSymantecsecurity site.Microsoftalso explains how you can tell such email is bogus.Power downWe have frequent short power cuts, and when the power is restored, my PC switches itself on. This can be disconcerting, particularly at night. I don't want to have to switch it off at the wall whenever I close down.Juliet BurgessJS:PCs no longer have on/off switches. The PC97 design guide from Intel and Microsoft introduced ACPI (Advanced Configuration &amp; Power Interface), which has four states: working, sleeping, soft off and mechanical off. In the soft off mode, the PC consumes about five watts or less and can be woken up over a network for maintenance, for example. The way mechanical off is implemented may vary between manufacturers. However, holding down the power button for several seconds may do the trick.EsperantistIs it possible to set up Word 2000 to deal with the characters needed in Esperanto?Stanley Challenger Grahamwww.barnoldswick.blogspot.comJS:It seems it is. John Massam has a webpage(ortwo) explaining how.Mail accessIs there a quick way of backing up my emails on to CD? I just want to be able to click on a folder to open it from where it's stored on CD!Lynne MorganJS:I don't think you can do that, or not easily, but neither do I think Outlook Express is a good place to store a significant amount of email.Express Archivercould be worth trying as it lets you read email without loading it into Outlook Express.StuckSometimes when surfing I get stuck on a web page and it won't let me go back, which is infuriating if I have Google running. Can I stop this?Antonia KingJS:You can sometimes stop it by surfing with JavaScript turned off but this may have other disadvantages. However, try clicking on the tiny black triangle next to the Back button. This will drop down a list of the sites you have visited recently, so you should be able to pick Google. Another workaround is to open Google's links differently by right-clicking on them and selecting Open in New Window from the menu.Mac cookiesSo how do I delete Cookies from my iMac? Cristina CrossinghamJS:It depends which browser, and which version of it, you use. If you use Internet Explorer, go to System Folder| Preferences|Receiving Files| Cookies and delete any or all of them directly. Unfortunately Microsoft seems to store cookies in a different place each time. (To find out where cookies are stored inearlier versions of IE.)  Alternatively, go to the Edit menu, select Preferences, choose Cookies, and delete them that way. If you use Netscape Navigator, go to System Folder| Preferences|Netscape Users and look for the folder with your user name. Either delete the MagicCookie file or open it with a text editor and delete individual cookies. Alternatively, look for the Netscape History file. You could also use Webroot'sMacWasherto clean up your system.Backchat&#183;Browser hijacking (April 11) is rampant. Paul Canning had a problem withLop.com, and says he found the solution throughSpywareinfo: "It was to use free software calledAd-awareand delete two more files as directed". Spyware says its article onhijackingis "by far the most popular feature" on the site.&#183;John Murphy (April 4) asked for an offline browser to fetch stories from publications such as the Guardian. He has now found one that he says is ideal:Microsurfer.&#183;Frederic Hardy (April 4) was looking for IT training. Adrian Cobley replied: "For the man in the street, the first port of call should be their local college of further education." Dave Jones added that "the TUC has a network of training centres, many attached to local colleges. They provide free accredited IT training to members and in many cases their families." Seewww.tuc.org.uk/learning/. Emma Solomon fromHairnetsaid Hairnet offers "1-2-1 IT training on your computer in your own home, or at work, in your own time. We specialise in teaching the over 50s, but we welcome anyone." Tuition costs &#163;20 an hour. Call 0870 241 5091 or seewww.hairnet.org
Deus ExPlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 Ion Storm/Eidos 	****A PlayStation 2 conversion of a two-year-old PC game may not seem newsworthy, but Deus Ex is a title that deserves a wider audience. A genre-bending mix of first-person shooting (FPS) and role-playing (RPG), Deus offers an innovative, if, at times, frustrating, gaming experience. The graphics have been spruced up - although they are still only perfunctory - and the interface has been simplified, but this is otherwise the same game. You play   JC Denton, an android caught in the middle of a futuristic government/terrorist punch-up. Despite the numerous sci-fi cliches, the plot remains engaging and integral to the game.But, as before, it is the freedom to choose that most impresses. For example, in the first level you can either storm the front door or sneak around and find a quieter back entrance. This pattern is repeated throughout the game and becomes especially important when combined with the RPG elements.Achieve your goals, and skill points are awarded that allow you to upgrade your character. Players can create computer-hacking, combat avoidance avatars or go for a gun-toting approach. Unfortunately, this aspect doesn't live up to its potential, with skill differences not really becoming necessary until the latter stages. Then there are the controls which can't match the accuracy of a mouse and keyboard.But perseverance is rewarded by an engrossing gaming hybrid that makes up in design, atmosphere and player freedom what it lacks in looks.  (GH)FIFA World Cup 2002Xbox/Gamecube 	&#163;44.99 PlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 PC 	&#163;29.99 EA Sports 	***EA Sports' determination to squeeze every drop from its expensively acquired official Fifa licence always throws up World Cup-specific games, and leaves the company open to accusations of cashing in. Fifa World Cup 2002, at least, offers substantial alterations to Fifa 2002, which help to recover the ground lost to the superior Pro Evolution Soccer.EA Sports has plagiarised one of its own games (the dire FA Premier League Stars) to introduce the concept of star players who have conspicuous strengths. Michael Owen, for example, has blistering pace and breathtaking shooting skill inside the area, and you can reproduce Beckham's curling free kicks.Heading requires a single button press rather than a press-and-hold. EA Sports has also tried to improve the passing engine, which retains the trails showing off-the-ball runs. Although it is now infinitely better, it still compares unfavourably with Pro Evolution Soccer's passing.For the first time in a foot ball game, faces modelled from digital photos look like their real-life counterparts, and the level of detail that has gone into the virtual reconstructions of the stadia and crowds (including country-specific chants) is impressive. A new "Beginner" difficulty level, designed to make the game accessible to novices, renders proceedings laughably easy for anyone who has played football.Fifa World Cup 2002 is a step in the right direction for a once-great franchise, but all but the completists and Fifa fanatics will be better advised to save their money for Fifa 2003, which should benefit from EA Sports' realisation that it must start again from scratch.  (SB)Star Wars: Obi WanXbox	&#163;45		 LucasArts/ Microsoft 	***The Xbox has enjoyed a blistering array of games, but the honeymoon had to end. Unfortunately, it does with one of its biggest exclusives. Obi Wan caused howls of dismay when it was revealed it was not heading for the PC: now, perhaps, we understand why.First impressions are promising, with an impressive sense of scale as your young Jedi begins his 15-level journey through events pre  ceding the first movie (Episode 1). The sound is first class, full of stirring music. Even better, your main weapon - the mighty light-sabre - performs just as smoothly as you imagined, crackling with energy and deflecting laser blasts as it swings. All this is intelligently mapped to the controller,   making combat and movement almost instinctive.However, the first level sets the tone for the whole game; huge expanses are depressingly empty, then suddenly swarming with enemies that must be dispatched at regular intervals. Stealth is almost impossible to use as a strategy, and you soon get used to   simply rushing at groups of enemies slashing wildly with your sabre (although other weapons are available). After a few levels you tire of the unhelpful camera, which makes random button presses just as effective in combat as proper fighting techniques. The graphics are nothing special and the missions overly scripted and reliant on regenerating enemies to add a false sense of longevity.Star Wars fans will rush out and buy it as if under the influence of Jedi mind control. The rest will yearn for the far superior Jedi Knight 2 (PC) and wish that Microsoft had waited a few months and released a more accomplished title. Obi Wan is just an intriguing novelty - pretty much like the last movie, in fact. (MA)
In theory Bluetooth wireless headsets for mobile phones are a good idea. They offer the sound quality and convenience of a wired headset, yet give the user freedom to move without having to worry about tangling themselves up in cable. Bluetooth's range of several metres is also very handy, too.However, until now, Bluetooth headsets have required Bluetooth-compatible phones. Fortunately, Plantronics has started what is likely to become a major trend with a Bluetooth mobile phone headset that also features a Bluetooth phone adapter. Plantronics claims that the M1500 - five types available to suit different phones - is compatible with almost every model.The headset features the unit's controls, so the user can   start or end a phone call by pressing its Answer/End switch. And if their mobile features voice dialling, all the user needs to do is say the name of the person they are calling into the headset.The M1500 comes with rechargeable batteries which offer up to 2.5 hours of talk time, or up to 75 hours of standby time and can be recharged in an hour. The unit should be available in the summer and cost around &#163;150.Barely a week goes by without a manufacturer taking steps into the handheld PC market. Toshiba recently launched its first personal digital assistant, the e570. Next week, Sharp will offer Zarus SL5500, the first PDA in the UK to use the Linux operating system.Coming at the end of the month is the PocketGear 2060, the first handheld PC from Packard Bell. According to the company, the PDA's trump card is that it is the smallest and lightest (150g including battery) model to use Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system. The 2060 teams an Intel 206MHz StrongArm SA-1100 processor with a 240x320 pixel colour display and 64MB RAM. Additional storage capacity and a range of accessories can be added via the Secure Digital (SD) card slot. In addition to pocket versions of Word, Outlook and   Internet Explorer, the 2060 features a Windows Media player that plays both music and movies and instant messaging software. It has infrared connection to a mobile phone, although unlike the Compaq iPaq H3870 there's no Bluetooth compatibility. The PDA will retail for &#163;429.It might sound like a belated April Fool joke, but a Japanese company has developed a prototype of a mobile that can "lip read". Keiji Tachikawa,   president of the Japanese telecommunications company NTT DoCoMo, recently paraded the device, adding that he was confident it could reach the market within five years. Apparently, users will be able to mouth their words silently into the phone's mouthpiece, which will detect electrical signals sent by muscles around the mouth. These signals are then converted into words or text. So far, the prototype only recognises vowels: consonants are proving slightly trickier.The phone sounds like great news for cinema-goers who fancy a silent chat during boring movies. But will it put an end to noisy train carriages filled with mobile users detailing their current whereabouts? Probably not.
There's great excitement among developers about last week's release ofGoogle's web APIs- a kind of toolbox that lets folk create useful applications that delve into the search engine's archive of web pages, images and whatever else.News.comexplains all.
As Jackcorrectly predictedthe other day, we should expect a few ofthiskind of story about a possible new browser war. It has just been announced that AOL's Compuserve brand is to switch from Microsoft's Internet Explorer to the open source Gecko software in its next browser release. Gecko is built to industry standards - which is both good news and bad, as the Register's story explains nicely.
Tech research filmForresterhas some new research out today on internet penetration in Europe. Amazingly, given the amount of stick Forrester has had in the past for their often wildly optimistic predictions, they have found that reality has exceeded even their expectations. In 1999 only 19 percent of Europeans aged 16+ were online regularly. By 2001, what had jumped to 39 per cent. Today, half of Europe has access to the net in some way. Nordic countries lead the way in percentage of penetration today, with Germany, Italy and the UK expected to rank one, two and three by 2006 in terms of the largest markets.
Hack attacks, virus outbreaks and computer-assisted theft from businesses have doubled in the last two years, and companies are not doing enough to stop them, according to research out today from the Department of Trade and Industry.A study conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers found that 44% of British businesses had suffered a "malicious security breach" within the last year, twice the number that reported attacks to researchers in 2000. The average serious breach cost companies 30,000 to put right, although some companies reported costs of more than half a million pounds. Researchers speculated that the total cost to British business ran to billions of pounds.Although three quarters of large businesses admitted to security breaches, researchers found that expenditure on information security was woefully inadequate. The survey noted that companies should spend between 3% and 5% of their IT budget on information security, and up to 10% in high risk industries such as financial services. However, fewer than three in 10 companies spent more than 1%.The survey's authors warned: "Investment in information security is still low, and looking forward there is an urgent need for action now."Researchers reported that only 27% of businesses had implemented "the most basic discipline in information security": a company security policy.
In addition, more than half of the companies surveyed either had no insurance against security breaches or did not know if they had it.The study outlined a number of areas where businesses have fallen short in tackling information security. It recommended background checks and security training for employees, as the number of employee-related incidents had increased over the last two years. The survey also found that in many cases a predetermined security policy and better technical systems configuration could have prevented problems.
According to OneStat, the Web site with the most unique visitors isGoogle. What is surpirsing is that less than half as many people go to Yahoo.
While hacking has traditionally been the domain of internet geeks and pranksters, the "skill" has now entered the mainstream. Hacking is so widespread that there are thousands of people working in UK businesses with enough knowledge to break into the email systems and secret files both of their own companies and those of their competitors.According to figures from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), about 33% of businesses still do not have a firewall between their websites and their internal computer systems, leaving them vulnerable to hackers. And 66% do not have intrusion detection systems, which could detect hackers if they penetrated other defences.The result for many British businesses is millions in lost revenue, research and development secrets and corporate strategy. And with UK e-crime laws so weak, the chance of convictions is slim - only seven hackers have been charged over the past two years - making this one of the most dangerous threats to corporate Britain. The reason so few hackers are being convicted is because their offences are currently viewed as mere acts of vandalism - construed as a nuisance that is ultimately harmless.It is unlikely that Canal Plus, the New York Times or eBay, for example, would see it this way. All have been victims of uninvited intruders. Canal Plus is suing NDS for $1bn for corporate "netspionage". NDS allegedly cracked Canal Plus's smartcard PIN and published it on the internet, giving thousands free access to digital pay-TV channels. The New York Times also suffered a breach of security when a so-called "ethical" hacker exposed a gaping hole in its network which allowed social security details of its writers and contributors to be read. And customers of eBay were locked out of their accounts when a greedy hacker changed passwords and proceeded to make transactions on behalf of other people.The point is that hacking isn't just a thrill-seeking activity. There is serious money to be made from the theft of proprietary information, such as blueprints for computer programs, as well as the competitive advantage of service downtime. And what's more, it's easy money. Many companies have the most basic security - a firewall here, badly configured, and the odd bit of anti-virus software there, often not installed properly. To a hacker it's like a door with no lock. Anyone with the most basic knowledge on reconfiguring servers, taught to all IT engineers at college, has the potential to hack.Weak password policies exacerbate the problem. Most people are simply unable to remember all the  different passwords they need for their various online accounts, such as an Amazon account, an online bank or email. Add to this your work PC, home internet and mobile devices and it is enough to make the most zealous person a little lax. People will tend to keep it simple and, unfortunately, more often than not, totally obvious. The New York Times proxy server, for example, was cracked in under two minutes by infamous ethical hacker Adrian Lamo.So why does hacking go unprosecuted? Most companies that have experienced a hacking incident do not inform the authorities. Like a form of school bullying, it's as if there is a feeling of shame associated with admitting that you've been a victim, and a concern that customers will lose faith in your business or services. It's ludicrous. I can understand the fear of bad publicity that could result from coming out and, yes, the damage to reputations and potential increase in corporate insurance premiums would deter many businesses from reporting such crimes, but the long-term picture looks even grimmer if these incidents are brushed under the carpet.So how can the government justify changes in the law to catch the real cyber criminals if the figures show that it isn't really such a big problem?While laws such as the regulatory investigatory powers bill can be used to prosecute those who attempt to tap into local access points, a lack of knowledge about security coupled with an unwillingness to be open about suspected attacks will let many hackers off the hook. The best the industry has been able to do is play catch-up after the fact. Many companies think it will never happen to them, but it does.Astonishingly, a lot of the time businesses don't even have the technology and processes in place that would alert them to the fact that they are getting hacked - as illustrated by the DTI figures - never mind going as far as to protect themselves. Consultants KPMG say that each security breach is costing UK businesses an average of &#163;77,000 a month, and this figure reflects only the reported cases.Business leaders should take the time to understand the very community that spawns these attacks - hackers - and then compare the initial outlay of properly securing a corporate network against the potential cost associated with a hacking incident.It is a great pity, but while businesses are running scared, the turning point will only come when there has been a multi-million pound hack, which turns off the refrigeration at a leading supermarket's central warehouse on a bank holiday weekend.&#183;Paran Chandrasekaran is CEO of internet security specialist Indicii Salus
A former staff member of Safeway supermarkets sent a rogue email to UK customers of the chain informing them that Safeway would be increasing its prices by 25%. And if they didn't like it, they could shop elsewhere. The case, which took place in 2000, was to be one of the first major incidents of cyber-crime, which has since spread like wildfire through British offices, with data theft, intentional computer damage, viruses and email infringements all becoming major problems for employers.So why do we so rarely hear about examples? According to the FBI, cases in the US - which are even more prevalent than here - are "phenomenally unreported" by companies because they don't want to admit that their security policies are flawed. The bureau's seventh annual computer crime and security survey, published last week, shows that 90% of American respondents detected a security breach within the past 12 months. However, only 34% reported the intrusions.Sometimes the culprits are anarchists and hackers. "Unused IDs, passwords and remote access permissions are a magnet for them, even the amateurs," says Chris Christiansen, analyst for International Data Corporation. Take the annual anti-capitalist protests that take place in May. They have, in the past, involved police in the City of London issuing a warning to companies in the country's financial heart to be on their guard.Alternatively, perpetrators can be fraudsters and thieves. These people may steal huge amounts of money and then destroy the evidence by vandalising the computer system. They often pose as employees - usually in secretarial posts rather than IT roles because they cause less suspicion and involve a higher turnover of staff. Where theft is of data that might be valuable to, say, a competitor, the culprits are more likely to be disgruntled employees or former employees.In fact, the vast majority of cyber-saboteurs, ranging from people creating viruses to sending rogue emails, tend to fall into this latter category. A study by the American Society of Industrial Security found that vengeful employees are now the biggest security worry for 90% of US bosses. And while less research has been carried out in the UK, anecdotal evidence confirms that we are catching up fast.Corinne Usher, a consultant clinical psychologist in Amersham, Buckinghamshire says: "Employees who have been moved from long-term to short-term contracts, employees who have been demoted or sacked, or employees who are generally devalued, often feel hurt and want to get their own back. They choose to do so through computer systems for several reasons. The main one is that you can do a great deal of damage without even leaving your chair."It is significant that what happens to people at work tends to be quite public, says Usher. "It means that the internet is an excellent medium by which they can get revenge because it is so public. In other words, people feel they can do to someone else exactly what has been done to them."In large corporations, where cyber-crime is most common, it is never one single person who makes the decision to, say, demote you, she adds. "It makes it hard to point a finger of blame at an individual because it is the whole system that's responsible. Viruses tend to be a particularly attractive way of seeking revenge in these cases because they offer a rare chance to attack the whole system."Mark Griffiths is a reader in psychology at Nottingham Trent University. He has found that people are uncharacteristically uninhibited when using the internet. "My research on online relationships reveals that people fall in love online a lot quicker than in the outside world. They feel they can let their guard down and allow emotions to flow," he says. "Internet revenge is an example of the other end of the   emotional spectrum - hatred rather than love."And because you only have to hit a few buttons, you can kid yourself that you haven't really done anything wrong. All the research shows it is easy to dissociate yourself from actions. "In fact, a huge number of people think that they're protected by anonymity. But wherever you go on the internet, you leave electronic footprints. Every time you visit a site, you leave an electronic calling card called a 'cookie'. People usually think that if they've downloaded porn but deleted their files they won't be found out. But they can always be found out, and easily," says Dr Griffiths.It is not just employers who are being targeted. Employees, too, are increasingly at risk from cyber-sabotage. Many have, for instance, come into work and found that their email inbox has received 300 junk-mail messages overnight. "We recently dealt with one case of an employee receiving a bounced message that he never sent. That message was pornographic," says Kevin Townsend, founder ofwww.itsecurity.com. "Since downloading porn is a sackable offence, the consequences could have been very serious for him."A particularly calculating colleague might opt for sending you an advanced virus, which anti-virus   company Sophos claims are becoming more and more common. "Most of us think of viruses as the things written by random youngsters who think it's cool to wipe as much as possible in as short a space of time as possible. The real problem occurs with the recent increase in the more sinister, unrecognisable viruses that have more subtle corruptions. They might, for example, multiply a random number on your spreadsheet every now and then by 0.05, or wipe random paragraphs from text files over several months," says a spokesman.These sophisticated viruses, he says, are considerably more dangerous. "First, they're less easy for anti- virus software to spot, and second, by the time you've noticed the effects, all your back-ups will probably be corrupted, too."Today's culture of presenteeism, coupled with more people being packed into smaller offices, can be to blame for attacks on colleagues, says Marilyn Davidson, an organisational psychologist. "Petty irritations have long been a source of warfare in the office environment. But modern pressures at work - including longer working hours and smaller spaces in which to work - mean that they are more likely than ever to affect staff relations and blow up into something bigger."A recent report by human resources consultancy Eden Brown found that angry employees are fast on the increase and that they are taking it out on their colleagues. Its survey of 2,000 UK employees found that the office rage hotspot is greater London. "This is probably because London has the most competitive and pressurised workplaces," says Ian Wolter, managing director.An early warning sign that you may be in the presence of a potential cyber-criminal is the sending of "flame-mails". To the unacquainted, "flaming" is defined by someone losing their self-control and sending emails that are derogatory, obscene or inappropriate. A few years ago, Susan Ellwood (not her real name), a 33-year-old PA from London, began to be regularly faced with messages   from her manager such as: "Kettle not working today, love?" or "Spelling errors in the report again. Is there a brain lurking inside that head of yours?" Last year, this same manager was caught trying to send viruses in an attempt to get back at a workplace he increasingly despised.Not surprisingly, the sudden rise in cyber-spite has caused many companies to take action. CCTV is becoming a normal part of working life in some offices and heavily restricted access and back-up systems are also becoming common. You may find that you're subjected to "cyber-snooping" - employers monitoring your email.Jeff Drake is executive vice president of corporate planning and strategy at Access360, which advises employers on IT security. He claims that smart companies are acting, not just reacting. Now the priority for employers is not catching cyber-criminals in or after the act, but preventing them from acting at all.If all else fails, some companies call on "intelligence operatives" such as Anthony Benson. Phone-tapping, hidden cameras, computer keyboards that monitor all activity of the person operating them, are all part of his private detective role. "Often, I pretend to be a new employee," he says. "I befriend the suspect and find out if they're up to anything. If they are, I get proof and the employers take it from there."You have been warned.
Microsoft is getting ready to release a "modest" update to the Mac OSX version of Office, reportsCNet... one that includes "more than 1,000 bug fixes and tweaks". As the superb As The Apple Turnswebsitepoints out, if this is a "modest" update, I'd hate to run into a "major" one in an alley on a dark night...
Year's losses exceeded 8 years of profits: it's thetech plunge.
Good grief - there's a piece in this month'sWired magazinethat's worth reading, on bloggers and blogging. (viaKottke.org, as my copy has yet to arrive...)
AOL Time Warner announced last week that Robert W Pittman, its co-chief operating officer, would resume day-to-day management of the company's flagship America Online internet service 15 months after he gave up that post. 'The move,' said the  New York Times, 'underscores the sense of urgency about America Online's slowing growth.'How times change. When it was first announced in 1999, the 'merger' between AOL and Time Warner was hailed by the media as a corporate swoop of Napoleonic boldness. It would put together AOL's 20 million subscribers and the priceless media 'content' owned by Time Warner   to create unimaginable marketing 'synergies'. One plus one would equal three, or even five. And so on.It didn't happen - nor was it ever likely to. Far from being a bold strategic initiative, the marriage between a burgeoning but immature AOL and a rich but failing Time Warner was motivated by uncertainty rather than vision.As Scott Rosenberg of online magazine Salon  noted at the time: 'Time Warner has spent more money on the internet with fewer results than any other media company. AOL is afraid of missing the broadband bandwagon. Both companies see their new corporate spouses as perfect mates who can   remedy their own inadequacies. And everybody knows what happens in marriages like that.'What Rosenberg omitted to point out, however, is that both partners were labouring under a monumental delusion about the internet. Both thought of it as another form of television and inferred that the guiding principle in the new medium would be the old adage that 'content is king'. Time Warner had the content and AOL the pipes to the punters; put the two together and Bingo!For a company that began as an ISP, AOL has always been remarkably ambivalent about the net. Its idea of an online service was something that enabled Middle Americans to go online but kept them in a walled garden controlled by AOL rather than letting them out onto the wilder shores of the internet itself. Subscribers  could venture out, of course, but AOL did little to assist them, preferring to keep them in the garden in the hope   that they would buy goods and services there.The problem was that as the web exploded, the world outside AOL's walls began to look increasingly attractive. How then, could the offerings of the garden be made more tempting? Answer: by importing attractive 'content'. Since AOL was not a content provider, these imports had to come from elsewhere. AOL could either buy them from outfits such as Time Warner or, better still, it could buy Time Warner itself using its own boom-inflated shares.Time Warner, for its part, had also found the internet a puzzling and trying experience. The company, dominated by old, push-media diehards, had blown a fortune on trying to exploit the new medium, without realising that it was fundamentally different from the businesses it understood: magazines, television and movies. And then along comes AOL, a company   that made its living from connecting Middle America to the net. Surely those guys in Virginia understood the net? The result was a merger built on wishful thinking.Content is indeed important, but not the kind of content that outfits like AOL Time Warner own and produce. Internet users are not passive couch potatoes either, but consumers who relish the sovereignty bestowed on them by the mouse button.And increasingly they are people who like to generate their own content (email, web-pages, home movies) rather than consuming other people's. AOL Time Warner has little to offer such people, which is why it is doomed in the longer term. This week's reshuffling of its top execs suggests that the penny is beginning to drop in Virginia.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Watch out for lots of browser stories in the run up to the launch of theMozillabrowser, based very loosely on what used to be called Netscape Navigator. (After four years hard work, it isn't based on the same junk code.) High hopes rest on a global multimedia megacoroporation foisting it on 100 million* tied users -- which would be criminal if Microsoft did it but is wholly righteous when it is done by AOL, of course. * The typical mistake in this story is that if AOL adopts Mozilla, it will replace Internet Explorer "as the default browser for some 35 million Web surfers". This is nonsense. AOL may have roughly 35 million subscribers, but each account offers multiple screen names catering for multiple users -- usually, whole families use one account. It would be interesting to have a reliable figure for the number of users, but 100 million must be in the right ball park. In fact, it looks as though AOL has a monopoly market share of the number of Americans who use the Web....
Forbes has a piece onMarc Andreessenand his Loudcloud company, which is a supplier of Web hosting to the UK government's e-Envoy.
Britain is abuzz aboutan anonymous poemnot read aloud at the Queen Mother's funeral, but which has been circulated on the Internet, reports AP.
What are Web services?The World Wide Web consortium, headed by the Web's inventor Tim Berners-Lee, is working on a definition. The initial offering is: "an application identified by a URL, which has an interface that can be defined, found, and used by XML-based objects, and that works directly with other similar applications using XML-based messages over Internet protocols."
Users like RIM'sBlackberrybut the Canadian company has, like everyone else, suffered from the downturn in economy. Its latest financial results have hurt its share price.
The Inquirer has published a table showing expectedPentium 4 speeds, quarter by quarter.
Pervasive computingmay be about to take another step forward as environments become more intelligent. The new stuff in this long piece starts about half way down with reference toAlien Technology. For some of the ideas that underlie this type of approach, see Online,here.
BT is planning to launchWi-Fi networksby June, when it hopes they will be legal.
Towards the end of last year, notices were being posted about the demise of the MP3 player. The analysts at IDC had originally predicted worldwide penetration of 26m personal players by 2005. However, poor PC sales and record company prevarication over making their catalogues available for download significantly impacted on the market for digital audio players. The units hadn't captured the buyer's imagination either. Smaller models could not store enough music (invariably around an hour), while large hard disk personals were too bulky to be properly portable.Enter one of the format's more unlikely allies in the guise of Apple. The computer company rewrote the MP3 personal rule-book by producing the iPod, a &#163;300 hard disk based player that offered a generous 5GB of storage - roughly 1,000 tunes - yet unlike rival products, was small, stylish and light. With more than 125,000 units sold worldwide in the first two    weeks, it was also a runaway success. Disappointingly for PC owners, the iPod is Mac-only - although a company called Mediafour is doing its best to rectify this.Apple recently unveiled its second incarnation of the iPod, which for &#163;365.11 offers twice the amount of storage.  However, while there are still no hard disk MP3 players for PCs that are as elegant or as easy to use as the iPod, several new products have narrowed the gap a little.  SonicBlue, whose Rio series of players were among the most popular of the early MP3 personals, has unveiled the RioRiot. Due in stores in a few weeks, the &#163;350 unit offers 20GB of storage (twice as much as the iPod version two), is compatible with MP3 and its Microsoft originated rival Windows Media Audio (WMA), and also includes an integrated FM tuner. While it can't rival the iPod for looks and size, SonicBlue's marketing director, Nick Caddick, is confident that it "wipes the floor with the Apple unit in terms of usability of its interface".The Riot will soon be joined by the third version of rival company, Creative Lab's Nomad Jukebox. The original version of the Jukebox, which launched in 2000, offered 6GB of storage, but was criticised for its bulkiness and unconventional    styling. A 20GB version arrived earlier this year and will soon be joined by the Jukebox 3, which is one-third smaller, and lighter than the original. Also available is the &#163;350 Archos Jukebox Recorder 20, another a hard disk-based MP3 player with a 20GB hard disk, which can record music directly from other audio sources."Although hard disk players have captured the market now, I think they are a short term solution," predicts Mark Jones of the UK's online MP3 hardware specialist www.mp3players.co.uk. "The fall in the price of flash memory cards means that newer small models have larger capacity cards and can store many tunes."Jones cites the &#163;280 Dual Play, a unit in the shape of a cassette (so that it can be placed directly into in-car or personal audio cassette systems) which has a storage of 256MB - eight times as much as early MP3 players, as a good example of how the market is developing.  Jones is also keen on a new storage medium called Dataplay. These cards are slightly larger than a 50p coin, store 512MB of data, yet retail for around $10 - a fraction of    the price of rival Memory Stick and Secure Digital cards.  As Dataplay is promising 5 GB cards within the next year or so, Jones believes that players such as the I-River IDP-100, which is due in the UK later in the year, will significantly eat into sales of hard disk players.Yet even with the upsurge in sales of MP3 players, the format is still a long way from becoming a mass market product.  SonicBlue's Nick Caddick believes that "MP3 needs to move away from the PC, so the units can record music as MP3, no matter what the source." Those who share his view will probably be impressed by Panasonic's &#163;400 SV-SR100 which is expected later this month. To a slim and lightweight personal CD player, Panasonic has added an encoder that can record music from CDs, or indeed any external audio source via an input, as AAC files on to a removable Secure Digital storage card.  AAC (Advanced Audio Coding) offers a superior sonic performance to MP3 and yet allows more music to be accommodated on to a card than its rival. The unit does not come with an SD card, although 128MB SD cards are currently on sale with 512MB versions to follow shortly.
It is very easy for forward-thinking industries to forget what's lying right under their noses. Witness the case of Vinestone. This week, it will launch two products that aim to harness the potential of the Short Messaging System common to most mobile phones. Developed at the company's labs in Grangemouth, the TextConnect and TextBase systems allow users to access their calendar and email via any mobile phone, communicate via an instant messaging service between PCs and receive up-to-the-minute database records on a standard handset."People want mobile access to their data and not pay through the nose for an unproven technology," says Bob Devine, Vinestone's chief technology officer. "Our products have been designed to   cover a variety of protocols and we will apply these in the near future, but in the meantime it would be foolish to ignore a system that is both prevalent and highly familiar to most users."The TextConnect system works by connecting the user's PC to a software messaging server that routes their messages to its intended recipient. If the addressee is on another PC then the text is sent via the resident network. If they're mobile, the communication is broadcast via either an SMS modem or mobile phone attached to the server by a data cable.Vinestone is releasing versions for standalone computers and full-scale commercial networks. A pricelist for the modular range of services has yet to be published, but users of the core system are likely to pay about &#163;40 a   month for a basic subscription.Using the software, a user can receive almost instantaneous notification of emails arriving on their base PC and read SMS appointment reminders. They may also run searches on their contacts book wherever they are.Using the TextBase system, meanwhile, business users can send complex queries to a corporate database, gaining access to updated records, sales figures or support information from a humble handset or personal digital assistant. Because the product does not require a direct connection between devices and will only process SMS requests from specified mobile numbers, the company claims it is also secure.Vinestone plans to add functionality allowing users to interact with virtually any application on the base com puter and a portal agreement that will remove the need to connect the PC to a second handset or SMS modem. "What amazed us most when we began the development process is that someone wasn't already doing it," says Devine. "It seemed such an obvious thing to do."Vinestone has also taken a unique approach to the marketplace. It has set up formal headquarters in Massachusetts but kept the real power in Caledonia."Europeans don't really care where a product comes from so long as it works, but American consumers only really trust a technology when it has 'Made in the USA' stamped all over it," says Devine. "It might be an old-fashioned approach but if that's what the customer wants, that's what we'll give them."
The national mapping agency, Ordnance Survey, today launched a service allowing users to view its maps online - and then buy personalised maps centred anywhere in the UK.At 11.99 plus postage - the price of two traditional maps - the new service, Ordnance Survey Select, does not come cheap. But the agency says it solves the age-old problem of having to buy more than one map because you live on the corner of a page.The maps are at a 1:50,000 scale.Ordnance Survey has been relatively late to exploit the online potential for its maps. While its "Get-a-Map" service launched last year, other UK map services, Multimap and Streetmap, have been around since the early days of the web.Unlike these, Ordnance Survey cannot allow you to search on or view the names of individual streets. But its mapping engine is more user-friendly than either, allowing you to navigate around the country in a more straightforward way.Paul Bell of the Ramblers Association welcomed the new maps, but said many walkers prefer to use maps at a larger scale."It will be particularly useful for people who are walking in areas where two or more maps overlap," he said. "I'm going walking in the Lake District for three days next week, and will be taking four maps with me. Theoretically OS Select would mean I could take just one map."My only concerns are the cost and scale available. I would normally walk using the OS Explorer series - 1:25,000 scale. The maps available via OS  Select appear to be from the Landranger series, 1:50,000 scale, which doesn't give great value for the cost of the map."Ordnance Survey spokesman Jeremy Stokes said there were plans to bring in personalised maps at the 1:25,000 scale in England and Wales, and to allow users to upload their own photos for the front of their maps.&#183;Ordnance Survey are offering personalised Landranger maps free to 50 Guardian Unlimited users. First create the personalised map, then emailefoster@ordsvy.gov.ukmentioning this article and quoting the map's unique reference number at the bottom right-hand corner of the window.
Sam Williams and his publisher, O'Reilly, have taken a brave step into the unknown with Free As In Freedom, a biography of Richard Stallman, the founder of the free software movement. Not only are they giving the text away free, as in "without charge", they will let you rewrite and re-use the text in your own projects. In other words, they have released FAIF under much the same terms as free software.Stallman is an &#252;berhacker, and undoubtedly one of the world's greatest programmers. In 1984, he set out to write, single-handed if necessary, GNU (Gnu's Not Unix), a free clone of the Unix operating system, or die in the attempt. The joke was that it would require several hundred years of work. Even coding at his prodigious speed, he would die of old age first.Since there were no free tools to write with, he had to develop those first, including the GNU C compiler. Since there was no way to support the effort, he created the Free Software Foundation. Since there was no suitable copyright licence, he developed the GPL (General Public Licence), which is now in   widespread use. One way or another, the FSF wrote or assembled the largest part of what is now usually called Linux, and Linus Torvalds wrote its kernel with Stallman's tools and released it under Stallman's licence.Williams failed to write his biography using Emacs, Stallman's word processor, and did not put drafts on the net for comment and review. But he has released it under the GNU Free Documentation Licence, the equivalent of the GPL, originally intended for manuals.Of course, with books, the "source code" has never been hidden. Still, under traditional copyright rules, you would not be able to take large chunks of the Guardian, or the Harry Potter books, change the bits you didn't like, and republish them for profit. Copyright lawyers would be on your back in seconds.So with FAIF, you can buy the book or download the "open text" from two sources: O'Reilly's website, and Williams' Faifzilla website, where he describes himself as "the initial author" of the work. There may be others later.This does not mean FAIF is copyright free. It is protected by the same copyright laws as everyone else's work, but   neatly twisted into what is often called "copyleft", or jokingly described as "all rights reversed". You can use the text in ways that commercial publishers almost never allow, but only if you release your version on the same terms.Stallman's aims are to encourage sharing, and to ensure that those who take from the community, give back to the community. Stallman's licence enables users to   do legally what they usually do criminally, both at home and via remote file-sharing systems such as Napster, Gnutella and KaZaA.Publishing the book in some sort of free (as in freedom) form was the price of Stallman's cooperation, but the intended publisher would not go along with that. O'Reilly was willing to take the gamble. The company's main business includes selling   books about free software and the open source movement, and it had already published manuals under the GFDL.Andy Oram, from O'Reilly, is very keen on the idea, though "there are differing views within the company", he says. "We're still not sure what it might do to sales. Some people are convinced certain books are selling less well because we have published them in this form."Oram admits to being disappointed with the response. With one book, he says, "we thought the audience would jump in, and we wondered if we would be able to handle the flood of changes" as Linux users debugged and enhanced the text. "That hasn't happened. No one has submitted any, up to now."It remains to be seen whether the GFDL will arouse the kind of interest and concern in the publishing business that the GPL has created in the software business, or that sampling and file-sharing have had on the music business."A few people are ideologically committed, but I don't think most users really care," says Oram. "It is left to a few of us to argue what the rights should be..."&#183;Free As In Freedom: Richard Stallman's Crusade for Free Software, by Sam Williams, is published by O'Reilly priced 15.95.
Broken Sword: The Shadow of the TemplarsGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Revolution/Bam*****After selling thousands on the PC, the Broken Sword series has found an unlikely home - the Game Boy Advance (GBA). A famed point 'n' click    adventure - a sadly dying breed - BS has been ported on to the mouse-less Nintendo handheld, resulting in a lack of both pointing and clicking. Luckily, the new interface works well, with one button revealing all the interactive elements on the screen, and pretty much everything else from the PC and PlayStation title has been ported over.So    expect plenty of European murder mystery, heavy narrative and puzzles that will stump you for hours.  Despite the appallingly dark GBA screen, the graphics are impressive, with an amazing amount of detail crammed into a small area. Broken Sword starts off slowly, with players introduced to the main character - US tourist George Stobbart   - as he witnesses a bomb blast in Paris. A series of fairly straightforward conundrums later and the plot becomes clearer, especially after a good natter with the numerous characters. Actually, this is an incredibly verbose game, especially for GBA, and while the quality of the dialogue is generally fine, at times the translation is unintentionally hilarious.Ultimately, whether you'll enjoy Broken Sword depends on how you use your GBA.  If you want quick, mindless thrills on your bus journey, then stick to Mario Kart. But if you fancy getting drawn into a longer-term, more satisfying adventure, then BS comes up trumps. It's more likely to sell hundreds on the GBA, but Broken Sword is an engrossing challenge that offers something unique on a handheld.Mike Tyson Heavyweight BoxingPlayStation 2
44.99 Codemasters*****Licensing the name of the most infamous boxer in
history smacks of attention-seeking. But leaving
aside the controversy that awarding Tyson his own
game will inevitably spark, Codemasters has come
up with an impressive effort that moves the genre
forward.Past boxing games have been dogged by
unresponsive controls, but Mike Tyson Heavyweight
Boxing has harnessed the PlayStation 2's
under-bonnet power (there will be an Xbox version
later this year) to eliminate any latency between
button-press and punch. It also borrows the concept
of special moves from beat-'em-ups, allowing you to
launch combinations and "signature" punches that are
difficult to nail but satisfying when you do.The fine control you can exercise over your boxer is
impressive: different buttons trigger different
punches, you can employ a variety of blocks and
even punch below the belt, if that's your style.
Mercifully, his signature-move - the ear-bite - is
absent.Because of its impressive, though initially fiddly,
control system, MTHB provides a rewarding
gameplay experience, whether you're fighting
AI-controlled computer or human opposition. The
custom boxer design mini-program is impressive,
too, as it enables you to pursue a plethora of virtual
boxing careers, and the graphics are quite
impressive.Mind you, the boxers mince into the ring with odd
gaits, and the animated breasts of the round-number
girls emphasise the game's political incorrectness.
Sadly, Lennox Lewis is absent but the presence of a
virtual Audley Harrison raises the prospect of some
delicious virtual mismatches.This is a laddish game that is nevertheless
sophisticated and great to play. Boxing fans should
find it satisfying.Warlords Battlecry 2PC 30 SSG/Ubi Soft*****The original Warlords games, of which there were
three, were resolutely turn-based, and the first
real-time version of Battlecry failed to have much of
an impact. Fortunately, the sequel is an altogether
more polished affair, combining real-time strategy
(RTS) immediacy with role-playing (RPG) playability
and succeeding far better than most of us were
expecting.The game has enormous replay value, with 12 highly
stylised races to choose from and then a choice of
career paths that sees you hone your skills in very
different ways.Play as a Demon Warrior, for example, and you can
summon undead armies to do your bidding, whereas
a Human Mage will rely almost totally on Magic.
There are so many alternatives you may well play the
early levels 10 times or more until you find an identity
that suits your style. With 67 single-player missions
to complete, it's just as well to be comfortable with
your chosen partner.In play, Battlecry is all about making tactical choices.
Do you go for acquiring as much territory as possi
ble, thereby depriving your enemy of valuable
resources, or sit back and develop your units to the
point where you can summon your Titan - a single
unit with massively destructive powers? These
choices are doubly important as the game allows you
only one saved position per level - make a mistake
and you can find your most valuable units wiped out
in a single battle.Fortunately, the game allows you to slow down or
speed up time, issue orders while paused, accept
quests and acquire special weapons - a baffling
variety of styles are catered for, mostly well
executed.Sure, there have been prettier or more exciting
games, but few with this degree of flexibility. Add
some amusing sound effects and a soundtrack that
Enya would be proud of, and Battlecry 2 becomes a
must-have title for lovers of strategic gaming.
The digital money elite, a mix of visionaries and profit-hungry businessmen, gathers today at the Digital Money Forum in London to digest the financial authorities' plans for a virtual currency. For when the Financial Services Authority (FSA) introduces ground rules on April 27 for e-money    issuers, the idea is to create a regime where competition can thrive. A thousand e-currencies may bloom.In reality, of course, only a handful may ever achieve critical mass. Someone may hit the jackpot by inventing  the  virtual global currency, as mighty and ubiquitous online as the Greenback is offline. But the rest will wither away.No one knows    the pitfalls better than Charles Cohen, former chief executive at Beenz, the now defunct online currency. Once he planned to buy gold bullion to back his scheme. Now at the two-day forum in London, he will humbly explain how not to start a new payments scheme. Beenz lacked ubiquity and many of the other simple attributes that make real cash so hard to resist.Alan Greenspan, head of the US Federal Reserve, has announced that no reputable corporation wanting to create a private currency should be prevented. The European Commission, which has its own worry about "horrendous" cross-border bank charges, agrees. Its liberal directive on e-cash is the basis for the new FSA framework.The FSA wants "to establish a level playing field between prospective issuers of e-money, whether banks or other firms." Though formally agnostic, the FSA believes e-money can offer a flexible, secure and convenient way of making low-value transactions; it may complement credit cards over the internet and has "an obvious appeal" for those without credit cards or bank accounts.But so far the quest to create the supreme digital dosh has thrown up a slew of forlorn contenders. These include not just beenz and flooz (also defunct), but others showcasing the frantic ingenuity of brand creatives: BillPoint, c2it, eCASH, eCHEQs, eCoin, the Internet Dollar, Mondex, PayHound and Yahoo!PayDirect. And let's not forget Smartcreds, the Post Office's pay-as-you-go system for people without credit cards.One reason for the lack of a breakthrough is the enduring lure of real readies. Notes and coins may seem hopelessly archaic - some wanted them banned in euroland at the turn of the year when the old national currencies, like the deutschmark, were melted down. But their attributes, including anonymity, ubiquity and cost-free use, are formidable. When it comes to buying a coffee, purchasing a magazine, or paying the window-cleaner, it's going to be a long while before we trash cash.Even so, digital cash is beginning to make its mark. Two years after the internet clothes shop Boo.com was snuffed out, online sales finally appear to be taking off. Over at Visa, the credit-card company, Sandra Alzeta, senior vice-president of Virtual Visa, did a double-take when she saw the last few months' figures. "They're storming," she gushes.There were good figures in December and even better in January when nearly 4m    Britons put aside qualms about disclosing their card number on the net to spend a total of &#163;229m. The February spend dipped to &#163;221m. Still, the upward trend is clear enough. NUA ComputerScope figures say consumer spending at European websites grew from &#163;2.3bn to almost &#163;3.48bn last year. Card payments account for more than 90% of online payments and Visa is the market leader with 56% of the volume, followed by MasterCard with 27% and Amex with 13%.But the credit card companies are expensive. They sting consumers with membership fees and interest. And the businesses that accept cards pay out fees for maintaining their accounts, and a percentage each time someone pays with plastic. For big traders this is a manageable figure of around 1.5%. For small traders the charge can be as high as 5%.Enter a micropayments system from outside mainstream banking. PayPal, an online payment start-up based in Silicon Valley, saw its shares surge when it went public in February even though it has not made a profit. The company boasts    12 million users, including 2m businesses, in 39 different countries. New members are rolling in at more than 20,000 a day. Sending modest sums this way is instantaneous, free and fairly secure.PayPal has just announced that its service will be free to British and international users, as it has been all along in the US. The firm claims it takes two minutes to register. For a first attempt, though, you'd best put aside 20 minutes. The site is written in grade school American English and the company hasn't bothered with a European makeover. The pitch is: "You can settle restaurant tabs, pay funds or buy a baseball card from an online auction." A currency is established by who'll take it, and wisely PayPal relies on viral marketing. There is the enticement of $5 when you sign up, and the same sum    when you sign up a friend.PayPal's roots aren't entirely separate from the banking sector: seed corn came from the likes of Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan. But to many, its success proves that banking culture and e-money innovation usually sit uncomfortably together. Digital money consultant David Birch says: "For a large number of transactions you want banks out of the loop entirely." Privacy is one reason. But another is that the mindset of banks can lead them to uninspired replication of their offline business online. Take c2it, Citibank's rival to PayPal. Citibank threw resources at this, but unlike PayPal, it initially required users to pay a 1% fee on each transaction. Surprise, surprise, c2it wound up with a mere 200,000 members and had to abandon its fee-based business model last November.At the moment, much of the buzz is with non-banks - with interactive television prominent. Also centre stage is TranSys, the consortium behind a &#163;150m smartcard scheme that London Transport is to introduce next year. A tiny radio aerial and a sili  con chip will be embedded in each card, which can "store value" as a convenient alternative to cash. The prospect of millions of London commuters toting cards that don't even need to be swiped sets the pulses of aficionados racing. One digital money enthusiast drools: "Could you pay for a Big Mac with this or would it make sense for London Transport, which has millions of tourists, to denominate accounts in euros? Those are the sorts of shifts which could drive events forward in radical new directions."Certainly, the FSA doesn't want to be a drag on progress with its new regime. Issuers will need to ring-fence their e-money activities from other business risks. There will be a minimum capital requirement for issuers - at least 2% of outstanding e-money liabilities. In case they go bust, e-money firms must also set a limit on how much may be held in an individual's e-money "purse", and so on. But it's a light-touch control and the downside is that consumers will be a tad more vulnerable. You will be able to take your gripes to the industry's ombudsman. But the FSA compensation scheme will not    apply. Consequently, you'll have no recourse should your e-money issuer go belly-up.Tackling fraud will be a priority - fraud levels are following transaction volumes up the curve. Visa reports that 50% of all disputes relate to web payments, a mere 2-3% of the whole. Understandably, Visa and the other credit cards are unveiling smarter security.But fraud is bound to be even more of a threat on the low-value systems. Flooz went down the toilet when stolen credit cards were used to buy thousands of dollars worth of the scheme's dollar certificates. And hackers were able to set up a look-alike site called Paypa1.com, which was up just long enough to wreak havoc among myopic surfers.There are still plenty of hurdles to e-cash, acknowledges the Liberal Democrats' frontbench Treasury spokesman Edward Davey, an e-cash consultant before entering parliament in 1997. "But that doesn't mean there won't be a breakthrough," he argues. "We have already seen a huge decline in the cheque thanks to the rise in debit and credit cards." One straw in the wind is that Egg, the web-based bank,   intends to enable customers with Microsoft Hotmail to email money into other people's accounts, PayPal-style.One mystery remains: why Microsoft hasn't muscled in as the dominant online currency as, uniquely, it would have instant critical mass. The answer is tied up with trust and antitrust. Trust-ratings of software firms are lousy (their products keep crashing, after all). Meanwhile, the courts would go ballistic if Microsoft bundled in a digital currency with Windows.So fledgling e-currencies are safe for the moment. And the big prize is still there for the taking.&#183;Financial Services Authority: Consultation Paper 117, The Regulation of Electronic Money Issuers, December 2001.
Many thanks to all of you who entered our Photoshop 7 competition via old-fashioned post card (doing our bit to save urban post offices, y'see). It also, as ever, provided us with some wonderful cards, of which we've decided to share just a few... from the sea-side splendour ofBridlingtonandSutton on Sea, to the Tayroadandrailbridges (latter slightly more picturesque), passing en routea cowandsome sheepand Rainbow'sBungle in a tutu(to think they showedthisto children?) andcuddly furry animals. For adults only (that should get a few search engine hits for the blog) we had plenty of more risque cards, including the cover of"Exotic Novel magazine"("Divorce Bait! - Not even the happiest of married men could be faithful...") andFraternity of Shamefrom 1966 - "they were students of lust on a carnal campus!" (oops - there's some more hits). Then there was this card wittily advertisingpanty liners, David Hardy'sReturning Starshipand this quite superb image fromOnly Fools and Horses.
Is the multiplicity of DVD formats hindering the market, and ifMicrosoft plumps for DVD+RWrather than DVD-RW, will it make a difference? The trend could become clearer atWinHEC.
'Lara Croft is every boy's fantasy and every girl's role model," claimed Chris Deering, the president of Sony Entertainment Europe, while announcing the sixth Tomb Raider title, Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness.It was a perfect piece of PR hyperbole on Deering's part. The male games journalists in the audience quietly nodded affirmation at the first part of the statement, while dribbling over the new "real life" Lara. As for the latter part, the majority of "girls"    were busy behind TV cameras or serving, so there wasn't anyone to pin him to the wall with a chicken satay and ask him who he was trying to kid.As much as I'd like to be able to back-flip my way down to Sainsbury's and vault over the queue with my Reward card in my teeth, it's certainly not high on my list of role model attributes. I play games for a living and, personally, I don't have a problem with Lara.  But whenever a Tomb Raider game is released, there's usually a sudden flurry of media attention about girls and gaming. Articles positively vibrate with righteous indignation about an industry emblazoned with images of female game characters with cleavages you could launch planes from. Suddenly the "girl" is the focus. Everyone is a "girl gamer". A hideously pop-ish phrase that sounds like something Geri Halliwell would have emblazoned on a T-shirt because she's once been seen in the same room as a PlayStation. All-girl clans are formed. All-girl websites debate religiously the portrayal of individual female characters in games, as if all games had to offer women was a mirror on themselves.Many girls claim they prefer female clans and communities because they can't stand the abuse they get elsewhere from male gamers. Unfortunately, this is just what happens when you get a mixture of people together in a competitive and relatively anonymous environment. Online-gaming pulls no punches: deal with it. There's going to be abuse from all sides, so you're better off leaving your gender at the door.But how come we don't see more agitated men complaining that it's appalling that men in computer games have muscles like watermelons, chins    like bricks and can shoot accurately while wearing shades? You never find guys saying, "Yes my role models are Nelson Mandela, Gandhi and Duke Nukem." That's because they know that games aren't supposed to be accurate representations of the real world. They're supposed to be fun. Escapism. Not an exercise in social studies.Yes, most games are designed by men, with a purely male demographic in mind. So there's nothing to be shocked by when a female character struts her ample assets in an outfit that would not fill a Kinder Surprise. When a team of guys stays up late, night after night living off stale pizza and coffee granules, something's going to give. There's going to be the occasional mouse pointer slip (rumoured to be the cause of Lara's legendary cleavage), then the contented smile as another buxom wench is born.This can partly be attributed to the lack of women in the games industry when compared with their male counterparts. Gone are the developer divas of the 80s such as Roberta Williams, the driving force behind the King's Quest series, and Jane Jenson, creator of the Gabriel Knight mysteries. These women didn't think that   prefixing anything with the word "girl" struck a blow for womankind. They recognised that such self-segregation wasn't needed.  Williams even said in an interview: "I prefer being thought of as a computer game designer rather than a woman computer game designer. I don't put myself into gender mode when designing a game."No one feels the need to label themselves gay gamers, black gamers or boy gamers, so why should being female be any different? It's not. Girls play games, they're gamers. Can women really expect to truly break through the walls of one of the few remaining bastions of male predominance when they hide behind barricades of their own making? If the world is encouraged to see gender as the defining factor, then in the end, that's all it's going to see. Because regardless of whether we're packing a double D cup out front, we'll all become Lara in the end.&#183;Rhianna Pratchett is section editor of PC Zone, Britain's longest-running PC games magazine. Next week: Nick Denton on the new wireless revolution. Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Long oddsPlacing a long bet involves a considerable amount of thought, and at least $1,000. The bets are actually predictions supported by arguments, and the public "gamblers" include some of the better known names in technology. The first bet, backed by Ray Kurzweil, is that a computer or "machine intelligence" will pass the Turing Test by 2029. He is in for $20,000, but since this isn't really a gambling site, all the money goes to charity.Sing alongCorporate anthems - the jolly salesmen from IBM singing Ever Onward, and so on - have been a source of embarrassment for decades. Now you can cringe in the comfort of your own home by downloading the best of the worst from Ziff UK's website. The management consultancies make a good showing in the top 20 chart, but nothing    will ever come close to the IBM Songbook.Search hereIt has nothing to do with Apple, and it doesn't have any content, but iTools is well worth bookmarking. It offers a simple front end to a collection of the internet's best sources of information, including Google, Yahoo, Whatis, Xrefer and Encarta. The site's copyright notice suggests it started in 1995. In fact, it's an upgraded and retitled version of what were the Research-It! and Find-It! Pages.Child's playThe hunt for Lemony Snicket has just started. The author of the children's book series, A Series of Unfortunate Events, has to be tracked down, but there are Flash games and other diversions on the way. Kids have to register to play, because of the need to save high scores.1911Much of Encyclopedia Britannica's historical reputation rests on the 1911 edition,    which was authoritative, comprehensive and very readable. Unfortunately, the web version is not searchable, does not pull up each entry by its heading, and when I tried it, pages often ended in mid-sentence. The site also lacks historical context, but you can get that from ClassicEB.com, which also sells copies of the 1911 edition on CD.Kylie feverWhat is your favourite Kylie Minogue pose? If this is the kind of thing you care about, you should be reading a different sort of tabloid. However, with Flash 6 you can take part    in the five-week Kylie Minogue Tournament of Poses and vote for your favourite picture while there is still time. More good news for Kylie fans is that the Kylie Sim, for use in The Sims game, has been fixed. It can be downloaded from the Totally Kylie fan site.Ask TeomaTeoma is another useful site that has been redesigned and upgraded, with the brave or perhaps foolhardy idea of taking on Google. Teoma - it's Gaelic for expert - was taken    over by Ask Jeeves last year and now provides that site's search engine. As mentioned here previously, it groups results to let you refine your search, and also provides links to expert resources. The new version, launched this month, produces results that are often interesting but somewhat variable, and highlight the huge value of Google's caches. It is not yet good enough to be a first choice search engine, but it is worth a try.Search BritainBritish users who want to search British search engines can now hit six at once with by using a meta-search site, AllSearchEngines. It covers Overture and Mirago plus UK versions of US services such as MSN and AltaVista, but the results can be decidedly odd. Still, that is also true when you select UK for the search set at Turbo 10. For example, search for Microsoft and the first hit on ASE is for ITS-Feda Ltd, while on Turbo 10, it is for an obscure Danish company called Add-On Products.
Three teenage sisters from Australia have walked away with the top prize at an awards ceremony honouring the world's best children's websites.Emily, Sarah and Elise Boyd - 19, 17 and 13 years old - won the individual award for their site, Matmice.com, at the Childnet Awards in Paris last week. Their creation makes it easy for children to create their own websites in a non-commercial environment, and was hailed by the judges as being "technically superb" - despite the oldest sister, Emily, being only 16 when it was launched. To date, 80,000 children from 100 countries have used the service."Our website allows children to become part of the web; not onlookers, but participants," said Emily after collecting her award. "Since our nomination was announced we have had a further 30,000 children register."The awards, sponsored by Cable and Wireless, aim to "reward children, and those working with them, who are developing outstanding, innovative internet projects that directly benefit other children worldwide".The awards are divided into four categories and are truly international, with this   year's winners coming from as far afield as Reunion, Burkina Faso and Russia.There was a British winner in the not-for-profit category: Bubblycrew, a site for children who care for disabled or ill parents or siblings. The judges were particularly impressed with the potential for replicating the London-based site internationally.The winner in the schools category was the College Les Tamarins from Reunion. The school, on a tiny island in the middle of the Indian Ocean, uses the internet not only to gain more knowledge about the rest of the world, but also to share information about their day-to-day lives with thousands worldwide. "The site demonstrates the power of the web to help isolated schools reach out and connect," the judges said.Other sites worth a look include Froguts.com, a Flash-animated site from America that teaches frog dissection, Oriland.com, an online guide to Origami, run by two Russian psychologists, and  Childrensworld.org, a Swedish site that aims to promote understanding of children's' rights worldwide. Next year's awards are to be held in London.
Is the PR world dependent on email now?In terms of speed and expedience it's become very important. There's still a lot of dependency on relationships and live interaction, though.Mac or PC?I have an assortment of G3s and G4s. I mainly use aTitanium Powerbookfor writing my books and articles when I'm travelling. It's amazing how quickly the computer integrates into your life. When I was running Lynne Franks PR, we were probably the first computerised PR office in London and I was the only person who didn't know how to work one at the time!Does the number of women in top IT jobs disappoint you?I've lived in California for the past five years and there are some very powerful women in Silicon Valley - but there are still more men. Men tend to have more of that engineering, left-brain type mindset. The internet world would definitely be more woman-friendly if there were more women programmers. Having had both women and men design sites for me, the site the woman designed was infinitely superior.Do you think the net is still over-complicated?Definitely... and too ugly! There's no reason why some sites need to be crammed full of information in an aesthetically displeasing way. Research shows that women are using computers for email and research, whereas men surf around randomly a lot more. E-commerce aimed everything at teenagers and men, and forgot about the huge, untapped, market of women over 40.Will the dotcoms rise again?I do think they got everything they deserved, as most of them weren't based on any foundation of common sense or service. I'm not even buying my air-tickets online, as it's still easier for me to pick up the phone. I use Amazon but, again, I still prefer to go to a bookstore for "real-time" shopping.How embedded is the mobile into your way of life?Mobiles have become a very important part of my life but I still find them incredibly intrusive. I have aNokia 6510but I've become less gadget-orientated as I used to have Psions and Palms but now I've gone back to keeping a little notebook.You're developing a web radio station for Seed Fusion?We've got some radio programmes already on the site and we're in the process of creating a non-profit radio service for training and supporting minority women in the UK. I think the potential is there with internet radio but I don't know if many people are using it yet. When we have devices that can bring web radio into our cars, it'll start getting really interesting. My favourite station isKCRWin Los Angeles.Favourite sites?I likewww.1giantleap.tvandwww.corporatevoodoo.co.uk. I think there's a real danger that unsolicited email could spoil things!Visit:www.seedfusion.com.www.lynnefranks.comwill launch at the end of this month.
A week after he had successfully bid $1,000 for a laptop on the auction site eBay, John Cobin began to suspect he'd been ripped off. The vendor had cashed Cobin's cheque, but the goods hadn't arrived. But John did more than complain to eBay's fraud team. He banded together online with other dissatisfied customers to track down the vendor's home address, his email accounts - and even his mother's telephone number. Within days, the vendor was arrested on suspicion of a $150,000 fraud.According to the research firm Craver, Mathews and Smith, there are 3.5 million internet vigilantes in the US. And even celebrities are getting in on the act. Alyssa Milano, who has appeared in Melrose Place and Charmed, turned virtual vigilante after her younger brother downloaded pornographic photographs of the actress - despite the fact that Milano had never posed nude. Now Milano and her mother run Cybertrackers, which tracks down fake nude photos on the internet, and threatens legal action against webmasters and internet service providers unless they remove the relevant pages. The group has already been responsible for a dozen prosecutions at the request of actresses including Carmen Electra and Jennifer Love Hewitt.Audri and Jim Lanford became cyber sleuths after being duped into buying a fake Elvis Furby on the internet. Now, the couple expose other scams in a monthly newsletter read by 30,000 net users, Scambusters.Perhaps the biggest and best-known internet vigilante group is Cyberangels, the online version of the Guardian Angels (motto: Dare to Care). While the Guardian Angels are best known for their red berets and habit of hanging out on underground trains looking sinister, the 10,000 Cyberangel volunteers are more likely to be homemakers, office workers or senior citizens. Volunteers are given careful instruction on how to monitor websites, newsgroups and    chatrooms for child porn, cyber stalking and other illegal activities without breaking the law. Cyberangels also helps Unesco run Wired Kids, a Cyberangel community for 13- to 17-year-olds in the UK, US and Singapore.Cyberangels - and similar groups such as Online Guardians - are well known to authorities, and work closely with both the FBI and Scotland Yard. However, some virtual vigilantes have found themselves on the wrong side of the law after trying to mete out online justice.Mail Abuse Prevention System (Maps), a non-profit organisation that campaigns against spam email marketing, recently set up a legal defence fund after being hit with a series of lawsuits. The California-based group compiles a list of IP addresses belonging to organisations and individuals it claims spam. This information is then passed on to ISPs and service providers including Microsoft's Hotmail service, who can block those addresses. Maps says it is protecting innocent consumers: marketing departments say the group is preventing free trade, and acting as judge, jury and executioner.Many vigilantes believe their cause justifies illegal actions. Electro-Hippies is currently campaigning against the Anti-Terrorism, Security and Crime Bill, which the Hippies claim will   restrict citizens' rights to engage in online activism. The group is best known for staging a virtual sit-in on the Home Office website last December. The Home Office claimed not to have noticed.Similar tactics are used by the Ethical Hackers Against Paedophiles organisation, which has launched "denial of service" attacks against websites containing offensive material. The 60 self-styled "computer security enthusiasts" known as The Dispatchers, meanwhile, defaced a series of Palestinian and Afghan websites following the terrorist attacks in the US last September. However, it's not only fringe groups that break the law in search of cyber-justice: according to Pricewaterhouse Coopers, a third of UK companies resort to vigilante tactics when faced with denial of service or hacking attacks.Authorities point out that hacking and accessing child pornography remain criminal offences - regardless of the user's motives. Should consumers be concerned about criminal activities on the net, it is possible to report your suspicions online, either with the FBI's Internet Fraud Complaint Centre or the UK's Internet Watch Foundation.
Victory VDSLVic Keegan (Second sight, April 4) knows I agree with him about cutting the losses of failed infrastructure competition and giving BT its head with ADSL and VDSL. But even he misses the real point.I was the last public sector managing director of BT's inland operations. When privatisation struck in 1984, we had virtually completed modernisation of inter-exchange transmission; we were half way through modernisation of exchanges; and we were just beginning to turn to modernisation of the obsolete copper distribution network. This was already overdue then, but nearly 20 years later it has still not been carried through.As a result, putting in DSL systems is a bit like Russian roulette. I hear increasingly good reports of the new people at the top in BT. Can we start a campaign in Online to bring to their attention the   vital issue of local line renewal, using 21st-Century technology?The cable companies have already done the job for them across half the country: the way things are going, BT should be able to pick up their networks for next to nothing in a fire sale in a few weeks, if only DTI and Oftel could get their obsession with local infrastructure competition out of their heads.John Harperberry@pavilion.co.ukSpare changeVictor Keegan should spare a thought for those outside the big city and beyond the serious notice of BT. I'm desperate for ADSL and have twice in the past few months suffered the inefficient attentions of BT broadband salespeople, who assure me I am in range, raise my hopes and sign me up. A week later I get a curt email telling me that "on investigation it would appear that your distance from exchange far exceeds the recommended distance." You dream of VDSL, Victor. I'd settle for boring old ADSL anytime.Suzie Haymansuzie@agony-aunt.comBodle's wellI sympathise with Andy Bodle (Doom with a view, April 4) and his struggle with game   addiction. For you see, my name's Alistair and I'm a gameaholic. My case is even sadder than Andy's. I'm only addicted to one game - Half Life. I've spent hours beyond counting searching out crowbar, 9mm pistol and HEV suit and pretended to listen to my wife talk about some trivial domestic matter while mentally working out how to frag an entrenched group of Grunts. Sadder still, my son who introduced me to it has moved on to what he claims are bigger and better games - but what does he know? He's only 12 and I'm 47.So Andy, just take it one day at a time, that's what I'm doing - at least, that is, until Half Life 2 comes out.Alistair Richardsonadmin@elsalewis.co.ukWarning signsSurely the caveat to Andy Bodle's "Videogames turn us into sociopaths with no mates" should be "... if you play Might and Magic VI". I mean, really. We warn people about these things.Kieron GillenDeputy editor, PC Gamerkieron.gillen@futurenet.co.ukSeeing as Andy Bodle won't be needing the pile of games he has accumulated, can I have them?Dan Boddington(aged 31)dboddington@hotmail.comPostcardsIs it me, or does anyone else find it absurd that Online's Adobe Photoshop competition (April 4) requires entrants to send in answers on a postcard and has no provision for email entry?Paul Astlesastles@btinternet.comDigital delayAshley Norris's article suggesting that the downfall of ITV Digital might after all be the saving of digital TV was most welcome (Online, April 4).People seem to have been brainwashed into believing that they can receive digital TV only by paying a monthly subscription, on top of their licence fee to one large corporation or another. However, Norris did not mention the major advantage of digital reception - better sound and picture quality. This will be enough to persuade people to fork out &#163;100 or so for a box.But being able to benefit form this depends on coverage. Rather than subsidising set-top boxes, the government should be supporting an urgent project to improve the digital broadcast signal strength and coverage. And it is difficult to get impartial advice on the best kind of aerial for terrestrial digital reception. One of the many   reasons for ITV Digital's demise was its reliance on subscribers being able to use their existing analogue aerial - a large number found they couldn't and gave up.Alistair Kilgouralistair@realaxis.co.uk
Porn targetOut of the blue, I have got a problem that the Norton anti-virus package doesn't seem to recognise as a virus.   Every time I go online, I get a stream of pop-ups from a series of Russian porn sites. Even using the Search button just gives me other Russian porn sites to search!Dick MuskettJack Schofield replies:This sounds like a JavaScript Trojan known asJS/Seeker, which exploits the typelib/Eyedog vulnerability that Microsoft fixed in August 1999. The source could be a malicious website or email attachment. The removal instructions can be found at the link below.Another common Trojan you can get by visiting an unscrupulous webmaster isJS_Exception.Gen, which exploits an old vulnerability in Microsoft's VM (Virtual Machine), used to run Java applets. Removal instructions are available at the address given below.If neither of these is the culprit, go toHousecalland run an online virus check. If it finds an infected file that is not cleanable, make a note of the name, search for it, and delete it.However, whether or not that works, you have not finished yet. You must also clean and protect your PC. Make a note of any changes you make, so that you can undo them if necessary.Stage 1: find and remove any code that is producing undesirable results. Go to Start|Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. Go to the StartUp tab and make sure no odd file is being run, such as data789.tmp or whatever. Untick it to stop it from being loaded. Also, search for the file and disable it by pressing F2 and changing its name to data278.tmp.not, or something similar.Check the Win.ini tab to make sure a virus has not been added to the start= or run= entries. Use Notepad to check the Autoexec.bat file: make sure it does not contain a line with format C: in it. Check that nothing suspicious has been added to the StartUp folder (Start| Programs|StartUp).Try to disable any startup programs you don't really need, except Scanreg, Explorer, and SysTray. Paul Collins has compiled a goodonline guideto what the various programs do.Stage 2: update your browser to remove almost all known vulnerabilities.Install the cumulative fix fromMicrosoft.Next, download and install a fixed version of theJava VM(unless you have already updated it since March 4). It may help if you turn off your virus checker and close down all unnecessary programs while you update your system.Stage 3: useGoogle's codeto fix your PC's Registry. The simplest way is to type www.google.com/default.reg in IE's address box, press Enter, click OK, and save the default.reg file on your desktop. Double click this file to restore the browser's defaults.Finally, use Internet Explorer to go to your preferred home page, such as Google. Select Tools|Internet Options and click the button that says Use Current.You can keep the default.reg file on your desk top. Browser-snatching is a growing problem, and double-clicking this file can quickly undo some of the damage.DiallerBeing new to this internet malarky, I was looking at dubious sites that offered certain downloads without the need for a credit card. The program has squirreled its way onto my hard drive and starts up automatically.SkinnyboyJS:It sounds as though you have fallen victim to what is called a dialler. These are usually commercial programs and much better behaved than viruses and Trojans. Often you can uninstall them in the usual way.Go to Start|Settings| Control Panel, run Add/Remove Programs, and search for the dialler there.If that does not work, follow the basic approach described above, except you have one significant advantage. If you can see parts of the program, you know what they are called, and where they are. Right-click the dialler's icons, select Properties, and use Notepad to store   a copy of the text in the Target box. Use Windows Explorer to find these files on your hard drive and delete them. After that, delete the icons.Finally, go to Start|Run, type regedit in the box and click OK. Search the Registry for the company name, web addresses, and entries for its files. If you find any, select the Name entry on the left of the right-hand pane, then right-click and use Modify to make the Data values blank.Be careful: your PC may stop working if you mess up the Registry, so it is wise to have a backup. For instructions, search Google for Q256419 (Windows 98) or Q132332 (Windows 95). In Windows Me and XP, use the System Restore facility (PC Health) to create a restore point first. In general, you can create a backup by running Regedit, selecting My Computer, clicking Registry|Export Registry File, and making sure All is selected.
If you search from Netscape 6, you may want to avoid hitting the search button or My Sidebar feature. Use those to search, say, Google, and the info is still sent via a Netscape server. Why would AOL/Netscape want to know about your searches? It doesn't. But according to thisNewsbytesstory: "Derick Mains, a spokesman for Netscape, said the company developed the URL forwarding system in order to bill participating search sites for sending them traffic."But Netscape must be aware that this kind of thing can arouse concerns about privacy. In 2000, it licensed NetZip's Download Demon and bundled it as Netscape Smart Download. This reported back on every file you downloaded anywhere on the net -- without telling you, of course. Real Networks used the same software as Real Download. See the very long-windedSteve Gibson exposefor the gory details.
A US law firm wants to charge a spammer $50 forevery spam sent. Suddenly, having a Hotmail address could be lucrative :-)
"I am a convert to blogging (web log writing)," writes Louise Kehoetodayin her "Eagle Eye" column (I jest ye not) inthe FT.Welcome to the party, Louise - better late than never...
Peter Robbins admits he does not know much about the internet. Aged 50, he retired as chief superintendent at Hackney police earlier this year, and picked up a copy of the Guardian's Society jobs section.And there it was: an ad from the Internet Watch Foundation, the self-appointed, self-regulatory body that polices child pornography online.A cop at the head of the IWF, which is at heart an industry body of internet service providers, is not such strange fit.The IWF was set up in 1996 with the dual, but mutually beneficial, purposes of limiting ISP liability for illegal goings-online and ridding the net of paedophiles.ISPs were worried that if they did not police the contents of their servers themselves, then the real cops would step in, leading to litigation, regulation, and, well, nothing good was going to come of it.Self-regulation seemed the way to go, removing pages and users that engaged in illegal activities from fraud to race hatred.The biggest target they identified, however, was the abuse of children and proliferation of paedophile rings.Robbins has no doubts about his priorities."I am focusing on child porn and not on the wider issues of fraud or other illegal activities," he said."The written word is not necessarily contained in the Protection of Children Act; only images are prosecutable. And there are no statutory offences for grooming children &#91;whereby paedophiles use chatrooms to gain the trust of potential victims&#93;. The Internet Crime Forum is looking at that."The charge most frequently made against the IWF is that they are non-accountable censors. Most of the controversy has surrounded newsgroups, electronic bulletin boards dedicated to specific topics where users can exchange ideas, stories, news and photos.One IWF board member, Malcolm Hutty, general director of the Campaign against Censorship of the Internet in Britain, resigned in February after the board voted to shut down newsgroups simply on the basis of their name sounding like a forum for illegal content."This is censorship of legal debate by an unelected and unaccountable clique acting in secret," Mr Hutty said at the time.Mr Robbins says he understands the controversy, but maintains that groups are not shut down without proper investigation into their content."Any group that has child porn on there should get shut down and most responsible ISPs understand that."At any rate, he argues, out of 90,000 newsgroups in the UK, only 30 have been taken down, 18 are being monitored closely and 20 are considered suspect."It's a relatively small number of newsgroups, so I don't know why people are getting so hyped up about it, to be honest," he says.While Mr Robbins - on his second day in the job and still rooting around for statistics - spoke, his staff of five handled a steady stream of calls and emails to the IWF hotline.In the last two days, they had fielded 267 reports of illegal activity online, of which 155 had been dealt with following earlier complaints, another 77 were not illegal, and one was outside the group's remit (it was not child pornography).But 34 seemed illegal to the IWF team, and would therefore be investigated and passed onto the police.Mr Robbins considers this the essence of the IWF, to sit between the public, the police and the ISPs and to coordinate responses to illegal material.If those calls and emails were being fielded at a police station, he argues, they would simply fall to the bottom of the pile for officers concerned mainly with theft and violent crime.Much of the material complained about does not sit on UK servers, he adds. When the IWF was set up, its mission was to clean up what it could on behalf of UK ISPs, thus considering illegal material on foreign servers outside its realm of influence.Now Mr Robbins considers the partnership with foreign counterparts fundamental. The IWF forwards complaints about foreign sites, chatrooms and newsgroups to the relevant local body."They run a cyber tip hotline in America and they are very proactive. There are almost daily emails passed between us," he says.Child pornography is the scourge of the internet, with Unicef reporting that online violations make up 90% of investigations, 80% involving more than one country.There have been some notable successes. In February last year, seven British men were jailed for taking part in an international paedophile ring called Wonderland that maintained a substantive online library of child pornography.The next battleground will be mobile phones, says Mr Robbins, as people begin to access data sites through their handsets and encounter illegal material.He has already been contacted by "two major mobile phone companies", he says, who are interested in setting up an arrangement similar to that which exists for ISPs.He also hopes to build better relationships with television companies, as internet access moves into more homes through TV screens.One of Mr Robbins' plans is to improve relationships with the country's 43 police forces, and given his background he is in a unique position to understand the best way to move from identifying an illegal site, newsgroup or chatroom user to prosecution.And as for censorship, he rejects criticism that having ISPs shut down sites or newsgroups without a court ruling amounts to a stifling of free speech."That's rubbish. That's not our role. Our role is to identify material that is illegal and to have it removed and to provide evidence to police to prosecute. It's as simple as that."
