"Oracle scored a significant victory last night when a US judge overturned an attempt by anti-trust authorities to block its $7.7bn (£4.3bn) hostile takeover of rival PeopleSoft," writes David Teather in today'sGuardian."The justice department alongside 10 states had filed suit earlier this year to prevent the deal, arguing that allowing the takeover to go ahead would reduce competition in the business software market, particularly in the financial and human resource sectors... During a month long trial in San Francisco, Oracle successfully contended that it was an underdog struggling to compete with the likes of Microsoft and SAP."The takeover battle has been made all the more contentious by the thorny relationship between Oracle's flamboyant chief Larry Ellison and PeopleSoft boss Craig Conway, who used to work for him."Comment:It's hard to see Oracle as an "underdog" (can any company trying to stage a £4bn takeover be small enough to warrant that tag?) - but the deal will most likely have to get past the EU's competition commission as well, and that's likely to be a more difficult prospect than the US supreme court.
Tom Watson, the pioneer of parliamentary blogging, has accepted a job as an unpaid assistant whip in this week's reshuffle. And there have been no postings on the usually busyTom-Watson.co.ukfor four days. Can Tom whip and blog at the same time? Or will the job of dressing down MPs prove too controversial for the champion of consultation and online government? Ros Taylor has seen some of the forthcoming entries on the Watson blog ...Cracking onIt's a bit daunting being a whip. I mean, you haven't actually got a whip - not a real one - but you start thinking it would be pretty useful. You've got these miserable bastards coming in day and night, bit of self-promotion gone wrong, been indiscreet, journos digging around their websites looking for a bit of inconsistency.I tell them to do their own PR. Go for openness on the really unimportant stuff - bit of bitching about the oppo, what the cat's been eating - and just toe the party line on the rest. She's a Lib Dem, of course, but Jody Dunn's got the right idea up in Hartlepool with her blog.Or she used to have. She's been whinging about a few Labour leafleteers hanging about outside the Lib Dem HQ and they've called the police. Bit ironic, really, given how libertarian and anti-law and order they all are.Shoot me down if I'm boasting, but I got there first, of course.Posted by tomwatson at 01:35AM | Comments | TrackBackThumbs down?I've got a particularly nasty piece of work coming in to the whips' office tomorrow. He's been threatening to ambush Tony during PMQs with a question about Iraq. Can't tell you what question it is, but I can reveal that he shouldn't be asking it.Can't wait. You see, I know all about this guy. Married, falling off a marginal seat in the Midlands, and he's worried about Respect and the Lib Dems splitting the floating voters between them. Wants to make a stand, just so he can boast about it on the doorsteps. But I happen to know he's been taking one of his caseworkers out to the Cinnamon Club on expenses. And then hitting the Travelodge for a bit of love and peace.What do you think? Should I threaten to shop him to the Daily Mail? Or should I give him one last chance? Up to you. Post your comments here.Posted by tomwatson at 03:17AM | Comments | TrackBackIf you could out someone as a treacherous hypocrite on this blog, would you?That's what I was asking myself on the fast new train from Worcester Shrub Hill to London this morning. (Thanks, Darling!) Can't wait, really.Posted by tomwatson at 05:45PM | Comments | TrackBackShould blogging get me the sack?Many, many people have said that this blog will get me the sack. Well, they were wrong. But should it have been closed down ages ago? Let me know what you think.Posted by tomwatson at 05:11AM | Comments | TrackBackIn the swimI'm taking a blogging break this weekend to have a look at Chequers. Great swimming pool, great people. Can't really say much more than that. You know, the closer you get to really powerful people, the more you realise how much they've got going for them - tact, discretion, brevity. Inspiring stuff.Posted by tomwatson at 05:15AM | Comments | TrackBackCaught in the netWell, you've probably heard the news. Got a call from the boss. Straight in at the deep end in Fisheries.Just to make it clear, he didn't give me an ultimatum or anything like it. He said - and I'm paraphrasing, wouldn't want to quote the great man directly  - Tom, you've got this openness thing sorted. I'm confident you can do for fish what you've done for Worcester. And those byelections. First step, could be something very senior in Defra if you play your cards right.The thing is, though, that I'm going to be very busy. Most of these fishing boats haven't got wi-fi, it's a nightmare trying to moblog when you're in the middle of a chat with a high-up in Spain or Portugal.So - and I know this is going to be a wrench for everyone who's helped to make this site the pioneering blog it is today - I'm going to take a sabbatical from the blogosphere. From one net to another, if you see what I mean.I mean, there's nothing more open than being in government, is there? You don't need to know what I'm up to - you can see me on the news every other night. Representing Worcester's interests in some really important meetings. Getting constituents' views about the cod shortage across in high places. Watery ones, anyway.Tell me what you think. Better do it quickly, though - I'm off this evening. Ministerial car. I'm getting a new laptop, too. Maybe they'll send me to Cape Cod with Gordon, if I'm really lucky.Take care. It's been virtual.Posted by tomwatson at 05:15AM | Comments | TrackBack
"Free Net phone provider Skype released its first software for personal digital assistants on Thursday, making good on an earlier promise to expand the range of devices that can use its service," reportsZDNet."The software lets users of Microsoft Pocket PC 2003 handhelds make free unlimited Skype calls over Wi-Fi networks, which are typically available in homes, offices, parks, transportation hubs, hotels, shops and restaurants.""While only about a third of all Pocket PCs have Wi-Fi connections, Skype's popularity could spur more sales of the pricy handhelds, said Chris Shipley, executive producer of DEMOmobile 2004, a wireless trade show in Los Angeles where the new Skype software was unveiled."Comment:While hotspots are still a huge case of hit-and-miss, Wi-Fi needs a killer app - could free voice calls be it?
For all those concerned about the ethics of ripping songs, the London News Review has come up with a handy guide:Should I Rip This? v1.0.Questions include: "Is this an indie label which could use the money and won't spend it on cocaine and new carpeting?"Worth a look, though of course I'd just like to point out that we do not endorse any illegal activities whatsoever.
Electronic Data Systems, one of the world's largest computer services companies, last night said it would cut up to 20,000 jobs over the next two years.The plans underline the uncertainties that face the tech industry, struggling to return to health after the crash at the beginning of the decade. Some of the biggest firms in the sector including Intel and Hewlett Packard have warned on their earnings in the current quarter.EDS chief executive Michael Jordan said 15,000 to 20,000 jobs would go, almost 10% of the workforce, to save $3bn (&#163;1.7bn). The business cut 5,000 jobs last year.EDS employs around 120,000 people in 60 countries, roughly half of them in the US. It was not clear last night where the job cuts would fall.
For those of you who missedthis story, Atari is releasing a budget collection of 85 classic titles in a single package for PS2 and Xbox. Atari Anthology will include such legends as Asteroids, Battlezone and Missile Command and is set for a November release in the US. No word on a UK date yet.The company is also producing a scaled-down version of the old7800 consolecomplete with 20 built-in games. It will be called the Atari Flashback, presumably because it'll give you a 'Flashback' to the mid-eighties when Atari was going down the pan and everyone was buying Commodore 64s.Personally, until they release a flat-pack Do-It-YourselfStar Wars arcade cabinetso I can play the legendary movie tie-in at home I'm not interested.
A real Champions League-style clash is coming this winter as Eidos pitches itsChampionship Manager 5footie management sim against Sports Interactive'sFootball Manager 2005. For those unaware of the political intrigue here,Sports Interactivecreated Championship Manager back in the early nineties and developed the series right up until the recent CM4 Season 03/04, with Eidos as publisher. However, the two companies split up earlier this year and Eidos retained the Champ Man brand, handing over development duties to a new internal team. SI meanwhile, purchased a classic license – Football Manager – and set about building a new game around its award-winning footie database, game code and engine.Well, I don't know about CM5 yet, but I've been playing the Football Manager beta demo all week, and I think it's going to be a truly astonishing game…Okay, so I have to come clean here. I can't really claim to be entirely objective. I edit The Official Football Manager magazine for Future publishing – a mag dedicated to Sports Interactive's games. However, I took that job because I loved the Championship Manager series. It has stolen countless hours of my life and is responsible for some of my fondest gaming memories. I know enough about it to appear on the recently dumbed-down Mastermind among other chumps answering questions on EastEnders and Star Wars figures. So I think I can speak with some authority when I say that Football Manager 2005, looks set to be a stunning example of its faintly maligned genre. Perhaps the pinnacle achievement so far.Just surfing around the excellent new menu system, checking out the vast player database (over 200,000 professionals, each digitally reconstructed with over 40 stats) and tinkering with the complex tactics screen has got those twangs of addiction reappearing. There are now over 50 countries to manage in and 2351 teams to control. All of the English sides have full youth and reserve teams (so have many of the major European sides), so you can judge immediately how your team is going to grow and develop over the next few years. It's nothing short of a football stat treasure trove. No wonder real managers are already approaching SI about getting access to this information base.There are some really interesting new gameplay features in here, too. The manager mind games element looks like it might be immense fun. You can select any other manager in the FM world and release a comment to the media about him, choosing from a vast selection that let you criticise his team's recent performances, boast about your chances when your sides meet on Saturday, or even declare your admiration for him. It's all part of the psy-ops that dominates real football, and could really humanise the whole experience (even if, currently, I have no idea how it affects things on the pitch – although SI assure me it does).With team tactics, you have truly deep and thorough control over how your side performs on the pitch. FM features slider bar controls for elements such as width, defensive line, creative freedom, etc, so you can intricately set-up your side, to either sit back and defend with a Rorke's Drift mentality, or charge up the field like maniacs, each member of the squad concentrating only on his own creative abilities. Most likely, you'll end up somewhere in between – it is up to each and every player to decide exactly where. I like the way its also possible to quickly change your tactics with a single button press. If you're desperate for a goal in the dying minutes, you can go to your tactics screen and click on a button that makes all your players hoof every last desperate pass up to your lofty danger man, for that classic route one finish.Navigation has clearly been influenced both by Mac Os X and the latest website design theory. There are multiple ways to get around, using the main menu bar along the top, a tree-style menu on the left, and a 'bread crumbs' menu on the bottom of the screen (which traces your route to the screen you're currently on so you can easily backtrack through the game) – all of which interact and feed off each other. It'll take hours to find your own way, but when you do it should become second nature – unlike the way you had to grapple with the interface in CM3, fighting your way through illogical menu screens. The aim with the entire design is to give you as easy access as possible to the increased complexity and sheer range of gameplay components. Transfers, loans, training – all are logically presented and packed with options.And, most importantly, it all looks like its leading to a realistic simulation of the sport itself. As Manchester City, I had a brilliant pre-season, firing in goals for fun, watching little Shaun racing along that right wing feeding Anelka with pin-point passes. But now, in the premiership, City are mis-firing, mistakes are occurring; watching the 2D match engine, I can see that gaps the size of small oceans are appearing between my stumbling back four. It's time to bring in support, time to hit that database, send out my scouts (who now act intelligently, checking out other players in the games they watch – not only the type you've asked them to study). It's time to bash out a few complex contracts, making the most of my meagre resources with sweeteners, bonuses and salary deals.The AI-controlled Assistant Manager is there to let you know who's not pulling their weight in the current squad, who needs to be placed on extra fitness training with your toughest coach. He'll also pick your team if you ask him to, and let you know about any new stars rising through the youth and reserve ranks. I am told your trusted right-hand man may also keep you up to date on dressing room gossip – the inter-player muck-spreading that no gaffer is directly privy to. SI says that player personalities will play a bigger role than ever. It will be easy to upset the moodier members of your first XI by criticising team performances to the press, or selling one of their mates. I'm not sure if there's a, 'refuse to speak to media after important international win' option, though.Football, increasingly, is a sport about personality and psychology, ego and expectation – games are won and lost in press conferences and on the back pages of the red tops. From my eight or so hours with this beta code, it seems SI has really caught the essence of this modern malaise – without sacrificing the purists' love of the tactical game.So yes, I am biased. But I feel – if the game speed is kept up to scratch (it seems much faster than CM4 in this demo), and the initial release is as bug free as possible - that this is going to be the greatest management game Sports Interactive has ever written. I think maybe my social life is over.
Please tell Michele Hanson (Who can afford the luxury of an ink-jet printer?, G2, September 6) that ink-jet cartridges can be recycled and that cheap versions of the scandalously overpriced name-brand cartridges are easily available on the internet.To recycle cartidges, send them to: Freepost, Cartridge Recycling Centre, Watchet, Somerset TA23 0ZB. One company that offers cheap brand-name compatible inkjet cartridges is www.choicestationery.com - and no, I don't own shares in it.Michele should also know that you can even refill used cartridges yourself, although that lofty height of political correctness is something to which I only aspire.Belinda HollyerLondon
Among the identikit sequels and safe movie licences on show at last week's Game Stars Live, one game stood out as a beacon of originality. Evil Genius, shown on the stand of publisher Vivendi Universal, is the second game developed by Camden outfit Elixir - and marks the transition of its creator, Demis Hassabis, 28, from child prodigy to industry bigwig.Hassabis came to prominence aged just 17, when he co-created the hugely successful Theme Park with industry legend Peter Molyneux. Hassabis then headed to Cambridge University, where he picked up a double first in computer science. A chess Master from the age of 12, he won the Mind Sports Olympiad five times between 1998 and 2003 and, after this year's E3 show in May, he participated in a satellite tournament at the World Series of Poker in Las Vegas.Despite an auspicious start, it has not been plain sailing for Hassabis. He founded Elixir in 1998, but it took the company until last year to release its first game, Republic: The Revolution. Republic fostered a belief that perhaps Hassabis was too clever by half. Although sufficiently innovative to win several awards, it arrived late and over budget, and proved somewhat impenetrable to many of the mere mortals who played it. Evil Genius, however, manages to preserve originality while providing a more mainstream gameplay experience."We consciously wanted to do something that was more light-hearted and humorous," he says. "Obviously Republic was quite dark and gritty. We were trying to make a crazy statement that a game can be about politics and so on. So with Evil Genius, we wanted to go back to making a game, as opposed to making some kind of art, I suppose. The concept is be Dr Evil or be Dr No."The game casts you as a megalomaniac Bond-style villain aiming to achieve global domination. You must build a base, fill it with traps for enemy spies, research technologies and send out your own spies on specific missions. It is an amusing and absorbing game and, to Hassabis's relief, it has been completed on time and on budget, ready for release at the start of next month.Lack of originality in games from major publishers - who play safe with games they know will sell regardless of merit - is a subject of major debate in the games industry. The Hassabis stance is that of an uncompromising, idealistic developer in an unhelpful climate."It's getting scarily hard now to do any original intellectual property (IP). From the point of view of a big publisher that has to come up with predictable quarterly revenues, why should they take the risk on original IP? Especially when consumers are buying Spider-Man 2, Shrek 2 and so on."We'll try to fight to the bitter end in terms of originality, but even we may have to do some kind of licence at some point. It's a massive challenge to get a game like Harry Potter out on time on all four platforms, but - from a creative standpoint - you're being a third-class citizen, because you're writing a game that is based on a film that is based on a book. What's the difference between the people who make the game of Finding Nemo and the people who make the soft toys?"Nevertheless, Elixir is working on another original game. "We can't talk about it, but it's signed to a big American publisher and is a very different game from Republic and Evil Genius,   although it is in the strategy/simulation genre. It's more of a story-telling game, and we'll probably announce it before the end of the year."Elixir is also developing a prototype of a game that will appear on the next generation of consoles which, with their increased power and graphics abilities, will present a new set of challenges. Hassabis explains: "You will need armies of animators to make games for the next generation of consoles - I think outsourcing will help. Any independent developer will have to use that for their art resources. I am quite worried about the next generation. Maybe in 10 years' time, when technology is not an issue, things will turn round again, and it will be easier to create an independent game - just like it's easier to create an independent film with a handheld camera and amateur cast."Hassabis can now indulge in a rare period of relaxation - although one thing he has planned sounds stressful. He is one of the world's best players of the board game Diplomacy. "I played in the World Diplomacy Championships two months ago, came sixth out of 250 people, and we won the World Team Diplomacy Championship. Diplomacy is not really relaxing to play - it's like being in a 10-hour business meeting."Strangely, the French are the best at it - they have won it for the past four years. But I'm going to play in the European Championship in Munich in October, at the same time as the Oktoberfest."Let's hope the latter does not dull his competitiveness in the former.
With the military under ever more pressure, it took many by surprise in July when the Ministry of Defence announced plans to drastically cut back the number of British soldiers. Instead of more troops on the ground, defence secretary Geoff Hoon is leading the charge to use advanced communications technology.The announcement caused outcry. Proponents of what the MoD calls network-enabled capability (NEC) say it will help keep soldiers properly equipped by improving logistics and will help them work more effectively and safely in dangerous situations."It allows information to flow," said an MoD spokesman. "The technology allows you to do things you couldn't do before."The defence command paper released by Hoon in July - which publicised plans to close or merge foot regiments, scrap Royal Navy ships and ditch RAF squadrons - defines NEC as "the coherent integration of sensors, decision-makers and weapons systems."Government IT projects do not always have shining reputations, but Giles Ebbutt, the editor of Jane's C4I Yearbook, says that much of the technology in the plan already exists. He believes it is entirely reasonable that the rest should be ready by 2010."There's no doubt you need the capability they are introducing. If we're going to continue to be a viable partner in any meaningful coalition, we need to be able to do these things. How you gain that capability is then a matter for political judgment."The MoD's paper anticipates the UK working regularly with the US military, and the Pentagon is already particularly keen on what it calls network-centric warfare.Some critics say NEC is extremely useful in high intensity operations such as full-scale war, but less useful for work such as distributing aid. With low intensity operations becoming increasingly common, some fear that replacing troops with complex technology will weaken the capability on the ground and endanger important peacekeeping missions."Commanders in Iraq last year said they didn't see how some swanky new technology would help. What helped was people on the ground patrolling," says Francis Tusa, editor of the Defence Analysis newsletter.He says this particularly applies to plans to create "digitised battlespace" by tracking the location of all vehicles and individuals on a battlefield. The MoD announced a pilot of this Joint Effects Tactical Targeting System two months ago.Tusa says that a peacekeeping "battlefield" can contain tens of thousands of vehicles and individuals, and that the difference between neutrals and enemies may be their intentions rather than any physical sign. He thinks commanders could become reliant on digitised battlespace software, leading to the problem "that the default is 'shoot and sort out later'". Such a move could turn neutral civilians into sworn enemies, threatening the sanctity of peacekeeping operations and placing troops in greater danger than ever.Another problem is that such low intensity operations are by their nature more labour intensive, and NEC is being introduced as personnel is being cut. Iraq's high-level warfare took a matter of days, while the effort to bring civil peace and order is a much more long-term engagement."If you're doing peacekeeping work, you don't always need hi-tech capability," says Paul Keetch, the Liberal Democrat defence spokesman. "What you need is a huge number of infantry and transport aircraft."Others, however, see networked communications as essential in low intensity work. "People think soldiers on the ground don't need technology when winning hearts and minds," says Ellie Goldsworthy, a defence analyst at the Royal United Services Institute. "But they need to be able to react quickly, and getting the right information at the right time enables them to do that."She believes her use of computer technology was important in her postings on peace support operations in the Balkans, where situational awareness and reliable communications were crucial. For her, the problem with NEC is in presentation: it is not explained, for example, as a way of tracking equipment more accurately."Geoff Hoon sells it so dreadfully," she says. "If he explained that investment in new technology would mean body armour would stand a better chance of getting to the soldiers who needed it, he might get a warmer reaction."But could soldiers become over-reliant on technology? Could they become so much a part of a network that they are useless when disconnected? Goldsworthy says British military training avoids the dependence on technology. "Every soldier has training for what happens when the radios go wrong. There's never a total reliance on technology."But Tusa points out that some US units no longer teach map reading, since soldiers rely on global positioning systems. "A map with a bullet hole is slightly soiled, but a computer with a bullet hole is an expensive paperweight," he says.Defence Command Paperhttp://tinyurl.com/67egpMoD press release on JETTShttp://masl.to/?I60D25B39RUSI articles and opinionshttp://masl.to/?B2FC31B39
A German teenager who created the Sasser worm that disrupted computers around the world in May has been charged with computer sabotage, a crime carrying a maximum five-year jail term.Sven Jaschan,18, whose mother runs a computer shop in the small northern town of Waffensen, told investigators his original intention was to create a virus, Netsky A, that would fight the Mydoom and Bagle viruses, removing them from infected computers.He developed several versions of Netsky and, after modifying it, created Sasser, which raced worldwide, exploiting a flaw in Microsoft's Windows operating system. It caused infected computers to crash and reboot, making it impossible to work on them.Jaschan was caught after informants seeking a reward tipped off Microsoft. In their indictment, prosecutors chose the cases of three German city councils and a public broadcaster whose systems were disrupted.Prosecutors said they had been contacted by 143 plaintiffs with total damage claims of &euro;130,000 (&#163;88,500). But they believe that the true figure would run into millions.
Double actChip giants AMD and Intel are racing to be the first to launch "dual core" processors next year. AMD has already been previewing its Opteron prototype, while Intel talked up the technology at this week's Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco. Dual core chips have two processors on the same chip. This allows a single computer to be partitioned to act like two computers. AMD demonstrated the cost-saving possibilities for businesses using an HP ProLiant containing four dual-core Opterons.www.amd.com/dualcore2www.intel.comBluetooth pulledEricsson Technology Licensing, a spin-off Bluetooth research and development company, is being disbanded as Ericsson is forced out of the market by increasing competition. Ericsson has been a prime mover in the Bluetooth market: it invented the technology and helped turn it into an industry standard, particularly for mobile phones. The company is not abandoning the technology, but claims its "mature state" has made the spin-off uneconomic. However, users may think there is still work to be done: the use of Bluetooth personal area networking to connect all manner of IT hardware has been dogged by interoperability issues that are still being tackled.www.ericsson.com/bluetooth/newsSecurity tightenedWi-Fi is getting more secure. Companies are queuing up to have their products certified for the newly ratified Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) standard. The standard forms a major part of the 802.11i wireless networking specification. Although hardware with WPA2 has been available for months, interoperability and security could not be guaranteed until all elements had been approved. Now Intel, Cisco Systems, and Realtek are awaiting the seal of approval that interoperability specifications have been met. The high level of encryption in WPA2 makes network communications almost impossible to hack, and will ensure the level of access allotted to users will be adhered to.http://masl.to/?K33014C39Apache warcryLicensing for Microsoft's proposed SenderID anti-spam standard is not acceptable, claims the Apache Software Foundation. Apache, which develops the eponymous open source web server, has written to the technical committee working on the specification saying the current proposition is too controlling for use in the open source world. Under the current proposals, Apache claims users would have to apply to Microsoft to use the anti-spam software, and development projects to improve the standard could be blocked by the Redmond firm. SenderID is based mainly on Microsoft's Caller ID, and offers another way to validate the source of incoming emails and filter spam.http://masl.to/?V2AE11B39VoIP numbersOfcom, the UK's telecoms regulator, is setting aside phone numbers starting with 056 for use with internet phones that are usually based on VoIP ( Voice over Internet Protocol). The new 11-digit numbers will be assigned by internet telephony providers. Customers will also be able to have new numbers with regional prefixes, such as 01 and 02, and some may be able to keep existing numbers. However, 056 will generally be recognised as "the area code for cyberspace".Grid BritainBritish physicists are unveiling the world's largest computer grid this week. The team, primarily centered at Oxford, Manchester and Glasgow universities, has linked up more than 6,000 computers at 78 international sites as a massive processor for the particle physics work at the Cern research lab in Switzerland. The project forms part of the development of the Large Hadron Collider Computing Grid, which will analyse the results of collisions between sub-atomic particles. The collider is expected to churn out 15 petabytes of data per year from 2007, and it all has to be stored and analysed. The grid's computers will combine their resources to act as a massive supercomputer for this purpose.http://lcg.web.cern.ch/LCG/Mobile JavaSun's Java language was launched with the claim that programmers could "write once, run anywhere", and nowhere has that been more patently untrue than on mobile phones. However, phone suppliers Nokia and Vodafone have combined "to lead a roadmap for mobile Java standards". The aim is to define "a consistent Java API services architecture" so that applications will be compatible across different devices. This is not the first attempt to fix the problem. Both companies say they are committed to the platform and reference implementations should be available next year.
Best foot forwardIf everyone in the world lived like the average person in Britain, we would need three planets to sustain us. On average, Britons use up 5.4 hectares of the earth's natural resources every year, well above the global average of 3.4 hectares. According to Earthday, an environmental pressure group, the Earth can only sustain 1.8 hectares per person. So how do you know when you are consuming too much? Earthday has built a web application that calculates your "global footprint" from a multiple choice quiz. If you are serious about reducing your global footprint, it is not easy. Redefining Progress, a partner pressure group, recommends ditching the car, going vegetarian and flying a lot less often.www.myfootprint.orgwww.earthday.netwww.rprogress.orgBlogged offBlogging may be good for making friends, but is it worth losing your job over? Joyce Park, a former software engineer with the social networking site Friendster, is the latest to fall foul of her employers. She is not the first to get the sack for keeping a blog about her work but, as she points out, her case is "especially ironic because Friendster, of course, is a company that is all about getting people to reveal information about themselves".http://troutgirl.com/blogwww.friendster.comKill blogWriter/director Quentin Tarantino has apparently become the latest celebrity to join the legion of bloggers - or has he? It has long been documented that Tarantino is a lousy speller, so this grammatically competent blog has raised the suspicion that it could be a hoax. The "blogging Tarantino" has hit back, saying he hires an editor to clean up his stuff, but doubts remain. The site uses Blogger, and the accompanying email address points to a Yahoo account, and both are free and easy to forge. Seasoned Hollywood-watcher JoBlo and MSN have both suggested the blog is a hoax, but you can still enjoy the swipes at Lord of the Rings and gossip about his forthcoming WWII "spaghetti western", Inglorious Bastards. The real QT has remained tight-lipped.http://qtdiary.blogspot.comwww.joblo.com/index.php?id=5093Lost in spaceAt the height of the space race, two Italian brothers set up a listening post in the hills above Turin and began probing the heavens for US and Soviet unmanned satellites. One day in early 1961, weeks before Yuri Gagarin's epic space flight, the Judica-Cordiglia brothers were startled by a sound that differed from the usual bleeps of the unmanned satellites they were used to tracking. According to the website Lostcosmonauts.com, the brothers clearly heard "the beat of a failing heart and the last gasping breaths of a dying cosmonaut". The incredible story of a failed Soviet mission unfolds on the site, and adds to the archive of unknown Soviet space missions.http://lostcosmonauts.comWord upWordcount is a stylish "interactive presentation of the 86,000 most frequently used words in the English language". Making use of Macromedia's often-maligned Flash to create a refreshingly minimalist interface, the site extracts words from the British National Corpus of Oxford and ranks them in terms of popularity. The site, which you can search by word or word ranking, has attracted something of a cult following that delights in finding interesting sequences. For example, four adjacent words run: America, ensure, oil, opportunity.www.wordcount.orgwww.natcorp.ox.ac.ukwww.number27.org/projects/Mmmm niceA nice cup of tea and a sit down is a site dedicated to drinking tea, eating biscuits and cakes because "if you eat biscuits then it's a fair bet you'll have some cake if it's on offer". This is the work of an anonymous couple who wax lyrical on the idle pleasures of snacktime treats. It is worth a minute of anyone's tea break.www.nicecupofteaandasitdown.com
Credit card fraud losses in the UK fell for the first time in nearly a decade last year, by more than 5% to &#163;402.4m, according to research by the Association of Payment Clearing Services (Apacs).The fall has put a spotlight on the increasing use of neural networks that have the ability to detect fraudulent behaviour by analysing transactions and alerting staff to suspicious activity. As commercial applications of research into artificial intelligence, these systems give the impression of mimicking human abilities for recognising unusual activity.Karina Purang, a financial analyst at Datamonitor in London, says the use of neural networks is growing: "These systems are very important to banks trying to reduce fraud, and are becoming standard across the card industry to detect unusual spending patterns." She says Barclays reported that after installing Fair Isaac's Falcon Fraud Manager system in 1997, fraud was reduced by 30% by 2003. The bank attributed this mainly to the new system.Neural network software systems are integrated with a bank's card management and authorisation systems. The software consists of a range of programs that recognise patterns in cardholder behaviour - the fruits of a long history of development work into using computers for pattern recognition. The system monitors cardholder behaviour, looking for unusual transaction volumes, amounts and locations. It also looks at the types of merchants being used, and even the day of the week, for things that don't fit a pattern based on an individual's credit card history.The system scores each transaction, giving higher scores for those it suspects could be fraudulent. Banks either monitor the results in real time or analyse periodic reports.Banks buy or lease the software from a few specialist firms that operate globally, giving them the ability to compare data about fraud patterns in different countries."It's a huge challenge because you are trying to detect the fraud that occurs in around one in 50,000 transactions," says Sushimito Ghosh, executive vice president of Retail Decisions, a provider of neural network systems. "The other problem is that fraudsters are constantly modifying their behaviour as soon as one kind of activity is detected."Martin Hewgill, a senior business consultant at ACI Worldwide, says that typically, a neural network needs six months of recent credit card transaction data to allow it to "learn" patterns of fraud. "From this, it is able to build profiles and detect clumps of activity that show a probability of being fraudulent."But he also admits that fraudsters modify their behaviour as detection gets better. "When they find out a bank has such a system, they target other banks or use other techniques. That means that over an 18-month period, the system's value declines as it becomes less able to detect new types of fraud."Experts also say there is a debate about the best way to use the scores that systems deliver. "Do you just target high scores or take action on lower scores in an effort to detect more fraud? We favour a mixed approach," says Ghosh.In reality, it is the bank's fraud team that has to make the decisions. The team uses the alert data from the system to apply the bank's rules and policies on how to react to a suspected fraud. If the concern is great enough, someone usually calls the cardholder to verify the transaction. The next level of escalation is to stop the transaction.The ability to reduce the fraud level is always a trade-off between the cost of installing and running the system and the amount of fraud taking place. Cheaper neural network systems make it economical to reduce the level of fraud.Today's neural network developers are competing to deliver systems that are faster, learn more quickly, and are easier to use, because they provide better links to the fraud management systems that banks use to evaluate alerts.Nick Sandall, head of retail banking at Deloitte, says that banks also use other technologies. "The artificial intelligence community is constantly bringing us new solutions. These include hybrid systems that build up and analyse patterns of transactions. But the big problem with credit cards is you have milliseconds to decide if it's a fraudulent transaction, otherwise it is analysis after the event."AI systems will be expected to look more closely at online and telephone transactions, following the introduction of Chip and Pin.Chip and Pin - which has been very successful in France - is now being rolled out in the UK, with pin number entry pads gradually replacing signature verification in retail outlets. However, banking experts predict that, as a result, fraudsters will increasingly target other areas, such as online payments.Further into the future, neural networks could be replaced or complemented by systems that mimic biological patterns. New research into computational immunology is looking at fraud as if it were an attack on a healthy system.But experts agree there is always a trade-off between the cost of implementation and the level of risk. "At the end of the day, it is the customer that pays," says Hewgill.
Do we overstate the importance of blogging or is it crossing into the mainstream?It's becoming more mainstream and an addition to the media conversation. There are too many blogs for anyone to follow them all, but I think any medium that encourages people to become participants as opposed to consumers is a good thing.With traditional media increasingly owned by fewer people, how do we ensure the net stays as free as possible?That's going to take citizens being more active and insisting to political people, and to the corpora tions that control much of the technology, that openness is a precondition. It's something they must have.Do you enjoy the instant feedback that the net affords?That's part of what makes this all so interesting. For the first time, we have a mechanism that gives us a form of rapid response and rapid listening. It makes life more complicated, but the "lecture mode" of journalism never made me that comfortable. It's much more interesting as a conversation or something broader.Is We The Media available as an ebook?I believe someone has posted it as a PDF that can be read on Palm devices (http://masl.to/?T33624 B39). I gather it works pretty well. If someone wants to take the HTML and PDF of it and turn it into an ebook, they're welcome to ... as long as they don't sell it. It's not for commercial use. This is "remixing". People are remixing the book like crazy and that's fun to watch.Does blogging allow you to amend things more easily?One advantage of online media is that if you make a mistake, you can correct it quickly before there's damage and that's important. One has to own up to mistakes, though.Is the online community unforgiving?I think unforgiving is not the right word, as it's actually quite a forgiving community provided you acknowledge your errors and fix them. That tends to enhance people's credibility.Do you see Creative Commons making more of an inroad?I hope so. It's a shame the Creative Commons (http://creativecommons.org) organisation needs to exist, because the fact that it does is proof that copyright laws are a mess. I'm very glad they are around, as being able to publish under that license is a useful thing, for the publisher and for whoever wants to use the book in a different way. I have been lucky on many levels as I have a publisher willing to do this and not every publisher would be.Linkshttp://boingboing.nethttp://journalism.nyu.edu/pubzone/weblogs/pressthink/http://doc.weblogs.comwww.ohmynews.comwww.thememoryhole.orgwww.publicintegrity.org&#183;Visit:www.dangillmor.com&amp;http://weblog.siliconvalley.com/column/dangillmor/
What a statementApple has made yet another statement about its progressive planning for computers. The G4 dome was a hard act to follow, and thanks to Jonathan Ive's creativity and imagination, the amazing Apple has surpassed expectation. This is surely the ultimate in computer design: a screen, a keyboard, a mouse. What else is needed?But besides its incredible design, the technology is there to support it. Nobody could have expected a G5 in such a small case. High-speed graphics, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth: it is not only beautiful, but a fantastic statement to have on your desk.Alan AshwoodNot just a lookerIt would be useful to comment on the productivity aspects of Macs - it's not all looks, you know. They are easier to use than PCs, don't crash and my anglepoise iMac is faster than my 2.4GHz Compaq PC at work for word processing, spreadsheet and - of course - graphics heavy applications.David SmithPull out all the stopsSo, Apple has pulled out all the design stops and come up with... a non-portable, non-touch screen, tablet PC with a stand. Cool.Tim HampsonExtras left outNeil McIntosh (Mac to the future, September 2) has missed a point about the new iMac, failing to state that the processor concerned is an IBM G5 64-bit processor unit. This brings 64-bit processing power to a whole generation of consumer desktop computers at affordable prices, well ahead of the Windows PC world.The specification is quite high but annoyingly, Apple have made Bluetooth and Wi-fi (Airport) build-to-order extras which means that they will not be available when bought in standard-build specification from retail outlets.Brian MegittAssurance asideHaving downloaded and installed XP SP2, I was disappointed to discover that BT Broadband failed. BT's phone support assured me it has no suitable patch, and that I had no option but to undo everything, and return to SP1. So much for the assurance quoted in Inside IT (August 19) that "Microsoft hasn't found any major applications that have problems".Raymond MercierSt IvesLittered with errorsThe Parsol website (www.parsol.gov.uk) listed at the end of your article (Pass the Parsol, September 2) has no "alt" text on the main heading image on each page (which is a picture of some text), and is littered with "click here" links and contains many HTML errors. Surely we should expect new government websites such as this to be exemplars of accessibility and adherence to standards, including the government's own?Andy MabbettBirminghamResurrectionAs well as online government services we could have e-parliament. The technology is available now for bills and regulations to be made available online for viewing and comment. MPs do not need to sit for hours in committees - they can do a lot of their work at home or in their offices using appropriate knowledge management software.The public can also become involved in the legislative process by being able to scrutinise online bills, white papers etc, and have their comments recorded and examined. By increasing public participation in this way, it might just be possible to resurrect a sense of the peoples' ownership of the democratic process.Victor TaylorLeave offTim Pinder (Feedback, September 2) suggested Outlook and Outlook Express users are more likely to get spammed. Why? I've been using email since about 1990 and for most of that time have been using Microsoft products almost exclusively, and I buy quite a lot of stuff online. I've had about four ISPs and haven't had a problem with spam.They only need your address, though - it doesn't matter what email client you use. Microsoft gets enough justifiable crap slung at them so leave them out of this one. I'm sending you this from a secondary email account via a browser (IE though) just in case you have an anti MS mole who retaliates by putting my address on a spammers' list.Harry SinclairBishop AucklandFree for allIt is obvious to me that it is only a matter of time until all software is free. Once a free version of a type of software becomes available on the internet it would be very hard for other people to sell a similar product commercially. If national governments or the EU get involved and start producing their own free software libraries on the internet for public use, the bottom will surely drop out of the software market and only very specialised software designed specifically for a small number of users will be able to be sold.Paul Bird
Businesses that want to use Linux can find it daunting to choose one distribution or "distro" from the dozens available. Most come with the key tools needed to build and run a server, whether it's for email, files or web serving. They also provide many of the tools needed to run a desktop PC, from office suites and multimedia packages to email tools and organisers. But business users also need to think about continuity, compatibility and support.Indeed, support is one of the key issues facing businesses that want to deploy Linux. As with a proprietary operating system, Linux administrators will need to debug interactions among free, commercial and in-house applications, and get all their software working with new hardware. It's possible to purchase support contracts from most major Linux vendors on a subscription basis, or hire consultants to help get systems up and running.The subscription approach is attractive as it helps ensure that distro vendors continue to survive - not guaranteed with "free" software - while making sure you always have access to the latest stable code.Support involves far more than just the operating system. You also need to consider applications and hardware. For example, Oracle recommends a Dell and Red Hat platform for running its database on Linux - and offers a single support route for all three components. But you may find out, as ITV did, that while you have made a corporate decision to standardise on one Linux distro, some of your key business software is only supported on another.Linux distributions rarely share all the same core code and components, so while it may seem trivial to switch from one version to another, things may be a lot harder in practice. And while you may be able to download various libraries from the net, it's not particularly easy to roll your own distribution - especially if it means manually maintaining critical service components.When choosing a Linux distribution, then, start with your business requirements, and then see which of the distributions offers the features you need. It's a good idea to download trial versions before you even think about deployment. You can then examine the vendor's support policies, the way it handles updates, and its development roadmap.Just keep reminding yourself that when it gets down to the nitty gritty, you're buying a business tool, not a philosophy.The three best known Linux distributions are Red Hat, SuSE and Debian. Red Hat has reorganised its distributions into a selection of subscription packages. SuSE has recently become part of Novell, along with Ximian, an open source software specialist. Debian remains a volunteer-run distribution, with a large number of adherents supporting its commitment to the free software movement.Red Hat, the leading Linux distribution for businesses, caused consternation when it announced it was ending its downloadable distribution, and concentrating on its enterprise solutions, while at the same time moving to a much slower release cycle. This has led to some users moving to other platforms, but the changes have left Red Hat with a solid customer base and a development roadmap that fits more closely with enterprise needs. There's a version of Red Hat for most enterprise niches, from a desktop client to a high-end high performance server. Red Hat has also taken advantage of its position to introduce a Linux-based application server platform, as well as supporting most of the major Java application servers. Red Hat also offers its own set of Java tools.The more daring can work with Fedora Core, from the Red Hat-sponsored Fedora Project. This is a cutting edge distribution, with no support beyond the community. Here, Red Hat tries out features that will eventually find their way into the commercial Red Hat Enterprise distributions. System administrators who want to experiment with new ways of working with Linux will find Fedora attractive, and it will help develop skills that will be needed with future versions of Red Hat.The changes in Red Hat's release policies have led to some interesting effects. Recent data from O'Reilly Books shows that Red Hat is one of the few software products to show a dip in   book sales when a new version is released. It's not clear whether this means that fewer organisations are working with Red Hat, or whether experienced administrators no longer need the books to understand the latest features.Germany's SuSE, like Red Hat, offers a range of server solutions and a desktop client. The company has a close relationship with IBM, and this has led to supported installations on most of IBM's server hardware, as well as ports of key IBM intellectual property, including the engineering and scientific libraries needed to develop complex business applications.SuSE has also developed tools for smaller businesses, and offers a groupware platform in the shape of its Openexchange Server. This is an interesting program as it duplicates many of the functions of Microsoft's Exchange Server, as well as offering file sharing features and web-based collaboration. Other SuSE offerings include a retail platform, developed with IBM, that runs on servers and point-of-sale terminals.It's hard to know how many businesses use Debian, as it is only available via downloads or from low-cost CD duplicators. Based on a social contract with the free software community, Debian is as much a philosophy as a set of software, but thefocus is on delivering the best possible selection of free software. Debian can handle everything from home users to enterprise systems, and has stable versions for many processors beyond the traditional x86 Pentium-compatible platform - including Alpha and Sun Sparc processors. Debian users need to rely on informal support networks, or experienced consultants.The big three aren't the only Linux distributions, and you may find the features you're looking for in one of the smaller versions.Mandrake Linux seems to have weathered its recent troubles and is introducing innovative products. Last week, Mandrakesoft revealed its new GlobeTrotter - a portable Linux desktop built around a LaCie 40GB USB 2.0 hard drive. You can plug it into any PC with a USB port, and boot straight into your usual desktop environment. (There's also a boot CD for PCs that do not support USB device booting.)Mandrakesoft also provides server software in the shape of its Corporate Server package, with plenty of configuration wizards to help buyers customise their servers.Several other distributions, including the popular Knoppix, also come as ready to run CD-Roms. Used in conjunction with USB memory sticks, these can give on-the-road   employees quick access to internet applications, office tools and email. Just boot the CD, and you're ready to go, with no need to reconfigure the PC or install software.Bootable Linux CDs also provide an easy-to-use PC rescue system, and can help system administrators recover files from machines that have lost their operating system. This is probably one of the major uses for Knoppix.The open source Linux kernel can also be customised for specific tasks, and there are several single-purpose distributions. For example, Freesco is a Linux-based router that runs on basic hardware. You can even use it to manage dial-in modems for your corporate network, exploiting otherwise obsolete hardware. Similarly, SmoothWall Express is an open source firewall built on top of a customised and hardened Linux kernel.You don't have to be a Linux advocate to find this kind of thing extremely useful.
The Women's Game Conference kicked off today with a room full of feisty broads next to three rooms full of boys. Never the twain, as they say, shall meet. Sigh.Regardless of the gender segregation, already this morning there have been some invaluable sessions hosted and peopled by some pretty impressive female games industry luminaries. While there has been a small amount of male bashing (come on - for a boy-heavy industry that hosts its networking meetings in strip clubs you've got to allow us a little bit ofthat), much that has been thrown on the altar of truth has had its heart in the right place. Under the sweltering heat of the Texas sun, there are about 150 women in a room feeling empowered. Hear us roar.First up this morning was the keynote speech by Kathy Schoback, VP Content at Infinitum Labs, ex-EIDOS and ex-Sega. She spoke at length about courage, not just of women involved in gaming, but of aspects of the gaming industry in general. It was a very positive point-counterpoint to many of the issues raised about the industry's supposed fear of risk at theEIGF. Sigh, maybe we Europeans are too cynical. Perhaps there's something to be learned from these colonials.I spoke in my twisted accent (is she American? is she British?) to the attendees, and officially launched the ELSPA Women in GamesWhite Paperon the "Identifying the Issues" panel, which included women who've been involved from the development side since computer games were in diapers. In fact, there are a lot of women in the room that are over the age of 30. This is totally different from UK conferences where the average age sometimes feels like 23.Many of the issues raised in discussion are consistent problems within other entertainment industries, including quality of life, work-family balance, sexism on the job and pay disparities. It's not all bad, though, as Nicky Robinson, programming (or "engineer" as they call it on this side of the proverbial pond) veteran, pointed out. "For all the pain in the butt it is to be a woman in the games industry," she said, "it sometimes has an advantage. I have a power the guys just don't have." The secret weapon? Tears.Out with the light-hearted fun-poking, there are some serious things happening here. The quality of the discussions, particularly the level of participants is encouraging; it's great to put faces to names of high powered women in the industry, including Ellen Guon Beeman, Live Team Producer of The Matrix Online and Laura Fryer, Director, Advanced Technology Group at Microsoft who, with Schoback, answered pressing questions for career girls at the "Getting to the Top" session.Getting career advice from some of the top women in games is a great encouragement to many of the delegates, regardless of their status as a veteran or wannabe, and highlights that this kind of thing doesn't happen often enough. Computer Science drop out, a real issue internationally and increasingly in the UK, could be diverted if more women stood up and waved their female gamer flag. We'll see what happens after lunch, I'm off to eat a whole Texas cow. Moo.
Following on from the news that Pro Evolution Soccer will be enabled for Xbox Live play comes the announcement of theFIFA Interactive World Cup. Unfortunately this involves FIFA 2005 rather than Pro Evolution Soccer but after last night's press conference in Berlin I'm not only knackered, but also certain this will be big.Players will compete in one of the regional finals - taking in Johannesburg to New York - with the winners shooting it out at the FIFA World Player Gala in Zurich. The winning player will be presented with their trophy by FIFA president Sepp Blatter at the same time as the Player of the Year award is dished out. Yes, get very good at FIFA 2005 and you could be standing on stage with Henry/Ronaldhino/Beattie or whoever wins. If you fancy it you can enter via Xbox Live or by queuing up at the venues themselves (the UK's event is in London on November 20th).As a sidenote, they had the latest version of FIFA 2005 Xbox on show at the event. A few games showed that, while still a way off Pro Evo, this is a marked improvement on last year's dire offering. Players still don't "feel" quite right and freekicks are too easy to score, but FIFA 2005 is looks like being the best version yet.
"To survive without human help, a robot needs to be able to generate its own energy. So Chris Melhuish and his team of robotics experts at the University of the West of England in Bristol are developing a robot that catches flies and digests them in a special reactor cell that generates electricity," reportsNew Scientist."With a top speed of 10 centimetres per hour, EcoBot II's roving prowess is still modest to say the least. 'Every 12 minutes it gets enough energy to take a step forwards two centimetres and send a transmission back,' says Melhuish. But it does not need to catch too many flies to do so, says team member Ioannis Ieropoulos. In tests, EcoBot II travelled for five days on just eight fat flies."Also: "Previous efforts to use carnivorous MFCs to drive a robot included an abortive UWE effort: the Slugbot. This was designed to hunt slugs on farms by using imaging systems to spot and grab the pests, and then deliver them to a digester that produces methane to power a fuel cell."
"The $10 billion industry may have entered the mainstream, but with a few exceptions, the target audience for big-budget video games is the same as it ever was: teenage boys gripped with visions of dragons, space ships and voluptuous virtual babes. It doesn't help that the number of women developing games is also low — less than 10% of all game developers, Guildhall executive director Peter Raad said. Men design games that appeal more to men," reportsAP."Organizers said the first Women's Game Conference, in Austin on Thursday and Friday, is a step toward changing some long-held assumptions about the sex of those who make and play games."Update:Aleks Krotoski is blogging straight outta Austin on our sisterGamesblog.
It wasn't meant to be like this. The internet was supposed to bid farewell to the need for buying books in shops. When the dotcom bubble was at its peak, web gurus claimed sites such as Amazon would undercut and undermine traditional bookstores, and that ebooks would eventually do away with "dead tree" media altogether.But what no one saw coming was that the internet would, in fact, provide a lifeline for possibly the least fashionable and most technologically backward part of the marketplace: old books.While shops selling the latest Harry Potter or Tom Clancy novel have had to grapple with competition from online upstarts offering deep discounts and convenient delivery, the fusty world of second-hand bookselling has increasingly embraced the net not just to compete, but also to expand its horizons.Ralph Robinson exemplifies the internet's ability to breathe new life into the second-hand book market. A teacher in St Margaret's Hope, on the Orkney Islands, Robinson has found that the isolation of a remote Scottish archipelago is no barrier to establishing a business. He specialises in selling the works of Orkney authors such as the poet George Mackay Brown and writer Eric Linklater, but also trades in more general works."If you have quality books, then people will buy them from all over the world, no matter where you are based," says Robinson, who started as a collector of first editions.Although he has his own website, much of his business comes through two of the big players in the second-hand book world: the leading website Abebooks, and Amazon's used book offshoot."My favourite site is Abebooks, because it tends to have better quality books for sale," says Robinson.Based in Canada and originally called the Advanced Book Exchange, Abebooks was started in the web's pioneer days by Keith and Cathy Waters, a husband and wife team. Since it was formed in 1996, the company has remained privately owned and has taken over its European rival, JustBooks, to help give it a strong base on this side of the Atlantic.The business model is simple: second-hand bookshop owners and dealers upload their catalogue to Abebooks' database for a monthly fee, up to $65 for listing 20,000 books. In addition, the company charges a commission of 8% on every purchase made through its website.Abebooks now carries more than 2,000 UK-based second-hand booksellers and a total of 12,000 independent booksellers across 45 countries. They claim there are more than 55m books on sale at any one time.The company sells a daily average of 20,000 books, with around 4m visitors combing through the site each month and an additional 30,000 to 50,000 new entries loaded on to the database every day.The major rival to Abebooks is Amazon's suite of sites, which offers customers used and second-hand books alongside searches for new titles on Amazon's main retail effort. They also allow for specialist second-hand searches.Amazon offers unlimited catalogue listings for up to $47 per month, but a stiffer 15% commission on each sale. It claims to have more than 20,000 individual booksellers, and an estimated 70m used books in its catalogues - although the high number of duplicates makes it   hard to judge an accurate figure.Behind Amazon and Abebooks there are a gaggle of rivals, some of which specialise in rare or antiquarian books. The biggest of the chasing pack is Alibris, a US-based firm, which boasts a slick website with more than 10,000 participating dealers and 35m books. It also carries films and music but does not charge a monthly listing fee. Instead, there is a one-off $50 joining fee and a hefty 20% commission.While the sites are in competition with each other, in practice most second-hand booksellers sign up to more than one site. Robinson says he used to use Alibris but gave up because the site's insistence on using particular courier firms to send orders via London made it impractical.Bookseller Stuart Manley lists his shop's books on a variety of sites, including Abebooks, Amazon and Alibris. He is the proprietor of the picturesque Barter Books, which is based in an old Victorian railway station in Alnwick, Northumberland. Manley also lists his stock on smaller sites such as UK Bookworld, a UK-only site notable for charging a modest annual fee instead of commission; TomFolio, a cooperative-owned site selling shares for $500, which charges $45 a month for listing 20,000 titles; and Choose Books, with no listing fees and variable commissions as low as 5%.Manley has been running the bookshop since 1991, and was one of the first to start using the internet when in 1995 he set up the shop's first website. He has witnessed the rapid expansion of second-hand book sales over the web."Four years ago, there were 10,000 dealers on the net worldwide. Now there's around 30,000. The bulk of the new arrivals are spare bedroom operators, people doing it as a sideline," he says.Sheer weight of numbers is making it harder for new outfits to survive, he says. "There are indications that the 'golden age' on the internet is over - there are so many sellers now that individual booksellers are feeling it."According to feedback from other online sellers, competition from the new entrants has meant lower prices and diminishing sales. "We have flattened out," Manley admits.Manley says that over the past two years, Barter Books' own site is its leading sales generator, although there are suggestions that customers use sites such as Abebooks to locate books they want, and then order them separately through the shop's website at slightly lower prices. Next in terms of sales value comes Abebooks, followed by Amazon (including .com and .co.uk versions), and Alibris.To get an idea of the relative popularity of the various sites, for every pound in sales at Barter Books generated by Alibris, the shop receives &#163;2.70 in orders from the two Amazon sites, &#163;5 from Abebooks, and nearly &#163;9 from the shop's own website.The size and usefulness of the three main sites becomes apparent when comparison shopping. A search for a copy of Geoff Dyer's entertaining account of DH Lawrence, Out Of Sheer Rage, finds 120 copies available on Alibris. Its prices started at &#163;1.60 for a used paperback from a bookseller in Massachusetts. That seller also had the book listed for the same price on Abebooks, but was undercut by a &#163;1 offer from a UK-based book shop. Abebooks boasted 165 copies for sale, way ahead of Amazon.co.uk's 32 copies, while Amazon's lowest price was &#163;1.05.While the difference does not sound like much, it is obvious when scrolling through the listings that Abebooks and Amazon have more UK-based booksellers than Alibris. The problem with Amazon, in this case, was that it had separate listings for the four different editions of Dyer's work. Alibris and Abebooks, on the other hand, collate all editions - a far less taxing proposition.When looking for something more exotic, it becomes apparent that Abebooks' listings are superior to rivals. There has been only one recent English translation of the neglected Austrian novelist Thomas Bernhard's book of short stories, The Voice Imitator. While Alibris and Amazon listed eight copies each, Abebooks nearly doubled that with 14.While there are a substantial number of "spare bedroom operators", professional booksellers in the main seem to use these services to help supplement their profits. Unlike Robinson, the majority of Barter Books' trade is conventional traffic through the door. Only about a fifth of the shop's turnover comes from internet sales. Even so, web sales require the attention of two full-time staff to service orders and maintain the various online catalogues.They might not be ditching the traditional shop, but the suggestion that booksellers would crumble under the challenge of the internet has been utterly refuted.Instead of becoming a footnote in bookselling history, the industry has used the web to secure its future. And the resulting competition between the main players means that, right now at least, the second-hand book field really is a buyer's market.LinksRalph Robinsonhttp://orkneybooks.comAbebookswww.abebooks.co.ukAlibriswww.alibris.comBarter Bookshttp://barterbooks.co.ukAmazonwww.amazon.com
In autumn, it will be 10 years since the Netscape browser delivered a graphical web interface to the masses. Every net user has a view on the design of websites - but our obsession with the web has obscured the lack of design innovation in the tool that underpins and shapes much of our internet experience.We have been using essentially the same graphical user interface (GUI) for two decades. These GUIs would have been easily recognisable by Doug Engelbart, a maverick computing genius whose pioneering work was done in the 1960s, and the 1970s fraternity of the celebrated Xerox Palo Alto Research Center. But they would add that many of their best ideas remain unrealised.The "windows, icons, menus and pointing devices" (Wimp) interface came out of Xerox's ambitious attempt to create an automated office based around documents. Its designers drew on the new discipline of human-computer interaction, which, for the first time, put people at the centre of computing. Its concepts were visionary.But that was then. The world has moved on and GUIs need to move on, too. Computing is now used by a wider variety of people, in more varied activities - for web browsing, email reading and instant messaging more than document processing. Computing power is orders of magnitude greater, more portable and pervasive, embedded in a wider variety of devices, and used in an amazing diversity of contexts. But we are stuck with the same interface, which can't be adapted to support these new uses.There is little serious discussion in the industry about the GUI, and how we might move on. We have few grand visions, and even fewer leaders capable of implementing them. Instead, we are fiddling with a late-70s legacy.This is not to say there is no research into user interfaces, and no modern-day Engelbarts. Last month, I spent a week in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the Designing Interactive Systems conference. The presentations and related exhibits exemplify the dedicated research and creative thinking we will need to harness if we are to benefit from new developments in IT and communications.Implementation of research in these areas is happening. In the Cambridge area alone, companies such as Spotfire and Visual i|o have pioneered interfaces for analysis and decision-making that exploit interactive visualisation, rather than straight text. And a number of local pioneers opened their doors to conference participants. They included IBM Research, working on new interfaces to email and personal information management, Ambient Devices, which is making products you can glance at to get information, and Orange, whose Cambridge research lab is investigating improvements in interfaces to voice services.As we raise our sights from our decade-long focus on the web, organisations that want to exploit the new potential of computing and the network will need to rediscover the vision exemplified by companies such as Xerox, re-engage with human-computer interaction research and invest in its fruits.If they do, everyone will benefit.
It started with a huge credit card bill. When a young American woman racked up more than &#163;11,000 of debts, she used her website,SaveKaryn.com, and the generosity of internet users to pay it off. When the site unexpectedly reached its target, online fundraising changed forever. And, thanks to a recent convergence of web activity, e-rattling a tin with your name on it is now easier than ever.Cyber-begging is not new, but a free web service called Dropcash has linked data from payment service PayPal with that of blogging system TypePad to make it even easier to create your own fundraising webpage - complete with progress bar."People are reluctant to give to others on the street because they can't see the effects immediately," says Andre Torrez, author of Dropcash. "But if you lived next door to Karyn and she brought her mounting debt to you, you would be more inclined to help her because you can watch the effects of your donation. Dropcash is one way to follow up and to see how an appeal is progressing."Ostensibly part of a drive to increase charity fundraising via the web, Dropcash is a reflection of the change in the way we approach donating money online. Now you can help Ed buy a big car or pay for Katie and Kim to fly to London. People are giving money online to those who wouldn't merit a second glance begging on the street.Social psychologist Martin Skinner, from the University of Warwick, believes that people spend and donate online in a different way than in the physical world."Your perceptions have a lot to do with how you spend," he says. "Because online transactions rely on credit cards or bank transfers, the difference when it comes to small amounts isn't so noticeable. It's what's known as Weber's law. When your credit card statement is around &#163;200, the difference between &#163;205 and &#163;212 isn't much, so donating a few quid to an entertaining cause seems insignificant. But if you have &#163;7 in your pocket, handing over &#163;3 to someone seems a lot."It also seems neater and more memorable to have a balance of &#163;25 than &#163;26.17 - so offloading the difference is merely lightening your pocket of digital small change.Some causes have even made use of cyberscrounging to convince people to pay for something that they have previously enjoyed free. When Randy Milholland set up his online comic, he was updating it nearly every day. But real life inevitably interfered and he didn't have time to draw as often. His readers started to complain, so he gave them an ultimatum: pay him what he earned last year - around &#163;13,000 - and he would quit his job and work for them."It was intended as a way to get people to shut up," he said. "I assumed they would just grow quiet and let me do my thing. Instead, I got $2,000 in the first day." The average donation was $5 - but with a lot of regular readers, he raised the total in less than a month.More common on community websites are reader appeals for new servers and updated software - something that Americans, with a long history of public service broadcasting appeals, are used to. The community feel is an important element to the phenomenon.With less conventional causes, "it's about the novelty value as well", says Skinner. "It's the fun of being involved in a social exchange and you want to know what will happen. You see the joke and, for a couple of quid, you can be part of it. But if it happens too much, it loses its sense of fun."Some feel cyber-begging crossed that line long ago with a series of SaveKaryn copycats. Occasionally, though, something captures the imagination- such as the climatologist who said on a newsgroup that it would take $100 for him to see apocalyptic sci-fi film The Day After Tomorrow. Fellow users raised the money in hours, and his review went online the following day.Milholland appreciates that his fans' generosity won't turn into a regular income. "I'm working on business plans to make money independently through the comic," he says. "I never want to do that &#91;fundraising&#93; drive again. It's a card you don't play more than once."Meanwhile, whether it's getting family members to send Gran on holiday, or Bob in Utah who really wants an iPod, the advent of Dropcash is sure to herald an increase in the amount of online appeals."I would like Dropcash to be used to raise money so someone can keep doing something interesting," says Torrez. "Not for paying off credit card debt or getting someone a boob job."The nature of the internet, however, would suggest he will get plenty of both.LinksDropcashwww.dropcash.comRandy Milhollandwww.somethingpositive.netEd needs a Hummerwww.edneedsahummer.comwww.londondreams.net
When an inspector calls, it's always a good idea to look pleased. But there's no reason to suspect any false bravado in the NHS's welcome to the National Audit Office, which is coming in to look at the books of the world's largest civil IT programme.Anyone spending &#163;6.2bn from the public purse can expect a visit from parliament's public spending watchdog sooner or later. Especially if the money is going into NHS computing.If the auditors are coming anyway, now is a good moment from the programme's point of view. It can show off some noteworthy achievements, especially in using the size of the NHS to negotiate good deals with suppliers. But with the "implementation phase" only just beginning, it is too early to demonstrate whether the deals are providing value for money.In other words, the programme has never looked so good - and may never look so good again.Public scrutiny of the procurement contracts - &#163;6bn of business placed with half a dozen IT giants - would be welcome. We know that the contracts set a new standard for speed in public procurement, which the auditors may like to compare with the Ministry of Defence's tortuous progress in buying a multibillion-pound defence information infrastructure.We are told the contracts put unprecedented pressure on suppliers, by ensuring that bidding remained competitive until the deals were done. No preferred bidders emerged to start negotiat ing prices upwards. We are also assured that systems must be up and running before contractors receive a penny in fees. It would be nice to see independent verification of all these points, especially if the NHS contracts are to set a new gold standard in public procurement.The auditors may care to look at two specific issues arising from five contracts awarded to install the new patient record systems across geographic regions of England. One is the extent to which the prime contractors - Accenture, BT, CSC and Fujitsu - were able to get their subcontractors, specialist software firms, to assume the risk of failure.Another is the discrepancy in the pricing of contracts to provide the same service in different parts of England. The most glaring gap is between Accenture's contract in northeast England and Fujitsu's in the south. The northeast deal, one of the first to be signed, was priced at &#163;1.1bn. A few weeks later, Fujitsu agreed to do a similar job across a much larger region of southern England, for &#163;896mn. The National Audit Office will want to know why.Some of the programme's smaller payments are likely to receive disproportionate attention in the audit. One obvious focus is the &#163;9m reportedly paid to persuade EDS to walk away from a controversial email contract. The auditors may also look at the role played by various high-profile consultancies, including Kellogg Brown &amp; Root and Chime Communications.Although we can expect a general thumbs-up, anyone interested in this government's obsession with computerising public services will eagerly await the bean counters' report.
Identity cards and a new national identity number will be on the agenda of the new head of e-government, the first holder of that post said this week. Ian Watmore, formerly UK managing director of the consultancy Accenture, took up his post in the Cabinet Office on September 1, replacing the former e-envoy.In his first public speech, at Oracle's OpenWorld show in London, Watmore said that one of the biggest issues in e-government is identifying citizens. "If ever a topic is screaming to the top of the agenda, it is the whole identification issue," he said.He suggested that his office would play a lead role in the programme, which up to now has been steered by the Home Office."These are topics where the centre has a right and valid role to play, because no one department or area of government on its own is able to take the appropriate view."One outstanding need is for a single identification number for citizens, he said. "We all know there are a zillion ID numbers in use today. Is it appropriate to begin to think about a new identifier for people?" One way to tackle concerns about civil liberties might be to separate the oft-  connected words privacy and confidentiality, he said. "You can invade my privacy as government, while holding that information securely."Watmore's speech suggests that his agenda will be broader than the e-government brief of his predecessor, Andrew Pinder. Watmore inherits some 250 staff from the Office of the e-Envoy, but that seems set to shrink drastically as the evangelical role transfers to the Department for Education and Skills. His core team is likely to be about 40-50 people.He said that the "e" in his title would stand for effective and efficient as well as electronic government.This will involve scrutinising departments, internal IT strategies to make sure they fit across government - though he stressed he would operate by "mutual consent rather than diktat". One first step will be to ensure that every government organisation has a chief information officer at senior level. Today, not many do. "That's something we need to change."Watmore also said he would work with the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce to get a better deal from IT suppliers.Effective government, he said, means putting the customer rather   than the department or agency at the centre. Directgov, the e-government services portal set up earlier this year by the Office of the e-Envoy is a step on the way. "It's a good early start, but there's much, much more to do there."Efficiency goes hand in hand with self-service. "A lot of things we can do to make government more effective   makes it more efficient." The key is to get more people to take up e-services. "However, if all we do is add more channels that only a small minority of people use, then all we've done is add to the cost of government."Today, he said, about 10-15% of eligible people file tax returns online in Britain, compared with 70% in Canada.Watmore has inherited the target of e-enabling every government service by the end of 2005, a process he says "we have to see through"."The important thing is to finish the job off in a sensible way. The targets have achieved a purpose, achieved a momentum for change around the place. I think, however, we need a new purpose... about transactions which touch people's lives, not the volume of websites online."He sounded a note of caution, however, about the future scope of e-government. "We shouldn't pretend that one day all services are going to be transacted over the net." Many transactions would still need to be handled by front-line staff, he claimed. "What we need to do is equip those public servants with the tools they need to do their job."Watmore's final responsibility is to be head of the IT profession in government. This is key to improving the track record of IT projects, he said. "A lot of the troubles government has had in this area are avoidable." One solution is better training, not just for IT professionals but for mainstream managers and ministers - "even into the political sphere".Public sector computer disasters are always caused by failures in both technology and business functions, he said. "It's not one or the other, it's always both, and therefore the solution is to get both working in harmony."While government has "a huge number of very talented people" in IT, it lost a lot of them when departments' systems were outsourced during the 1990s. Those left inside lack a sense of career, he said. This is a turn-off for potential recruits. "Frankly, if you were sitting outside government, and thinking of joining government in an IT capacity, you'd be pretty hard pressed to know what it was you were joining and what sort of career prospects you had."He hinted that he had qualms about trading private for public sector, joking that he had taken the job because of "a momentary lapse of reason".
SmartphonesThe missing linkNokia is to fill the gap in its range between its smartphones and its laptop replacement Communicators with a new handset - the 9300. Pitched at business professionals, the 9300 is a candybar phone that flips open to reveal a full Qwerty keyboard. However, it is much smaller and lighter (167g) than the 9500 Communicator.Like the 9500, the phone uses a Symbian-based operating system running the Series 80 platform, which is controlled by a five-way joystick. It also sports a horizontal screen with a resolution of 640x200 and 64K colours.The phone is compatible with POP3, IMAP4 and SMTP email and is also one of the first Nokia handsets to feature RIM's BlackBerry push email solution. Other features include Opera's innovative mobile web browser, a Real player for both audio and video files, speakerphone, Bluetooth, an address book and calendar and compatibility with a host of applications including Word, Excel, PowerPoint. Unusually for Nokia, the phone has no integrated camera.It is due to go on sale in January, retailing for around &#163;200 with a contract.www.nokia.co.ukMusic playersCarbon copyWith a big waiting list for iPod minis, several rival makers have launched competitors. Among the best is the Rio Carbon, right, a small, skinny silver-finished player that sports a 5GB hard disk.It might not rival the iPod mini's looks and clever interface and it won't play AAC files downloaded via iTunes, but in almost every other department the Rio Carbon has the edge. Battery life is a whopping 20 hours, and transferring tracks to the player is a simple drag and drop. The Carbon also plays Windows Media Audio files and, at &#163;180, it matches the mini on price.www.rioaudio.comServicesOn the buttonOrange is to become the first UK mobile phone network to launch a push-to-talk (PTT) service. Due to roll out to corporate customers this month and consumers later in the year, TalkNow offers a version of instant messaging for phones with users able to talk to other PTT subscribers simply by pushing a button. Orange's service, which initially will only be available via its Treo 600 handsets, will enable subscribers to see which of their friends/business partners have their phone switched on. It will allow them to speak to up to 10 people simultaneously. Orange hasn't revealed price details but says TalkNow customers will have the option of choosing either a bundle or a pay-as-you-consume tariff.www.orange.co.ukDigital camerasColourful snappersOlympus is hoping to add a splash of colour to the compact digital camera market by offering its new Mju-mini snapper in six shades. The four megapixel, 2x optical zoom models will be available in silver, white, black, blue, red and orange. The camera is shower-resistant and features a 1.8in LCD screen and 13 auto exposure options. Images are stored on an XD card. Mju-mini will be on sale in October for &#163;250.www.olympus.co.ukHot shotsSony is lining up a two-pronged attack on the digital camera market with a seven megapixel high-end pro quality model and a stylish four megapixel compact. Due to launch in October with a price tag of &#163;550, the seven megapixel CyberShot F3, right, boasts a Carl Zeiss Vario-Sonnar 4x optical zoom lens, dual memory card slots for Memory Stick and CompactFlash and a 2.5in LCD. Following a month later, the Cyber-Shot L1 keeps the compact design Sony cameras have become noted for, but offers a 4.1 megapixel Carl Zeiss Vario-Tessar 3x optical zoom and a 1.5in LCD. It is set to retail for &#163;250.www.sony.co.ukStat of the week:Good to talk?Many companies are encouraging employees to use instant messaging to help save time and money. But although 27% of IM users now say they message at work, bosses are unlikely to be so happy about the role it might play in office gossip.Good design makes 3G desirable at lastIf you've been eyeing 3G phones with some suspicion so far, this autumn might be the time when you think again. Cheap voice calls and better multimedia content (such as music, comedy and Premiership goals minutes after the final whistle) are two big selling points. Phones such as the LGU8120, now available from 3, form the third persuader.Let's face it: 3G phones have not been widely seen as objects of desire. The new handset changes things. It's an improved version of the 8110 - a phone that was not bad, but lacked Bluetooth, killer looks and decent memory.The LGU8120's new silver finish gives it a leg up the style ladder, while 32MB of memory gives you more space for video clips. There's still no Bluetooth but it does the basics well - and for good measure it adds a nice screen, a nifty camera that swivels round for photographs and video calling, and a decent user interface.All that means this is - finally - a 3G phone you could covet.Neil McIntosh
Steve BoxerThe prolonged death of the ECTS show may have prompted adverse press, but the arrival of Game Stars Live marked a giant step in the right direction. On first showing, Eidos' Championship Manager Online makes a lot of sense, and there will be an interesting war between two handheld consoles: Tapwave's Zodiac (a fine but overpriced piece of kit) and Tiger Telematics' Gizmondo (gimmicky and lacking credible games, but it's British). Halo 2 was clearly the most desirable game on show, but Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, Pro Evolution Soccer 4, The Sims 2 and Tony Hawk's Underground 2 will give it a run for its money at Christmas.Greg HowsonIf crowds were anything to go, by then Halo 2 and Pro Evolution Soccer 4 were big winners at Game Stars Live (GSL). Both looked great, even if the long-awaited Xbox version of Pro Evo was oddly sluggish. In fact, sequels were everywhere, reflecting a maturing and risk-averse industry. Luckily, the likes of Splinter Cell 3 and The Sims 2 improved on their predecessors. But it was Lego Star Wars - yes, honestly - that wins my best of show. It looked fantastic, captured the feel of the movies and was hilariously entertaining.Rhianna PratchettSome of the most exciting offerings were those in the online world. Not only is it one area where you can find constant innovations in technology and imagination, but it's also playing host to lots of smaller, independent talent. NC Soft, which is fostering more of a presence in the UK, had   some great titles on show at the European Games Network, including Guild Wars, Lineage II and the much anticipated City of Heroes. Meanwhile, UK firm Red Bedlam also had a particularly interesting title at GSL: the massively multiplayer online roleplaying game Roma Victor.Bobbie JohnsonThe sheer volume of people at GSL made it tough for punters to play on some of the most eagerly anticipated games, but Pro Evolution Soccer 4 was worth the wait. Donkey Konga took the prize for most fun, while Gizmondo's stand was confusing, as there was nothing to see except a few skimpily dressed girls sitting on a humvee. But it was invigorating to see so many gamers - across age groups, genders and persuasions - eager to get their mitts on some serious kit.Aleks KrotoskiWhile many of the speakers at this year's European Games Network, European Developer's Forum and Game Developers Conference Europe repeated their successful speeches from Edinburgh, the winner of last week's games fest was the consumer event. For many hard-nosed trade people and journalists, it re-injected the childlike glee that computer entertainment rightly deserves. Halo 2 pulled the crowds and snaked them through two-hour queues, but the Nintendo funfair featured the most AAA titles. It's a shame the event is such a trek for most, but the teeming mass of men, women, boys and girls that descended on Docklands indicates the potential to put controllers in the hands of the mainstream.
Hard disk-based personal video players were pioneered by French manufacturer Archos two years ago, but it is only now that the market has started to take off and we will soon be awash with inexpensive imported players from the Far East.Last week, Microsoft delivered what some over-enthusiastic market analysts have been tipping as an "iPod killer" in its Portable Media Center (PMC) format.This is a new operating system that enables portable devices with large hard disks and LCD screens to play back video as well as audio files. The first PMC player to debut in the UK, the 20GB Creative Zen model, is on sale for &#163;370. Devices from Samsung and iRiver will follow later this year.But Microsoft, partners and rivals are going to face an uphill struggle to poach buyers who would have otherwise opted for an iPod. The PMC devices may be technologically clever, but how many consumers are going to fancy watching movies on a tiny 3.8in screen?Although sporting a dream of an interface and a superb screen, the Creative player is a little hamstrung by its Microsoft operating system. Users can only transfer video files to the player from a PC. That's fine if a person has a TV tuner attached or integrated into their PC and has recorded programmes on to their hard disk, but of little use if they haven't.The player also uses Microsoft's proprietary Windows Media for video playback. It is compatible with the most popular video codec, DivX, but annoyingly, users have to first convert the files to Windows Media.It is hard to recommend the Creative, and other PMC players, simply because - at the moment - rival models can be used so much more widely.Last month, Archos (AV 420) and NHJ (MPM-201) launched models that let users record directly on to the hard disk from a TV and rip DVDs on to the disk for viewing later. The NHJ even comes with TV tuner built into its accompanying cradle. TheCreative will play back DVDs converted to Windows Media but only via Makayama's awkward DVD to Pocket PC software.The Archos is slightly slimmer, looks more sophisticated and boasts a better screen than the NHJ, though its rival is easier to use and has a 30GB hard disk as opposed to the Archos's 20GB hard disk. It has the edge on price, too, retailing for &#163;317.35 compared with &#163;370 for the Archos.www.creative.comwww.archos.comwww.peripheralcorner.co.ukwww.cinemanow.com
Microsoft's MSN division launched its music download service in the US last week, in response to Apple's iTunes. Of course, the two companies have different strategies. Apple has created a proprietary service where it controls everything: digital rights management (DRM), servers, iTunes software and iPod portable players.Microsoft is trying to create a platform with dozens of alternative music services such as Napster, featured in Windows Media Player 10, and many device manufacturers. This provides more choice, as long as you choose Microsoft's proprietary software.The theory is that a platform supported by thousands of companies will eventually overwhelm a   single supplier. It won't happen tomorrow, but Microsoft has $61bn in the bank and can afford to wait.Microsoft's strategy is also different from Apple's in that Microsoft is more interested in video than audio. The MSN Music service also has tabs for TV and video and, to support the launch, Microsoft unveiled a new version of its multimedia player, WMP10. Microsoft also showcased new "video iPods" using its Portable Media Center (PMC) software, such as the &#163;370 Creative Zen and Samsung's YH-999.PMC users will be able to download movies from CinemaNow, or videos of Major League Baseball games. They will also be able to sync their PMC with their Windows Media Center PC and take their TV programmes with them in Microsoft's Recorded TV Show file format (dvr-ms).Perhaps few people have realised how far Microsoft wants to extend its video formats beyond the PC. It is offering them for TV and video on demand delivered over the internet and by cable operators using IPTV, for movies on DVD, and even for local cinema showings.This is not going to be easy. First, the TV and movie industries don't want to be locked into one software supplier, especially not Microsoft. Second, they want their formats to stay the same for years, not be patched every month and updated annually.Microsoft has therefore struggled to make progress. But a few cable companies are trying Microsoft's TV Foundation Edition, such as Comcast in the US and Megacable and others in Mexico, while Bell Canada, Swisscom/ Bluewin and India's Reliance Info comm will pilot Microsoft's IPTV.Also, both next-generation DVD formats, HD-DVD and Blu-Ray, have adopted Microsoft's WM9 video codec alongside MPeg-4 and AVC, and Microsoft has submitted it to the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers for consideration as an official standard.Business users may wonder what this has to do with them. Well, Windows Server 2003 includes the Windows Media 9 server, and Windows desktops usually run WMP. Not many businesses use streaming video in enterprise applications, or broadcast TV-quality video to desktop PCs over their local area network, but the capability is already there.In five years, you might find Microsoft's video system everywhere, and wonder how it got there. This is your wake-up call.LinksMSN Music Preview Releasehttp://beta.music.msn.comPortable Media Centers (PMC)www.microsoft.com/windowsmobile/portablemediacenter/Microsoft TVwww.microsoft.com/tv/WMV HD Content Showcasehttp://masl.to/?S11D234B7IPTV Broadcast Showcase< A HREF="http://masl.to/?P39E21939">http://masl.to/?P39E21939Redefining Enterprise Streaminghttp://masl.to/?V38E23939
Goodbye floppiesTo back-up my work, I save my files to floppy disks on a daily basis. However, I notice that new systems, such as Dell, do not provide a floppy disk drive as standard. Will I be in difficulties if my new system should ever fail because I won't be able to transfer files to another, non-floppy disk machine?Mary PebbleJack Schofield replies:Floppies are now more or less obsolete because most people need to back up files that are much too big to fit on a 1.44 megabyte disk. However, "super- floppies", such as Iomega's 100MB and 250MB Zip disks have failed to take over. Today, the best option is probably to copy working files to a USB drive - sometimes called a thumb drive, keychain drive or memory stick which plugs into a USB serial port. You can then do a weekly back-up of the same files to a CD-R, which costs about 25-30p. (Don't use so-called "packet writing", which treats the CD as a floppy: it is too unreliable for back-ups.)If files are really important, you should also keep an off-site back-up, eg by leaving a couple of CDs with a relative, or by copying the files to a server on the internet. You could use, say, a Yahoo briefcase to store small files (up to 30MB), or mail them to yourself at a free Yahoo, Gmail or Spymac mailbox.However, if you find floppies useful, most PC suppliers will be happy to fit a 3.5in drive. With a Dell Dimension 2400, for example, this adds &#163;23.50 to the price.System checkerYou recommended checking Windows' task manager to see what is running at any time. My PC has lots of oddly named programs running (winmgmt, wuauclt), and I wonder if there is any easy way I can check whether these are just obscurely named MS products, or whether they are dangerous. I came acrosswww.neuber.com/taskmanager/taskmanager.html, and wonder whether it might help.Alison MatthewsJS:Pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del in Windows brings up Task Manager, which tells you which programs are running. You can find out what these are by consulting the Task List pages atwww.answersthatwork.com/Tasklist_pages/tasklist.htm, or by searching Google. For example, wuauclt is the background process that checks Microsoft's website for updates to Windows Me. In Windows XP, the Task Manager has different tabs for applications (Notepad, Internet Explorer etc) and Processes (Notepad.exe, Explorer.exe, Winword,exe). Most processes are obscure (lsass, csrss etc) but again, you can look them up. Security TaskManager would certainly help, but it costs $29. I'd suggest trying the free (donations welcome) Startup Inspector for Windows ( A HREF="http://www.windowsstartup.com"&gt;www.windowsstartup.com) first. Run it and click Consult. For geeks, there's Process Explorer from Sysinternals (www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/freeware/procexp.shtml), which is also free.Late bookingI am trying to book a flight on the EasyJet site but it says: "Javascript does not appear to be enabled on your browser." I have the Microsoft VM ticked. How do I fix it?Dorothy BrownJS:Netscape launched Javascript as LiveScript and changing the name has created a lot of pointless confusion: it has nothing to do with the browser's Java Virtual Machine (JVM). You have to enable Internet Explorer's well hidden Active Scripting, which handles Javascript, Microsoft's JScript and the combined standard, ECMAScript (ECMA-262). Go to Tools|Internet Options and click the Security tab, then the Custom Level button. Scroll down to Active Scripting, near the bottom, and click the radio button that says Enable. You can check that it is working by visiting the WebImageView site athttps://webimageview.mandtbank.com/BrowserConfiguration.html.Broadband speedsMy village gets broadband in October, but the lines will only connect at a maximum of 512kpbs because, apparently, of the length of the cables. If I buy a 1Mbps service, will it operate closer to the 512kbps speed all the time or will I just be wasting my money?Oliver HulmeJS:If the lines will only deliver 512kbps then you will not get more bandwidth by paying for 1Mbps. However, you might get an improvement by paying for a service with a lower contention ratio, such as 20:1 rather than 50:1. Otherwise, in everyday use, 1Mbps isn't much better than 512kbps because of latencies in the rest of the internet: you can request a web page quicker, but it still takes the server time to respond. Any bottlenecks along the way can also slow the delivery. If you are downloading large files, of course, higher speeds can offer dramatic improvements.BackchatWilliam B Lyons asks if anyone has heard of anybody actually receiving a free PC from Metronomy (www.metronomy.com), as discussed here on January 8.
Sight for sore eyesSecond SightPlayStation 2 (also available for Xbox and GameCube), &#163;39.99 Free Radical/Codemasters,4 starsFrom the guys who brought you the excellent Timesplitters 2, Second Sight begins with the tiresome premise of a guy waking up with amnesia in a military hospital, but quickly proves to be more than the sum of its cliches. After the early level, where your na&#239;ve pre-self is taken through the military training that so obviously fails him, you notice real depth to these traditionally-2D characters.Using flashbacks to tell a story is not new, but making them playable is. The action is unusual, too, allowing you to switch between first and third person viewpoints, and making weapons only half your armoury. The other half is provided by an array of psychic powers.The first time you experiment with hurling a computer monitor across a room to disarm a guard, you will laugh out loud at the possibilities.Not all of those are realised, however. The game only lets you do what it wants you to, when the combination of weapons and telekinesis could achieve so much more in a truly freeform game. And although your powers can be upgraded, the balance between mental and physical weapons never quite feels natural.However, the graphics are top notch and the challenges always varied. There's no doubt Second Sight has taken the Sam Fisher/Solid Snake genre into interesting new territory, which makes Free Radical an outfit to watch.Mike AnderieszSony fails the fansFormula One 04PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Sony,2 starsFor years, Sony has shared the official Formula One game licence with Electronic Arts. Now that it has sole rights, however, it has added responsibility to fans of the sport - and this game, despite technical impressiveness verging on brilliance, utterly fails to satisfy that.It has a long list of pros: fantastic graphics, great car handling, all this year's tracks (which means you can race around Shanghai before the real drivers) and the two flying lap qualifying process. But the game's structure undoes all that good work. Formula One 04's focal point is the career game mode, in which you get the chance to impress representatives from Minardi, Jordan and Toyota at test sessions and thereby work your way up the ladder.The trouble is that you have to produce fast laps instantly on circuits you have not seen before. Test ses sions are aborted if all four wheels leave the tarmac and target times lie somewhere between harsh and unobtainable. When you do start your F1 career, it is impossible to do anything other than tool around at the back of the field without tinkering with your car's setup - which is boring and hopelessly hit-or-miss without a virtual mechanic to assist you.You can dip into five-lap Grands Prix at the circuit of your choice in arcade mode, but if you want the full GP weekend experience, expect frustration unless you actually are Jenson Button. We doubt the experience Sony wanted to offer was an accurate depiction of how the hopeless Zsolt Baumgartner must feel every fortnight - but that is what you get.Steve BoxerDoubling upShellshock Nam '67Xbox, PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Guerilla/Eidos,2 starsUnfortunately for Eidos, it isn't the only publisher to think the theatre of the Vietnam war could translate into a videogame setting. Also out this month is Conflict: Vietnam a third-person team-based shooter.Shellshock is similar in approach, but the emphasis is on depicting the gritty horror of the conflict. So the initial movie sequence features images of dead GIs, while segments of the game show graphic torture sequences and burnt villages.The tour of duty is varied - some missions involve helping the locals, while others have stealth elements. All involve shooting the Viet Cong. And while the game tries to engender a feeling of compassion for your soldier, the constant slaughter makes it hard to have much sympathy.What Shellshock does do well is recreate the claustrophobia of the jungle. There are some extremely tense moments as your troops inch forward. Sadly, the direction your boys go is predetermined. Linearity is bearable if the mechanics work, but there are too many other niggles, such as respawning enemies and dicky support from team mates.Greg HowsonTop 5 Games1.Conflict: Vietnam2.Shellshock: Nam '673.Spider-Man 24.The Simpsons: Hit and Run5.Athens 2004&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by Chart Track
I've just been reading about EA's forthcoming first-person shooterGoldenEye Rogue Agentand have been truly amazed by the developer's efforts to literalise the game title. If you haven't caught the pre-publicity surrounding this game, it works like this: you control a rogue MI5 agent who has lost an eye in a fight with legendary baddie Dr No. Luckily, however, Scaramanga – the one with three nipples in The Man With The Golden Gun – rescues the blinded agent and equips him with a robotic cyber-eye, made of gold. Hence… GoldenEye.But the literal thinking doesn't end there.It turns out that this eye gives your character a range of special psychic abilities, allowing you to chuck baddies around the room with the power of thought alone. But as a necessary gameplay mechanic to limit use, there's an energy bar that runs down whenever the feature is in operation, and you can only renew the bar by performing skill moves. To explainthisthe designers have come up with the idea that the eye draws on brain energy that is omitted when such moves are performed.This naturalistic approach to game design is admirable, but it runs counter to the 'it just does, okay?' philosophy that quietly underpins videogaming. I'm not just talking about the highly abstract early years – the hungry yellow circles being chased round mazes by ghosts – I'm talking about the way games, even today, simplyhaveto break a few rules to function as interactive experiences.Take for example, the abundant health and ammo packs that litter the environments in first person shooters. When a developer tries to really deal with the unreality of this situation, they often end up looking silly. In Resident Evil for example, you were forced to pick up green and red herbs for health – fine, you might think, herbs are more likely to be littered around an old manor house than first-aid kits. However, how many herbs are there that instantly heal gaping zombie attack wounds?Better still, in Sony's action adventure The Getaway, the player had to recover from bullet wounds by leaning against a wall and having a bit of a rest. Again, it was no more realistic than coming across a magical health pack – it simply drew more attention to the artifice underpinning the notion of universally available panaceas.GoldenEye looks like it might be a very entertaining game, and EA's decision to let you play as the bad guy is pretty brave for such a mega-corp. But someone needs to tell the marketing chaps to lighten up. No one caredwhythe original movie was called GoldenEye, and no one will carewhythe agent they're controlling has a robot eye that must be regularly juiced up by performing special moves. This is the kind of crazy stuff that games ask us to do all the time. If the game is good enough, we'll do it without question. It's best not to draw attention to the absurdities of the videogame universe – the whole thing might unravel.
DVD rental firm Netflix and personal video recording giant TiVo are linking up to provide movie downloads, reportsNewsweek."Netflix and TiVo want this digital nirvana to arrive as soon as possible, and they are about to join forces to make it happen. Later this month, NEWSWEEK has learned, the companies plan to unveil a simple but significant partnership that could shake up the media world."Subscribers who belong to both services will be able to download their Netflix DVDs over the Internet directly into the TiVo boxes in their homes, instead of receiving them in the mail."Spokespeople at the companies refused to comment on what they called rumor. But an insider who was close to the negotiations says the straightforward partnership is all but a done deal."Comment:If this is correct, it could herald a real revolution in the way we use our televisions - and it might happen faster than most people would have expected.It's a shame that TiVo never took off in the UK - SkyPlus has that market, for now at least - but the prospect of downloading movies straight to your set could really be a development that pushes entertainment convergence to the next level.
Having been raised by feminists and being of the lavender persuasion, I never really stood a chance of not loving strong women. Which is whyBintmagazine.comgets my mouse clicking like a dominatrix's fingers. For this spanking new, online women's weekly gives the old "how to develop an eating disorder in five easy steps"-type diet features the boot out of the window they deserve. And in its place? Articles that actually encourage women to enjoy life - to scoff nosh like Nigella Lawson with low blood sugar levels and delight in their   bodies like Dawn French getting it on with Abi Titmuss.Cellulite features there is none. None of the tired "doll yourself up to get a fella" drivel here. Instead, editorial is slanted more towards "let's work our way through a mango tarte tatin and polish it off with a little light masturbation." And why not - as the tagline reads: "it's always a pleasure". So you might read a column extolling the virtues of sodding the gym/work/boyfriend and spending the afternoon doing flap all bar quaffing Cointreau and lolling in the park.Or you might stumble upon the archive of saucy stories that include a welcome dose of gritty realism. Example: a piece describing an encounter with a lithe 19-year-old who had issues with condoms, preferring instead to wrap "it" in a sheet. (Come on, we've all been there, right?)But my favourite sections are the out-and-out rants. Here, battleaxes are bigged up (from Boudicca to Marge Simpson) and traitors to the sisterhood are harpooned. All this while reclaiming the term "bint" from the huge slag heap of misogynistic smears and turning it into something rather fabulous. So for post-Sex and the City, non paranoia-inducing reading, I skip by the glossies and tippy-tap the above address into my Mac. It is, even for me (a mere man), always a pleasure.
March 18 2004One of the unsettling things about cellular living is that the jail authorities can randomly uproot an inmate at any time and transplant him into a new environment. During my two-year stay at the jail, I have been rolled-up (moved) several times. A new cell equals a new garrison of cockroaches to battle and I have learned to travel armed with AmerFresh Fluoride toothpaste, which blocks cockroach entry points very effectively.On Tuesday our whole pod was moved to a different floor and I used my entire stock of AmerFresh to seal the numerous cockroach-launching points. The new cell was quickly and expertly fortified against the enemy. That night I slept soundly. Little did I know that the jail was about to sabotage my hard work.On Wednesday I was moved back to my original floor and into one of the most cockroach-infested pods in the building. I was completely unarmed and helplessly watched the insects size me up from myriad cracks in the walls. The lights were still on, but I knew that by night time I would be doomed. My new cellmate and I didn't get much sleep, but lay awake watching the legions of cockroaches conquer the room. Whirling around us, they swarmed the floor, the walls, the ceiling, our commissary bags and, finally, our bunks.March 25I am allowed out of my cell for one hour each day to make a phone call and to take a shower. During my first "hour out" in the new pod, I was serenaded by the inmates, who performed a husky version of Yellow Submarine. I was touched by their vocal efforts and their demonstration of high spirits.My new co-habitants are enduring the twin evils of a broken swamp-cooler and a cockroach infestation. They are proving to be the creme de la creme of good sufferers. A neighbouring asthmatic inmate happily described how he inhaled a cockroach that had crept into his nebuliser. He could feel the insect crawling around inside him and promptly vomited his stomach contents. Unfortunately the cockroach was not ejected, as it was lodged in his lung. He was subsequently awarded "sufferer of the week" without any real competition. ("Sufferer of the week" was an idea of mine that has delighted and distracted my fellow inmates. The title is given to the inmate whom the rest of the pod feel has suffered most.)My cellmate and I have used six tubes of AmerFresh toothpaste and six ounces of Razorless Beard Remover cementing cracks in the walls. The cockroaches still flood our cell every night and I have awoken several times this week to observe my body hair stood up on end and a cockroach crawling on my person. I had previously considered my ape-like fur coating as one of nature's cruel jokes, but now I have discovered that it is a useful defensive shield.April Fool's dayMy cellmate Mark is stuck at the "unable-to-eat-the-jail-food" stage. Approximately three   months ago, Mark suffered his first ever arrest, and he has shed 30lbs while in the hoosegow &#91;jail&#93;. His main source of sustenance is the inmate canteen order form, from which he mostly orders Cheez-its, chips (assorted), Granola bars and mixed nuts. Slimmed-down-Mark no longer resembles his booking photo, because he barely touches the jail offerings.Prison inmates who get transferred to the jail joke about how luxurious prison food is vis-a-vis jail meals. (Jail is where unsentenced prisoners are housed and prison is where you go when you are sentenced.) In jail, chow is served twice each day. Breakfast arrives at 8.30am and consists of six slices of stale white bread (the probability of colourful mould growing on a slice is 33%), raw breakfast meat (the probability of it being bologna is 50%, green bologna is 25%), grapefruits or oranges collected during neighbourhood refuse clean-up campaigns (the probability of them being rotten is 50%), one packet of stale and bright orange-coloured, bordering on luminous, cheese crackers, and a beverage, which is a half-pint of fat-free milk.The evening's below-lukewarm culinary delights consist of unsalted boiled potatoes (the probability of receiving a mound of potato peel encrusted with dirt is 25%; of human hair being discovered in the spuds is 25%), mystery meat slop (the probability of a dead rat in the stew is minimal, though I did see a rat's head served in 2002), a vegetable (the probability of leathery eggplant is 25%), a small, undressed salad, more stale bread and a cup of brightly coloured juice, which, if spilled, makes a permanent stain on the table. As I am a yoga-practising vegetarian, I receive peanut butter and veggie burgers as substitutes for the meat.April 15I received lots of eggs on Easter Sunday: cockroach eggs. I noticed something that looked like a piece of a worm glued to my dictionary. It was full of cockroach larvae. I discovered two more empty egg containers nearby. More nests were discovered in my legal file, and my commissary bag. I poured the contents of one envelope into the toilet, but in the time it took to press the flush button,  las cucarachas had scurried out of the toilet bowl and were scrambling around my feet.They were none too happy about their encampment being besieged on a Holy Day, and as darkness came they began to rebel en masse. Numerous baby cockroaches, tinier than ants, started a demonstration. They zigzagged on every wall like minuscule bumper cars. They were soon joined by adult members of their community. One about the size of an almond crawled on to my foot. Several larger ones appeared on the blanket near my right shoulder, and I had to sleep with a sheet wrapped around my head because I feared they had performed a reconnaissance of my upper-body orifices.Mark (my celly) was very disturbed. He stayed awake for most of the night, but when his eyelids finally closed, he dreamed that they were crawling all over him and woke in a terrible sweat, scratching at his body, only to discover that his dream had come true.The law clearly states that "pre-sentence detainees" have the right not to live in an insect-infested environment, but the jail continuously flouts the law by showing the external referees their insecticide-spraying records. In fact, the insecticide is sprayed on the inmates and the only effect it has upon the roaches is as a temporary intoxicant. On spray day they act like drunkards stumbling home from the pub, but they quickly sober up.I placed a whole green onion from my dinner tray into a polystyrene cup. I half-filled it with water and, to my delight, it started to grow roots. Now I have a plant of my very own to love and care for! I haven't seen a plant for years! Mark is starting to suspect I've been here too long.April 22I am a bibliomaniac! I have read 29 books in the last three months, some of which were more than 1,000 pages long. I read for up to 12 hours every day. There are two difficulties associated with being a jailhouse bookworm. The first is bleeding bedsores - I currently have one on my left buttock - and the second is dealing with the mailroom.My first run-in with the mailroom occurred last year when they rejected Security Analysis, a hardback book containing more than 1,000 pages. The mail rejection notification stated that the book was not a book, but actually a "weapon". Then last autumn I was denied some Karl Marx. The mail rejection notification stated that I was "jeopardising the safety of the jail operation". This past week, I was denied three books that were ordered fromwww.traderspress.com. The mail rejection notification stated that "books must be delivered directly from the publisher or online dist &#91;sic&#93;". As traderspress.com is both a publisher and online distributor, I lodged a complaint, using an inmate grievance form. I was visited by a friendly hearing officer who stated that the mail room officer had made an error and that the jail would accept redelivery. I reordered the books at the cost of an additional redelivery fee and I thought that would be the end of the matter. Unfortunately, the mail room officer had been offended by my complaint and I received a retaliatory, threatening note taped to my Wall St Journal. The note stated: "You need to contact the Wall St Journal and advise them of your new facility/bunk no. All papers from now on will be thrown away . . . Mail Officer."Upon analysing these notices, I have concluded that the mailroom has determined that I am a weapon-seeking revolutionary. The threat to throw away my newspapers seems to be a call to arms.May 13Frankie, an alleged Mexican mafia contract killer, is the source of most of the hullabaloo in our pod. Last month Frankie was calmly playing cards in a maximum-security pod when an eight-inch shank was suddenly plunged into the back of his neck. Unfazed, he extracted the shank, and was about to return the gesture, when guards pepper-sprayed him, causing temporary blindness. He was consequently promoted to our pod - a super-maximum area, where inmates are confined to tiny two-man cells for 23 hours every day.Frankie looks and acts like Joe Pesci in a mobster movie. He wears his thick, black hair slicked back, and his arms are heavily prison-tattooed. He overcompensates for his Napoleonic height with a cocksure manner, but the inmates have warmed to his lewd wittiness. He has previously served a 17-year sentence, and during that time he became a chess heavyweight. During my one hour out, I usually play a game of chess with him, through his cell window. His piercing hazel eyes and fiendish grin animate his attempts at psychological warfare . . ."Eat dat fuckin' pawn!""Let me fuckin' teach yer somethin'!""Eat dat fuckin' bishop!""Watch dis! Check! Trick move! What'd fuckin' tell ya!""Don't do it!""Move my bitch (queen) all da way up!""Check-fuckin'-mate! Boo yah!!""Nobody fucks wiv da champ!"My green onion plant, which had sprouted six inches, suddenly wilted and died.May 20Hue and cry outside the jailhouse on Saturday morning - a public protest to bring attention to the jail's "character-building" conditions. The sheriff's &#91;Maricopa county sheriff Joe Arpaio&#93; swift response was to serve us with tasty mashed potatoes instead of the usual boiled potato peelings. On Sunday night we actually received a scoop of ice cream. Unfortunately, the ice cream was served on top of warm cabbage, causing it to metamorphose into cabbage soup. No matter, we appreciated the gesture, and we are still being served the delicious mashed potatoes.The daily temperatures are now in excess of 38C (100F) and rising. The air is stale and debilitating. On Monday an inmate told a guard that he felt ill and requested medical treatment. The guard told him to drink plenty of water and to lie down. The inmate persisted, stating that he was a diabetic and really needed to see the doctor, but the guard continued to fob him off. On Monday night the inmate slipped into a diabetic coma and was rushed to the hospital. He has not been seen since.May 27Two more inmates collapsed and were taken to the medical unit. Rumours abound that the diabetic who entered a coma last week may have died, and that the jail is under investigation. We have been told for the past three months that the swamp cooler is "broken" and that a "work order" has been entered, but, lo and behold, when the county health department inspected the jail on Tuesday and Wednesday, the air was miraculously blowing at gale force and our shower water was running hot enough to redden my skin. When the inspectors left the building someone immediately switched the air back to the "broken" setting.I received a large photograph in the mail. It exceeded the 4 x 6 inches allowed by the jail, so I was pleasantly surprised that it was not rejected by the trigger-happy mailroom. It was a picture of a bespectacled President Bush signing some important-looking documents. In the lower margin was a personalised message with my name on it. It read: "Thank you for your support of the Republican National Committee. Grassroots leaders like you are the key to building a better, stronger, more secure future for our nation and all Americans . . . Best Wishes, George W Bush."June 3In this Hades, intravenous drug use is the hobby of the majority. Dozens of haunted men eagerly play Russian roulette by sharing one "rig" (syringe). Deadly diseases, including hepatitis C and TB, are common. The illegal drug use is only half of the story. Three times a day, a crotchety nurse goes from cell to cell dispensing "meds". Roughly one-third of the inmates are recipients of these pill cocktails. The most heavily pushed prescriptions are for Wellbutrin, Klonopin, Prozac, Paxil, Haldol, Elavil and Seroquel.The inmates snigger at how easy it is to obtain free drugs. They simply tell the psych doctor that they are "hearing voices" or are "unable to sleep". The jail's Big Kahuna &#91;Arpaio&#93; regularly appears on TV boasting that it costs the taxpayer a pittance to feed society's refuse, but he never mentions the millions of dollars being spent on expensive "meds", which the drug companies are profiting from handsomely.It's been an infernally "normal week". Outdoor temperatures are approaching 110F, and we are slowly being brought to the boil. Mark and I now catch one another chasing imaginary cockroaches.The dirty potato peelings are back as the main course among the diarrhoea-inducing expired eatables. Bone-dry citrus fruits are the new additions to breakfast. The stench of filth and sweat pervades the air. The bedsore on my left buttock is blistered and bleeding. My mouth and tongue are ulcerated. This joyless maltreatment is clearly designed to chafe one's happy-go-lucky disposition. The allure of being consigned to the grave can become an unremitting thought, as evidenced by the periodic suicides.June 17On Friday morning, the guards thwarted an escape attempt by two inmates. Despite the fact that they had botched the job, the jail administration decided to punish everyone. We were placed on "Security Override" for four consecutive days, during which we were confined to our cells, unable to shower, make phone calls or dispose of our trash and dinner trays. Soaring temperatures and a purposefully low trickle of swamp-cooled air quickly caused us to stink like wet dogs.Las cucarachas launched the most aggressive offensive that I have ever witnessed. I observed several divisions besiege our cell, consisting mostly of large, brown foot soldiers, a few white colonels, and one pregnant queen, carrying a dreaded baby capsule.The conditions have tipped Eric, a 50-year-old inmate, into a nervous breakdown. Early Monday morning, he started yelling, "Get me outta here!!!" repeatedly for 15 minutes. His voice inflection ranged from a demonically possessed adult male - worse than the Exorcist! - to that of a sobbing young child.June 24My right shin looks like I have spilled battery acid on it. A skin infection formed last week when we were denied showers and a cluster of approximately 30 bright-red sores has appeared. Some of them are bleeding.Half of the shower area is refusing to drain. Hair matted with semen has clogged it up. To shower I have to step through the odoriferous scum floating in the water. This disturbs a multitude of tiny jet-black flies and they form a cloud around my person. Fortunately they bolt when the shower is turned on, and migrate to the dried fruit peel in the trashcan. When the shower is turned off they return to the shower. They prefer the semen.July 2Final entry.Periplaneta Americana, more commonly known as the American cockroach, has an average lifespan of 440 days. As of today, I have been a resident of this crowbar motel for almost two cockroach lifespans. I have endured sufficient suffering, and, following in the footsteps of most pre-sentence detainees, I have signed myself over to the prison industrial complex. Shortly, I will be shipped to a Department of Corrections processing facility, where they will decide which state penitentiary is to become my new abode.July 13I am still at the jail. A sudden spate of tragedies has occurred, compelling me to write this entry. At the weekend two inmates on my floor attempted to commit suicide. One threw himself off the balcony and survived. The other was discovered trying to hang himself. Sadder still, an inmate housed in a medium-security pod was found dead in the shower. Inmates are often "smashed" in the shower area because it is out of view of the cameras. The jail has refused to release the cause of his death.The temperature outside is currently 114F. The trickle of air into our cells feels like hot air blowing from a hair-dryer. We are soaked in sweat all day and night. It is difficult to write on this sweat-moistened paper. The majority now have skin infections and rashes, which persistently itch. My skin is so soggy from perspiration that when I scratch it the skin detaches and I end up with clumps of skin under my fingernails. Between the sweat trickling down my body and the cockroaches tickling my limbs, it is impossible to sleep properly. Last night, while sleeping on my side, my ear filled up with sweat, and when I moved my head, the sweat poured out on to my face. I woke up, startled. It felt like someone was touching my cheek.When I was a small child, I imagined that hell consisted of caves in which the damned were trapped, tortured and burned. I imagined serpents and indescribable creepy crawlies tormenting the captives. I never imagined that man's nature could be so hateful as to recreate these conditions on earth.In June, Shaun Attwood pleaded guilty. On July 16, he was moved to a secure processing centre, waiting to be moved to a prison where he will serve the remainder of his nine and a half year sentence. Conditions there are much better.http://jonsjailjournal.blogspot.com
Finally it has been confirmed - Pro Evolution Soccer 4 will be playable online via Xbox Live. Lucky gamers will be able to play against rival fans in real-time online matches. There will also be a ranking system and the ability to set up mini-leagues. Pro Evo on Xbox is not due out until November, giving us all a few months to tie up our remaining business with the outside world before we begin playing.
Are videogames art? Ico's emotional and environmental splendour certainly puts the case forward. And you can argue that others, such as Metroid Prime, Rez andVib Ribbonare worthy art statements. But what aboutMyst IV? Ubisoft today announced a Myst based art exhibition at theCounty Hall Gallery, home of the Dali Universe. The exhibition will showcase artwork, sketches and other elements used to construct the forthcoming Myst IV: Revelation. But does Myst IV's undeniably pretty, but static, graphics, make it art? Surely it's interactivity that counts?
And in related news to the previous post, the first listed entry on Carmack'sdiary/blogrefers to a machinima video his wife's company put together using Quake tools that was selected for a viewer's pick onMTVJuly 2003. You can find it if you search for "In the Waiting Line" or Zero 7.Machinimais a digital art that combines traditional animation film with game production techniques, using game engines to produce the cinematic product. For a more coherent and cohesive explanation of the genre, head toWikipediafor their entry on the phenomenon, including history and links. There's so much more to know about this. Talk about opening a proverbial can of digital worms.If you're hooked and piqued, check out theAcademy of Machinima Arts and Sciencesfor info and details on their regular festivals. Go on, try your dab hand at something creative.Alternatively, you can stay in the UK with theBitfilmfestival.See what you can do with games? See what games can do for you?
TheNew York Timescarries a piece about online flea market/community message boardCraigslist."The foremost lesson would be about community and how to sustain one online. Craigslist started in 1995 as an e-mail newsletter that Newmark sent to friends informing them of San Francisco cultural events. As interest grew, the newsletter became an online flea and job market and an essential community bulletin board."As investor-backed Internet companies began to surge in the late 1990s, Craigslist remained the tortoise. When the dot-coms fizzled, Craigslist was celebrated as an antidot-com, achieving--despite its lack of business plans, profit projections and tchotchkes with logos--the kind of mass acceptance that high-tech investors clawed for."When the bubble burst, Craigslist was left standing--a low-maintenance community site used by, among many others, former dot-com workers looking for jobs."Comment:It's a nice look at the inside of an old-school dotcom firm - though there isn't much in the way of discussion about the site's finances. How does it raise enough money to employ 14 staff? Is eBay's recent aquisition of a 25% stake in the company really entirely benevolent?Craig Newmark might well be achetypal of the old-fashioned übergeek with a focus on service rather than style, but I want to know where the $10m in revenues comes from.
"The SPH-V5400 is a clam-shell type phone and the hard drive can store 1.5GB, the company said. The storage space can be used for several types of media including images photographed with the built-in, megapixel digital camera or MP3s. It also has a built-in FM transmitter so music can be played through a nearby radio. Other functions include TV output, dual speakers, 64-tone polyphonic ringer and dual LCD panels. The main screen is a TFT screen - 240 pixel by 320 pixel - and the sub screen is an OLED - 128 pixel by 128 pixel. The phone will go on sale in South Korea before the end of September, for around $800," reportsSlashPhone,which also has pictures....
"The new Area-51 ALX, introduced on Friday, uses overclocking, or the practice of pushing a processor past its factory speed setting, to elevate a standard Intel Pentium 4 chip to 4GHz. Because overclocking a processor can cause it to overheat, the desktop also includes a special liquid-cooling system devised by Alienware," reportsCNet."In addition to the 4GHz Pentium 4 and a liquid-cooling system, the most basic Area-51 ALX desktop comes with 1GB of RAM, a CD-burner, ATI Technology's Radeon X800 graphics card, a 74GB Western Digital Raptor 10,000 rpm hard drive and a Creative Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS High Definition sound card. Pumping up the machine with 4GB of RAM, Nvidia's GeForce 6800 Ultra graphics card, twin 74GB Raptor hard drives and a DVD-burner increases the price to about $5,700."
If you've everreallywanted to know what it's like to be involved in the creation of a ground-breaking gaming genre, now, thanks to the wonders of modern technology and one man's fanboy obsession, you can get an insider's view on the development of classic first person shooter titles in theQuake,WolfensteinandDoomseries.doom-edhas published legendary programmerJohn Carmack's development diaries dating from 1997 to the almost-present day in blog format. Although there are frequent comments like "The future is in floating point framebuffers", there are some choice entries that could appeal to the non-geek. My particular favourite outlines the day Carmak discovered his fast car was pinged by a beige pick-up truck while parked in the id Software parking lot.The journal entries start after Carmack was already established as an uber-programmer and owner of a fleet of boy-toy automobiles, yet it still gives insight into the genesis of contemporary games software legends.Cheers as always toboing boing
For a trip down memory lane, or an easy way to pass some skiving time,World of Stuarthas posted some very retro anti-piracy ads from the days of games yore, all from UK trade bodyELSPA. Check 'em out for laughs.
Mathematicians could be on the verge of solving two separate million dollar problems. If they are right - still a big if - and somebody really has cracked the so-called Riemann hypothesis, financial disaster might follow. Suddenly all cryptic codes could be breakable. No internet transaction would be safe.On the other hand, if somebody has already sorted out the so-called Poincar&#233; conjecture, then scientists will understand something profound about the nature of spacetime, experts told the British Association science festival in Exeter yesterday.Both problems have stood for a century or more. Each is almost dizzyingly arcane: the problems themselves are beyond simple explanation, and the candidate answers published on the internet are so intractable that they could baffle the biggest brains in the business for many months.They are two of the seven "millennium problems" and four years ago the Clay Mathematics Institute in the US offered $1m (&#163;563,000) to anyone who could solve even one of these seven. The hypothesis formulated by Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann in 1859, according to Marcus du Sautoy of Oxford University, is the holy grail of mathematics. "Most mathematicians would trade their soul with Mephistopheles for a proof," he said.The Riemann hypothesis would explain the apparently random pattern of prime numbers - numbers such as 3, 17 and 31, for instance, are all prime numbers: they are divisible only by themselves and one. Prime numbers are the atoms of arithmetic. They are also the key to internet cryptography: in effect they keep banks safe and credit cards secure.This year Louis de Branges, a French-born mathematician now at Purdue University in the US, claimed a proof of the Riemann hypothesis. So far, his colleagues are not convinced. They were not convinced, years ago, when de Branges produced an answer to another famous mathematical challenge, but in time they accepted his reasoning. This time, the mathematical community remains even more sceptical."The proof he has announced is rather incomprehensible. Now mathematicians are less sure that the million has been won," Prof du Sautoy said."The whole of e-commerce depends on prime numbers. I have described the primes as atoms: what mathematicians are missing is a kind of mathematical prime spectrometer. Chemists have a machine that, if you give it a molecule, will tell you the atoms that it is built from. Mathematicians haven't invented a mathematical version of this. That is what we are after. If the Riemann hypothesis is true, it won't produce a prime number spectrometer. But the proof should give us more understanding of how the primes work, and therefore the proof might be translated into something that might produce this prime spectrometer. If it does, it will bring the whole of e-commerce to its knees, overnight. So there are very big implications."The Poincar&#233; conjecture depends on the almost mind-numbing problem of understanding the shapes of spaces: mathematicians call it topology. Bernhard Riemann and other 19th century scholars wrapped up the mathematical problems of two-dimensional surfaces of three dimensional objects - the leather around a football, for instance, or the distortions of a rubber sheet. But Henri Poincar&#233; raised the awkward question of objects with three dimensions, existing in the fourth dimension of time. He had already done groundbreaking work in optics, thermodynamics, celestial mechanics, quantum theory and even special relativity and he almost anticipated Einstein. And then in 1904 he asked the most fundamental question of all: what is the shape of the space in which we live? It turned out to be possible to prove the Poincar&#233; conjecture in unimaginable worlds, where objects have four or five or more dimensions, but not with three."The one case that is really of interest because it connects with physics, is the one case where the Poincar&#233; conjecture hasn't been solved," said Keith Devlin, of Stanford University in California.In 2002 a Russian mathematician called Grigori Perelman posted the first of a series of internet papers. He had worked in the US, and was known to American mathematicians before he returned to St Petersburg. His proof - he called it only a sketch of a proof - was very similar in some ways to that of Fermat's last theorem, cracked by the Briton Andrew Wiles in the last decade.Like Wiles, Perelman is claiming to have proved a much more complicated general problem and in the course of it may have solved a special one that has tantalised mathematicians for a century. But his papers made not a single reference to Poincar&#233; or his conjecture. Even so, mathematicians the world over understood that he tackled the essential challenge. Once again the jury is still out: this time, however, his fellow mathematicians believe he may be onto something big.The plus: the multidimensional topology of space in three dimensions will seem simple at last and a million dollar reward will be there for the asking. The minus: the solver does not claim to have found a solution, he doesn't want the reward, and he certainly doesn't want to talk to the media."There is good reason to think the kind of approach Perelman is taking is correct. However there are some problems. He is very reclusive, won't talk to the press, has shown no indication of publishing this as a paper, which you would have to do if you wanted to get the prize from the Clay Institute, and has shown no interest in the prize whatsoever," Dr Devlin said."Has it been proved? We don't know. We have good reason to assume it has been and within the next 12 months, in the inner core of experts in differential geometry, which is the field we are speaking about, people will start to say, yes, OK, this looks right. But there is not going to be a golden moment."The implications of a proof of the Poincar&#233; conjecture would be enormous, but like the problem itself, very difficult to explain, he said. "It can't fail to have huge ramifications: not only the result, but the methods as well. At that level of abstraction, that level of connection, so much can follow. Differential geometry is the subject that is really underneath understanding everything about space and spacetime."Seven baffling pillars of wisdom1 Birch and Swinnerton-Dyer conjectureEuclid geometry for the 21st century, involving things called abelian points and zeta functions and both finite and infinite answers to algebraic equations2 Poincar&#233; conjectureThe surface of an apple is simply connected. But the surface of a doughnut is not. How do you start from the idea of simple connectivity and then characterise space in three dimensions?3 Navier-Stokes equationThe answers to wave and breeze turbulence lie somewhere in the solutions to these equations4 P vs NP problemSome problems are just too big: you can quickly check if an answer is right, but it might take the lifetime of a universe to solve it from scratch. Can you prove which questions are truly hard, which not?5 Riemann hypothesisInvolving zeta functions, and an assertion that all "interesting" solutions to an equation lie on a straight line. It seems to be true for the first 1,500 million solutions, but does that mean it is true for them all?6 Hodge conjectureAt the frontier of algebra and geometry, involving the technical problems of building shapes by "gluing" geometric blocks together7 Yang-Mills and Mass gapA problem that involves quantum mechanics and elementary particles. Physicists know it, computers have simulated it but nobody has found a theory to explain it
The company behind the Reading Festival has struck a download deal with Shazam, the service that allows users to identify music tracks by simply pointing their phone towards the speaker.As part of the deal, Mean Fiddler will allow fans to download the music tracks they have heard long after they have left the squalor of the festival fields.Mean Fiddler Music Group, which has a 35% stake in the Glastonbury Festival, claimed the new initiative would tap into the growing market for music downloads via mobile phones, especially among younger fans who do not have credit cards.Under the terms of the deal with Mean Fiddler Media, the digital arm of the live music group, users will now be able to download the tracks from the internet at a cost of £1.50 a song.Since Shazam's music recognition service was launched in the UK two years ago, more than four million songs have been tagged by mobile phone users.To access the service users simply dial 2580 on their mobiles, point them at the source of the music for 30 seconds and they receive a text identifying the track."This is a tremendous opportunity for Mean Fiddler to capitalise on the most popular method of paying for legal downloads, as our research indicates that 67%  of all legal downloads are paid for using mobile phones," said the Mean Fiddler Group chairman, Vince Power.The service will launch initially in the UK, but Mr Power said the company planned to expand the service globally."We plan to extend our services across Europe, the US and Asia, and this deal testifies to our commitment to achieving that goal," Mr Power added.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's not London (020), and it doesn't much resemble Birmingham (0121). People visit it from Glasgow (0141) and go surfing it in Ipswich (01473). So what is that place with the phone prefix 056? Cyberspace.Ofcom, the telecommunications regulator, announced yesterday that on top of the traditional landline prefixes and mobile phone numbers, people will now have to memorise a whole new set of phone numbers for calls via the internet.The prefix 056 is to be assigned as the area code for those who want to make telephone calls using a high-speed internet connection.The move comes in response to the growing market for cheap telephone calls made over the internet.The technology piggybacks on broadband connections and allows users to make cheap, or sometimes free, telephone calls in return for a monthly subscription.Internet service providers and cable companies now routinely offer internet telephone connections to their customers using voice over internet protocol (Voip).Ofcom said it believed Voip could lead to a sharp drop in call costs, since it costs far less to offer such services than it does to offer traditional telephone services.The regulator made its announcement yesterday as part of a broad-ranging statement on how it intends to regulate services that use the internet rather than the traditional telephone network.
I know Aleks picked up on this before, but Nintendo finally announced their pink Game Boy Advance SP at Game Stars Live. Yes, rather than concentrating on trying to release EVEN ONE NEW GAME THIS SUMMER for the Gamecube, Nintendo have decided that a new colour of GBA, designed to appeal to "gadget girls", is what is needed. Apparently, and I jest not, the pink GBA is "small enough to slip into handbags everywhere". Unlike the blue ones, obviously. And it gets worse...The likes of Kate Moss, Claudia Schiffer and Christina Aguilera are supposedly fans of the newly coloured Game Boy, although who wouldn't be if you've been given one for free? Finally, the appeal of the new handheld is encapsulated not in the fact that there is a raft of cracking games available for it. Nor that it can hook up with your Gamecube. No, it's those often unnoticed benefits - the fact that "that it could pass as a compact mirror" and "will match your favourite shoes" - that they choose to highlight. Er, anyone?
WillHalf Life 2ever be with us? Will geeky anti-heroGordon Freemanever fend of face huggers again? The long-awaited PC game is now reportedly due for November release. That's Nov 2004, by the way. With all the problems involvingstolen code, and the controversy over theSteam distributionsystem, lets hope the game is worth the wait. Or have we all stopped caring now?
Just in case you missed this, Korean developer Com2us is developing a mobile version of Civilization 3. The massively successful PC strategy title allows you to guide a race from primitive tribal beginnings to the nuclear age and beyond. It's certainly an ambitious project – unless they just turn it into a 2D platformer. Or a Tetris clone.Find out morehere.
