A group of hackers has alarmed law enforcement agencies with plans for a browser that could make it impossible to control the material people have access to on the world wide web.The US-based "ethical" hacking group, Cult of the Dead Cow, says the new technology will allow people living under oppressive regimes to circumvent censorship to access banned material.The browser, dubbed Peekabooty, will be launched in July amid mounting concern from human rights and civil liberties groups over attempts to restrict access to the internet.Peekabooty, which will use all the machines in the network to store data instead of using a central server, will be the internet equivalent of having information delivered in a discreet brown envelope.Members will be able to send an encrypted message asking for particular files or documents to be put on the network. When they appear, Peekabooty will encrypt them and send them back to the members' computer.A report published earlier this year by the French group Reporters Sans Fronti&egrave;res revealed that the worldwide growth of the internet has been matched by the emergence of "an arsenal of repressive solutions".In China, for example, where there are 20m users, the authorities have passed a series of laws to restrict access and filter content. Those caught breaking these laws could face the death penalty.But the imminent launch of Peekabooty has reignited the battle between campaigners for freedom of information and law enforcement agencies, who claim the new technology could be misused to conceal illegal material such as child pornography.The British web watchdog, the Internet Watch Foundation, will discuss the implications of the new technology with its international partners at a conference next week.A spokeswoman said: "There is a potential criminal use and this presents a challenge for law enforcement."Peekabooty has also set off alarm bells in the record industry, which is battling against music-sharing sites such as Napster to impose copyright on the internet.Jollyon Benn, internet investigator for the British phonographic industry, said: "The sad fact is that this will be misused and that is why it is the sort of thing that keeps us lying awake at night."But it is the potential for criminal misuse of Peekabooty that has prompted most concern. In Britain, the widely-  criticised Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which came into force last year, gives police the power to "tap" data systems and makes it an offence for individuals to refuse to hand over encryption keys.Tim Snape, of the Internet Service Providers Association, said the new browser could hamper police attempts to use the powers. He said: "If it is used to perform an illegal act then police should have a mechanism to require logs on the activities but to do that they must be able to provide the details on specific, targeted and identified individuals. This could make that more difficult."But Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, a leading critic of the act, said: "This browser shows how easy it easy to circumvent surveillance."It would only be regarded as shocking if the government planned to introduce more draconian legislation beyond the RIP Act."Last year, it emerged that British police have been pressing the government to introduce new legislation forcing internet service providers to hold detailed logs on the surfing activities of all their users for seven years.Amnesty International welcomed Cult of the Dead Cow's attempt to undermine censorship of the web. A spokesman said: "Most of our work is to &#91;inform&#93; people, including those oppressed themselves, about their rights and we have used the internet from an early stage to do that."Oxblood Ruffin, the cult's "foreign minister" declined to comment on Peekabooty. "It's a bit early to start beating the drum," he said.
Is the net a genuinely subversive technology? The honest answer is that we don't know yet. Early signs were promising. Email and the Web enabled new and less restricted forms of communication and publishing. Thomas Paine's dream of a society in which everyone could have their say seemed about to be realised. The traditional gatekeepers of opinion could be sidestepped or marginalised. Communities of activists could be organised and co-ordinated via the net.Governments suddenly found it impossible to keep secrets. Even authoritarian regimes struggled to control the flow of information across their frontiers. It was a libertarian dream come true.But freedom is indivisible, and the open, unregulated nature of cyberspace offered opportunities not just to decent folks like you and me but also to unsavoury characters - money-launderers, tax dodgers, pornographers, paedophiles, hackers, virus-writers, terrorists and the like.The net represented two different kinds of menace to the established order. It facilitated freedom of expression, increased the flow of ideas and information and generally made it more difficult for governments to control the public agenda. But it also provided unprecedented opportunities for the aforementioned hoodlums and thus a challenge to law enforcement and tax collection, not to mention 'national security'.From the outset, therefore, it was clear to the established order that this unruly medium would have to be brought under control. But this raised a tricky problem: citizens rather like the net - so much that they took to it in megadroves. The business   world also took to the net, as the marketplace of the future.So democratic governments have had to tread warily when trying to bring the net back under (their) control. The lessons of Prohibition - when the US government tried to stamp out another activity popular with the citizenry - loomed large in policymakers' minds. If their repressive goals were to be achieved, some persuasive rationale had to be invented for circumscribing internet users' new-found freedoms.This is where the dark side of the net comes in handy. If you are (say) a Home Secretary who seeks draconian powers to control the net, your best strategy is to scare the citizenry by exaggerating the risks from criminals and paedophiles to justify those powers. Since nobody knows the extent of criminal use of the network, you are unlikely to be challenged on empirical grounds. Blunt assertions from policemen and spooks are all you need. This was how the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act was pushed through - giving MI5 access to every digital packet flowing through a British ISP's servers.Unsubstantiated assertions about online crime are also the basis for a much more sweeping curtailment of civil liberties now in the legislative pipeline - the European Treaty on Cybercrime. It reads like a secret policeman's wish list. Among other things, it gives sweeping powers to security services to monitor everything people do online, and it places incredible burdens on ISPs.It was cooked up behind closed doors at the Council of Europe and will be approved by the end of this year, no matter who wins the election. And I'm willing to bet there won't be a word about it in any party manifesto.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Bill Gates, a major philanthropist, recently received a salutary reminder of how a foray into the video games sector could stretch any tech tycoon's generosity. After Sega pulled the plug on the much-hyped Dreamcast machine earlier this year, Isao Okawa, the Japanese company's president, paid &#163;500 million out of his own pocket to cover losses. Okawa died of heart failure weeks later.While the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is unlikely to get involved in the preservation of near-extinct video games, there could hardly be a stronger reminder of what is at stake.The Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles this week will see the start of a marketing battle during which Microsoft and Sony will go head to head for global dominance. Microsoft's games machine effort, the Xbox, will be unveiled to the public as the start of a $500m (&#163;357m) campaign leading to the release of the machine in the US in autumn and in Europe early next year.'This is going to be a huge E3 across the board,' says Richard Teversham, Xbox's marketing director. 'In industry terms this will be the new starting block for the next 10-15 years. It's the first time we'll be showing playable games to the public - a huge milestone,'Sony lies in wait, having saved much of its efforts to protect the market leadership of its PlayStation machines from the incursion of Xbox.Throw in the launch of Nintendo's GameCube, and the video games industry, which, in revenue terms, is bigger than movies or music, will have spent more than   $1bn around the world by the end of next year on getting their messages out. Microsoft is also thought to have spent many billions more on developing its machine.A Merrill Lynch analyst report estimates that Microsoft will lose around $125 on every machine sold. But this is standard practice for the industry: invest massively in hardware to create the platform, and then live off software sales. Essentially they are in a race with Sony to create a technology infrastructure which will allow them to sell on content.The Xbox faces three key challenges: overcoming the   10-million-unit head start gained by PlayStation 2 (PS2), cracking the Japanese market, and mastering the new discipline of selling a fashionable consumer durable. The industry in general will have to deal with economic downturns in the US and in Japan.PS2's head start will actually be greater than the 10 million units already bought by gamers around the world in its first year. That take-up rate is three times as fast as that for the original PlayStation (now called PSOne). Optimistic estimates suggest there could be 20 million PS2s in homes by the time the Xbox is available globally.But there are also more   than 80 million PSOne users - and their games can also be played on the PS2. Developers are still producing blockbuster games, such as Harry Potter and Formula One 2001, for the older machine. This is not to say these users will shun the Xbox out of brand fanaticism, just that Microsoft's offering will have to be tangibly superior to the PS2.So what will Xbox offer that PS2 does not? Microsoft says Xbox will be three times more powerful. But consumers don't really care about the number of gigaflops or polygons per second. What matters is the quality of the games, and Xbox previews so far have been impressive. For example, Amped, a snowboarding game, allows realistic views of the valley below at the start of a run.'There's been a lot of hard work in signing the developers up. We asked them whatspecification of box that you'd like that wouldn't limit their creativity?,' says TevershamDirectX is the Microsoft platform used for running PC games. The Xbox runs on a version of this, which makes it easier for PC developers to convert popular games.Can the Xbox beat the PS2 on functionality? The Xbox will include a hard disk, for storing local information, and unfinished games and will come ready for high-speed internet connection. Taken together, these functions will allow games to be downloaded directly to machines rather than bought in shops.Is this the killer specification that will sell the Xbox over the PS2? Not necessarily. The PS2 is overloaded with slots and connections that allow its specification to   change over time. A high- capacity internal hard disk and support for broadband internet access are expected to be unveiled in Los Angeles.And the PS2, unlike the Xbox, can be used to watch DVD movies. But this goes to the heart of Microsoft's strategy. The Xbox is '100 per cent a games console'. By this view, PS2 is an attempt at a home entertainment system equipped to cope with the digital convergence of different media such as film and music.Microsoft almost has to avoid this to prove its credibility. Had it entered the   games market with an all-in- one console/movie player/ video recorder, gamers, and developers would not have taken it seriously.This challenge is particularly acute in Japan - the country that has had a virtual monopoly on console manufacturing. It is also a quarter of the global market for computer games. The economic conditions could not be more difficult, and US console manufacturers have not thrived in Japan, before now.Gates flew to Tokyo to sell the Xbox and to announce that Sega would be developing games for the format. More of the same razzmatazz will surround the Xbox announcements at E3, as Microsoft attempts to milk as much as it can from the hype.Indeed, Microsoft has not yet advertised the Xbox, and it made only five announcements in the past 18 months. But its own research shows that recognition of the Xbox brand among its target 16-26-years age group has shot up from 14 per cent to 50 per cent in that time.Both players are learning the lessons of Dreamcast's   demise. The root cause of that dates from 1999, when Sony flew 500 journalists to PlayStation's Tokyo headquarters to release the specifications for its 'next generation PlayStation'. No pictures of the machine were released, and it didn't even have a name, but nonetheless, it captured the imagination of the world's press.Sega's Dreamcast was tripped up before it even got   going as gamers chose to wait for Sony's new machine.The combination of poor content and a lack of marketing expertise sunk Sega's fortune, despite it arguably having a superior machine. In Europe, Sega squandered its marketing budget on sponsoring football teams such as Arsenal. Sony, on the other hand, spent considerably less on sponsoring the high-profile Uefa Champions' League.   By contrast, Microsoft's marketing genius has been the foundation of its success. But the Xbox will be engaged in a difficult brand-building exercise. Gates's company could never be described as cool.'The plans focus not just on the Xbox but on the game,' says Teversham. 'We've got to get the basics right - that when people want to buy it, it's in store. Then we have to earn our credibility with our target audience - this leads to word-of-mouth. Xbox will be seen as aspirational, and as fun.' So far its only sponsorship deal is with US fast food chain Taco Bell.'They're going to have to break the link with Microsoft,' says Richard Busby, a marketing expert at BDS Sponsorship. 'How off-the-wall are they prepared to be in marketing the product?'Teversham is sanguine: 'We still remember that we are the new kid on the block. But it's a marketeer's dream - it's a blank piece of paper.'And when Microsoft claims to be the new kid on the block, we know it doesn't intend to stay that way for very long.
Paul MuldoonBorn:June 20 1951, Portadown, County Armagh.Education:St Patrick's College, Armagh; Queen's Univeristy, Belfast.Married:Anne-Marie Conway, 1973-1977; Jean Hanff Korelitz, 1988 - (one daughter, Dorothy Aoife; one son, Asher).Career:1973-86 arts producer, BBC Northern Ireland, Belfast; 1987-1990 lecturer at the University of Columbia, New York, University of California, University of Massachusetts; 1990 - Princeton University (1993 Director of Creative Writing Program); 1999 - Oxford Professor of Poetry.Books:New Weather,1973; Mules, 1977; Why Brownlee Left, 1980; Quoof, 1983; Meeting the British, 1987; Madoc, 1990; The Annals of Chile, 1994; Hay, 1998.Awards:T S Eliot Prize, 1994; American Academy of Arts and Sciences Award for Literature, 1996; Irish Times Poetry Prize, 1997.
Channel 4 has signed a TV and internet video rights deal for the Le Mans 24-hour motor race.The agreement will allow Channel 4 to stream around-the-clock video coverage of the race on the motoring website, 4car.co.uk, over the weekend of June 16-17.A Le Mans highlights show will be broadcast on Channel 4, hosted by the Driven presenters, Penny Mallory, Jason Plato and Mike Brewer.4car.co.uk will carry regularly updated video highlights and reports on the action on the track."Through our TV programming and online motoring channel, 4car.co.uk, we will be able to give fans unique, innovative access to the racing action," said Peter Grimsdale, Channel 4's head of cross-platform content.4car.co.uk, which was launched just over a year ago, now has more than 172,000 unique users.The Le Mans deal enlarges Channel 4's motor racing portfolio, which includes the World Rally Championship.In recent years, the broadcaster has refocused its sports portfolio on cricket and motor racing, dropping US sports such as American football and basketball.Channel 4 recently ditched the Tour De France because it clashed with its cricket coverage.Useful linkwww.4car.co.ukRelated stories19.03.2001: C4 faces £500,000 bill for Tour de France19.02.2001: C4 swipes rally rights from BBC
The dismemberment of British Telecom, once the global flagship of privatisation, makes a sorry sight. But it had to happen. The tragedy is it did not occur sooner. If BT's wireless operations had been hived off years ago, it might have made a better fist of competing against Vodafone, a company that came from nowhere but whose total value on the stock market is now more than three times that of BT.Large monolithic companies like BT often cannot cope with new disruptive technologies that threaten their traditional base. The new world of wireless demands a different mindset to that of traditional telephone companies that still see the world in terms of protecting historic monopoly incomes. Even so, it will not be easy for BT Wireless to become a world force, if only because so many of the existing players it could have taken over have been gobbled up by the likes of Vodafone. But at least, freed from BT, it will have no one to blame but itself.Sir Peter Bonfield, chief executive of BT, was right to say yesterday that what will remain of BT itself will still be a very powerful company. Indeed, it is too powerful because it still retains its monopoly of the "local loop", the last bit of copper wire going into each household. Here there is a continuing conflict between what is good for BT (milking its monopoly revenues as long as it can) and the national interest, which is to get broadband, or high-capacity, internet access to as many people as possible, as soon as possible.BT has been slow to open its exchanges to rivals so they can install their own capacity and is "cherry picking" where it offers broadband (big towns in preference to the country, and commercial rather than domestic customers). It is not all BT's fault because the problem only arose because the Conservatives privatised BT with minimal competition.What is BT's fault is the way it pursued an ill-thought out global strategy only to withdraw when the &#163;30bn debts incurred proved too much for shareholders to bear. (When it was in public ownership, it had hardly any debts.) It is not too late to recover because the wireless revolution is in its infancy and BT has realised that the sum of its parts (including its underexploited research subsidiary) is worth more than the whole. At this sad stage in its history it ought to be deeply grateful that calls made from mobiles still have to be routed through a network. That will give it something to fall back on while it reinvents itself.
The spread of the Homepage email virus, which criss-crossed global computer networks yesterday, has slowed today as computer users began avoiding the infected attachment.Thousands of people have been caught out when Homepage opened one of four pornographic web sites on their screens automatically and then mass-mailed itself to everyone in their email address books. However, the virus did no further damage to computers, causing a problem only when it overloaded corporate servers with the sheer volume of forwarded emails.The virus spread yesterday as unsuspecting users double-clicked on an attachment labelled "Homepage.html.vbs". The subject line of the email, which looked as it had come from a trusted source, read: "Hi! You've got to see this page! It's really cool."Users in Europe and Australia suffered most, although Disney in Florida is reported to be among the North American companies hit. Computer security firm Sophos said that 150 British companies had contacted them after the virus infected their networks.Computer virus experts rated Homepage as a serious outbreak, but it has not been as widespread as predecessors such as the Anna Kournikova, I love you and Melissa viruses. They believe that Homepage was written with the same downloadable "virus kit" that spawned the Anna outbreak, which affected an estimated 45 million computers in February.Graham Cluley, a senior technical consultant at Sophos, said the virus may have been written by the owners of the pornographic web sites that the virus activates.He said: "All of the sites that the virus points to appear to have been set up by the same person. There is a woman who gradually removes more and more clothing, and then you are asked to enter a credit card number to see more. It's almost like the pornographers have given up spamming and simply set users' web browsers to go to their sites automatically."Related articles09.05.2001: British companies face new email virus08.03.2001: Don't believe the virus hype15.02.2001: Hacker launched Anna bug 'as a warning'14.02.2001: 'Anna' email virus wreaks havocUseful linksSophosMessageLabs
Wrinkly rockers Tom Waits, Randy Newman and members of heavy metal band Heart have launched a &#163;27m lawsuit against music website MP3.com.They claim that it is illegally giving listeners access to their songs through the My.MP3.com service and infringing on their copyright.The suit has been filed despite previous agreements between the website and the industry aimed at stamping out the process.The musicians claim that classic songs such as Downtown Train by Mr Waits, Barracuda by Heart and I Love LA by Mr Newman were illegally copied from compact discs on to the internet via MP3.com users' home computers.They believe about 270 songs are illegally available through the service and are demanding around &#163;100,000 per song."Unless the major artists band together to do this, everyone else is taken advantage of as well," Henry Gradstein, lawyer for the plaintiffs said when filing the suit in Los Angeles.Last November, MP3.com agreed to pay &#163;37m to Universal Music Group, ending the company's disputes with leading music makers. That followed a ruling in a New York federal court that MP3.com had intentionally violated the copyrights of the music firms.MP3.com agreed to pay the National Music Publishers' Association about &#163;20m to make more than 1m musical compositions available on the site.Shares in MP3.com have, over the last year, fallen from $22 to trade at less than $3 amid concern about litigation and wider issues surround the valuation of internet companies. The company is named after MP3, the a data-compression format that allows music to be downloaded from the internet.
The process of buying online is like a huge multinational corporation: it makes a lot of people nervous. Perhaps you would     like to tackle these fears by reading Guardian columnist Naomi Klein's critique of globalised capitalism, No Logo, while     striking a blow against the corporations through buying it as cheaply as possible on the web? Read on.Last week, the best     price Online found for No Logo was from the well-known anti-corporate organisation Tesco, of £7.84 (£5.39 plus £2.45     postage) compared with £8.99 recommended price. We ordered the book at 3pm on Wednesday, and it arrived in Friday     morning's post. Thank goodness for huge multinational corporations.Step-by-step1.You will need a debit or credit card handy.2.Tesco's online bookshop, like most e-commerce sites, has a     search box on its front pagewww.tesco.com/books. Enter "Naomi Klein" in the box, and click the arrow on its right-hand     side.3.The site offers you two versions of No Logo (the second is a more expensive, larger format). You can click on More     for a short description, or just click Buy. It is £5.39 - bear in mind postage and packing is extra.4.The site now wants you     to log on. If you are a new customer, click on the Register &amp; sign in button.5.You are asked for your name, postcode, and     Tesco Clubcard number. If you have a card, and you don't mind Tesco linking your reading matter and your groceries, enter it     now; or click on the box marked "If you don't have a Clubcard." Click on the Next button when you've finished, then OK if     asked if you're sure you don't have a Clubcard.6.Choose your postcode from the drop-down menu on the left, or click 'here'     if your address isn't shown. This page also asks for your work, home and mobile phone numbers. Just one will do, so the firm     can call if there are difficulties. You also need to provide an email address, before going to the next page.7.You then     choose a password, and enter this in both of the two boxes. If you forget it, Tesco can email it to you.8.The screen marked     Your Data holds a potential danger, if only to your patience. As with any UK firm, Tesco must get your permission before     bombarding you with junk-mail and phone calls. If you don't mind, click Next. Otherwise, scroll through the box at the bottom     of the screen using the arrows at its right-hand side, and click on the five boxes, such as the one reading "I do NOT want to     be contacted by phone with any offers or information." You can change your mind by emailing online@tesco.co.uk9.You can     ignore the screen asking how you heard about the service. Click Next.10.You have to accept the terms and conditions.     There's nothing too scary, but use the scrollbar on the right-hand side to satisfy yourself of this before clicking Accept.11.Clicking on shop online now button at the page bottom takes you to your shop ping basket, which already holds No Logo. If     you want one copy, click on checkout.12.You pay by entering your debit or credit card details. At this stage, the postage     and packing charge of £2.45 is shown, making £7.84. If you give up now, no sale is made. How do you know it is safe? On     many sites, a little padlock symbol in the bottom bar of the browser, or a web address beginning with https:// means that     your data is being electronically scrambled. Tesco uses a different way of performing the same data-scrambling, which     doesn't cause the padlock or an 'https://' address to appear. But the supermarket giant, which sold £237m of goods online     over the past year, is confident enough to offer customers compensation if they are hit by a breach of this security.13.That's it! But you can change your mind, by clicking on Order History, then on Cancel Order, as long as the book hasn't been     posted.14.Tesco, like most online retailers, lets you return books for refund by post. Sites will usually offer you a refund     for something you don't want, but you pay the postage both ways unless it sends you a faulty or incorrect product.Do's and dont's&#149; Do use comparison sites such asShopSmart.com,Kelkoo.comandEasyValue.comto get a feel for prices. But don't assume they are completely accurate or comprehensive: seewww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,420517,00.html. Try more than one if you want to be sure of the lowest price.&#149; Do ensure that cookies are enabled on your browser, at least for the site you want to use. (If you've never adjusted the settings, cookies are probably already enabled.) Many e-commerce sites will only allow you to shop with this facility, which allows them to leave electronic tags on your computer with which to recognise you.&#149; Do use a credit card for orders above &#163;100. You are then covered by your card-issuer if the goods are faulty and the vendor won't or can't help.&#149; Don't buy from sites you don't trust, or that don't use security. The online versions of shops such as WH Smith, Blackwell's or Tesco should be safe bets, along with well-established online retailers such as Amazon and BOL.com. If you really don't feel happy about giving card details online, sites including Amazon.co.uk accept cheques, along with card details read over the phone or faxed.&#149; Don't assume online is cheaper. When postage and packing is included - usually not shown until you're about to buy - it may well cost more than on the High Street. You might consider buying more than one item, as P&amp;P is then usually proportionately cheaper.&#149; Don't set up express checkout services - called 1-Click Ordering by Amazon - unless you trust everyone who uses your computer. These allow you to buy items without re-entering card details, placing temptation in the path of any child/spouse/cat.
Like its founder Thomas Jefferson, the University of Virginia has a reputation for fearless truth, honesty and honour. So the news that 122 of its students could be expelled for internet cheating has rocked one of the most revered educational institutions in the US.The possible expulsions are all in the university's physics department and have highlighted a growing problem in assessing the educational progress of school and university students across the world as they turn increasingly to the internet for research - and sometimes for plagiarism.With students now routinely preparing their essays on computers and submitting them   electronically, opportunities for plagiarism have become almost limitless. And with coursework counting for large parts of the US educational assessment system, American high school and university students have substantial opportunities for cheating if they can get away with it.The problem was unearthed last month when physics professor Lou Bloomfield responded to allegations by an unnamed student by designing a computer program to hunt out common phrases in more than 1,500 papers submitted electronically by students over a period of several months."It was a little more common than I had hoped," Prof Bloomfield ruefully told the Washington Post this week.He uncovered dozens of examples of sometimes large scale cutting and pasting from internet websites and from one another's essays. The upshot is the largest investigation into cheating in the history of an institution in which Jefferson planned for "the illimitable freedom of the human mind to explore and to expose every subject susceptible of its contemplation".Among the 122 accused students are several who have already graduated from the university and others who are due to receive their degrees at ceremonies in the next few weeks.The cases are now being examined by the university's "honour committee".The cheating scandal at Virginia is far from an isolated one. Last year a survey of 2,200 students at 21 American universities found that one in 10 admitted lifting chunks of academic material from internet sites.An inquiry by the neurobiology department at the University of California at Berkeley discovered that 45 out of 340 students had used lifted material and submitted it as their own.Teachers and professors have long been aware that the system is increasingly vulnerable to dishonesty."Technology has made some of the easy ways out very seductive and blurred the lines between what's acceptable and what's not," Prof Bloomfield said in his interview.The problem has spawned a variety of commercial and homemade programs which are designed to enable teachers to pinpoint students who are dragging material off the web - or from one another's essays - simply with the click of a mouse."Technology really is a double-edged sword when it comes to cheating. The means for detecting cheating are catching up with the means for cheating," Thomas Hall, chairman of the University of Virginia's honour committee, told the Post.The case "will send a wake-up call to those students who have forgotten what the community of trust is about", said David Gies of the university's Spanish department.
The forthcoming general election is going to be the United Kingdom's first e-election. The internet was still only patchy in its uptake in the UK four years ago and the Blair government has made it a focus of policy. But for all that, very few votes are going to turn on the existence of e-technology in a month's time.The same applies to the county elections also taking place on June 7. "I would be very surprised if the internet figured," says Geoffrey Filkin, leading light of theNew Local Government Networkand a keen advocate of councils using the new technology to renew their links with the public.A quick skim at how MPs and councillors use email and the web (seewww.parliament.ukandwww.lga.gov.uk) confirms that whatever inroads communications technology has made into politics, the parties are still largely innocent of it. However, some are enthusiastic. There are marginal urban seats where sitting MPs are considering email and even text message campaigns to reach younger voters.Even if no one is going to vote for a party on their policy for ecommunications and the internet, they will play a polit ical role. Manifestos will be published online and other party information will be easily accessible. Patrick Seyd, professor of politics at Sheffield UniversityP.Seyd@Sheffield.ac.uk, says internal party communications will make heavy use of email and the internet. Party agents are finding it "an extraordinarily effective mechanism for contacting members and candidates".But Seyd's studies suggest emails and bulletin updates help the control freaks at party headquarters keep an even tighter grip.As for the public, it looks as though research conducted in the United States will be proved right here. The internet is a "to them that hath" medium. Electors who want information about the parties and their manifestos will make active use of it, just as they do newspapers and other media. The uninterested and the uninspired will not.Ian Kearns of theInstitute for Public Policy Researchthinks some MPs will have no choice but to run "viral" email campaigns to reach voters who are impervious to print and television. "If a party or candidate shows up in cyberspace, people might just bother reading the material they get   - though they might have to be predisposed to the party already for the tactic to work."He gives the example of young urban professionals dashing in from work, pausing briefly to read their emails before showering and setting off for an evening out.There will be a lot of politics online in the next few weeks. There is a fair listing of sites atwww.ukpolitics.org.uk/links.shtml. Labour will crank up its rebuttal machine, Excalibur, press conferences will be webcast, ministers and candidates will take part in online chats.Thanks to the internet, campaigning is likely to be faster and slicker, says James Crabtree, the Industrial Society executive and founder ofwww.voxpolitics.comwhich is putting itself forward as the online guide to the election.The site is sponsored by theStationery Office, the private company (owned by venture capitalists Apax) which took over most of the publishing work of HMSO and has the backing of the IPPR on the left and the Social Market Foundation and the Institute for Economic Affairs on the right.Voxpolitics' argument is portentous. "We live in troubled political times. Across the western world, our democracies suffer declining participation, low voter turnout, and a growing sense   of apathy. Politics and politicians face an increasingly sceptical and suspicious public and our civic institutions, erected with pride in an earlier period of confidence."If this is true, how will the internet change the trends? Evidence from last autumn's presidential election in the United States suggests people accessing the internet for news and views are the same people who are also serious consumers of television and the printed press. (See the research at http://netelection.org/research/jan10report.pdf ,www.pewinternet.org/reports/toc.asp?Report=27andhttp://democracyonline.org/databank/dec2000survey.shtmlEmail is now an important, though not always serious, instrument of communication. In the US, twice as many people sent or received jokes as got information about political campaigns.The technology, says James Crabtree (seewww.indsoc.co.uk/isociety) lowers barriers to entry and speeds up the "cycle" of news. He says that there are enough undecided voters out there using email to justify the parties' interest.If they do not, Voxpolitics warns, they are done for. "The only politics, and the only kind of politician, that can thrive in this climate, is one that actively and continuously seeks the views and concerns of the voter."In a world where voting for Big Brother is so easy, the IPPR's Ian Kearns predicts, the political system will have to become much more interactive. Perhaps. But the contest due to take place next month will look very much like political business as usual.
The world's most successful mobile internet service helped profits at NTT DoCoMo, the Japanese telecoms company, to leap 45% last year despite a sluggish domestic economy and an increasingly tough global business environment.DoCoMo earned a net profit of 365bn yen (&#163;2.1bn) for the year to March 31 thanks largely to strong demand for its i-mode service, which offers continuous access to email and tailored web pages offering information such as sports results, restaurant guides and cinema listings.Little more than three years after its launch, the number of i-mode subscribers has passed the 22m mark, which helped to push DoCoMo's sales up 26% last year to &#165;4.7 trillion."We are very pleased with the results and they are above our original expectations," said   DoCoMo's president and chief executive, Keiji Tachikawa. "This shows that Japan's mobile communications market is still strong."To take the business overseas, the company invested &#165;1.8 trillion in leading telecoms players such as Hutchison in Britain, AT&amp;T in the US and KPN in the Netherlands.In October, DoCoMo plans to be the first company to launch third-generation mobile internet services that will be capable of transmitting video and music. The 3G service had been expected this month, but Mr Tachikawa said the delay would not have much of an impact on earnings as initial sales of the new technology were never forecast to be strong.Investors appear to agree. Bucking the downward trend in global telecoms stocks, DoCoMo's share price has risen 30% since the start of the year.Mr Tachikawa said DoCoMo aimed to grab an 80% share of the domestic mobile phone market, sharply up from its current level of 59%. Next month, it will cut charges 9%.This throws down the gauntlet to Vodafone - the world's biggest mobile phone operator - which expanded its presence in Japan last week by taking a controlling stake in Japan Telecom and its mobile affiliate J-Phone.Japan's mobile sector is growing rapidly, according to an industry group report yesterday. The Telecommunications Carriers Association said the number of mobile telephone users in Japan rose 18.9% year-on-year to 62m in April.
Thousands of computer users were last night facing embarrassment after falling victim to an email virus which automatically opened up hardcore internet porn sites on their screens.Within hours of being detected first in the Netherlands, the virus, dubbed homepage, had managed to subvert millions of pounds worth of antivirus protection and infect computers around the world.Although homepage does no internal damage to infected machines, the potential for public humiliation of its victims is enormous.Masquerading as an email from a friend, it contains the message: "Hi! You've got to see this page! It's really cool ;O)." If the recipient clicks on the attached file, the virus is unleashed, opening up the user's internet browser and directing it to one of four hardcore porn sites. Some analysts believe the virus may have been released in an attempt to generate traffic for the sites.The virus then guarantees its rapid propagation by sending itself to every name in the user's email address book. By last night, homepage, which is believed to have originated in the Asia-Pacific region, was being detected in one in every 55 emails worldwide.The latest outbreak has humiliated the antivirus protection industry. It comes within three months of the last global virus, Anna Kournikova, is built from the same basic programme as Anna and uses the same tricks to get opened and spread. It is also based on the same principles as the notorious love bug, which infected millions of computers last year and - unlike Anna and homepage - caused billions of pounds of damage.Despite homepage's similarities with previous outbreaks, however, only two antivirus companies - Gloucester-based MessageLabs and the US firm NAI - managed to detect and stop it automatically. Other companies spent yesterday offering users upgrades to their existing software in an attempt to patch up the security gap.Alex Shipp, an antivirus technologist at MessageLabs, which was also the first to detect the love bug, said: "Computer users have been very lucky because we have now had two major virus outbreaks without any malicious payload, but the big question is why are we here again. It was perfectly possible to capture this virus automatically so it seems the industry has not learned the lessons of the last year."Simon Wiseman, an information security specialist at the defence evaluation and research agency, which unveiled antivirus containment software last month, said: "I do not understand how the companies let this one get through. It is not even as if the virus had to try very hard, so it just shows how easy it is to leave little gaps that someone will get into."Symantec, one of the companies whose software failed to detect homepage, brushed aside the criticism. Eric Chien, chief researcher at the company's European antivirus centre, said: "We could produce software which stopped everything but that would lead to legitimate applications being blocked. Until users are willing to adopt more draconian approaches, viruses will always be able to get round some scanners."
Parrot noisesAfter reinstalling Windows 98, I cannot turn off the modem as previously, and have to listen to a squawking parrot every time I log on. It is annoying me beyond reason!Peter HuxtablePd.Huxtable@btinternet.comJack Schofield replies:I like listening to modem connections. The sounds tell you that you are getting through, and that you have not accidentally been redirected to a nursery school in Nicaragua. However, turning the noise off may not be as simple as you might think.First, go to Start|Settings| Control Panel and double-click the Modems icon. Click the Properties button, and on the General tab you will see a slider that lets you adjust the speaker volume from Off to High. This may even work. With many external and older modems, however, this won't affect connections you have already set up, so you have to   change these separately.Double-click the My Computer icon on the desktop, then double-click the Dial-Up Networking folder. Right-click on the icon for the connection you want to silence - BT Internet, or whatever - and select Properties. Click on the button marked Configure, and you will see a tabbed dialogue box featuring another speaker volume slider. This one will work almost every time.If it doesn't, we have to get technical. Go back to the Control Panel, double-click the Modems icon, and select Properties as before. This time, click on the Connection tab, and then the Advanced button. You will find a box called Extra settings, which lets you send instructions directly to the modem. Type AT M0 in the box and OK your way out. This should silence even the most uncooperative modem.DOS in MeI have bought a new computer with the Windows Me operating system and the DOS prompt is nowhere to be found. This is bad news because I can no longer use my old DOS programs and games. I have read about creating a boot disk to solve the problem, but when I boot my computer the floppy drive is not checked and Windows loads. Have you any ideas?Sachin Nagarsachdn@hotmail.comJS:A PC can start up using various devices, and it checks each in turn. In the past, PCs usually checked A:, the floppy drive, first. However, this can lead to problems when you accidentally leave a floppy disk in the drive, especially if it has a virus on it. The solu tion is to start from C:.To get your PC to start from a floppy, you can change the order in which it looks at drives. This means entering Setup, which is often done by pressing the Del key as your machine starts. The instructions are shown on the screen at the time, or can be found in the motherboard manual.Another idea is to patch Windows Me to bring back the missing DOS access. A patch has been written by Reines, and is available atwww.geocities.com/mfd4life_2000I have not tried this myself.As always, you should have a reliable back-up of your system before making significant changes to Windows.More MeI have a copy of Windows Me to upgrade my Windows 98, because I understand that Me is more reliable. If I install it, will it affect my ISP installation?Stephen Robertsondiy3@dircon.co.ukJS:If your version of Windows 98 works fine and   does what you want then there is no real reason to upgrade to Me. The American adage applies: "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."I installed and then uninstalled Me without it affecting my ISP settings in Windows 98SE, and the upgrade seems to work well, but bear in mind that accidents can happen. However, Windows Me is slower than Windows 98SE, and I did not find it more reliable.Bin hasslesI have three hard drive partitions (C:, D:, E:) on my PC. Although these are set up so the Recycle Bin has different "shares" of each drive, they do not seem to be independent of each other: emptying one throws out the trash from them all. Is it possible to empty just one partition?Terry CannonTerry.Cannon2@ ukgateway.netJS:I don't know of a utility that will add this feature to Windows 9x - perhaps a reader does? There is, however, a workaround. Remem ber, the Recycle Bin works much like any another folder. Open it by double-clicking its icon, and select View|Details, if this is not already selected. Click on the heading marked Original Location, and as usual, the files will be sorted by location. Now you can highlight all the files for a particular drive. Right-click with the mouse, select Delete, and that will delete them. I agree this is not as handy as having separate bins, but there does not seem to be much demand for that facility.Write backAsk Jack is now a year old, and the best thing about it, for me, has been the flood of helpful email from readers telling me things I did not know. I have learned a lot, for which I thank you.Many readers would like to protect certain files or password-protect their systems. I likeEncrypted Magic Folders, but Barry Newtonbpnewton@stargate2000.freeserve.co.uksuggests Quick:Crypt. He says: "Once installed, you right-click on a file, and the    usual menu that drops down now includes Encrypt. When you click on this it asks for a password. When you have entered the password, it confirms the file has been encrypted and that's that." For details, seewww.littlebigware.co.uk/quickcrypt.htmFor password protection, Giles Turnbullgiles@gorjuss.comsuggests trying SysLock, "a small app that you can set to run on start-up. It allows Windows to boot, but won't let you access anything until you have entered a password." SysLock is distributed as shareware: seewww.optionscomputer.com/software/ syslock.shtmlBack againFinally, a lot of you wrote in about the keyboard command equivalent to the Back button in Internet Explorer. What I wrote was intended to imply that Alt-left arrow performed the same function as the back button, while Alt-right arrow did the same as the forward button. Unfortunately this is not what was printed.I was surprised that most people who wrote in also mentioned that pressing the Backspace key also does the same as clicking the Back button. But no one mentioned that Shift-Backspace does the same as clicking the Forward button, though this is the logical corollary. I provided the Alt-arrow key answer because it seems more logical, and it is easier to see that if Alt-left arrow takes you back, then Alt-right arrow should take you forward.
Now that there is a mobile for every adult in the UK, it is the children's turn. And while it has become more expensive to use pay-as-you-go phones, the coming "chat 'n' chuck" phones will make it even easier for children to join the mobile revolution.However, sociologists in Japan, where mobiles have been common among the young for some time and where services are more sophisticated, see an alarming trend, one that we in the UK are likely to follow.In Tokyo, for example, one- quarter of all four to 15-year-olds has a mobile phone. Well over half of Japan's high school students owns one, many of them internet enabled. Half the children polled recently said their lifestyle "required" them to have a mobile phone, while 41.5% said their parents "forced" them to have one.A vox pop conducted on the Tokyo streets by Japan Today magazine, however, suggests that the nations' teens have other reasons for keeping hold of "their best electric friend"."If I can't find my phone I feel really isolated from my friends," says 16-year-old Asuka Maezawa. Emi Inoue, 17, agrees, adding: "It's great for talking to friends about gossip I don't want my parents to hear."The more thorough survey   commissioned by NTT DoCoMo also revealed that about 22% said they talked at least 10 times per day, while 45% said they used their mobile to send 10 or more text messages each day.Parents were also surveyed, with more than a third feeling their children spent too much time on the phone, while 23% said the mobile made it difficult for them to keep tabs on with whom their children were communicating. Tokyo parents may have good reason to be worried, since 26% of the children said they were regularly corresponding with people they had never met.Such density of mobile ownership, especially among the young, has lead to a new type of neurosis, say sociologists. Japanese teens, in particular, have become fanatical about being "always available"."Teenagers can be seen taking advantage of every spare minute to touch base with their friends. It is not the content of the communication but the act of staying in touch that matters. Indeed, many become extremely uneasy if unable to contact their peers countless times each day, fearing they are becoming socially isolated," writes the sociologist Hisao Ishii, the author of The Superficial Social Life of Japan's Mobile Phone Addicts.If this trend continues, he adds, two things are likely to happen. One is mobile phone   addiction, where a person is incapable of forming and maintaining relationships without the help of mobiles. The second: "Genuine conversation will be driven out by superficial communication, in which the act of contacting one another is all that matters, leading to a deterioration in the quality of relationships. Indeed, the very fabric of society may be threatened."An extreme view, perhaps, but the success of wireless web phones in Japan shows more evidence of the mobile revolution's negative impact on children. As emailing, texting and mobile games have become popular, reading on the train, once a major source of pleasure for the long commute by train in Japan's cities, is being passed over."Children read books less and less as they are too busy playing with their technological tools," says the social commentator Ms Maiko Seki. Academic performance may also be affected: 68% of children who responded to the DoCoMo survey and owned a mobile phone said they made poor grades, compared with 49% of those without mobiles, who said they were making good grades.Young Japanese, like youngsters everywhere, are also rejecting the harder-to-master Qwerty keyboard in favour of tapping out messages and surfing the mobile net using one hand.The advent of prepaid   phones, accounting for two-thirds of the UK market, has seen a huge growth in the numbers of phones in children's hands. And the popularity of text messages - 29 million are sent a day in the UK - points to a growing army of mobile-savvy young. Furthermore, a third of young adults aged between 16 and 20 prefer text messaging over all other means of written communication, according to a survey conducted last year by Mori for Vodafone.Handset makers claim, however, that they are not out to market to the under 16s, partly, says Vodafone, because of the health danger outlined in a government report.The Stewart report highlighted the increased health risks to children under 16 using mobile handsets and a circular sent to schools suggests that children below this age should be allowed to make calls only in emergencies.However, some see it as inevitable that children will be targeted through their mobile phones. Martin Belcher, of the mobile content designer Gomagoma.com, says: "Market penetration of mobiles has reached such a level that targeting this sector now makes sense. The social profile of this market, especially the teens/children end, is an advertiser's dream."Children also stand to ben  efit, particularly if their connection is internet enabled. Belcher is working on a revision/mock exam question service for delivery via SMS as part of a business and economics educational portal he has helped develop (see:www.bized.ac.uk/). And teachers are already wise to texting and mobile email, using it to keep in touch with pupils.The Swedish government, which has already banned mobile ads aimed at children, is attempting to stop such advertising within the EU, a move that has little support in the UK, says Belcher. For children, the wireless web might prove to be tough to escape from, even if they wanted to.
Back in timeThe problem with the web is that it is difficult to remember what it used to be like. Sites vanish into the ether or are redeveloped so that the web pages of yesteryear are impossible to find.That's why it is entertaining to discover, in the week the 2001 general election was finally announced, that the pioneeringGE97 siteis still around. It was one of the best UK sites of its day, and is still lurking unattended on someone's server. Pay a visit and indulge in a little web - and political - nostalgia, marvelling at the fact that forums live on, even if the rest is like a ghost site.McSimulationEver wondered what it is like to work at McDonald's? Or are you an ex-employee keen to relive the glory days behind the fast-food chain's bright fa&ccedil;ade? Trip along towww.conceptlab.com/simulator, where there is a simulator of a McEmployee's day from getting out of bed in the morning, to going home at night. There are a few tough decisions along the way - including the hoary old question: blue jeans or brown pants (trousers) to work? You choose.EurovisionFans of kitsch are dusting down the glitter ball and arranging the sofas round the TV - and PC - for Saturday's Eurovision Song Contest. There are several sites devoted to the annual event, where music comes after outlandish costumes, hilarious performances and a scoring system which perfectly highlights any spats dividing the continent.The oldest Eurovision site is atwww.geocities.com/Television/City/1812/eschome.htm, although a prettier - and equally well established - site is atwww.eurosong.net. The latter sports a particularly funny story about how a German contender for the contest was banned after it was revealed the two female singers planned to strip out of their spacesuits mid-performance. What would Terry Wogan have said?Charity ISPChristian Aid has launched    an internet service provider, which will donate "100% of its profits to benefit the world's poorest people". Six sponsors have contributed more than &#163;250,000 in total to launch the ISP, which also sports a portal containing news and features atwww.fish.co.uk. Given the perilous state of many "for-profit" ISPs, it will be interesting to find out how much money they manage to raise...Media MaydayThe UK Independent Media Centre's coverage of the May Day demonstrations in London last week made fascinating reading - often one step ahead of news broadcasts, and painting an alternative picture of what was going on in the streets.UK Indymediais the UK branch of a worldwide   network of alternative news websites. The site, of course, is pursuing its own agenda in just the same way as the "corporate" media it claims to be the antithesis of, but it does make interesting viewing none the less.Streets of gainIf capitalism is still your concern, however, why not check how your capital is progressing?Hometrackclaims to be the UK's leading online property index, allowing you to see how property in your street is comparing against previous months, and the national average.A bit likeUpMyStreetthe information appears a little patchy from time to time - according to the index, prices up my street have both surged since the start of the year, and   stayed the same. Maybe it will work better for you.Face up to greyFor those of us quietly developing black-'n'-grey badger-style hair, the notion of colouring our thatches seems like a better idea every day. For some it is a way of life. If you fit in the latter group, the haircare people Schwarzkopf have a site to keep you entertained for a while.Color105, although they have also helpfully bought the correctly spelledwww.colour105.comallows you to scan in your face and see what you would look like with one of their 105 shades. It is try before you buy, as long as you have a PC (rather than a Mac) and a scanner.Tara the IT girlHair newly coloured, add that final dash of celebrity glitter to your life by visiting the new webpage ofTara Palmer-Tomkinson. Launched last week, it apparently got so many visits it came close to collapse. We are happy to report the server is back out of the Priory and raring to go. The big draw is TPT's promise to "bring you all the juicy, tantalising stuff that I stumble across during my party-hopping and celeb-colliding lifestyle" in her online diary.This week, that includes   news that she threw a party on return from her holiday in the Bahamas, at which Donna Air, Mr and Mrs Pete Tong and shoe designer Patrick Cox attended. You can even text TPT your comments. Best rush along now.New &amp; noted&#149;  Colourful trinkets from India atwww.bombayduck.com&#149;  It's National Restaurant Week -www.toptable.co.uk
Email viruses often make headlines. They waste time and energy, and cause great distress to people all around the world. Could anything be worse? Yes, what about the damage caused every day by taking email for granted? The familiarity and convenience of email is resulting in sloppy, careless habits that could ruin your business and reputation as surely as any email virus.Electronic mail is having a phenomenal effect on the way we communicate. It is not just a quick, easy and cheap way to keep in touch with family and friends. It has also become an essential tool in business. However the explosive growth of email has created new problems, mainly because there has never been a definitive guide to common standards and expectations. Consequently systems are overloaded, communication is rampant, reputations are damaged, feelings hurt and time wasted.One of the main advantages of email is speed, but the pressure of coping with an ever-increasing mailbox is adding to the pressures people face. Messages are sent without much thought or planning, with important details missing, spelling and punctuation errors, and abbreviations that some people don't like or understand. Some messages look as if they are written in code. People are even neglecting the common courtesies of a greeting and sign-off for the sake of speed.High on the list of annoyances when I did some research recently was unfriendly tone. Emotions are hard to convey in emails, and some people type out exactly what they would say without thinking of the tone of voice that would be used to signal their emotions. Without the right tone, misunderstandings could easily happen, or you could offend and lose an important business contact -or even friend. Good writers learn to choose words carefully and get the tone right.Email and information overload is another serious problem, with some managers receiving hundreds of   messages daily. But if we are suffering from overflowing inboxes, how much of it is self-inflicted? Do we send lots of messages just because we can? We must learn to use email more thoughtfully by recognising when we should and should not send messages. If you receive lots of messages that you don't really need to see, tell the authors. And tell your friends not to send those jokes and personal messages to your work email address. Then there's that prolonged email exchange - wouldn't it be better to pick up the phone? Email overload is contributing to a decline in oral communication skills -people send emails to the person in the next office rather than walk a few steps.People are receiving poorly formatted messages, poorly structured messages, emails written in capitals (equivalent to SHOUTING) or all in lower case, and with poor grammar, spelling and punctuation. Someone told me: "When I receive a sloppy message, I think the writer has no respect for me because he/she couldn't take just one minute to check it through and tidy it up."I completely agree. The internet has made it possible for us to communicate with people from all over the world. The only way those people can form an opinion of us is by looking at the way we write. Your credibility could be ruined with one swift click of the 'send' button.Today's way of conducting business is informal so that's what we should aim for in our business writing too - natural, relaxed, friendly, conversational. The only place for standard boring overused cliches like "Please find attached herewith", "I am writing to inform you", "Please be advised", is the recycle bin. Busy businessmen and women haven't got time to plough through loads of old-fashioned, long-winded jargon. Nor should they be subjected to abbreviated, coded, sloppy messages that are full of errors. We should take just as much care in composing email messages as we should with formal letters, memos or faxes. We should use short words and simple expressions, short sentences and short paragraphs that are clear and concise but still courteous. We should take pride in composing effective messages that are structured logically.If you want to improve your electronic rapport with customers and colleagues, if you want to improve your credibility and productivity - remember it's not a computer you are talking to, it's a real live human being. As one contributor to my book is quoted as saying: "Don't let your email turn into an e-NAIL in your business coffin."&#149;  Shirley Taylor's latest book, Guide to Effective E-mail, has just been published in Singapore by TransQuest Asia Publishers .
Membership of the $100 Million Club sounds elite and prestigious, and in a sense it is. It guarantees a certain familiarity and shared experience with a growing number of fellow travellers but not quite in the same way as lunch at Whites or membership of the local Rotary chapter.In small coffee bar in downtown Manhattan, its members gather to sip lattes and chew on Danish pastries that are served free if your credentials are approved -that is, if you can show you've lost $100m or more in the tech and dot.com crash. And there are plenty of members.The coffee shop is owned byPseudo.comfounder Josh Harris, one of the most flamboyant of internet moguls to lose the vast majority of his paper fortune, and the weekly get together is treated as an opportunity for spirited reminiscences. None of his fallen cohorts seem unduly crushed by their professional and economic downfall - indeed some maintain their humbled positions have come as a sobering dose of reality.Just last week, Harris's potential customer base grew larger with the addition of Jeffrey Dachis and Craig Kanarick, founders of the web designing firm Razorfish, whose departure from their firm leaves only a handful of   young entrepreneurs still running Silicon Alley companies that once symbolised the internet phenomenon.For Josh Harris, 39, serving free coffee and pastries and smoking a large cigar, the downturn in his fortunes has its own reward: before the crash he bought two apple orchards in upstate New York, to which he will now devote his time.It was not always so. Harris made his fortune as co-founder of an internet analyst firm, Jupiter Communications, and then lost almost all of it on Pseudo.com, an internet broadcasting company. The company collapsed last year, not long after confidently predicting it would soon rival the big TV networks. Its executive producer, Galinsky, another friend of Harris's, is now a poet-actor.Harris became known for throwing lavish parties in his loft - including hundreds of thousands on a millennium bash - and web-casting his life with his model girlfriend over the web. Now she's left him and the loft is up for sale. After working 18-hour days for   15 years, Harris says he's at least partly relieved."Being nouveau riche for such a short time, you learn some lessons," he laughs. "And at least people have stopped calling me for money."Harris' friend, Adeo Ressi, 29, is a fallen web mogul who saw his stock in the now bankrupt Xceed, an internet services firm, drop 99.8% and his wealth by 1,500 times to less than $3m. Ressi recognises that he, too, like millions of investors, large and small, was taken in by new economy dreams."It was all bullshit," he says. "As a manager of Xceed I knew we were facing serious problems but we started believing the hype."Harris and Ressi are only two of thousands of fallen dot.com moguls. The sudden departure of firms has left acres of precious vacant office space in Manhattan and San Francisco, and scores of web-boom workers wondering what to do next. Those who were known as slackers before they sat down at their computers are now returning to their original roles.One member of the $100 Million Club, Theglobe.com founder Stephan Paternot, has written a book called A Very Public Offering. In it he recalls a CNN interview from 1999 which captured him dancing on a nightclub table in shiny black pants with his model girlfriend, Jennifer   Medley and saying, "Got the girl. Got the money. Now I'm ready to live a disgusting, frivolous life."Nowadays Paternot is more circumspect. "I became the whipping boy of Silicon Alley, a symbol of the internet's success, excess and then the bursting of the internet bubble."Little more than a year since the dot.com boom went bust, it is already time for an instant replay of the dot.com experience to be on film and in art gallery shows. A current exhibition in San Francisco called Dot-gone tries to make sense of the turmoil of the internet economy which moved so fast that it escaped understanding. Meanwhile a new film by Chris Hegedus and DA Pennebaker &#91;of Bob Dylan's Don't Look Back fame&#93; called Startup.com: the Rise and Fall of the American Dream opens in New York this weekend.The film tells the bigger story of how businessmen, venture capitalists and dot.com pioneers and financial news journalists became the celebrities of the 90s, and how business itself became entertainment. It follows two young entrepreneurs as they leave safe, investment house jobs to start GovONE, a website designed to improve the way people pay parking tickets.The film is a vivid document of the period. It was a time when even recently   departed punk hero Joey Ramone published a stock-tips newsletter and wrote a Ramones-style ode to CNBC financial news reporter Maria 'Money Honey' Bartiromo - and the lure of easy fortune became a mass consensual hallucination.But in recent months, as even the strongest dot.coms struggle, a new sentiment has emerged among people who never had - or lost - a paper fortune. The internet entreprenuers have become pariahs in the same vein as the "greed is good" Wall Street junk bond traders of the 80s and schadenfreude has entered the American lexicon.According to philosopher John Portman, the American experience of schadenfreude reflects a deep, middle-class fear of being priced out of the world and rendered obsolete by technological change. "At some level we didn't think 24-year-olds should have those kind of bank accounts. Not that much, not that soon," he says. "Seeing rich, arrogant people brought down to earth is for many deeply satisfying."In Seattle, where a decade-long technology boom transformed the city, sympathy is slight for the sagging fortunes of its young, double tall latte-drinking, mountain-biking dot.com workers dining out on venture capital and illusory stock option fortunes.Many residents of the rainy west coast city, like those of   San Francisco, and to a lesser extent New York, hope the economic downtown will help to ease crippling traffic jams and soaring property prices that have made life more difficult and changed the character of their cities."The place changed; it's like it got greedier," says Anne Buckley, a recently laid off dot.com worker in Seattle where the population has increased by 500,000 people over the past decade. Cities that were once envied as centres of the 90s technology boom now elicit the kind of hostility long reserved for Los Angeles, says Seattle resident and author David Guterson."La-La Land and Latte Land now seem to be equal   targets of ridicule: to the south the tawdry celluloid behemoth dispensing low-brow entertainments; to the north the capital of the new economy with its undeserving nouveaux riches."In San Francisco, too, the collapse of the dot.coms and widespread layoffs at the big tech companies have brought a measure of relief to res idents who resented the city being overrun by twenty-something millionaires. Although still the nation's most expensive city to live in, many residents resented the invasion of the "e-holes.""I feel this indescribable joy when I hear one of these companies has run out of money," says Richard Marquez, a San Francisco social worker. "These people haven't made anything better, as far as I'm concerned."In tune with the new conservative administration in Washington, there is a sense of relief that the old economic rules of profit and loss have been restored - and vindication of the perception that beneficiaries of the dot.com boom were cheating. "People want their traditional values restored and to see the people who challenged them punished," says Steven Reiss, a psychologist at Ohio State University.Signals of the change have begun to   permeate the culture: station wagons are replacing giant four-wheel drives; restaurant managers have declared war on mobile phones. Even the cheerleaders of the new economy - Wall Street analysts and financial newscasters - are negotiating their new circumstances."I think that people have been humbled, and that can't be bad," says CNBC's Nasdaq starlet Bartiromo. "The fact that things don't come so easy is probably good. Maybe things did get a little out of whack and out of reality."Still, taking pleasure in the dot.com bust and the creeping US economic downturn, may not last. "Stupid kids," retorts Ed Koch, the city's mayor during the recession of the late 70s and 80s. "If they knew what it was to live in a depression, or a recession, they wouldn't say what they're saying."At Josh Harris's coffee bar, members of the $100 Million Club do not feel the public's rejoicing in their misfortune is justified. They may now be reconsidering their lives and experiencing early mid-life crises, but point out they could not have experienced such a meteoric rise and fall without the complicity - and investment - of those that now ridicule them. "We are just as culpable as they are," he says, puffing on his cigar. "They got greedy just like everyone else."
Play on TVWe finally have a 24-hour games TV channel: Game Network started broadcasting to the UK on Tuesday, and it is available on satellite channel number 223 of Sky Digital's Electronic Programme Guide. However, it is already well known in parts of   Europe, the Middle East and Africa.The channel was started in Italy in 1999, and is already available in more than 40 countries. The large number of people who don't have access to Sky can get a glimpse of the channel from its streaming webcast aswww.game-network.netBill's big catchNot surprisingly, Microsoft has bought Ensemble Studios Inc, the games developer behind its bestselling, award-winning Age of Empires. The series has shifted almost 9m units. The studio will stay in Dallas, Texas, rather than move to Microsoft's headquarters in Seattle.Ensemble adds to the string of developers Microsoft has picked up recently, including FASA Interactive (MechWarrior), Access Software (Links), Digital Anvil (StarLancer) and Bungie (Oni, Halo). But unlike Sony, Microsoft has not yet taken over any UK-based developers.Board sillyNor surprisingly, Activision is hard at work preparing the launch of the third version of its Tony Hawk's skateboarding game. Pro Skater 3 will appear on six platforms including Microsoft's Xbox console and Nintendo's Game Boy Advance. The new version lets you skate through "realistic urban settings com  plete with pedestrians, cars, traffic accidents, natural disasters and changing weather conditions." Pro Skater 2 was   in the PlayStation top 10 for 24 weeks and has sold more than 250,000 copies in the UK alone.Rocky ridesBritain's Kuju Entertainment - which is developing a train simulator for Microsoft - has produced a golf game for Nokia's Wap-based Mobile Entertainment Service. The game has two 18-hole courses and one 9-hole course. SCi, best known for Carmageddon, is also developing games for mobile phones: in this case, they are based on the Thunderbirds series.Finally, Rage, in Liverpool, has signed a licensing deal to produce games based on Sylvester Stallone's five Rocky films. The first in the series has just celebrated its 25th anniversary.
Everyone can surf the web: its amazing simplicity is part of its appeal.But it is better to surf with the browser set up to work the way you like it. This is done using the View and Favorites menus in Microsoft's Internet Explorer 5.IE5 is the browser most people use, and it is available for Windows PCs and Apple Macintoshes. However, other browsers, such as Opera and Netscape, offer similar facilities.Most browsing is done using five standard buttons, the Address Bar, and the pull-down list of favourites or bookmarks.The standard buttons are, naturally enough, on IE5's Standard Buttons toolbar (View|Toolbars|Standard Buttons). The address box, where you can type or paste in internet addresses, is on the Address Bar. There is also a Links bar, for links, and a Radio bar, which has a volume slider.You can arrange these toolbars however you like. Each has a "handle" (two vertical lines on the far left): use the mouse to grab the handle, and hold down the left mouse button while you move the bar into position.You probably will not want to customise these toolbars by, for example, adding or removing icons. However, you may want to remove the text labels under the icons, because this means they take up less room, and more icons can be shown at once.Select View|Toolbars| Customize: two drop-down menus (bottom left) let you choose whether or not to have labels, and either large or small icons.The first five icons are the most heavily used, so it may also be worth learning their keyboard shortcuts. The icons (and shortcuts) are: Back (Alt+left arrow key), Forward (Alt+right arrow), Stop button (Esc), Refresh (F5 and Control-F5), and Home (Alt+Home key).The other shortcut well worth knowing is Control-N, which opens a new window.BookmarksThe Favorites menu provides a useful way of keeping a link to sites you want to revisit. These are sometimes called bookmarks -Netscape's name for them. However, this menu can easily become a mess, and the software IE5 provides to organise it (Favorites| Organise Favorites) is extremely cumbersome.Fortunately, there is an easier way. Open Windows Explorer, and go to the C:\Windows\Favorites directory where the links are stored. Now you can use the usual Windows Explorer commands to organise your   bookmarks. Create some extra subdirectories (File|New|Folder) and give them useful names, such as Finance or Games. Then use the mouse to move bookmarks into the appropriate subdirectories and sub-subdirectories.No folder should have more than about 15 entries. If there is a link you no longer want, highlight it and press the delete key.In Favorites, new links are always added to the bottom of the list. When you go back to Internet Explorer, sort them into alphabetical order. To do this, go to the section you want, right-click somewhere inside the pane, and select Sort by Name from the drop-down list.The Favorites folder has a directory called Links. This is the place to put your four or five most visited sites such as Google, The Guardian, Hotsheet, Visto, or whatever. The entries in this directory will appear on the Links toolbar. Make sure the names are short or you will not get many in. (You   can rename links in Windows Explorer by pressing the F2 key.) If the links do not appear in your preferred order, select a link, hold down the left mouse button, and move it to the position you want.You can also keep favourites as icons on the Windows desktop. To do this, go to the website, click IE's File menu, select Send, then choose Shortcut to Desktop. When you double-click the resulting icon, the browser will go to that page.Desktop space is usually too valuable to waste on bookmarks. However, it can be a handy place to store links temporarily. You can always delete them by moving the shortcut icons to the Recycle Bin.More iconsInternet Explorer has more bars on the View menu - including three standard Explorer bars - and at least three more icons on the Standard Button Bar. The three standard Explorer bars are Search, Favorites   and History, and each also has an icon. Clicking the globe-with-magnifier icon (Search) has the same effect as selecting View|Explorer Bar|Search or pressing Control-E. The starred folder icon calls up the Favorites panel, while the sundial summons the History panel.Unlike toolbars, Explorer bars pop up in a panel on the left hand side of the browser.After use, each panel can be closed in the usual way, by clicking the cross in the top right hand corner.Having seen the way Favorites works, you should not be surprised to find History works in the same way. Each time you visit a site, its address is stored in a Windows subdirectory at C:\Windows\History.If you want to clear out some, but not all of your History file, you can use Windows Explorer to select and delete folders or entries in this directory.
Sky OdysseyPlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 Sony	****Marketing triumph it may have been, but Sony's Play Station 2 has seen some distinctly underwhelming games. While Sega's Dreamcast, flooded by quality software, has met with fatal indifference from the punters, the PS2 has sold well despite having only two decent titles (SSX Snowboarding and Star Wars: Starfighter).Actually make that two-and-a-half. Sky Odyssey is a welcome, if flawed, release.   Eschewing violence, guns and, at times, enjoyment, Odyssey lets you fly a variety of planes around a deserted archipelago.In a manner similar to Nintendo's classic Pilotwings,   hoops have to be flown through and checkpoints reached, but it is the slow, yet rewarding, pace that shines.Each aircraft, from bi-plane to jet, flies differently and, although anoraks   will appreciate the realism, relative accessibility means newcomers should not be put off.Once in the air you will be flying through wind, rain and snow to complete missions   ranging from A to B jaunts to flying through caves. It can be tricky to play but the main problem is the graphics.When the PS2 was announced, bold claims - animated blades of virtual   grass and so on - were used to highlight the console's graphics. This is nonsense, of course, as Odyssey shows.Yes, the planes and landscapes look fine but get up high and watch in horror as mountains pop up out of nowhere. Elsewhere, blemish-hiding fog keeps even the sunniest day smoggy.Nevertheless, you can forgive the graphical imperfection, because looping through caves or hovering just above sea-level is exhilarating.While arcade fans will fidget throughout the slow-paced "action", gamers looking for a more relaxing way to use a joypad will enjoy mastering the aircraft and completing the challenges.Though by no means perfect, Sky Odyssey is a PlayStation 2 first: it plays better than it looks.Daytona USA 2001Sega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99 Sega	***If you used to hang out in seedy arcades playing Daytona USA, the home console version provides almost everything except the flashing lights and the need for a continuous supply of coins. But if you want much more than this, this game hasn't got it.Daytona USA 2001 provides a superior sort of stock-car racing, with lots of cars and daredevil overtaking. If that's your bag, try starting 40th in a four-lap race. This is not a formula one simulation: you have to drive on an adrenaline rush.But you only get a choice of four cars initially, set-up is minimal, and there are only eight circuits. Three come from Daytona USA, so you start off rolling, in familiar territory. Two tracks have been rescued from the Sega Saturn version of Daytona, and three are new.Racing is fair. The controls   are twitchy, and while cars are easy to drive on automatic, manual gear changes are tricky. You can get away with a few collisions, but damage slows your car down, and going into the pits for repairs is a good way to finish last.Winning is hard, at least over short races - I never managed it. Finishing in the top five would be an achievement, although no doubt it gets easier if you put in the hours needed to master the tracks.There is a two-player split-screen mode, which gives the game a bit of longevity.   However, the online mode, where up to four can play, has gone missing from the European version.It's hard to complain about Daytona USA 2001. It is a good reproduction of the venerable arcade classic, plus a few extras such as championship and time- trial modes. It provides more or less instant playability, which should appeal to the back-from-the-pub crowd.It is fun. And while it has a distinct lack of depth, even for a console racer, depth was never part of its appeal.  (JS)Tribes 2Dynamix/Sierra 	&#163;TBA PC CD-Rom	****Right, where am I? Boom. Oh. Well, wherever I am, I'm dead. OK, let's restart. Now, that looks like our base - screeeeee... Dead again... restart. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da. Dead. Restart...If the above sequence of events sounds familiar, you've probably sampled online combat - and discovered that you're nowhere near good enough. If that's the case, you should think carefully before purchasing either Tribes or its new sequel Tribes 2, commonly and correctly regarded as the hardest multiplayer experiences around.While the game looks and feels like a first-person shooter, team play is the order of the day. So whereas in a Quake 3 bloodbath the chief idea is to protect your own skin at all costs, you may well, in an intense Tribes 2 battle, be asked to lay down your life for the sake of your team.   You'll also find yourself using some rather more impressive toys: forcefields and gun turrets; armoured vehicles; and even a jetpack.You can play as male, female or bioderm (what we oldsters would call a cyborg); swear allegiance to one of six guilds; wear light, medium or heavy armour; play capture the flag, rabbit, hunter, bounty, capture and hold, or deathmatch; play defensive, evasive, or all-out stupid.Of course, the choices mean nothing if you're going to be eating dirt every five seconds, so a jaunt through the comprehensive training mode is essential. Start off setting the computer AI to   Utterly Witless, run through the five missions, then up the difficulty level gradually. A hundred times. After all that, you might be good enough to join the mayhem online.There's one more condition: if you want smooth gameplay and pretty graphics, you'll need a supercomputer with enough processing power to beat Garry Kasparov, solve Fermat's theorem and invent a perpetual motion machine.Now, there aren't many games worth shelling out thousands of pounds for, and months and months of practice, but Tribes 2 might be one of them. (AB)
iBookApple Macintosh 	 From &#163;1,099 	****Apple's new iBook, right, was unveiled last week, a radical all-white revamp of the consumer and education-focused laptop first introduced in autumn 1999.I bought an earlier iBook and have become intimately acquainted with its strengths, and shortcomings. The old iBook was strong, had a great screen and six hours' battery life (five in real life). But all this came at the expense of hard disk space, size and weight. After a long day, the old iBook felt like lead.Has Apple addressed these problems? First impressions suggest yes, they have.Gone are the oval expanses of rubber and plastic around the screen and keyboard. The elegant white shell is tight to   the edge of display and keyboard, and the box is thinner. And iBook has lost weight, too - more than two pounds - without losing any of its strength, claims Apple (I couldn't test Online's loan machine in the same way as I had my own iBook - by throwing the rucksack containing it over my shoulder after a trip on an escalator). The exterior shell is smooth and feels well built, with no flimsy flaps to snap off.The new machine gains a lot of flexibility. Once, the ability to connect a lead and the laptop to an external screen or TV was reserved for the PowerBook, the iBook's more expensive sibling.Now the iBook has its own monitor and TV out sockets, so you could deliver a presentation on a projector, watch DVDs on a big screen or plug in an external monitor to mirror what is on the iBook's screen while at your desk.The 12.1-inch screen is sharp and bright, and comes with a high default resolution of 1024 by 768 pixels. You get a lot on the screen - the same as the iMac's 15-inch monitor - but the downside is that type can appear small.Sound has been improved a little, with two tinny stereo speakers replacing the previous one tinny speaker. A 10GB hard drive is standard, although more can be fitted to order. There is 64MB of memory on the basic iBook, while all the others come with 128MB - the minimum required to run the new   Mac OS X system. Upgrading to 128Mb (which I would recommend) costs &#163;68 from &lt;A HREF="http://www.uk.apple.com."Finally," TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.uk.apple.com.Finally,iBook now also has two USB sockets and a FireWire port as standard, so you can plug in your digital camcorder, download your footage and use the pre-loaded iMovie software to create your own films.So, if the new iBook is thinner, more capable and more adaptable than before, and taking into account it's cheaper too (starts at &#163;1,099 including VAT, but without that extra memory), is there anything to complain about?Well yes, a little. Gone is the glowing plug-surround to indicate when the iBook was charged, although it is replaced by a battery meter on the outside of the case.The MHz number watchers will also note that the new iBook only comes with a 500MHz G3 processor, and that this might not be enough for the new OS X should you decide to install it (OS 9.1 comes pre-loaded). But 500MHz is hardly slothful - even under OS X - and if raw power is your concern, the PowerBook should satisfy. Similarly, the ATI Rage Mobility 128 3D graphics card is not the greatest around: iTunes' graphics are noticeably   poorer than on a G4 Mac. Again, PowerBooks can offer more, for a price.Of more importance, the new iBook boasts five hours between charges, against six hours for the old version. Apple has sacrificed some stamina in favour of a lighter battery, but you are likely to get only four hours of "real life" use. That is superior to many laptops, but a spare battery or charger would be necessary for many on the move.But these are minor quibbles with a package which, overall, is attractive and (for Apple) reasonably priced.After a slightly gawky adolescence, iBook has reached maturity: better looking, more intelligent and better equipped to deal with the outside world.&#149; Available to order now. Delivery 3-5 weeks.
Did IBM play fair? It is a question that Garry Kasparov, the world's greatest chess player, raised after his defeat by IBM's Deep Blue chess computer five years ago. "I have my doubts it was a machine," says Kasparov. "Some of the machine's decisions cannot be reproduced in pure conditions."The point is that humans can and do make unpredictable moves, but a computer's can be precisely accounted for, and should be repeatable, as in a scientific experiment."To prove the success of your experiment you have to be able to repeat it in pure conditions," he continues. "The event was organised by IBM, run by IBM, paid for by IBM, and no information required by professional players and computer specialists was released."Their refusal to release print-outs, their refusal to continue with the program, their decision to dismantle Deep Blue - the only impartial witness - just puts this single experiment out of the scientific rank."IBM benefited immensely; I suffered humiliating defeat. But at the end of the day, it has no significance, either for man versus machine &#91;as a&#93; sporting contest or for scientific investigation. I think the experiment will have to be renewed but differently. The machine has to be supervised as thoroughly as the human player and every single datum has to be revealed."So I think that IBM didn't behave properly, but it's a big   big corporation, and it's virtually impossible to challenge them in the media. They buy too much advertising - that's what I was told by certain press organisations."Kasparov, now 37, had been world chess champion from the age of 22, and had never lost a match to a human opponent, so he might have been forgiven for holding a grudge against computers. But that is not the case. Like many travelling players he uses the ChessBase program to prepare himself for games, and he plays "speed chess" against computer programs before competitions. "It's useful for professional players because it sharpens your tactics. So I'll play a few blitz games against the computer because it's the ultimate test."His visit to London last month to play a charity match, coincided with the launch of Virtual Kasparov, which he says is the first significant chess program for the Sony PlayStation. I went to talk to him in his suite at London's Savoy where, unlike the hairier, geekier chess masters, he does not look out of place.Kasparov is well dressed and looks fitter, tougher and, unnervingly, no older than when we last met some 15 years ago. His CV lists weight-training as one of his interests, and I'd rather face   him over a chessboard than in a boxing ring.Neither is likely to happen, but perhaps I can beat the Virtual Kasparov instead. Does it play like him?"It caters for everyone from total beginners, but at its highest level, it does imitate Garry Kasparov's playing style," he says. "First, it prefers Kasparov's openings over Karpov's or Kramnik's &#91;the world chess champions before and after him&#93;. Every chess program is quite different in evaluating positions, because the priority systems are designed with different values. This one obviously will prefer a more aggressive approach. It tends to value initiative, and that's pretty much Garry Kasparov's style: aggressive, adamant."What's important, he says, is taking chess to home game players rather than PC users. "That's quite new for chess," he says. "Its success could symbolise the sweeping change in the perception of the game in a non-chess orientated audience."Of course, most serious chess players have portable PCs because they need to run ChessBase, a huge database of chess games that first appeared for the Atari ST in Germany in the 80s. Kasparov runs it on a subnotebook PC, a Toshiba Libretto.He has also been involved with a number of websites over the past six years, and the current focus is KCO, Kasparov Chess Online."As you know, it's a very harsh time in the market," he says, "it's more about survival. The site is expanding, and we've developed a product of very reasonable quality. If we   sail through these stormy waters, then by the end of the year we will have a very strong site and commercially it will be a success."Chess is suffering from a lack of visible support in the mainstream," says Kasparov, meaning TV and national newspapers. The internet "allows us to expand the boundaries dramatically. We know that millions of people are playing chess, but without TV coverage, you can hardly expect to get any serious advertising revenues. With the internet we can compensate for the lack of TV coverage, and sooner or later that will raise awareness of the value of chess competitions on the professional level. It's the only way to go."Also we're doing a lot with schools and the response is always positive: parents and educational authorities are happy with kids playing chess, not wasting time running round the streets, and it creates good communications between different countries and continents."Kasparov has founded a chess academy in Tel Aviv, and the programme is awaiting approval by the Israeli ministry of education. He then wants to extend the idea through the rest of the world.The aim is not just to raise awareness, but to get it on the curriculum in the US and other countries. "The academy in Israel plays a vital role in realising my greatest dream: to see Garry Kasparov's legacy as having chess in every classroom worldwide. Things like Virtual Kasparov are small steps on a long road with a very noble goal at the end."
Are personal digital assistants becoming a credible alternative to laptops?Among "mobile professionals" they are. It's not just Psion who would say that, I'm sure Palm and Microsoft would say the same. I still use a laptop, so a PDA is not a full replacement but there are many applications, email being a good example, where they are doing so. There's still an element of manufacturers positioning them as "gadgets" - an example being the building of MP3 into a PDA or a mobile. It is not all that usable because of memory constraints and battery issues.Is there a saturation point for PDAs?If there is, we are a long way from it. The UK and Switzerland have the highest penetration for PDA use per capita at about 5%. This is significantly lower than for mobile phones.What applications are becoming useable for handhelds?Everyone tries to identify killer applications but I don't think it's clear that there are any. Messaging is big today but with GPRS (general packet radio service) it will be even better and more convenient. The cellular operators are keen to see us move from SMS (text) messaging to enhanced and multimedia messaging.How important will 3G technology become?3G will be a significant step forward for wireless technologies and will enable many new, exciting and compelling applications. However, operators are struggling with the complexity and costs, which will inevitably delay market adoption. Psion's strategy involves a number of wireless technologies of which 3G will ultimately be a major one. Until then, our focus is on today's technology, ie Bluetooth, GSM and GPRS.Is the dearth of available bandwidth in the UK a major problem?Band-width and cost will need movement and simplification before the mass market can adopt 3G devices. There is much talk and hype surrounding applications that require significant bandwidth. These applications could become reality, but at what cost?Is convergence the key word for the future?We will see converged devices but that doesn't necessarily mean you'll want one device that does everything. When you converge devices, it brings with it compromise. You have to weigh up whether by being clever you might be sacrificing aspects of usability.Do you have a favourite gadget?My current favourite is the Psion WaveFinder. It's an interactive digital radio receiver. We believe that Digital Audio Broadcasting is going to be important, as well as very synergistic with 3G. 3G is going to be point to point whereas DAB is broadcast. The quality of the content delivered over DAB is also fantastic.Any favourite websites?www.mobilelifestreams.comis a great source of all things wireless. Alsowww.ft.comandwww.nasdaq.comVisit:www.psion.com
Sony's ClieThe US economy might be responsible for a slump in sales of handheld PCs, yet the new models keep coming. Announced this week are a pair of PDAs that add a few twists to the basic Palm styling and its operating system . Due in the US stores in June, with a UK launch pre  dicted for autumn, is Sony's second take on the PDA. The $500 PEG N710C Clie's headline facility is its 320x320 pixel colour screen, which will make graphics and type much clearer.The PEG N710C, right, also features an audio player that plays back files in both MP3 and Sony's proprietary compression format, ATRAC3.  The device is operated via the 3.52S version of the Palm OS and    uses Motorola's 33MHz DragonBall VZ processor. Owners can enhance the Clie's specification via its Memory Stick slot. Sony is promising digital cameras, global positioning system and Bluetooth add-ons early in 2002. Seewww.sony style.com/vaio/clie.Also due in US stores this month is the $350 HandEra 330 Palm OS-based PDA. The part of the device usually devoted to the Graffiti text input system can be made to disappear, enlarging the screen as a whole. Other    facilities include a voice memo system, built-in speakers and two expansion card slots compatible with SD (Secure Digital), MultiMedia and CompactFlash cards. It also features Motorola's 33MHz DragonBall VZ processor. Details atwww.handera.com80s revivalPhilips is reviving a friend from the late 80s. The mini 8cm CD format, once used for CD singles but recently featured in Sony's Mavica range of digital cameras, returns on the Philips eXpanium 401 player. According to Philips, music files are burned on to the 8cm discs in the same way as they are on to standard 12cm CD-R/CD-RW discs.   Each write-once 8cm disc can store up to 200MB of music, translating to at least three hours of MP3 encoded tunes.As the new eXpanium is designed exclusively to play back 8cm CDs, it is significantly smaller and lighter than standard CD personals. It boasts an anti-shock mechanism, a dynamic bass boost and is powered by a single AA battery. The eXpanium 401 is expected to retail for around &#163;150, with the discs selling for around &#163;2 each. Seewww.expanium.philips.com.Get personalPanasonic is hoping to grab the lead in the DVD personal cinema market with two new models. The key feature on its &#163;1,000 DVD L70 is the   lithium ion battery, which delivers five hours of movies before the screen goes blank.Other facilities include a seven-inch TFT LCD widescreen, a digital optical audio output compatible with Dolby Digital and DTS surround sound formats and an array of picture-enhancement modes. Owners can listen from the unit's built-in speakers or via headphones. The DVD L70 will not play back CD-R and CD-RW discs, a key feature of Panasonic's second personal DVD player, the &#163;850 DVD-L60. The cheaper model has a 5.8inch TFT widescreen LCD and offers four hours of movie playback from one battery charge. Both will be on sale in the next two weeks. Seewww.panasonic.co.uk
Bad mixNeil McIntosh makes a good case for listening to internet radio with RealPlayer (Step by step, May 3). Unfortunately he fails to address the downside.I clicked away according to his instructions and soon reached the Search page, where I asked for stations broadcasting "Classics".This produced lots of "Rock and Roll Classics" and about three "Symphonic Classics" of the Easy Listening variety. Alright, perhaps Classics is too wide a classification to be useful. So I tried "Scandinavian Contemporary", which unaccountably offered "Country Music from Nashville"! Then I went for "Chinese folk", which defeated it completely!Henry Ford famously said of his Model T car, "They can have any colour they want, so long as its black." It would seem that RealPlayer offers music from anywhere in the world, so long as it's American pop.Windows Media Player is slightly worse, in that its Presets list is headed by a dozen stations that can't be moved or deleted.John Kingjohnmking@clara.co.ukNice of you to mention Macs (without spitting) twice this week but far simpler for internet radio than Real Player is Apple's iTunes, which makes it a real breeze to listen to internet radio and, on my iBook and speakers, sounds better than it usually does on the tuner.Jason Daviesucrajpd@ucl.ac.ukNo dreamI read with interest Dave Birch's slightly pessimistic take on the world of 3G phones (Online, May 3) and the financial woes of all companies involved.During his look to the future, he imagines a day when maps can be sent to his phone.  I am happy to tell Mr Birch   that MapInfo has already made his dreams come true.We provide the Location-Based Intelligence for Vodafone's unique Vizzavi service. This is not a dream, or something that may happen by 2005. This is something very real that works today.However, the future isn't just about putting a map on a mobile device, it's about providing information to a user that is always relevant to their constantly changing position.Whatever new uses people put their mobile devices to, you can be confident intelligent location-based intelligence will be at its core.On another brighter note, I am glad to let Mr Birch in on a secret. Not all companies involved with 3G are hugely in debt. At MapInfo we have just posted a 30% revenue increase year-on-year and managed to add 18 cents to our stock value on Nasdaq.So, the old saying must be true...  where there's maps... there's brass.David FlowerGeneral manager and VP EMEA, MapInfoDave Birch complains that the ticket machines at Woking don't even take &#163;20 notes. He's lucky. At Sevenoaks station they won't even take "new" &#163;10 notes.Martyn Berryberrymartyn@beeb.netThe inventors have got it wrong - again. I don't want a mobile that will tell me where I am. Even in my present enfeebled state, I am usually capable of determining that.What I really need is a mobile for my teenagers that will tell me, when they ring me, where they are.John Horganjohn.horgan@dcu.ieNet vegansThanks for a well-timed (and helpful!) article, which introduced the notions of veganism while making it sound tasty! As a vegan by association (I live with one), I have scrounged for recipes, especially cakes.This search is complicated by my allergy to Soya products (which makes us, as a couple, a dastardly duo for any dinner party), and a worse allergy to righteousness.One vegan site had an entire article about a birthday cake, before the recipe was   revealed. First, the moral issue around giving a child a birthday day cake was lost on me (there are no Nobel Prizes given for Party Poopers). Then the recipe was a labour-intensive affair that tried to imitate a "normal" cake.Fortunately, with a little more searching, I came up with egg-less/milk-less and Soya-less recipes that were invented in the depression era! Of course! And they were delicious (probably due to leaving out that little teaspoon of high moral tone!).I hope that readers give some thought to going animal-free, and these recipe websites will surely help! Many thanks.Mary Benefielmarybenefiel@yahoo.comCongratulations on a timely and well written article on vegan websites.I thought you might also like to know aboutwww.veggieheaven.com, which has over 230 vegetarian and vegan recipes and also a UK Vegetarian Restaurant Guide based on reviews sent in by the public. It currently covers a total of 114 restaurants in 66 towns and cities - and is growing!Peter Ridingpeter@webserve.co.ukLarkin aboutRespect to the composer of the one line text poem: "They phone you up your mum &amp; dad."In the case of my Mum, who has recently been given a mobile but has yet to mistress the technology, the next, unsupplied, line applies too.Will Wattswillw@applied.co.uk
A fresh email virus - of the same type as the 'Anna Kournikova' and 'love bug' outbreaks - has been sweeping through companies from Australia to Europe.The 'homepage' virus redirects a user's browser to a pornographic website, but does not delete files or otherwise alter the computer. The damage occurs when the virus emails itself to everyone in a user's address book, clogging up a company's web server and shutting it down.Computer security firm Sophos said that about 40 companies in the UK have been hit so far. The Australian government has also confirmed an attack. Last year the 'I Love You' virus infected an estimated 45m computers across Asia, Europe and North America.The subject header is 'homepage' and the text of the email reads, "Hi, you've got to see this page!" If a user then double clicks on the attachment - marked homepage.html.vbs - the virus will begin sending out infected emails.According to Graham Cluley, a senior technical consulatant at Sophos, the virus appears to have been written with the same downloadable 'virus kit' that spawned the Anna Kournikova outbreak on Valentine's day.He added that companies should simply block Visual Basic, or vbs, email attachments and that users should think twice before opening an attachment with a vbs extension."It is just over a year since the love bug virus, and if users had learned lessons from that we would not have this situation. People need to start blocking vbs files and practising safe computing," Mr Cluley said.Related articles08.03.2001: Don't believe the virus hype15.02.2001: Hacker launched Anna bug 'as a warning'14.02.2001: 'Anna' email virus wreaks havoc
Lastminute.com yesterday appeared to rein in its international expansion ambitions as part of a drive to turn a profit ahead of schedule.It plans to focus on its "core" markets of Britain, France and Germany and reduce costs by 50% in territories including Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and parts of Scandinavia. Analysts said the move cast a shadow over Lastminute's strategy of creating a pan-European business.Allan Leighton, the chairman, said improving profit margins and a tighter control of costs should enable the core operations in Britain and France to move into profit within the next year.The future of the other international divisions, described as "satellite" operations, is unclear despite assurances that the e-tailer remains commit ted to building a pan-European business."I think they're admitting that the opportunity in some of those small countries is not as big as they first thought," said Heidi Fitzpatrick, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.Lastminute refused to say how each individual territory was performing, although analysts, who are increasingly frustrated at the lack of transparency in the reporting, estimate that Britain and France could account for as much as 95% of turnover.France makes a big contribution following last year's &#163;59m acquisition of Degriftour and analysts speculate that Lastminute might have to pull off a similar takeover in Germany if it is to become one of the top three players in that market.Without a big presence in Germany the market opportunity for Lastminute in Europe   was substantially reduced, Ms Fitzpatrick added.Uncertainty over wider international plans overshadowed a solid set of quarterly results from British e-commerce sector's best-known company.Total order value the three months to March 31 - a fraught period for most internet firms - rose 37% on the previous quarter to &#163;31m, while cash burn came in under &#163;10m for the first time, at &#163;9.1m.Pre-tax losses narrowed slightly to &#163;14.3m, leaving a better than expected &#163;61.8m cash in the bank.Martha Lane Fox, Lastminute's chief operating officer, said a four percentage point year-on- year climb in gross profit margins to 13.9% and a 38% rise in customer numbers demonstrated the business had strong foundations.
An analyst's upgrade and the award of new employee share options helped to lift Cisco, the internet equipment manufacturer, ahead of its third-quarter earnings yesterday.Shares in the company rose by as much as 5% to just over $20 (&#163;14) yesterday amid indications that the company would also reprice options for its senior managers.Tim Ghriskey, a fund manager of Dreyfus, said the change suggested that Cisco management believed that a price bottom had been reached.Shares in the Silicon Valley-based company have fallen more than 70% in the past year from a 52-week high of $70.The company's shares were helped yesterday when Christopher Stix, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said the company would "outperform" the market as its business improved.The company was still expected to report sharply lower earnings last night.Several analysts said that hints about its future performance would be far more important that the historic numbers.Mr Ghriskey said: "The key here is really what the outlook is. The guidance they give is all important. It will help what the tech sector does as a whole."Last month, Cisco warned that its third-quarter results would be far below forecasts and that sales would decline for the first time in its history.The company also announced plans to cut 8,500 jobs - or 17% of its workforce - and to write down $2.5bn of inventory.With sales overseas as well as in the US being affected, Cisco said that turnover in the fourth quarter could fall as much as 10%.
For field staff with Ockenden International, the scary bit of working with displaced communities or rootless refugees in volatile countries such as Afghanistan or Uganda can sometimes be soothed and smoothed by a laptop link or cellphone call to the charity's base in leafy Surrey.For would-be donors attracted to the sunny (though sweaty) side of giving through sponsorship, IT makes the process easy. Via Ockenden's website, they can sign up for such worthy challenges as bike rides through Cuba or trekking on the Inca trail in Peru.With an annual income of just over &#163;1m, Ockenden is a positive instance of a medium-sized charity using new technology in a useful - if still limited - way that is common enough for commercial firms but relatively new for voluntary organisations. Its position is much better now than it was when finance controller Liz Whiting joined seven years ago: the office then boasted just two PCs. "We've introduced a Windows network, there's a PC on every desk and all overseas staff are linked by a secure computer system," says Whiting.But there is still a lot more that IT could do for the organisation. "We're not properly networked for emails and we can't afford a dedicated IT member of staff," Whiting admits.The issue of how far to embrace IT, and how much to spend on it, torments many charities. It's a sensitive point. Funds earmarked for computer hardware, software and staff   training usually come from donations, leaving less for the good causes that charities are there for. Will donors resent part of their cash being diverted in this way?Yet if bought-in computer expertise is seen as too expensive, not to say scarce, what is holding back cooperative schemes, whereby several charities might jointly hire a consultant to divide a working week among them?Proper IT resourcing has the potential to make life a whole lot easier for many of Britain's charities. But the evidence suggests that not all managers are fully aware of the benefits - and that concerns about costs are holding back others who are.A new survey, supported by the Guardian, shows that while most charities now have their own information websites, use of IT for internal office purposes is generally patchy. Asked "how well is your organisation embracing technology?", only 37% felt confident enough to reply "well". The majority (64%) settled for "OK".It is the mid-range and small charities which tend to be in the most difficulty with new technology, according to John Tate, chairman of Tate Bramald, an IT consultancy which organised the survey. He says: "Those who can't afford an IT department - those with just a few PCs and a small network - are in an awful position. The external services they hire &#91;to run their systems&#93; are often variable, and costs often spiral out of control."The survey results, published today, are based on replies from 221   charities, of which 55% described their focus as education and training, 45% welfare and 34% mental and/or physical disabilities (several identified more than one). By size, only 6% said they had more than 500 staff; most (59%) employed fewer than 50. By income, 38% said they banked between &#163;100,000 and &#163;1m a year, and 33% between &#163;1m and &#163;5m, although the range extended from &#163;25,000 to in excess of &#163;100m.The typical charity surveyed had only one person concentrating on IT, and 37% had nobody in this role, buying in outside help as necessary. Budgets for IT tended to be small - some &#163;20,000 a year on average and usually accounting for less than 2% of income.Huge percentages affirmed that IT had made their charity more effective at communicating - internally, 82%; externally, 90%. Yet many charities appeared to echo Whiting's view that "it's a case of having prudent, rather than leading edge, technology" when it comes to updating equipment. Only 46% predicted that they would be spending more next year; 25% thought they would be spending less than now. Just 30% of systems were accessible by staff away from the office. Charities have at least recognised the value of having their own websites: 82% of those surveyed had   set them up, either for marketing and information or for trading online, or both. But they might not be using them to the best advantage: only 37% undertook weekly updates; 40% monthly.Overall, 34% of the charities were offering membership online, or soliciting donations, while 29% said they would do so next year. The bigger the charity, the more likely it was to be reaching supporters by the internet, but 23% had no plans to use their websites in this way.Opinion was split over the value of e-commerce to charities: 30% said it was very important to their competitiveness, but 45% rated it unimportant or irrelevant; only 26% said it mattered in terms of possible income, with 34% saying it did not.Given that chief executive officers and heads of finance have crucial roles in deciding how far their organisations embrace IT, the survey - carried out in conjunction with the Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations and the Charity Finance Directors Group - asked them several specific questions. Only 43% of chief executives confessed to being happy with their own knowledge of current developments in IT. By contrast, 58% of finance chiefs felt confident, but only 52% agreed that their chief executive "visibly helps develop the IT strategy".Tate suggests that this wariness on the part of chief executives may reflect some charities' bad experiences, with several having got their fingers badly burned by poor investment in new technology. And he admits: "PC-based systems have been expensive to install and maintain, and IT projects have consistently taken longer to implement and cost more than has been budgeted."However, he says there are substantial benefits for those prepared to be patient. "The forward-thinking charities are realising that there is a huge opportunity to actually start to reap the rewards of this investment, particularly through the use of web technology," he says. "The internet is proving a highly cost effective medium for communicating both with staff and volunteers and with external individuals and organisations."Tate also argues that IT will enable major cost reductions on the back of information that is captured once at source, avoiding the need for endless re-keying of information. Chief executives may at times fail to understand the scale of the opportunity, he says.But there is one big area of caution. As to how popular and stable online giving will prove to be as a way of getting donations, Tait says: "The jury is still out." The personal approach, he believes, is one of the great strengths of the charity world and should not be discarded lightly.
Not so healthyAs a former journalist, Robert Norton is acutely aware of the good copy that his story makes. "We have been a bit of symbol of the times," he admits. "The speed with which we raised our funding, and then the fact that we were gone relatively quickly ..." He allows himself a big grin.ClickMango, the natural health website started by Norton, now 29, and his business partner, Toby Rowland, had famously raised &#163;8m just eight days after the pair had begun to look for funding.It was a tale that they were happy to spin at the time, but which came back to haunt them when they started to look for second-round financing. "This time I knocked on 100 doors over three months and we couldn't get even a penny," Norton says. Despite the high-profile endorsement of the actress, Joanna Lumley, ClickMango closed just four months after its launch.The website's original business plan had forecast breakeven in year four, but as market conditions worsened, investors started to change their criteria. "People were looking for the next big thing, which at that time was business-to-business websites."It was important for Norton that the operation closed while there was still enough money in the bank to pay creditors and staff, and he says that he has not been deterred from attempting another start-up. He is currently doing consultancy work for other dot.coms, and his experiences are to be used by the London Business School. He won't, though, be looking for a full-time job. He and Rowland want time to work on new ideas."The past year has been a journey, and one that has prepared us to do other things we wouldn't have been able to do, and also to take responsibility when things don't work out as you hope. How you manage yourself on the way down is as important as how you do it on the way up."David TeatherBuilt to lastBrent Hoberman's father had told him the idea was "useless". His eventual business partner, Martha Lane Fox, needed some serious cajoling to give up her job and join him.Yet five months after our last survey, and at the height of dot.com frenzy,Lastminute.com, a website aimed at compulsive consumers, floated on the London stock market valued at around &#163;600m.Less than two years old, heavily loss-making and with a turnover of less than the average pub, it managed to create huge excitement among private investors chasing dot.com fortunes.In the process it transformed Hoberman, now 33, and Lane Fox, 28, who had previously held down unspectacular jobs at relatively anonymous media companies, into national celebrities. The photogenic young founders,   who mercilessly courted publicity and were notionally worth almost &#163;100m between them when the company floated, became an obsession for a national press that was bored by suited businessmen and pored over every inch of their personal lives.When the internet bubble burst, one paper even took to charting the fall in Lane Fox's wealth on a daily basis. "It's been relentless," she says. "The media attention, the technology issues, the decisions, the growth - it's just been a relentless period. At times it's been difficult, but overall it has been an incredible and hugely varied experience which I feel very fortune to have experienced and at a relatively young age."Shares in Lastminute have fallen spectacularly since the flotation, and have lost more than 90% of their one-time value. Many private investors feel that they have had their fingers burnt, but Lane Fox has pledged that better times are ahead."We've come a very long way and are forecast by analysts to turnover &#163;150m this calender   year. This is a company which has really come to fruition and is going to succeed."Following the acquisition of a rival in France, Lastminute is now Europe's biggest internet travel firm and one of the continent's best known dot.com brands. Three million people receive email from the firm every week.Today, Lane Fox still works at least 12 hours a day, seven days a week, and spends much of her time travelling to Lastminute offices which are spread across seven European countries. Last week it was two days in France; this week, Sweden; next week, Germany.She insists that, of course, she buys from the Lastminute website. "The stewardess are always amused that I'm crammed right at the back of the plane on a Lastminute ticket."Previously based on Oxford Street in London, they have now moved to a building overlooking Buckingham Palace. "The rent's cheaper," she explains. "We've still got the football table and all the offices are open plan, so some things stay the same."John CassyA sporting chanceRob Hersov was a pin up for many budding internet entrepreneurs. The 40-year-old South African set the blueprint for thinking big withSportal, a network of sports websites which attracted investment from the likes of Bernard Arnault's Europ@web and BSkyB. The business raised more than &#163;50m through two fundraisings, established operations thoughout Europe, Asia and Australasia, and employed 300 people.Last year the company pulled off a coup by winning the rights to be the official website for the Euro 2000 football championships, and attracted the attentions of French pay-per-view television group Canal Plus. Hersov was weeks away from selling the business for around &#163;280m. Then the market imploded and the deal was off. Now Sportal is down to 220 staff, and trying to raise a third round of funding. If it fails, it faces closure."No one is immune to what's going on," Hersov   says. "Financing dried up, strategic buyers dried up. There is a complete lack of confidence."Hersov says the company needs just &#163;5-6m to break even, but is finding it difficult to attract investors. "If we get it, we're heroes. If we don't ..." A deadening silence. "This is an immediate issue, not something we face in six months' time. It's very frustrating. In a lot of cases businesses are closing down just as they approach break even because the venture capital community is in denial."Hersov is a good friend of that other South African internet entrepreneur, Lastminute.com's Brent Hoberman. "It's been interesting seeing who has stuck with it and who has jumped in the past four months or so when there has been the most pressure. Some jump, some stay with you in the bunker."Hersov is involved in a number of other start-ups, including Ant Factory, an incubator for start-ups. But the past three years have been a set-back financially. "My wife has said, 'Why not get a nice corporate job with business class flights?', but I've got the bug."David TeatherPart 1 of the e50Richard Downs, 34Iglu.comWhat does it do?Provides online ski accommodation.How it's gone:Downs says the business is close to profitability. Some "natural attrition" of staff as the business has shifted focus, but has benefited from being a specialist site and not depending on advertising.Valuation:Second-round funding in July 2000 of &#163;2.7m, taking total to &#163;6m. Downs and other management hold less than 40%. At last valuation, his stake is likely to have increased from &#163;2.4m to around &#163;5m.Ernst Malmsten, 30, and Kajsa Leander, 31Boo.comWhat does it do?Sportswear retailer.How it's gone:Bust. The online fashion firm was the highest profile dot.com casualty as it burnt around &#163;70m in record time and put 300 people out of jobs. The duo who wanted "to bring beautiful clothing to the world" are now writing a book on how it all went wrong.Valuation:Worth around &#163;10m each last time around; today, maximum of &#163;1m between them from previous ventures.Carol Dukes, 38ThinkNatural.comWhat does it do?Sells natural health and beauty products.How it's gone:Expanded in the UK and launched in Germany. Growth slower than hoped, but has "money in the bank for a year at least". Moved into mail order, revenues now split with online. Superdrug is an investor and own-label products to be launched in store.Valuation:Raised &#163;10m in second round of financing in May 2000, valuing business at &#163;35m. Four directors share &#163;10m stake.Daniel Gestetner, 29ShopSmartWhat does it do?Shopping portal that acts as a guide to retail sites.How it's gone:Grew from 12 to 80 people. Three months ago decided to seek a buyer or merger, finally agreeing a deal with Barclays Bank venture IndigoSquare a month ago. Uncertain whether Gestetner will work for the new set-up.Valuation:Talk of a stock-market flotation, valuing the business at &#163;200-&#163;300m. Eventually sold for &#163;1m in cash and 10% stake in the combined company. Gestetner and other directors held less than 50% at sale.Simon Murdoch, 39Episode 1 PartnersWhat does it do?Provides financial backing and advice for internet start-ups.How it's gone:Former boss of Amazon.co.uk, Murdoch set up &#163;70m venture capital fund with investment bank JP Morgan. Invested &#163;17m in nine businesses, but only one so far this year - the marketing services company, The Works.Valuation:Made an estimated &#163;5m from sale of Bookpages to Amazon. Rich enough never to have to work again.David Lethbridge, 37Confetti.co.ukWhat does it do?Provides wedding services, from gifts to dresses to honeymoons.How it's gone:Bought the second and third players in the online wedding market in October, as well as gift mail order business, Burley House. Recently launched in Germany. Says there is enough money in the bank to see the company through to profitability, depending upon expansion plans. Up from 20 to 60 staff.Valuation:Valued last year at &#163;20m. Lethbridge had one-third 18 months ago, now "significantly less".Michael Ross, 32EasyshopWhat does it do?Sells underwear.How it's gone:The online lingerie business has had a tough time but is still trading healthily. Having changed name to figleaves.com, raised &#163;4m and is planning expansion in the US. The former management consultant admits he sometimes covets the security of his old job.Valuation:From around &#163;5m last time to &#163;1m today.Ewan Macleod, 23Liv4Now.comWhat does it do?A portal catering for "youth" leisure interests such as clubs and bars.How it's gone:The community website raised &#163;700,000 in November 1999. Employs 10 people and Macleod says it is already close to breaking even, with cash still in the bank. Launched an outsourcing division and manages community sites for the likes of Handbag.com and World Online. Partner Serena Doshi now part-time.Valuation:Still has a significant stake in the business as only one round of funding.Xavier Azalbert, 36First-eWhat does it do?Online banking.How it's gone:Has attracted &#163;37.8m investment. In November last year Azalbert left to took over at Xelector, a Dublin-based provider of comparison-shopping technology for the net, which raised &#163;15m to finance a pan-European expansion.Valuation:New company worth &#163;175m, but Azalbert's stake unknown.Ziad Salem, 27Future Internet TechnologiesWhat does it do?Provides software    that stores company databases online.How it's gone:Floated in June last year and raised &#163;3m from the sale of shares in web business Ant Factory. In October acquired AnytimeNow as a brand for Future Internet Technologies.Valuation:Was worth &#163;3m, similar today.Paul Barry-Walsh, 44NetstoreWhat does it do?Data warehousing via the internet.How it's gone:Floated on the stock market in April 2000, reported a loss of &#163;1.1m and is valued at &#163;27m. Barry-Walsh also sold his computer disaster recovery firm, SafetyNet, last June, pocketing &#163;70m, and used the proceeds to set up a charitable foundation called Fredericks. Invested in 10 companies, hoping the money raised will fund the foundation.Valuation:Around &#163;87.5m last time, now nearer &#163;70m.Dylan Wilk, 27Gameplay.comWhat does it do?Sells computer games via direct mail and over the web.How it's gone:Wilk has ridden the dot.com rollercoaster. Gameplay's valuation jumped from &#163;60m    to &#163;130m but has since slumped to &#163;18.2m as it struggles to work out what its long-term future is.Valuation:Still has the &#163;2m cash he got from selling his mail-order computer game business to Gameplay, and drew a &#163;76,000 salary until quitting last week. Shareholding worth &#163;3m last time, now worth just &#163;1m.Steve Bennett, 34Jungle.comWhat does it do?Retails computer software, music, videos and games.How it's gone:Once tipped for a &#163;700m flotation, Jungle was sold last September to Argos owner Great Universal Stores for &#163;33m, with Bennett pocketing around &#163;11m. Still working for Jungle but has other ideas up his sleave. Working on Globalshed.com, a DIY portal, with friend and former Big Breakfast presenter, Johnny Vaughan.Valuation:Steady at around &#163;15m.Mark Bernstein, 40GameplayWhat does it do?Online games portal.How it's gone:A rollercoaster ride. Won the backing of giants BSkyB, BT and Dixons and looked set for a multi-million pound fortune. But losses have forced Gameplay to cut hundreds of jobs and put itself up for sale.Valuation:Down from &#163;7m to &#163;1.5m.Robert Bonnier, 30Scoot.comWhat does it do?Online equivalent to Yellow Pages.How it's gone:The Dutch-born entrepreneur looked to have pulled off a coup when the online directory service won the backing of media giant Vivendi Universal last year. Scoot shares soared, valuing the firm at more than &#163;2bn, and Bonnier at &#163;140m, but have fallen sharply since then and the company is now thought to be looking for a buyer.Valuation:&#163;4m.James Corsellis, 30IcollectorWhat does it do?Online auction service.How it's gone:Corsellis moved from CEO to become deputy chairman in January 2001. Icollector entered into joint deals with CNN and the FT. In September sold their web consultancy business, CM Interactive, which raised capital to be invested back into the business. Launched joint site with ebay, which brought in 29 million customers. They now represent 100 auction houses and recently had 1,200 people bidding online.Valuation:"The value of the share price has dropped by about 90% plus, and I don't even bother to look any more."Nick Denton, 35Moreover.comWhat does it do?Aggregates news sources from 1,500 company websites.How it's gone:Has secured the backing of Reuters, admits times are tougher, but claims Moreover has enough cash to see it through to profitability. Pocketed a few hundred thousand pounds from the sale last summer of network  ing club, First Tuesday.Valuation:Paper fortune of around &#163;10m, up from &#163;3m, but not yet turned into cash.Jason Drummond, 31Virtual InternetWhat does it do?Gets businesses online, working with FTSE 100 companies.How it's gone:Set up with &#163;10,000 savings six years ago, and briefly valued last year at &#163;240m. The Porsche-driving father of two has grown revenues and customer numbers, but the company is still loss-making.Valuation:Down from &#163;40m to &#163;9m.Nick Gilbert, 32NewsNowWhat does it do?Collates news headlines from other news websites.How it's gone:Now collates headlines from more than 800 sites, but company growth unknown. Gilbert is still involved in NewsNow, but declined to answer any questions.Valuation:Was &#163;4m, likely to be less now.Adam Gold, 31ObongoWhat does it do?A next generation passport or e-wallet.How it's gone:His Silicon Valley based e-wallet firm has grown steadily but    has reportedly been put up for sale for &#163;300m. Established on the West Coast as one of the leading British entrepreneurs, but unlikely to make the US his long-term home.Valuation:Undisclosed, but like former flatmate Nick Denton (qv), pocketed few hundred thousand pounds from First Tuesday sale.Abby Hardoon, 38Magic MomentsWhat does it do?Helps companies on to the web.How it's gone:Listed on the stockmarket and then last May acquired main competitor, WebFusion, which doubled the number of clients. Acquired another firm in Germany, and now employs 79 people.Valuation:About &#163;4m.Paul Sykes, 57Internet investorWhat does he do?No longer a net player.How it's gone:The no-nonsense Yorkshireman told us last time that he planned to quit the internet because the bubble was about to burst - and was as good as his word. Devotes his time to fighting the euro.Valuation:&#163;425m.Tim Jackson, 34QXLcomWhat does it do?Online auction house.How it's gone:Quit to become a venture capitalist. His QXL shareholding soared to &#163;272m in his absence - and then lost 99% of its value in he crash. He recently resigned his venture capital position, now concentrating on his newspaper column.Valuation:Worth &#163;37m last time round. Now closer to &#163;3m.Danny Kelly, 44365 CorporationWhat does it do?Provides online sports, entertainment and lifestyle news.How it's gone:The business has transformed from a frontier entrepreneur operation into an established public company, but is valued at a fraction of its former &#163;500m. "I have to survive on my salary and I have resisted the temptation to buy yachts and islands."Valuation:From &#163;10m to less than &#163;1m.Becky Lancashire, 30ClickmusicWhat does it do?Independent music search engine and directory.How it's gone:"Fantastically well," she says, but no financial details given. Last summer, value was estimated between &#163;8-12m.Valuation:Up from &#163;1m to &#163;2m.Stuart Lawley, 37Oneview.netWhat does it do?Provides service for small businesses wanting to get on the web.How it's gone:Taken over by freecom.net in May last year, and Lawley was set to head the company's US operations. He sold his house and was on his way to the Bahamas for a    family holiday when the deal unravelled and he resigned. He has not returned from the US and it is not known what he is doing now.Valuation:Unknown.Wayne Lochner, 44, and Terry Plummer, 51Affinity InternetWhat does it do?Provides internet access.How it's gone:Shares soared shortly after our first profile, briefly valuing the two men at almost &#163;500m each. But toughter competition has hit the shares, which have fallen heavily.Valuation:From &#163;17.5m each last time to &#163;18m today.Dr Mike Lynch, 35AutonomyWhat does it do?Provides software to categorise information on the internet.How it's gone:Was worth just &#163;310m when we first profiled Lynch, but soared to &#163;5bn last year and he almost became a billionaire. Customer numbers are at a record high, but missed profit forecasts and a slowing economic environment have since shattered share price. Now worth around &#163;500m.Valuation:Lynch cashed in &#163;50m shares last year and still has a holding worth &#163;90m.Paul Lindsay, 43The eXchangeWhat does it do?Provides online financial services.How it's gone:Lindsay made a paper profit of &#163;12.2m when eXchange Holdings floated in August 1999. Shares soared from the 200p issue price to as high as 385p in December 1999, valuing the business at &#163;841m. Has since changed its name to MoneyXtra, and called in investment bankers last September to advise on a sale or break-up of the business.Valuation:&#163;51m.Dan Metcalfe, 37Fortune CityWhat does it do?Provides community website hosting.How it's gone:Metcalfe is now vice chairman of Fortune City, the 14th biggest website network in the world. Involved in a financial network and an Internet infrastructure company. Metcalfe still holds a 6% stake in the company.Valuation:Unknown.Jan Murray, 52Internet Technology GroupWhat does it do?Internet access provider.How it's gone:Murray has just sold the company to US firm Concentric for &#163;146m, making himself &#163;41m. He has since set up Red Wave to acquire the non-ISP properties of the Internet Technology Group. Redwave was taken over by Wave European Technologies last November, and is now based in the Channel Islands.Valuation:&#163;50m.Charles Nasser, 31ClaraNETWhat does it do?Internet access provider to UK and Europe.How it's gone:It is still going but has fallen in valuation from more than &#163;300m to around &#163;50m. Nasser has achieved his ambition of expanding into Europe by opening offices in Paris, Frankfurt and Barcelona. Customers include 600,000 consumers and 20,000 businesses. Replaced his last car (16 years old) with an 11-year-old Chevrolet.Valuation:&#163;40m.James Page, 30Deckchair.comWhat does it do?Provides online travel service.How it's gone:Page left the online travel business he founded with Live Aid organiser Bob Geldof last year and is now working in Australia on a new venture. Deckchair was valued at &#163;30m at the time - with Page holding 50% of the shares - but fell sharply in value as dot.com hype disappeared. Sold to rival World Travel Corporation for around &#163;3m in March.Valuation:Down from &#163;15m to &#163;1m.Rouzbeh Pirouz, 29Mondus.comWhat does it do?Provides online business matchmaking service linking supplier and customers.How it's gone:The company has continued to grow under the guidance of the former Rhodes Scholar, who put his degree in oriental studies on hold. Raised &#163;100m from Seat Pagine Gialle of Italy, and the firm is valued at &#163;260m, and has 120 employees. Expects a profit late next year. Still has the same girlfriend but has bought a BMW convertible. "It was secondhand with 50,000 miles on the clock, though," he says.Valuation:Pirouz was worth &#163;10m last time out. Closer to &#163;30m today.Research by Laura MilneUseful linkWho's who: The original e50 list
James Corsellis, 30IcollectorWhat does it do?Online auction service.How it's gone:Corsellis moved from CEO to become deputy chairman in January 2001. Icollector entered into joint deals with CNN and the FT. In September sold their web consultancy business, CM Interactive, which raised capital to be invested back into the business. Launched joint site with ebay, which brought in 29 million customers. They now represent 100 auction houses and recently had 1,200 people bidding online.Valuation:"The value of the share price has dropped by about 90% plus, and I don't even bother to look any more."
Robert Bonnier, 30www.Scoot.comWhat does it do?Online equivalent to Yellow Pages.How it's gone:The Dutch-born entrepreneur looked to have pulled off a coup when the online directory service won the backing of media giant Vivendi Universal last year. Scoot shares soared, valuing the firm at more than &#163;2bn, and Bonnier at &#163;140m, but have fallen sharply since then and the company is now thought to be looking for a buyer.Valuation:&#163;4m.
Nick Denton, 35www.moreover.comWhat does it do?Aggregates news sources from 1,500 company websites.How it's gone:Has secured the backing of Reuters, admits times are tougher, but claims Moreover has enough cash to see it through to profitability. Pocketed a few hundred thousand pounds from the sale last summer of network  ing club, First Tuesday.Valuation:Paper fortune of around &#163;10m, up from &#163;3m, but not yet turned into cash.
Paul Barry-Walsh, 44NetstoreWhat does it do?Data warehousing via the internet.How it's gone:Floated on the stock market in April 2000, reported a loss of &#163;1.1m and is valued at &#163;27m. Barry-Walsh also sold his computer disaster recovery firm, SafetyNet, last June, pocketing &#163;70m, and used the proceeds to set up a charitable foundation called Fredericks. Invested in 10 companies, hoping the money raised will fund the foundation.Valuation:Around &#163;87.5m last time, now nearer &#163;70m.
Steve Bennett, 34www.Jungle.comWhat does it do?Retails computer software, music, videos and games.How it's gone:Once tipped for a &#163;700m flotation, Jungle was sold last September to Argos owner Great Universal Stores for &#163;33m, with Bennett pocketing around &#163;11m. Still working for Jungle but has other ideas up his sleave. Working on Globalshed.com, a DIY portal, with friend and former Big Breakfast presenter, Johnny Vaughan.Valuation:Steady at around &#163;15m.
Dylan Wilk, 27www.Gameplay.comWhat does it do?Sells computer games via direct mail and over the web.How it's gone:Wilk has ridden the dot.com rollercoaster. Gameplay's valuation jumped from &#163;60m    to &#163;130m but has since slumped to &#163;18.2m as it struggles to work out what its long-term future is.Valuation:Still has the &#163;2m cash he got from selling his mail-order computer game business to Gameplay, and drew a &#163;76,000 salary until quitting last week. Shareholding worth &#163;3m last time, now worth just &#163;1m. &lt;BR
Mark Bernstein, 40GameplayWhat does it do?Online games portal.How it's gone:A rollercoaster ride. Won the backing of giants BSkyB, BT and Dixons and looked set for a multi-million pound fortune. But losses have forced Gameplay to cut hundreds of jobs and put itself up for sale.Valuation:Down from &#163;7m to &#163;1.5m.
Ewan Macleod, 23www.Liv4Now.comWhat does it do?A portal catering for "youth" leisure interests such as clubs and bars.How it's gone:The community website raised &#163;700,000 in November 1999. Employs 10 people and Macleod says it is already close to breaking even, with cash still in the bank. Launched an outsourcing division and manages community sites for the likes of Handbag.com and World Online. Partner Serena Doshi now part-time.Valuation:Still has a significant stake in the business as only one round of funding.
Ziad Salem, 27LFuture Internet TechnologiesWhat does it do?Provides software    that stores company databases online.How it's gone:Floated in June last year and raised &#163;3m from the sale of shares in web business Ant Factory. In October acquired AnytimeNow as a brand for Future Internet Technologies.Valuation:Was worth &#163;3m, similar today.
David Lethbridge, 37www.Confetti.co.ukWhat does it do?Provides wedding services, from gifts to dresses to honeymoons.How it's gone:Bought the second and third players in the online wedding market in October, as well as gift mail order business, Burley House. Recently launched in Germany. Says there is enough money in the bank to see the company through to profitability, depending upon expansion plans. Up from 20 to 60 staff.Valuation:Valued last year at &#163;20m. Lethbridge had one-third 18 months ago, now "significantly less".
Michael Ross, 32EasyshopWhat does it do?Sells underwear.How it's gone:The online lingerie business has had a tough time but is still trading healthily. Having changed name to figleaves.com, raised &#163;4m and is planning expansion in the US. The former management consultant admits he sometimes covets the security of his old job.Valuation:From around &#163;5m last time to &#163;1m today.
Xavier Azalbert, 36First-eWhat does it do?Online banking.How it's gone:Has attracted &#163;37.8m investment. In November last year Azalbert left to took over at Xelector, a Dublin-based provider of comparison-shopping technology for the net, which raised &#163;15m to finance a pan-European expansion.Valuation:New company worth &#163;175m, but Azalbert's stake unknown.
Simon Murdoch, 39Episode 1 PartnersWhat does it do?Provides financial backing and advice for internet start-ups.How it's gone:Former boss of Amazon.co.uk, Murdoch set up &#163;70m venture capital fund with investment bank JP Morgan. Invested &#163;17m in nine businesses, but only one so far this year - the marketing services company, The Works.Valuation:Made an estimated &#163;5m from sale of Bookpages to Amazon. Rich enough never to have to work again.
Daniel Gestetner, 29www.ShopSmart.comWhat does it do?Shopping portal that acts as a guide to retail sites.How it's gone:Grew from 12 to 80 people. Three months ago decided to seek a buyer or merger, finally agreeing a deal with Barclays Bank venture IndigoSquare a month ago. Uncertain whether Gestetner will work for the new set-up.Valuation:Talk of a stock-market flotation, valuing the business at &#163;200-&#163;300m. Eventually sold for &#163;1m in cash and 10% stake in the combined company. Gestetner and other directors held less than 50% at sale.
David Lethbridge, 37www.Confetti.co.ukWhat does it do?Provides wedding services, from gifts to dresses to honeymoons.How it's gone:Bought the second and third players in the online wedding market in October, as well as gift mail order business, Burley House. Recently launched in Germany. Says there is enough money in the bank to see the company through to profitability, depending upon expansion plans. Up from 20 to 60 staff.Valuation:Valued last year at &#163;20m. Lethbridge had one-third 18 months ago, now "significantly less".
Ernst Malmsten, 30, and Kajsa Leander, 31www.Boo.comWhat does it do?Sportswear retailer.How it's gone:Bust. The online fashion firm was the highest profile dot.com casualty as it burnt around &#163;70m in record time and put 300 people out of jobs. The duo who wanted "to bring beautiful clothing to the world" are now writing a book on how it all went wrong.Valuation:Worth around &#163;10m each last time around; today, maximum of &#163;1m between them from previous ventures.
Carol Dukes, 38www.ThinkNatural.comWhat does it do?Sells natural health and beauty products.How it's gone:Expanded in the UK and launched in Germany. Growth slower than hoped, but has "money in the bank for a year at least". Moved into mail order, revenues now split with online. Superdrug is an investor and own-label products to be launched in store.Valuation:Raised &#163;10m in second round of financing in May 2000, valuing business at &#163;35m. Four directors share &#163;10m stake.
Richard Downs, 34www.Iglu.comWhat does it do?Provides online ski accommodation.How it's gone:Downs says the business is close to profitability. Some "natural attrition" of staff as the business has shifted focus, but has benefited from being a specialist site and not depending on advertising.Valuation:Second-round funding in July 2000 of &#163;2.7m, taking total to &#163;6m. Downs and other management hold less than 40%. At last valuation, his stake is likely to have increased from &#163;2.4m to around &#163;5m.
Richard Downs, 34www.Iglu.comWhat does it do?Provides online ski accommodation.How it's gone:Downs says the business is close to profitability. Some "natural attrition" of staff as the business has shifted focus, but has benefited from being a specialist site and not depending on advertising.Valuation:Second-round funding in July 2000 of &#163;2.7m, taking total to &#163;6m. Downs and other management hold less than 40%. At last valuation, his stake is likely to have increased from &#163;2.4m to around &#163;5m.
