Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Why are retailers so afraid of the "C" word? Why do they find saying "compatibility" so difficult? Wander into an electronics shop and you will be confronted with shiny flatscreen televisions all boasting of being HD-ready. Pick up the information leaflet from the British Video Association and it will tell you that "HD video - the new players and discs - will be arriving before Christmas".The leaflet explains: "You'll need a new player to put the new HD disc in ... there are two HD systems arriving in the UK before Christmas: Blu-ray disc and HD DVD. At present both systems offer broadly similar performance with enhanced picture quality and sound."But wait. Two formats? Is this VHS v Betamax all over again? Or are the new DVD formats compatible? You'd expect the British Video Association to give you a clue. But nowhere on this leaflet - nor on its website (bva.org.uk) - does it mention that Blu-ray and HD DVD are not compatible, and each requires a separate player. So which way should you jump? If you haven't made your mind up, don't worry - neither has the technology world.A key issue for consumers is cost. Dan Cornelius, UK marketing manager for Microsoft's Xbox 360 division (which is firmly in the HD DVD camp) says: "You can buy an HD DVD player for the Xbox360 for &pound;129" - and more than 10m of the consoles have sold worldwide, which makes the format affordable for a lot of people.Sony was a driving force behind the development of Blu-ray, and its PlayStation3 console includes a Blu-ray player. However, the PS3, which arrives in Europe tomorrow, is very much the latecomer to the next-gen console party: the Xbox 360 has its feet firmly under the table and Nintendo's Wii - which even eschews DVD video playback, but capitalises on being fun and different - is also a hit, selling one unit a second on its launch last year in the UK. And the PS3 - or "delay station" as Cornelius chortles - isn't cheap. The console alone will cost &pound;425 in the UK.The other key is content. Jean-Paul Eekhout of TDK - "an outspoken supporter of Blu-ray" - points out that eight of the nine leading Hollywood studios have pledged support for Blu-ray, with five of them - Disney, Sony, Fox, Lionsgate and MGM - saying they will only release their movies in the Blu-ray DVD format.However, the mainstream studios are not the only producers of films in California: the adult industry churns out an enormous number of titles every year, and those filmmakers have had the decision over which format to plump for made for them. Sony said in January that it would not allow its disc-copying facility, Sony DADC, to replicate porn - and pornography helped VHS win over Betamax.Adam Fingerman of Sonic, which makes both consumer burning software (Roxio Easy Creator Suite for the PC and Toast for the Mac) and professional authoring software for Hollywood says: "We've delivered authoring tools in both formats to Hollywood and it's neck and neck between HD DVD and Blu-ray."Fingerman says that at the moment, the infrastructure for producing next-gen DVD formats is better for HD DVD: "It's another form of DVD rather than a whole new technology."It's early days, though. "At this point, HD is not for everyone," says Dan Cornelius of Microsoft. He's right. There is little high-def broadcast television available in the UK, with Sky producing a limited amount of sport and movies for an extra cost on top of its existing package and the BBC running a limited trial of high-definition Freeview broadcasts. "Broadcasters are dragging their heels," says Eekhout of TDK. He believes high-definition broadcasts will finally drive consumers to buy their new DVD players and "finally to experience what their new HD TVs are capable of". "This coming Christmas will be an interesting time," says Fingerman of Sonic, which is "format-neutral". He adds: "High-definition TVs are already affordable. People have the TVs but they don't have the source material to maximise their investment."So is it worth being an early adopter? The answer is not yet. And maybe you won't have to choose after all. Fingerman reckons that convergence between the two formats will come. LG showed off a dual-format player at CES in January, while Samsung, so far in the Blu-ray corner, has said it will look at bringing out a unified player if the format war doesn't settle down. NEC, meanwhile, has produced a chip that can play back both formats, which would help drive development of dual-format players."Players will come down this Christmas," predicts Fingerman. "There will be a lot more titles and that will help complete the story."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The web revolution that is turning whole industries from music to television upside down has been slow to reach the cosy world of books - apart, that is, from the pioneering bookseller Amazon. Not any more. Interesting things are happening on a variety of fronts that are changing the way books are found, read and talked about, and in almost every case for the good. Even while you are reading this, Google and others are scanning libraries of books - including the Bodleian at Oxford - to make tomes that were hitherto hidden available for all to read; in the case of the millions of out-of-copyright and "orphaned" ones, where ownership is unknown, for free.Using Google's book search you can even scour footnotes, though in the case of a copyrighted book you have to buy it to make much sense of the information. Anyone who thought that the web was going to kill books has to explain the fact that at the very least there are now millions more waiting to be killed off. It is a wonderful development soiled only by the myopic opposition of some publishers who are too close to see the tectonic plates changing the nature of their trade. If you add in the admirable Gutenberg.org, which claims 2m free downloads of out-of-copyright books a month, plus other copycat sites - such aspagebypagebooks.com- then this is the golden age of access to books.But how do you read them? Trying to do it online is almost as big a pain as the costly business of printing out 300 pages of every book you want to take on holiday. But help is imminent in the shape of the Sony eReader (reviewed hererecently, but mainly available in the US) and the more versatile, but less user-friendly, iLiad. They use "e-ink" which removes the need for a backlit screen and, contrary to my early impressions, can even be read well on a beach. It is also possible to read whole books on mobile devices (the Nokia N800 internet tablet is much used for this) and even on an ordinary mobile phone screen, several words flashing at a time, using ICUE. Or, if you want to be professional about it, you could download the text of a book from the likes of Gutenberg then upload it to a self-publishing site such asLulu.comand make it into a real paperback book for a few quid (plus a rather high postage charge).If all this sounds like too much of a lonesome activity then look no further than the wonderfullibrarything.com, which is bringing social networking to books in a potentially huge way. It is well loved by its 160,000 enthusiastic members (up from 20,000 when my colleague Andrew Brown wrote about it last September) but has the potential to attract millions. If you want to input a book from your bookshelf or bookclub simply type in the beginning of the title and up comes the book with colour cover and blank stars waiting or you to rate it or write a review. If that is too difficult then you can buy a cheap bar code scanner that will do it even more quickly.Either way you soon have a database of your books that can be viewed by other librarything groupies around the world. I found it eerie to discover that someone else had read the same books on an arcane subject that I had (no, not internet related). You immediately feel an affinity with a total stranger. The site has the usual accoutrements of community websites such as tags with lots of discussion groups and this month teamed up with the excellent AbeBooks, which now claims to be the biggest online bookseller anywhere. It provides a shopfront for second-hand bookshops around the world whose existence was once threatened by the web. Independent reviews from librarything (in which AbeBooks now has a 40% stake) can be read before purchasing online. Far from being killed off by the web, books have been reinvented on a bigger scale.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Two months ago I stopped using Opera - the smallest, once the fastest, and often the best browser ever built. Opera had all the good ideas years before everyone else. It had tabbed browsing in 1997, and proper CSS support in the same year, long before there was any proper CSS to decode. Early this century it had a tiny chat client built in that would work across all the main networks. The Opera email client worked the same magic as Gmail, sorting and searching the mail without you needing to do so yourself, but more quickly, and it worked offline as well; its junk filter is very nearly as good Gmail's, and much better than Thunderbird's.Opera had a searchable history, tagged favourites and instant searchable clipping to disk built in years before these things were available anywhere else. It has prettier, more professional skins than Firefox, a really well-thought out user interface, doesn't crash much, and it is entirely free.Giving it up, then, was a wrench, but also a lesson in what standards really mean. I switched to Firefox and Thunderbird not because they are intrinsically better. They are not. In some ways each program is inferior to its Opera counterpart. The trouble is that they work better with the rest of the web and even with the rest of my computer.The list of sites that don't work quite right with Opera includes almost all of the showpieces of Ajax: Flickr, Gmail, Google Calendar, Yahoo's fancy sites ... all of these are built to work with Firefox and MS Internet Explorer. They work the way those browsers do, with all their unofficial quirks. Opera, with its tiny user base, is largely ignored. If more web designers tested their work in Opera - and it is a lovely browser for design work - the problem might be eliminated. But since they don't, more and more of the interesting sites don't work with it, which means there is less incentive to test - and so it goes.It was Flickr that pushed me over the edge. For some reason, Opera will not show the annotation features there, and is also extremely slow to render the Flash-based parts of the site. Once I was using Firefox for one site, I discovered that there are now a couple of Firefox add-ons better than their Opera counterparts. Again, this is new, and a consequence of a small user base. For years, Opera would have built in much better thought out versions of most Firefox extensions for such things as tabbed browsing. But it has nothing that is as good as Scrapbook for filing pages offline for future reference; and its ad-blocking facilities, while good, are not as good as Firefox's Adblock Plus. I will tolerate advertisements so long as they are not animated. The moment something squirms or flickers I squash it like a bug.Then there is communication with the world my side of the router: all the files spread across my own computer. In some ways, Opera is unsurpassable here. Its email program is blindingly fast at finding something in a pile of 20,000 saved messages. But a couple of times last autumn messages went missing, and that is intolerable. Nor do desktop search programs make a good job of rummaging through Opera's emails, while something about its interactions with the clipboard means that it doesn't function well with external note clipping programs like OneNote and Evernote.Most importantly, it won't do MAPI, the standard way for Windows programs to tell an email program that they want a message sent. This is a typical example of Opera's stiff-necked Norwegian rectitude. The developers think MAPI is unsafe, or improper. But I don't care. I want to be able quickly and easily to attach files to a mail program. Once more, vulgar democracy trumps severe academic authority.In software, as in politics, it it not enough to be right, and sometimes it is a disadvantage. What really matters is that you should get on with everyone else, especially the powerful. The story of Opera shows that the real standards bodies on the web are no longer the W3 consortium but Google and, to a lesser extent, Yahoo. Their flavours of Ajax are what Windows used to be: the platform that everyone must write to.thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In my teens I was an active member of photo.net. Back then I registered with my real name, not really considering the long-term implications. Several years later, I find that no matter what I do, the website won't change, hide or remove my name. I don't like the idea that when someone searches for my name, photo.net is always near the top of the results. ChrisA few sites will change a name on request, but once something is posted on the web, it is practically impossible to remove it. Even if a site took the trouble to remove your comments, they could well survive in various search engine caches, mirror sites, Usenet messages and the internet archive known as the Wayback Machine (http://www.archive.org/). In the longer term, however, many sites go bust and vast amounts of new information swamp the old stuff, so earlier posts should become progressively harder to find.I do have some sympathy for Photo.net, which told you that its use of real names tended to improve the quality of the discussion: "We don't aspire to be an anonymous mud-slinging forum." The Guardian's website provides ample confirmation ofJohn Gabriel's theorythat given anonymity and an audience, even normal people tend to behave like jerks.
I can't install a new version of Adobe Reader because it can't uninstall the old version 7, and it says: "Contact your technical support group". Trying to uninstall the program manually does not work. Peter KenyonYou will not be surprised to hear that uninstallation problems are covered in TechNotes on Adobe's website.One advises you to download the Microsoft Windows Installer Cleanup Utility, msicuu2.exe, which "removes enough information from the registry to reinstall Acrobat and restore the missing registry keys".You candownload msicuu2.exe here, where Microsoft warns: "If you use this utility, you may have to reinstall other programs. Caution is advised."The topic also comes up frequently in Adobe's user-to-user help forum, and I'd recommendreading these messages.The advice seems to be to use Windows' Add or Remove Programs utility, then run msicuu2.exe, and then, if necessary, delete all Adobe Reader files, folders and registry entries. You should create a restore point and back up the Registry before editing it manually. However, this may not always work. One user on the board comments: "If I ever get Adobe Reader off my PC, I will NEVER install it again! What a dumb program."
I have Net Nanny installed on my daughter's computer. I have just discovered that it doesn't work with Internet Explorer 7 -- so that since I upgraded to IE7 last year, there has been nothing to stop my daughter viewing undesirable sites. There must be many parents out there who mistakenly believe that their children are protected. Peter CharlishNet Nanny 5.5 now supports both Internet Explorer 7 and Windows Vista. However, Net Nanny has just been taken over by ContentWatch, and the "new Net Nanny" appears to be a renamed version of its ContentProtect program.Users who want to stick with Net Nanny 5.1 can renew that (http://netnanny.com/account/nn_renew), but without important IE7 support, there really is not much point.
I have a serious concern about an unwanted and unknown password on my new Windows XP computer. When I was checking through the local services, I found that some of them do not log on manually but via an account called NT AUTHORITY\ LocalService. This service appears to use an encrypted 15-character password. I do not know what this is or where it came from. I certainly did not enter it myself. Robert MiltonThis is a relatively recent security feature. Windows' internal services could be unsecured or run with the same powers as you, probably an administrator, but this might be a problem if your PC was hacked.Microsoft therefore introduced a built-in Local Service Account, which runs with limited access and fewer privileges. The idea is to give internal services no more power than they really need.Click here for a technical accountof this approach to services.
Only a few hours to go until the PS3 arrives in Europe. Excited? I am, and far more than I expected. Yes, the initial games are a bunch of typically pedestrian launch titles, but the media stuff - Blu-ray movies mainly - is enough to keep me interested for now. And let's face it, console launches are always exciting. Who can resist the pull of a new hi-tech toy? The thrill of something new? Ok, given the price and lack of decent games probably a lot of you, but even doubters - and I've been one for a while - are likely to feel some temptation tomorrow. And if you do give in you shouldn't have any problems getting one.A Guardian surveyfound that only 1 in 12 stores had sold out of PS3s. Anyone else see themselves succumbing to the lure of the PlayStation this weekend?
Last week, Iposted a transcription of Will Wright's SXSW keynoteand was genuinely surprised by the response from gamesblog readers. Rather than being inspired by what I thought were some exciting statements, readers criticised Wright's backcatalogue, suggesting that it lacked innovation. He's rested on his laurels, suggest commentators, and hasn't made anything new since SimCity. Therefore Wright was un-worthy of making predictions about and suggestions for the future of gaming.But I would argue that he does what he does as well as Molyneux does god games, Kojima does stealth and EA do action. How many games designers have the opportunity to work on a cross-genre of products? Very few, from what I can tell. Most are siloed early on.What are commentators comparing him with? The endless opportunities to innovate in other media? Surely Wright does just as well as Spielberg, who's done a whole lot of family drama, Lucas, whose back catalogue reads like the best of hard-boiled renegade fiction, and Hitchcock, whose films all fall into the category "suspense".So which game designers do gamesblog readers feel have been most consistently innovative? Which have been most successful at creating products that span genres?
The following correction was made on Wednesday April 4 2007The letter below headlined How to feel a Twit was incorrectly bylined Lestyn Lloyd. This should have been Iestyn. This has been corrected.Stranger dangerReading "The unsung guardians of the internet" (March 15), we noted that you mentioned a fraud on eBay, with money transmitted via Western Union.We take this problem very seriously and we have policies and procedures to detect and prevent criminal activity. However, we would like to emphasise that the Western Union system was designed to send money to people you know and trust. It was never designed to be used to transfer money to strangers.We are in regular communication with large auction houses like eBay, working together to discourage customers from paying via Western Union. Since 2006, eBay does not allow payments to be made via Western Union.Rajiv GarodiaWestern UnionHow to feel a TwitWalking with my girlfriend the other day, a random guy stopped me and said "Hi Iestyn!" - I had no idea who he was (What is Twitter, March 15). Turns out he recognised us from photos I had linked to from Twitter ... scary.Iestyn LloydBrighton&#183;Never one to pass comment on something I don't know anything about, I've set up an account and I'm going to keep it updated over the next few days (or until I get bored) to see if I can work out what all the fuss is about.garyshort.orgGold medal for Cambridge"The Cambridge lab, representing the UK, put on a sterling show" (Hi Mom, March 15) I like the idea of representing the UK. Like it's the Olympics or something.richardbanks.comSpam frittered"If we can't sort out spam ..." (March 15) was pretty unfair. BT is doing substantially more than the "bull in a china shop" approach suggested by Rand - as we indeedannounced last October. This system automatically identifies spam outbreaks, enabling us to get on with contacting customers and, if necessary, removing their systems from our network. In the first two weeks of operation, our system identified and dealt with the top 100 sources of spam on the BT network, who were responsible for 125m spam emails.Nick TrumanBT Retail&#183;The Netherlands in 2003 was third on the list of spam-sending countries. The Dutch government made spamming illegal and appointed OPTA, its telecoms regulator, to police the net. Nowaday hardly any spam emanates from the Netherlands. The real reason spam continues is because countries like China and the US won't (not can't, but won't) pass laws. Incidently, I use a spam filter called Spamihilator, which works a treat.Jan FrankLliber, SpainImpossible dreamRegarding your article "Why online television is going to be Joost the job" (March 8), this paragraph caught my eye: "The deal was possible because Joost boasts a secure, efficient, piracy-proof internet platform, and is guaranteeing copyright protection for content owners and creators." This appears to promise an impossibility. In the history of digital rights management, there has been no locked platform on normal computers that keeps the end-user from copying the information from the service. Exclusive songs on iTunes are typically available unlocked on peer-to-peer networks within two minutes of release. (eff.org/deeplinks/archives/001557.php.) If Joost really did make such a claim, it is peddling snake oil that defies physical reality.David GerardLondonEarth to GoogleAfter the excitement of first encountering Google Earth and then flying around the globe, most people then realise that it doesn't quite do what it says on the tin (Letters and blogs, October 26 2006).There are so many blurred areas. Most of UK. And most of New Zealand, apart from an obscure golf club on North Island.David LundColchester
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Can filesharers be made to pay?The music industry is beginning to understand that lawsuits don't deter pirates and that it must find ways to make money from P2P sharing, says Adam Webb.A few victories, but the battle goes onFree our data: Our campaign has caught the imagination of many who are keen to see data that we all pay for through our taxes made available.You shouldn't have any problems bagging a PS3 - if you want toDidn't get around to pre-ordering? Don't worry, there won't be a rush, says Bobbie Johnson.The father of Java watches his baby grow upOnce hailed, then left behind and now finding new applications, James Gosling's platform is finally coming of age.Gadgets:T-Mobile MDA MailThere is now quite a selection of impressive BlackBerry-style handsets that combine easy email access with smartphone-style facilities. T-Mobile has added yet another in the guise of the MDA Mail.Pakuma K1 laptop bagIf those dull black computer bags you see on every train just lack style, Pakuma makes a range of bags that confer the impression you're just back from mountaineering in Patagonia but can do your presentation right here.Samsung D840Samsung have recenlty had some of their thunder stolen by LG's big-selling Chocolate and Shine fashion handsets. Samsung's response is the D840, another slider it is billing as its most stylish handset to date.Movies that look like games? 300's just the startKeith Stuart: Roger Ebert wrote that the movie adaptation of 300, Frank Miller's gore-splattered graphic novel, looks like the most expensive videogame ever made, and other US reviewers have fashioned similar, usually disparaging, connections between the two entertainment forms.Newly Asked Questions:Was Robert Scoble right to say that 'Microsoft sucks'?Well, no. Last week Robert Scoble, formerly part of Microsoft's "evangelism group", laid into his old employer when he posted a rant on his influential blog, Scobleizer.Is Google developing an iPhone rival?Blogs and cafés in Silicon Valley hummed this week to the rumour that the search engine giant is working on a mobile phone that will include all sorts of built-in tasty Google applications such as mapping.A new chapter for books on the webVictor Keegan: The web revolution that is turning whole industries from music to television upside down has been slow to reach the cosy world of books - apart, that is, from the pioneering bookseller Amazon.The fat lady is clearing her throat and getting ready to sing for OperaAndrew Brown: Two months ago I stopped using Opera - the smallest, once the fastest, and often the best browser ever built.TechnobilePaul May: I don't want trial versions of stuff bundled on my new PC. Just give me a clean install of Windows, please.Our city councils are giving the digital revolution a second lifeMichael Cross: Of all the bizarre things you'd expect to find in the Second Life virtual world, probably the last is Manchester City Council. But, over the past few weeks, the council's digital arm has been recreating the birthplace of Oasis, this newspaper and one or two football teams on four new Second Life islands.Confused about next-gen DVD formats? Join the clubIt would be wise to wait before deciding which of the two formats to buy.Kenya's harvest of old PCsComputers discarded by upgraders in the west help farmers in east Africa plant their land more efficiently.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesScotland's super | Googling Africa | Sophos will block Second Life | Arizona dreaming | Paint blocks wireless | Hillary in your network | YouTube does awardsLetters &amp; blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your post town.
You've got a computer, but what's the best way to carry it around? Those dull black computer bags you see on every train just lack style. Pakuma, on the other hand, makes a range of bags that confer the impression you're just back from mountaineering in Patagonia but can do your presentation right here. There's a nicely padded slot for the laptop (of any size) plus multiple slots for cables, papers and, indeed, clothes - you probably could manage a gap year with what this can hold in its various compartments. Sturdy but not too solid, the only fault is the lack of a handgrip on the top, for times when you don't want a shoulder strap. Priced from &pound;50.pakuma.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Samsung's D series slider phones have been popular for a while, although recently they have had some of their thunder stolen by LG's big-selling Chocolate and Shine fashion handsets. Samsung's response is the D840, another slider it is billing as its most stylish handset to date. So is it a Shine killer? Well, it is a step forward in that Samsung has smartened up the design of the model's predecessor, the D900. So the D840 is ultra-slim (2mm skinnier than the LG Shine) and its sliding mechanism is faster and feels more robust than its rivals. The keypad is impressive too, and its sturdy yet responsive keys should appeal to serious texters. Best of all is the large 2.12in screen, which really does look superb. The rest of the phone is standard Samsung. It uses the company's simple interface and comes with basics like a reasonable-quality web browser, Bluetooth and an MP3 player. Its camera takes good-quality pictures and it has both a zoom lens and a flash. This is a classy phone, though I suspect that it isn't going to turn as many heads as the Shine.www.samsung.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Would you like to build your own computer out of stones and mud, or would you prefer someone to build it for you? If you're in any way normal, you'll be inclined to accept that nice Mr Dell's offer of nailing together a cost- effective spec and rushing it to your door for a very keen price. If Mike's not doing it for you, one of his competitors will step up to the mark. They'll even be nice enough to put an operating system on the thing for you, so that when you switch it on, your computer will know it's a computer. It won't open its mouth and scream for a disk.It's great that the industry got this far in its service. But then it Went Too Far, and PCs turned into fast food. They just couldn't help themselves. Just as with the simple beefburger, they decided to load up the basic build with extras. I didn't ask for pickles on my burger. Similarly, every mainstream PC now comes with a heap of garnish that no one wants. My latest machine, already disfigured (some might think) with Windows Vista, also came with trial versions of McAfee and Roxio, as well as several other bits of detritus. The electronic version of pizza fliers - come-ons to try broadband services - scattered themselves across my nice clean desk top. Turning on my new PC triggered a popup jamboree as all these stowaways clamoured for my attention.The simplest solution, somewhat surprisingly to an old Windows sufferer, is to reinstall Vista. Coming clean with Vista turns out to be a delightful experience, a million miles from the reboot misery of earlier editions. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that trashing Vista and starting again is almost as refreshing as a detox. All that unasked-for preinstalled garbage disappears. Turn off Vista's own junkware - the so-called Sidebar, with its immensely innovative, er, clock - and you're left with nothing but a (miraculously empty) trash can.PC vendors bundle this stuff because they're paid to. The deals they make on the preinstalls help defray their costs. But given the sophistication of their online operations, couldn't Dell et al offer a clean OS as an option - for, say, an extra five quid?Meanwhile, Dell's Idea Storm site (as in, "the customer just trod in some idea") shows the staggering popularity of several mooted new pre-installs: Linux, OpenOffice and Firefox. I don't have the nerve to post my own idea for the app I'd really like pre-installed: iTunes. And I'm getting nostalgic for the days when every post brought a shower of AOL floppies. If I'd kept them all, I'd have been able to tile my padded cell.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The movie adaptation of 300, Frank Miller's gore-splattered graphic novel, hits UK cinemas tomorrow after crushing box office records in the US. Roger Ebert wrote that it looks like the most expensive videogame ever made, and other US reviewers have fashioned similar, usually disparaging, connections between the two entertainment forms. They're not just talking about the obvious visual similarities (300 makes extensive use of CGI environments and special effects); many have woefully put Zack Snyder's flick at the vanguard of a new cinema, aimed at a generation of attention-deficit gamers, where narrative drive is sacrificed at the altar of fetishised hyperviolence.They have a point. Abandoning the traditional three-act structure, 300 is built much more like a game, with its escalating series of setpiece battles interspersed with plot-driving sections and even several boss battles. It is linear and relentless; several times I expected to be handed control of the action.But where the critics are wrong is in believing this is an entirely new phenomenon. Videogame design has been influencing US TV and movies for several years. Lost is a key example - a popular interpretation of the series is that it's all actually a videogame, the characters merely pawns in some photo-realistic interactive entertainment. But even if that's inaccurate, the writers use dozens of devices taken from videogames: the locked hatch found in season one resembles a key game design technique in which the player finds a locked door but has no means to open it until later in the adventure. The employment of unexpected, out-of-place animals - ie, the polar bear - is basic videogame stuff, recalling the dinosaurs in Tomb Raider among many others.And now that DVD releases are more profitable than box-office takings, directors and studios have to think about providing 20 hours of entertainment rather than 90 minutes; this is much more in line with the videogame experience. It is fortunate that game designers are starting to meet narrative cinema halfway. I've just visited Ubisoft's Montreal studio where, according to Patrice Desilets, the creative director on hugely promising adventure Assassin's Creed, no game goes into production until the team has agreed on an underlying theme. There has to be a point to it all.In many ways, videogames are bigger than cinema now, and most young movie scriptwriters grew up playing games - the crossover of ideas is inevitable. It is to be hoped that something new and positive comes out of this, something beyond the invectives of old-skool film critics who recoil in shock at digital effects.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Naming namesIn my teens I was an active member of photo.net. Back then I registered with my real name, not really considering the long-term implications. Several years later, I find that no matter what I do, the website won't change, hide or remove my name. I don't like the idea that when someone searches for my name, photo.net is always near the top of the results.ChrisJack Schofield replies:A few sites will change a name on request, but once something is posted on the web, it is practically impossible to remove it. Even if a site took the trouble to remove your comments, they could well survive in various search engine caches, mirror sites, Usenet messages and the internet archive known as the Wayback Machine (archive.org). In the longer term, however, many sites go bust and vast amounts of new information swamp the old stuff, so earlier posts should become progressively harder to find.I do have some sympathy forPhoto.net, which told you that its use of real names tended to improve the quality of the discussion: "We don't aspire to be an anonymous mud-slinging forum." The Guardian's website provides ample confirmation ofJohn Gabriel's theorythat given anonymity and an audience, even normal people tend to behave like jerks.Reader problemI can't install a new version of Adobe Reader because it can't uninstall the old version 7, and it says: "Contact your technical support group". Trying to uninstall the program manually does not work.Peter KenyonJS:You will not be surprised to hear that uninstallation problems are covered in TechNotes on Adobe's website. One advises you to download the Microsoft Windows Installer Cleanup Utility, msicuu2.exe, which"removes enough information from the registry to reinstall Acrobat and restore the missing registry keys".You can download ithere, where Microsoft warns: "If you use this utility, you may have to reinstall other programs. Caution is advised." The topic also comes up frequently in Adobe's user-to-user help forum, and I'd recommend readingthese messages.The advice seems to be to use Windows' Add or Remove Programs utility, then run msicuu2.exe, and then, if necessary, delete all Adobe Reader files, folders and registry entries. You should create a restore point and back up the Registry before editing it manually. However, this may not always work. One user on the board comments: "If I ever get Adobe Reader off my PC, I will NEVER install it again! What a dumb program."Net Nanny updateI have Net Nanny installed on my daughter's computer. I have just discovered that it doesn't work with Internet Explorer 7 - so that since I upgraded to IE7 last year, there has been nothing to stop my daughter viewing undesirable sites. There must be many parents out there who mistakenly believe that their children are protected.Peter CharlishJS:Net Nanny 5.5 now supports both Internet Explorer 7 and Windows Vista. However, Net Nanny has just been taken over by ContentWatch, and the "new Net Nanny" appears to be a renamed version of its ContentProtect program.Users who want to stick with Net Nanny 5.1 can renew that (netnanny.com/account/nn_renew), but without important IE7 support, there really is not much point.Windows' secret servicesI have a serious concern about an unwanted and unknown password on my new Windows XP computer. When I was checking through the local services, I found that some of them do not log on manually but via an account called NT AUTHORITY\ LocalService. This service appears to use an encrypted 15-character password. I do not know what this is or where it came from. I certainly did not enter it myself.Robert MiltonJS:This is a relatively recent security feature. Windows' internal services could be unsecured or run with the same powers as you, probably an administrator, but this might be a problem if your PC was hacked.Microsoft therefore introduced a built-in Local Service Account, which runs with limited access and fewer privileges. The idea is to give internal services no more power than they really need. Clickherefor a technical account.Backchat&middot;William Humble was wearing out the letters on his keyboard. Michael and Pam Miller of Miller Fine Arts say they solved the problem by going over the letters very carefully with a Stabilo (Fine-F) Write-4-all permanent marker pen.Alan Alexanderhas tried stick-on lettering from Kleeneze and a plastic keyboard glove from Inpace. Jenny Chittenden suggests learning to touch-type. Simon Barley says my suggestion of giving keys a protective coating of, say, nail varnish might not be a good one as some contain allergens that can bring on eczema.&middot;In my reply to William Humble, I warned of possible problems connecting a high-quality IBM keyboard via a USB port. Huw Lyan Thomas says: "Clickykeyboards.com sells active PS2-USB adapters to do the job. But they're pricey when you include US-UK shipping. I took a gamble on a Belkin F5U119 USB PS/2 adapter on eBay, and it works fine. The ones to avoid are the passive adapters that just connect the wires."
Scotland's superEdinburgh University's supercomputing centre has unveiled Maxwell, a new &pound;3.6m supercomputer designed and manufactured in Scotland using field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs).www.fhpca.orgGoogling AfricaGoogle has announced separate partnerships with the Rwandan Ministry of Infrastructure and the Kenya Education Network, which will enable students in those countries to use Google Apps under their institutions' domain names free of charge.google.com/aSophos will block Second LifeUK-based Sophos will enable companies to block staff access to the Second Life online world, starting today. The application control feature in Sophos Anti-Virus 6 can already block some services.sophos.com/securityArizona dreamingPC World stores are offering to back up home users' data in a "reinforced storage facility in the Arizona desert" with up to 50GB costing &pound;9.99 per month.pcworld.co.ukPaint blocks wirelessIn the US, EM-SEC Technologies has announced the EM-SEC 2060 paint - sorry, "liquid coating solution" - which blocks radio waves and can help prevent "airborne electronic theft".emsectechnologies.comHillary in your networkMySpace has entered the political arena with MySpace Impact, which has pages for US presidential candidates such as Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.impact.myspace.comYouTube does awardsYouTube users are now voting in the site's first video awards.youtube.com/watch?v=RH2IVM4sLIo
There is now quite a selection of impressive BlackBerry-style handsets, most notably Samsung's i600 and Nokia's E61, that combine easy email access with smartphone-style facilities. T-Mobile has added yet another in the guise of the MDA Mail, which is in fact a rebadge of the Excalibur S620 from Taiwanese company HTC. The low-cost emailing device looks the part, with its slim frame, decent sized Qwerty keyboard and reasonable-quality screen. It is great for email too, running Outlook as part of its Windows Mobile 5.0 operating system - which can be supplemented by either BlackBerry or Microsoft Direct push email. It also looks good for surfing with the Internet Explorer browser teamed up with T-Mobile's Web 'N' Walk tariff. The rest of the hardware is a little less impressive. There's no 3G; it runs using GPRS, so its potential use for downloading is limited. And while there is a camera on board, it only takes 1.3 megapixel images, and in this instance not very high-resolution, blurry ones. Some users might also find the fact that there are no dedicated number buttons for making calls trying. This is a solid if slightly unexciting smartphone. For T-Mobile users who just want email and inexpensive web surfing, though, it more than fits the bill.t-mobile.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Just over a year ago, Guardian Technology launched its Free Our Data campaign. Its aim can be described as "to make data collected and held as part of the business of civil government available in as unrefined a form as possible, for viewing, publishing and commercial reuse, without licensing conditions and at the marginal cost of dissemination, so long as that data does not compromise citizens' privacy or national security". The campaign has caught the imagination of a number of readers, businesses and advisers frustrated with complex and obscure licensing, and copyright systems and keen to make effective use of data that the government is ill-equipped to do.A year later, what has been achieved? There have been a couple of modest victories, indicating that the ice might be beginning to thaw within government - and that the attitude to public data prevalent in the US (where it is taken as read that data whose collection is funded by taxpayers should be available to them for free) is beginning to prevail.Much, of course, remains to be done. But the past year has uncovered dozens of remarkable facts about the confusion within government over what to do with public sector data. Here are a few of the things we have learnt.&middot;There is no minister in overall charge for the use of public sector information. The Treasury, Department for Trade and Industry (DTI) and Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA) - the latter having responsibility for the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) - can all justifiably claim some measure of ownership. But nobody is in charge of policy.&middot;The "next Lockerbie" - a disaster such as a plane crash in a remote area - could bring problems for emergency services. Last year the government ended its "National Interest Mapping Service Agreement", which funded the mapping by Ordnance Survey of remote areas that a private organisation might not bother with. As recently as 2004-05, Nimsa made up 11% of the Ordnance Survey's turnover. The effect, says Ed Parsons, until December chief technology officer of OS, is that changes in remote areas of Scotland may go unmapped for years - "which is fine, until the next Lockerbie happens". OS says it will continue a "mapping for emergencies" helpline service.&middot;Like a number of other government organisations that collect and then sell data, OS is a trading fund - which means that it receives no money directly from the Treasury. "Our taxes should not be used for things that can be sustained in other ways," its chief executive Vanessa Lawrence told The Times in October.&middot;Just under half of the OS's revenues come from sales of its products to local and central government, whose funding does come from the taxpayer. The Met Office, UK Hydrographic Office and other trading funds also receive notable income from the public sector.&middot;Despite being in effect half taxpayer-funded, OS's position as a trading fund protects it from financial neglect by the Treasury, according to advocates of the model. They argue that OS has to collect data about a constantly changing landscape, and that making it fully taxpayer-funded would put it at the mercy of central funding, which could wane (as happened between the two world wars).&middot;The Office for National Statistics, which collects data about constantly changing social elements such as internet use, labour, manufacturing output and so on, is not a trading fund, and makes the majority of its statistics - including demographic data from the 2001 Census - available for free via its website.&middot;Intellectual property rights for public sector information are desperately tangled. When a new house is built, the local authority allocates it an address, and tells the Post Office. The Post Office then allocates a postcode to the new address - claiming copyright on the address that contains the postcode, and tells the Ordnance Survey. The OS locates that address on its MasterMap, and so claims copyright on its location. If the local authority then puts a postcode search facility on its website, it has to pay a fee to the Post Office and OS for every search for the addresses and locations that it provided to them originally for free.&middot;In its report into public sector information published in December, after two years' consideration, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) reckons that making more public sector information available (not necessarily free) could increase the value of the UK economy by at least &pound;520m to &pound;1.1bn.&middot;The Treasury's 2000 cross-cutting review recommended that a study should be done to see whether there would be an economic benefit from making more public sector information available, and perhaps even making it available for free. The study has not been carried out.&middot;The OFT thinks that the study should be carried out, to determine whether a "free data" or "user pays" model would bring the most economic benefit.&middot;The DTI is obliged to respond to reports from the OFT within 90 days. Two weeks ago, just as the deadline approached, it said it would not respond by that time due to council elections.&middot;A new database of existing statute laws built by the DCA was made available for free - a small victory for free data. (The database is atwww.statutelaw.gov.uk). We hope for more this year.Join the debateat the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It may sound hard to believe, but a decade ago, Sun's Java computer language was one of the hottest topics in technology. Netscape was going to write its new applications in Java, Java applets were going to dominate the web, universities and colleges were starting to teach it as their standard programming language, while its advocates and some of the more starry-eyed advocates and journalists imagined it overturning Microsoft.All this turned James Gosling - who is considered the father of Java - into something of a superstar. In recognition of his achievements, he has just been awarded the Order Of Canada, his country's highest honour. "I have to go and get whacked with a sword," says Gosling.BacklashAfter the years of hype there came, inevitably, the years of backlash. Netscape dumped its Java programming efforts, and Java applets failed to make any impact on the web. In 2001, a Salon online magazine headline called Java slow, ugly and irrelevant, and in 2005, a Business Week article proclaimed: Java? It's So Nineties. Microsoft - locked out of Java after losing a lawsuit - developed its own Java-style language, C#, which became widely used, while most of the advocates moved on to trendier languages: Perl, Python, PHP, Ruby on Rails, Ajax, Jason and so on.Now things are, happily, coming back to a more even keel, so I was pleased to catch up with Gosling at last week's Java conference. He's a big man who speaks slowly, and at the end of a long day, he's as laid back as you can get in an upright chair.The major development is that Sun is making its Java platforms open source under the Free Software Foundation's GPL (general public licence) following years of complaints by IBM, so I ask him if that's going to make any difference. He points out that "Java has been functioning largely as an open source project for many years" and that "the source code has been available for a long time". All Sun has done is switch to using "one of the more commonly accepted" open licences."To be honest, the biggest thing we get is that a bunch of the important Linux distributions such as Debian can now put [Java] in the box," he says. As for IBM, "they've engaged in all kinds of stunts," says Gosling. "There was that Open Letter that Rod Smith wrote saying 'Oh, Sun, you should go open source', and of course that was complete puffery. It wouldn't have made any difference to them because they already had all the rights that anybody could ever want. And when we did actually change the licence, IBM was really upset. They wanted a licence that said they could do whatever they damn well pleased. So we went for a GPL licence that says: 'We're sharing so you have to reciprocate by sharing too'. That seems fair. They wanted us to give them everything and for them to give nothing back."Sun previously resisted going open source because the GPL allows the code to be forked - different groups of developers could take it down different, incompatible paths. "Yeah, and a bunch of years ago, I think that was a fairly valid concern," says Gosling, "but it's become pretty clear that the market really values compatibility. If people start doing incompatible forks, market pressure is probably going to be a more effective enforcer of compatibility than a licence would be."A bunch of years ago, of course, Microsoft was developing its own licensed version of Java - in effect, forking it - which led Sun to sue. Sun won, but Microsoft dropping its development seemed to take the steam out of desktop Java."It was a big problem. We've been slowly building back. We did the licence with them as a defensive thing, and early on, actually, they were quite wonderful partners. Their engineering team was really great, and they were being really good community members. Then there was this memo that came down from on high that said 'that's not the Microsoft model' and the relationship went sour."So what about Java's future?"Well, it's kind of a chaotic community: there's no unifying direction because it's a lot of people taking their own applications off in lots of different directions," says Gosling. "The stuff I'm sweating about most today is what's happening to the diversity of things on the client side, the network. The cellphone world is really growing up, and cellphones are in many places becoming the desktop. But also things like cable television: set-top boxes and IPTV are getting really interesting, and Java is involved in both of those. The Blu-ray next-generation DVD standard has Java pretty heavily involved. So there's a real sea change in the client end of the network, and I'm putting a reasonable amount of sweat into making sure that doesn't come out aggressively stupid. There are so many actors, it's kind of hard to keep everybody aligned."It's interesting, I respond, that Java has done so well on mobiles when its performance problems limited its adoption on desktops."Well, certainly in terms of a platform for running games and things, it doesn't really have any competition," Gosling replies. "You can load a game and not worry about destroying your ability to make a phone call; that was a big deal. Also, on the phone, we didn't really have the same demands - plus the CPUs used in phones are pretty cool these days. In the early days [on the PC] people were saying: 'Gee, I'm trying to do these fast Fourier transforms and it's slow'. It took us a bunch of time to build major rocket science optimisers, but now we're beating C and C++ pretty regularly."The future of Java for me really is wherever the developers take it. Probably the biggest place where Java is used in anger is enterprise computing, and that's gotten to be one of its most mature and solid areas. I don't think there's going to be much dramatic change there for the next five years. The most interesting stuff is at the edge points where there are different kinds of devices connected to the network.Strange and interesting stuff"Folks are doing strange and interesting stuff in things like the automotive market and broadband television. It's the sort of thing where, tragically, the big business is games, or most likely game-like things that are correlated to live TV shows with large-scale audience participation."The hard part is no longer technology. As a technologist, you get to the point where there's really nothing to invent to make things better. It's really more about the social experience of businesses and their customers, and it's impossible to predict what people will be willing to pay for. For example, I don't understand why ringtones are so successful financially, or why people will spend more money on water than they do on wine. I hope there's somebody out there who understands market psychology. It's not me."&#183; Curriculum vitaeAge:51.Education:BSc in computer science from the University of Calgary, Canada, in 1977; PhD in computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, US, in 1983.Career: 1984Joined Sun Microsystems;1995Java 1.0 released;2007Made an Officer of the Order of Canada.Family:Married, two daughtersBlog:blogs.sun.com/jag&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Well, no. Last week Robert Scoble, formerly part of Microsoft's "evangelism group", laid into his old employer when he posted on his influential blog, Scobleizer (scobleizer.com) a rant in response to an event at which Microsoft's "Most Valuable Professionals" were told that the Seattle software behemoth is "in it to win"."The words are empty," Scoble blasted. "Come on. Ship a better search, a better advertising system than Google, a better hosting service than Amazon and get some services out there that are innovative. Where's the video RSS reader?"Scoble has a point about Microsoft's web delivery. When you think about web searching, blogging tools, cool software such as Picasa and Google Earth, and online apps, you think of Google. Microsoft's Live Search barely registers on the radar, while we struggled to remember what its clone of Google Earth is called (it's Microsoft Virtual Earth, since you asked). Windows Live One care, offering online protection and maintenance for your PC, hasn't exactly set the world on fire.However, the thing about Microsoft is that it's like a tanker: slow to get on course, but once it does, there's no stopping it. Back in the day, there used to be all sorts of productivity software. Remember Lotus 1-2-3, the spreadsheet that changed the world? It was a killer app for the early IBM PCs. But what's the dominant spreadsheet now? It's not Lotus 1-2-3, it's Microsoft's Excel.And how about WordPerfect and WordStar? The latter these days is mostly used by the WordStar Users Group, while the rest of the world has moved on to - yup, Microsoft Word. And WordPerfect, once the de facto word-processing app, has gone the same way. Now part of Corel's suite, its user base is tiny compared to the millions who fire up Word every day.Microsoft was late to the party with a web browser, left behind by Mosaic, the first clunky app that got you online, and then lagging behind the Netscape browser. But where are they now? Various flavours of Internet Explorer have been less than perfect, but the consensus is that IE7 has got it mostly right.History shows that Microsoft can be tardy. But once it gets there, it sweeps others aside. So Scoble might one day have to eat his words.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Seems to me the second effort is much better, but how about you?For the first spoof and the background, see below:Novell spoofs Get a Mac ads to promote Linux
There's been a spate of stories about Google doing a mobile phone -- none of them from me because, frankly, I suspect they are complete tosh. Unfortunately, I don't have any evidence either way. However, it would represent a major break with Google's business model and its current approach to the software- and search-based advertising business, as a couple of Google's staff have now confirmed.A story headedGoogle quashes mobile phone talkin the Sydney Morning Herald provides examples. Vint Cerf points out that "becoming an equipment manufacturer is pretty far from our business model," while Richard Kimber, Google's South-East Asia managing director of sales and operations, adds: "At this point in time, we are very focused on the software, not the phone."So far, Google has targeted the biggest markets, which is why it creates software for Windows first, why it's digitising whole libraries, and why it's working to get into radio and television advertising. In that context, it makes perfect sense for Google to try to get its search engine and email service used from a billion mobile phones. Actually selling 10m or even 100m phones makes much less sense.In other words, it should be partnering with the companies that supply mobile phones and network services, not competing with them.That doesn't mean Google won't do a phone now or in the future: sometimes companies do things that are not in their best interests. But if Google is aiming to get the maximum profit for the minimum investment in the phone market, it's doing software, not hardware.
As you've probably realised we're having a few problems with the comments system. The system has been updated and we've had to rebuild all of the Guardian blogs. All should be fixed soon so hold those thoughts and please bear with us..
Sorry, there was a software upgrade this morning and the system is working its way through a rebuild. If you make a comment, it may take a while to appear. Also, the bit where the blog tells you how many comments there are will be out of date until the page is rebuilt, so if says (3) there might be (6) or whatever. Normal service will be resumed as soon as poss....
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Novell has produced its own spoof of Apple's Get a Mac ads featuring Linux as the third man. But instead of using aTron-costumed nerd, the "third man" is actually an attractive woman.Obviously this doesn't match the current reality. In my experience, Linux users are much more like Linus Torvalds, Eric Raymond, and Richard Stallman. On the other hand, Apple's adverts are also based on similar distortions. Two of Apple's canonical misrepresentations are that Mac users are hip (they're not; most of them seem to be boring old farts like me) and that PCs are only for business (they're not: they also dominate the games market, and the home).Novell evangelist "Reverend Ted" Haeger has noted the "artificial dualism" of Apple's approach, andin a blog post about the spoofs, says: "The problem with a well-established dualism like the Mac-PC one is that anything you try to add will seem like a third wheel."Right. So why do it?The problems with Novell's first spoof are that itdoesshow Linux as a third wheel, and also it reinforces Apple's reductive stereotypes instead of exposing their fundamental dishonesty. So I think it would be better if Novell just did Linux v Mac. After all, both are in a similar position, competing for the 5% of the market that doesn't mainly use Windows.In other words, Novell should copy Apple's dualistic approach, and marginalise it the way Apple marginalised its rivals.Apple's success was based on the strategy brought in with Pepsi's John Sculley, who took the company from roughly $1bn to $10bn in annual sales. Sculley repeated the Coke v Pepsi marketing approach, but using Apple v IBM. Of course Apple didn't present the Mac as just another closed proprietary computer like the Commodore Amiga, Atari ST, Acorn Archimedes etc, and it ignored the range of choices on the PC (with DOS, CP/M, Unix, OS9 etc and later Windows, OS/2, NextStep, BeOS and more), reducing a complex and interesting conversation to an oversimplified pseudo-religious either/or.Sculley explained the strategy in his book,Odyssey: Pepsi to Apple, A marketing genius tells his story. He says: "What we tried to do was pull out in front of everyone in a very cluttered computer market to make it a two-horse race between IBM and Apple" (page 220). This was Apple's Big Lie in theOrwellian blackwhite (1984) sense, and for more than two decades, the company has devoted massive amounts of advertising and PR resources to maintaining it. Well, if you want to manipulate a mass consumer market, this sort of Manichaean dualism works.Scripting a Linux v Mac spoof would no doubt be a challenge, but there ought to be something usable in contrasting the openness, freedom (as in speech, as in beer) and extraordinary diversity of the GNU/Linux world with the proprietary, authoritarian, DRM-restricted and narrow California-focused Mac world. Also, if you are already a Windows user, you don't need to spend a bundle of dough on Apple hardware, so Linux could even be played by the PC character. No third man, or woman, is required.If I'd got Novell's resources, I'd certainly aska Mac-to-Linux switcher like Cory Doctorowto produce a few trial scripts. And if you want to have a go, of course, there's plenty of space for Comments below....
These days we're constantly being told how authentic military combat games are, the Ghost Recon and Battlefield series' focusing heavily on real-world weapons and situations. But how realistic are these games? Do they portray anything of the conflicts we're seeing in Iraq and Afghanistan?To find out I spoke to Dr Malcom Davis, a lecturer in Defence Studies with the Defence Studies Department of King's College London. Davis is based at the Joint Services Command and Staff College, located in Watchfield, Wiltshire - the JSCSC is the UK's mid-level staff college for military officers going on to senior command assignments. As well as running advanced and intermediate level courses in Defence and Strategic/Security Studies, he has specific research interests hugely relevant to modern combat game design:"My research focus is on future warfare and future military technology in the broadest sense, but with a close focus on the military use of space, broader space power policy issues, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and air power."The result is a fascinating look into the realities of modern warfare and a confirmation that games get pretty close at times...Generally, what elements of modern military videogames do you see as realistic? While looking at Battlefield or perhaps Ghost Recon or Splinter Cell, do you think, 'yes, that's conceivable, that could happen'?I think that current military combat games, including all those you mention, have realistic elements to them. In particular they stress networked forces on the battlefield, with infantry able to directly communicate with armoured vehicles, aircraft, artillery, and command centres on a real time basis.This is interesting because in the real military, there is a great deal of effort to bring such a capability about - its called 'Network Centric Warfare' or NCW. NCW is seen as the basis for future military transformation and delivers a significant advantage to the networked force over the non-networked force.The other aspect that is well represented are the combat environments - particularly the urban environment in games like Ghost Recon. Most warfare in the future will take place in complex urban environments, where house to house fighting, and the manner of engagements as portrayed in movies like 'Black Hawk Down' and of course the games mentioned above will be the norm.So what is immediately unrealistic about consumer military simulations?I think that consumer military simulations are never going to be totally realistic because ultimately people don't really die or get injured, and thus the fear element is never going to be there. I think that what is missing is the chaos of battle. Too often I see tactical engagements unfold on the screen and everything is relatively clear, wheras in real combat, the elements of chaos, unpredictability and confusion predominate. Look at sequences in movies like 'Saving Private Ryan' or 'Band of Brothers' to get a good example of what real combat is like. The game that comes closest is the Call of Duty series on XBox 360 in my view.Finally the combat environments are complex, and what is missing, particularly in an urban environment, are civilians mixed in with military forces. To return to the medium of film, 'Black Hawk Down' portrayed the complex urban environment accurately, wheras some computer games have literally empty streets.There's a lot of talk about the military using videogames as training tools - how much of this is accurate? What do they offer that more staid military-funded sims don't?I think that there is some potential for using the best games as training tools. One of the most impressive I have seen is 'Full Spectrum Warrior' on the X Box (unfortunately, it never made it across to X box 360), which is really good for practicing how to move a four or eight man infantry section through a complex urban environment. More games like this with greater complexity, bringing in all the capabilities that the modern soldier can draw upon would be a valuable training tool, but never a complete solution.You have spoken about how we're moving into an age of cyber-war, where the emphasis is on attacking a country's communications and electricity infrastructures - what have been recent manifestations of this in current global conflicts?Cyberwarfare - the use of computer systems and software for offensive and defensive actions against an opponent's computer infrastructure - is relatively new, but already we have seen extensive cyber-battles occurring in the real world.In the lead-up to the 1999 Kosovo Conflict, and the 2003 Iraq War, Western military information systems came under intense cyber-attacks from hackers either within the Serb and Iraqi militaries, or contracted by their respective governments. The Chinese and the Taiwanese regularly engage in cyberwarfare exchanges across the Taiwanese Strait. China has 'People's Information Warfare Battalions' whose sole job it is to wage cyberwar against China's opponents. Cyberwar is going to be a key aspect of future conflicts as we are information-dependent and an enemy, which may not be so information dependent, can use cyberwar to launch strategic attacks on this opponent's military and society.As videogames become more realistic, most feature a range of modern day small arms - can you tell us a little about the rifles of the near-future? What small arms technologies can we expect to filter from the military to videogames in the next few years? What is new about these products?I think that you are likely to see new rifle technologies which have more advanced sighting systems, tied into a heads up display which is part of the soldier's combat helmet (portrayed in 'Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter'). New types of ammunition may also be able to be fired, with the US already working on rifles that can fire a range of ammunition besides the normal high velocity 7.62mm full metal jacket round.Non-Lethal ammunition may also appear. Laser sighting, integrated electro-optical sights, and the ability to feed the view from the sight onto the soldier's HUD mean that the soldier can fire the weapon without exposing themselves to as much harm. Perhaps in the longer-term, you might see radical new technologies such as rail-gun technology incorporated into rifles, or at least vehicle mounted weapons. But the laser or 'phaser' rifle favoured in sci fi is many decades away.The game Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is based slightly in the future and features soldiers in smart suits, that send data back to a command centre, receive instructions and display them on a helmet-mounted HUD - is this where real warfare is going - soldiers continually sending and receiving data via complex wearable computer systems?The 'GRAW' cross-com system is quite good, and is representative of the future of infantry technology. Both the US and UK are developing this sort of capability as part of their Future Soldier technology programmes, and once tied in with advanced satellite and microwave communications, that connectivity should allow our forces a greater advantage over the enemy.The one caveat - and its an important one - that I would make is that the enemies of the future will always be trying to threaten or degrade our military-technological advantage, and one of the best ways that they can achieve that is by attacking our information systems, and the networks which generate the 'sensor to shooter' link. Thus it is important not to make an assumption that the data-links and networks will survive for very long. We have to be able to fight and win when the networks go down.Which weapons from current warfare don't seem to be used in videogames in your opinion? Why do you think that is?I think one type of warfare missing from computer games, which may be used in the future is the weapons of mass destruction or effect (WMD/E) including chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and enhanced-explosive (aka CBRNE). These are proliferating at an accelerating rate, and there is greater risk that rogue states - such as Iran or North Korea - with access to such capabilities would use them in future wars to offset the technological superiority of Western military forces, or potentially transfer such capabilities to non-state actors like terrorist groups. In every sim I have tried (be it on PC or XBox 360) I have yet to see this type of warfare represented, or seen friendly forces having to take precautions against its use.I wrote in a recent Guardian column that if you can use an Xbox 360 controller you can probably launch a guided missile - someone wrote in to take me to task on my naivity. But how complex are weapons systems? I would have thought arms companies would design them to be as similar to videogames as possible as we all grow up playing them...I think that launching a guided missile is perhaps a bit more complex than playing an XBox 360 game, but the actual use of computer and electronic systems to find and designate a target is moving closer to a simpler user-interface. Ultimately, the ideal for soldiers in the field is a simple 'point and click' interface because the last thing they want to have to deal with when bullets are flying around them is complex commands or controls.Team-based games like Battlefield are hugely popular online now - do you see any similarities in the way people play online with actual modern military tactics?I think they could be, but unfortunately, the average person playing them is not aware of modern military tactics. Too many times on Battlefield 2 Modern Combat I have seen people grab a tank or other vehicle and run off and fight independently, as opposed to being part of a team. It then becomes a bit of a free for all.The other problem is that in spite of the brilliant ability for teams to communicate over the XBox Live systems, more often than not, there is little or no communication. People in a team should be constantly talking, working out tactics, warning of enemy positions, and so on, and it would be helpful either in tutorial modes in the game or in the instruction manual to include a short primer on basic military tactics. Even simple things like how to Flank an enemy position, or setting up defilade and enfilade fire would be useful.
Should we conflate Warcraft with Second Life? Picture byYngrichA new report by analyst firm Screen Digest suggests that the market formassively multiplayer online games in the Westis now more than $1bn - that's £514 million in old money. Big numbers, and the BBC has runwith the storyas a result:Games such as World of Warcraft and worlds like Habbo Hotel are fast becoming "significant platforms" in the converged media world, the report said. "There's a whole ream of different genres and spaces emerging," said the report author Piers Harding-Rolls.Now, I haven't looked through the report in depth - but it seems to me that these numbers are actually a little undercooked. For example, around half of World of Warcraft's 8.5 million subscribers are Western - and they pay around £8 a month each for their access to the game. As back of the envelope calculations go, this comes out at roughly £400m in revenues alone. I'd imagine that MMOGs in the western world actually broke through the $1bn barrier a long time ago.But that's not really what I wanted to talk about. Regardless of the numbers, it seems to me that one major problem here is that we lump "virtual worlds" together in one huge lump - despite a clear set of differences between them. After all, it seems clear to me that there's a significant difference between game environments like World of Warcraft and open-ended spaces such as Second Life or tween-focused isometrics like Habbo Hotel.Does World of Warcraft actually have as much in common with Second Life as it does with, say, an offline PlayStation or PC title? And is Habbo more like a 3D MySpace than anything else? We've writtenbefore, apropos ofClay Shirky's comments, about whether the number of people using Second Life is inflated by the media - and I think this conflation is part of the same trend.Second Life is regularly touted as the next big thing by the media, and clearly has a devoted following among a very small number of people. And why not? After all, the idea of a Neal Stephenson-like Metaverse is something that geeks like me have been fascinated with for years. But let's get things straight - it's a long way off yet, and the way these things gets talked about only succeeds in confusing the issues.When is somebody going to start talking sense about all this?
Live near London, desperate for a PS3 and got a lot of free time on your hands? Then you'll be pleased to know that Virgin Megastore on London's Oxford Street - the venue for the official UK launch - is allowing people to camp from 12pm today (Weds). Yes, get down there today and you could be at the front of the queue come tomorrow night's launch. Apparently Virgin are giving over their entire ground floor for the impromptu 36 hour campsite, so let's, er, hope some people turn up. In reality it will probably be heaving tomorrow night, with pre-launch cynicism washed away by the excitement of finally getting hold of a PS3. Just make sure you buy Motorostorm - far and away the best launch game - and also an HD TV if you don't already. Yup, next-gen gaming doesn't come cheap. Anyone on here packing their sleeping bag and heading to Oxford Street?
Contrary to expectations, arumourhas sprung up that anotherKatamari Damacygame will be released in the US in October for all consoles. While obviously overjoyed with this (potential) news, I'm rather surprised. The creator of the series, Keita Takahashi, has been adamant that he will not work on another sequel to the game, to the extent that he was not part of Namco's Me and My Katamari on the Sony PSP handheld. Instead, the last we heard the sculptor-turned-game-designer was hoping tomake children's playgroundsrather than continue working in the games industry.If the rumours are true, this will be a Katamari game helmed by the corporation, rather than by the man who made the game an award-winning breath of fresh air. It's likely that the successful elements - the ball rolling up quirky objects - will remain the same, but the conservative nature of money-makers will keep Namco from innovating within the boundaries of the original. Which is a shame. I could, of course, be proven completely wrong.We shall have to wait and see.
The health and safety of staff is also an important consideration in bans on mobile-phone use in hospital wards (Comment, March 17). The noise issue is nothing to do with "snobbery". Mobile phones are banned because the sounds they make are irritating to those not on the receiving end of the call.Already on my unit there is a noisy mix of: two open bays containing 12 children of various ages, occasionally in pain and distress; several TVs on different channels; DVD players with a variety of movies playing; PlayStations; musical toys; two phones ringing, due to inquiries from relatives, questions from ex-patients and calls from other areas of the hospital; a door buzzer installed to maintain the security of the patients, ringing every 30 seconds due to our generous visiting policy; the "call bell", allowing the children and their families to attract a nurse when needed; monitors and infusion pumps with digital alarms we need to hear above the other noises.The idea of adding to all that the sound of 12 or more mobiles with an assortment of ringtones and conversations similar to "I am on the train" (except it would be "I am in the hospital" - can you imagine the content?) fills me with dread.Clare WestwoodCheltenham
Sony has put up thecompatibility pagefor those who are buying a PS3 to check whether it will play their PS2 games. The Grand Theft Auto titles "might have issues"...Go and check your own favourites, but bear in mind that you'll have (once you've filmed the unboxing and put it on YouTube, of course) to update the firmware to v1.6 - we rather suspect that the ones in the shops won't have got this very latest update.Tell us: is your favourite game in the cautious "no known issues to date", or is it the more narky "Should play on PLAYSTATION 3 with some minor issues" or the more worrying "Should play on PLAYSTATION 3 with noticeable issues"?Finding games requires a lot of page-turning - Sony doesn't seem to have come up with one of these new-fangled "search engine" things that would let you find a game without scrolling through a million pages. (Perhaps a job going for someone with a bit of SQL experience who could show them the operand "SELECT WHERE LIKE.."?)We can tell you that GTA: San Andreas falls into the "noticeable issues" category, though other GTA titles seem to be in the "no known" one. Always noting, of course, that "If your game is not listed here, emulation is not yet supported on PLAYSTATION 3".
Google is finally skinnable. The promised feature has finally appeared on personalised home pages, and you now have a choice of half a dozen themes including Beach, Bus Stop and Sweet Dreams. Many more are on the way.The Official Google Blog says:All of our themes are dynamic: they change with your own local time of day, current weather conditions or season. If you add the beach theme, for example (changes with time of day), it will ask you for your Zip code and adjust itself to match your local sunrise and sunset times. So if you happen to be stuck in a windowless office, you can at least crack open a cold one and watch the sun set over your desktop.Having just installed Tea House, I have to say it makes the thing feel much more like my Yahoo home page ;-)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
At CeBIT in Hanover, Urban Tool has shownPerCushion, a pillow phoneconcept for those relaxing late-night calls. It connects to your mobile via Bluetooth.The German company also sells iShirts and other wearables but the PerCushion pillow isn't in its online store.Thanks toCoolest-Gadgetsfor the link.
Sun's Simon Phippssays: "I'm delighted to be able to welcome a new colleague who's starting with Sun today. He is starting a newly-defined role as Chief Operating Platforms Officer at Sun, and is responsible for building a new strategy to evolve both Sun's Solaris and GNU/Linux strategies. The appointment is at the same time both brilliant and controversial, but is the logical next step as far as I am concerned."Ian Murdock is the -ian in Debian, which is one of the GNU/Linux distros that actually cares about free as in freedom, and the code that is used as the basis for Ubuntu.It's certainly controversial, as you can see from the comments on Simon's blog. However, with Sun trending towards the GNU GPL license, the aim is presumably to slide open Solaris (Unix) into the Linux-replacement market. Sure, over "the next 25 years".Murdock writes about hislove affair with Sunon his own blog, saying: "It is with regrets that I leave the Linux Foundation, but if you haven't figured out already, Sun is a company I've always loved, and being a part of it was an opportunity I simply could not pass up."
Regular readers of the gamesblog will know that the thing that most excites me about computer games is the so-called "ludic spray" which emerges from play. By this I mean the cool things that players do to extend their experiences within and outside of the game worlds. You can imagine, then, how thrilled I am by a recentHoward Rheingoldpost on the social software blogSmart Mobs, in which the virtual worlds veteran passes on a question about urban legends which arise out of game play. Think "I buried Paul" for the interactive set.The original request was:I'm working on an article about how mythologies and urban legends arise in virtual worlds. My interest was kicked off by observing my children playing in Club Penguin an online world for kids where everyone's avatar is a cute little cartoon penguin. From time to time my kids will join dozens of other penguins hopping up and down on the edge of one particular iceberg, convinced that if enough penguins do this, the iceberg will flip and reveal some sort of treasure. There seems to be no truth in this, it's just a made up story that virally spreads from player to player. Urban myths are commonplace in real life of course, as is the ability of children to make up stories and then convince other kids...and themselves...of the truth of those stories. But I was wondering if anyone knows of other places online where urban myths have appeared and taken hold?In the comments, the marketing guy from ARGPerplex Citysays that treasure hunters searching for their mysterious metal cube forwent using metal detectors to find it, believing rumours that the box was made of a metal that couldn't be picked up by the machines. Reference was made to Second Life's legendarycornfield, now vanished, where wrong-doers were sent as a punishment for breaking that virtual worlds' norms. In EverQuest, apparently players would keep a bundle of hay in their inventories believing it would stave off hunger (and therefore the need to leave the current quest to find some food).The topic's been picked up by virtual worlds blog Terra Nova, whereMUDdeveloper Richard Bartle points to a database of hundreds of urban legends in that game space, andUltima designerRaph Koster laughs about an infamous assassination myth of Ultima developer Lord British (which was apparently even photo-documented).Of course, the thinkers there get deeper than just listing examples of rumours and legends. An anonymous commentator suggests:It's not just about viral spreading of urban legends; it's about a spreading of a legend that says, "You can make the game have user-content and make it respond to the user in ways the game-gods never intended". That's terribly compelling, and that's what a lot of kids do with games, they shake them and rattle them to see if they will break somewhere and possibly even yield an exploit. Game gods know that, from what I gather, and even build some of the game play into that.What are your favourite virtual urban legends? Share them here, or if you'd like to help Chris out, you can email him at chris@spurgeonworld.com.
I have three Sony MiniDVD camcorders which I use to film my work with clients. More than the odd disc is not allowing me to finalise it at the end of the session, and of course it doesn't give any indication of impending doom when I first put it in. I don't believe the problem is with the cameras as the finalising issue seems to occur even with the newest camera, with less than two hours use on it. Anthony EthertonMiniDVD camcorders use small format DVD discs to record the video, and are not to be confused with MiniDV models, which use a small tape. The MiniDVD normally requires you to finalise it in the camera before it can be used in a PC.Do you use a MiniDVD camera, have you run into this problem, and how do you solve it?I tend to think Anthony would be better off using a different format, and MiniDV is still the standard. However, a camcorder that uses either chp storage (such as SD cards) or a built-in hard drive would be another option. If you use one of these, the file transfer is easy, but have you found it easy to read and edit the video files on a PC? Which format do you use, and does the compressed image quality provide an acceptable result?Comments welcome! ;-)Otherwise, the best I can suggest is trying to recover the video using a program such as theCD Roller Raw ISO Data Identifier. Alternatively, firms likeApex Technologywill attempt to recover data from DVDs, with prices that start at £95 plua VAT per disc.
Two of the technologies I am very interested in at the moment are robotics and artificial intelligence; the sort of things that I think can really capture the imagination and - maybe - have a long term impact on our lives.Over the past year or two I've had the privilege of speaking to some incredibly creative, inventive and successful engineers, thinkers and experts in these fields. But none of them can solve one of the major gripes I have: why do systems bother with pretending that robotic voices are real?When I was younger, I used to mess around with the voice synthesis functions on my trusty Amiga - invariably making a Stephen Hawking-like voice read out rude words, or tell my little sister to leave me alone. (cf this old post fromMatt Webbthat mentions this sort of thing in passing).I realise that voice interaction and artificial intelligence have become vastly more complex in the intervening years, but there's still one thing I hate:faked sentience.You know the kind of thing: the cut-and-paste voices that inhabit our everyday lives - that cheery woman on the voice-activited customer support line who tells you she's sorry that you have to wait. The waiting-room announcement system that says it's awfully apologetic that you're having to stand in a queue. We're not just talking automated announcements here, but announcements thatpurport to have"feelings".I was reminded of it this morning, arriving in London on the train, when I heard the familiar robo-voice telling us passengers that there were a few problems on the network."London Underground has just informed me that there are severe delays on the Northern Line,"it said. "Hang on a minute", I thought. "Who is this ME that he speaks of? Does this mean we have actually achieved the zenith of artificial intelligence?"Of course it doesn't. Now, I can understand the psychological reasoning behind this - and there's clearly a reason that these voices are usually employed to offer some form of apology to the public - but it's one of the most irritating misuses of technology that I can think of. It's like the white noise of AI. When Skynet or HAL does finally take over the world, we'll probably miss it because the announcements sound like some sort of linguistic mashup that we've all learned to filter out.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print. So here's the full text of those we selectedthis week's Letter and Blogsfrom...PIMP MY CHIPSAn lll informed article, indeed! Saab enthusiasts particularly those of the Owners Club are far more responsible than this. Attention is also paid to other issues like suspension, tyres, anti-roll bars.....the list goes on. There are very few that would tune their vehicle to 400+bhp, in our circles. Don't forget that the HOT versions are already developing 225bhp, for example the 9000 Aeros, and 9-3 viggens when they left the factory. Seems like the author of this piece has not taken one of these vehicle out for a test drive. What would s/he think about the 9-3SSR race car that develops c750bhp, I wonder? Ancient Saabs? Is this some kind of slur, too? It is not the age, it is the tip top condition, servicing and attention to H&amp;S that counts, surely. Give my regards to 'Nanny'. Chris Ivory (no post town given)An excellent article, even down to the correct spelling of silicone. What was missing was a little more technical detail, such as to what effect the silicone or its breakdown products (silica) had upon the O2 sensor. Does the onboard computer, ECU, effect the valve timing as well as the ignition and injection? Norman Nicolson, LondonThere are a number things wrong with today's Technology cover story. It's pegged to the contaminated petrol that caused control chips to shut many engines down. It then goes on to explain how these chips can also be tweaked to extract greater speed and performance. The photograph is of a diesel engine, yet nowhere are diesel engines referred to in the piece (though their chips can be tweaked). More seriously it only mentions in passing (in parenthesis) that modifying an engine's control chip will in most cases void your car's warranty and fails to mention that it will also increase your insurance costs (or void your policy if your fail to report the modification to your insurer), emissions (in more extreme cases this could result in MOT failure) and reduce engine life and reliability. The piece also claims that "cars sold in Europe are already fitted with software to stop them exceeding 155mph". This is simply not true, most manufacturers voluntarily limit their cars top speeds to 155mph but no supercar manufacturers do (Porsche, Ferrari, Masterati etc) and some of the manufacturers who limit their more mainstream models to 155 don't limit their high performance derivatives (Mercedes and Audi to name two). Andrew Burns, (no post town given)I read with interest your article about the role played by ECU in modern cars. Especially interesting was the report that cars in Essex had failed to operate after refuelling. I had a similar experience recently. My car operated perfectly until I filled up at my local Esso station a few weeks back. Since then I have been unable to start my vehicle; I have changed the ECU unit twice and still no luck. I've had it looked at by two mechanics and they are stymied that the car won't start. It seems that the car is a total write off. Dr Mark Salopek, Thompson Rivers University, Burnaby, British Columbia, CanadaDELL VS LINUXIt is not necessary to sell Linux pre-installed to gain the market lead here. It is only necessary for the manufacturer to take the linux market seriously enough to arrange drivers, written free for them (ongoing offer), for their hardware. The market advantage of such a policy would be evident to a reduced extent *even* for such equipment if it continued to have the existing windows and adware pre-installed. Alan Cocks, BracknellI agree largely that selling pre-loaded Linux is probably not in Dell's best interest. The market is small, vocal, and technically savvy; none of these are the customers that Dell courts. But given their current sales malaise, shouldn't they at least make an effort to see what these Linux folks want? As it is, the typical Dell configuration is close to useless to a Linux user. For example, Dell receives revenue from vendors to bundle products on their machines. One of these applications purports to burn CDs and DVDs. Alas, the application cannot even burn an ISO image without a paid upgrade. And as any Linux user can tell you, burning ISOs is probably the main reason they'd need the software in the first place. Dell may not need to forego the revenue stream from their bundled apps, but perhaps they could choose from Linux-compatible hardware. They can still get their incentives, but also those hordes of Linux users may take a second look rather than dismissing Dell out of hand. Kwan Lowe, Pembroke Pines, FloridaI've nearly cracked it. I've never managed to work out why Jack is so vitriolic about all things Linux, especially as it is clearly a poxy, useless vile thing, surely beneath his consideration, but he never misses an opportunity. However, I think I'm getting there: we're in "methinks he doth protest too much" territory So I've got it down to one of two things: One of the Linuxchix turned him down Because Linux is developed on the internet, he doesn't get "technical updates" in exotic parts of the world How's my guessing, Jack? Just wondering. Gerry Gavigan, LondonWhy don't Dell just sell PC's with no os so that LINUX users can install their preferred Linux variant? Richard Brooks, CannockOh dear me , Jack, you really are in a twist about this aren't you? Answer is blindingly obvious for Dell - pick one which most users prefer AND which they find works best on their PCs and ship/support that. Those with a burning desire for another flavour will undoubtedly load their own flavour with community support - that's what Linux users have been doing for years. More telling - why are there so many support forums for Windows flavours (Vista, XP Home, XP Pro, Win 2k, Win 2K Pro.....) if they are so suitable for all PCs? Why did my (second hand) Dell require 8 different driver downloads for it to use Win 2K Pro properly? Why are there so many manufacturer specific hardware drivers for Windows if it is so universally useful? Going back to my (second hand) 700Mhz Dell Optiplex; I had no disk supplied with it or a hard disk in it so I loaded Win 2K from scratch. I scrubbed it off after I had it working - boring. I installed Suse 9.1 Pro - which loaded all drivers without downloads - and it ALL worked properly from scratch. Oh and by the way - Suse is now part of Novell - support there I think. If you want community support then Debian works fine as well - at least the support forums are more helpful than those at Microsoft. PS - I started with Dos 3.1 and GEM GUI and have used MS Windows for years. I switched to Linux 7 yrs ago when my MS Windows 95 install took 3 hours (without basic apps) vs 45 minutes for a finished application rich PC ( with three desktops to chose from..) Jack - you need to take the blinkers off and look around - MS Windows might be the most common operating system but it NOT the best for all PCs and users. Users spend ages modifying Windows the way they want and if they stray too far - the only support they get from resellers and MS is - 're-install form the recovery disk'. At least Linux/Unix helps and expect you to make personalisation choices. This is the reason for so many distros. John White, Altrincham, CheshireI suspect Jack Schofield is right that only a small proportion of those calling for Dell to sell PCs with Linux pre-loaded will actually end up buying them. Personally, if I wanted a fully "deFenestrated" PC I'd rather buy one with no OS installed (already available from Dell if you ask the right questions) and install my own preferred Linux version on it. However, Schofield's depiction of typical Linux users as tightfisted low-end purchasers is surely incorrect. The typical user of desktop Linux is more likely to be motivated by principle (software freedom) or geekery than by cost-avoidance. Many Linux users are precisely the sort of people who will be looking to spend four-figure sums on high-end, performance PCs - it's just they don't want to run Windows on them. Individuals who use Linux purely for cost reasons quickly become disillusioned, because they often expect a system that is identical to Windows in every particular except cost. However, Linux is different from Windows at almost every point (normally to Linux's advantage, but still different), and those who lack the other motivations to carry them up the learning curve will often give up in frustration - especially when they run up against some of the remaining difficulties with using desktop Linux in a proprietary software world. John Halton, OrpingtonPlease recheck your facts. To quote from you opinion piece, "It costs Dell a small fortune to offer an operating system (it involves thousands of driver compatibility.....issues" Dell doesn't have thousands of driver compatibility issues. They only need to support the limited hardware set that they include PCs, not the thousands of options available in the general hardware marketplace. If you are going to use Dell to slag off Linux, at least be factual. Jim Kissel, Open Source Migrations LimitedHey yeah, and here's another idea too... Instead of complaining about how Tesco is undermining our communities and bankrupting suppliers, why don't I start up my own supermarket corporation? And instead of expecting BSkyB's monopolistic behaviour in PayTV to be regulated, launch my own satellite and run my own media corporation? Rather than feeling that banks should be prevented from breaking the law with their overdraft charges, I think I'll start a multi-billion financial institution too. But how about this for a REALLY radical idea: why don't you stop running wholly unbalanced pieces of propaganda masquerading as journalism, where Windows Vista's 'advantages' are only mentioned without the negatives and others where GNU/Linux's drawbacks are only mentioned without the positives? Actually, that's probably the least likely to be realised of all those ideas! I'm still waiting to read a warning from you about just how dangerous Vista (please note: I am talking about specific criticisms of VISTA, not general Microsoft or even Windows 'bashing') is to the whole PC industry - how it threatens entire PC and peripheral hardware design, whether they will be used to run Vista or not. I'm staggered if you are not aware of the prospect of Microsoft trying to do in Vista what IBM failed to do (thank god) with PS/2: to end the Open Systems nature of PC hardware. But just in case it is ignorance rather than negligence here is a link to an academic study:http://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~pgut001/pubs/vista_cost.htmlJohn Walters (no post town given)&gt;&gt; It is unlikely that changing linux distros would cause something to stop working that previously worked - they are all, after all, based on the same kernel. As for driver compatibility, build with components and peripherals that have linux drivers. Hardly rocket science. So choose one (Ubuntu springs to mind) - then anyone who wants a change can change. Most people who run linux (or want to run linux) are pretty savvy at this kind of thing, others won't need or want to change if the original OS is a good one and does what they need.http://0ct0pus.livejournal.com/80803.htmlWIKIPEDIA: READ ME FIRSTI understand that many of those who are being paid for writing have no sympathy towards voluntary-based initiatives a-la Wikipedia. But I fear you went a little too far in expressing your irritation. Peer production cannot mystically transform garbage into gold. Neither do profit-based companies. Have you ever complained about an unacceptable flaw in your car, recognised to be the effect of some overshooting cost-reduction initiative? I'm sure you have. And you should have thought with dear feelings of the genius who devised that initiative and of his wages. The Italian plastic surgeon who operated my son, a brilliant one, routinely travels to India to operate on girls disfigured by acid. You might guess even his flight ticket is at his own expenses. Yes, you make more than one good point in your article. I just point out you're too blatantly biased. Alessandro Drudi (no post town given) P.S.: I'm not a Wikipedia contributor.I was amused by your rant about the Wikipedia "scandal." I'm a recovering journalist, and recognise well the syndrome that compels many of us to want to expose the rat turd in a mountain of rice. May I suggest a cursory examination of the history of the Oxford English Dictionary? I'm sure you'll find the details of its thousands of hours of free labour and fraudulent contributor credentials familiar. Perhaps your subsequent expose could bring down that venerable institution. Gord Smedley, Vancouver BC&gt;&gt; Listening to the car radio I learnt that Jean Baudrillard died in Paris on Wednesday. I also found out about the latest wiki scandal – a Wikipedia administrator has been posing as a tenured religion professor. He's a 24-year old with no qualifications. Is that bad? Unreal, Baudrillard would say, I expect.http://myvedana.blogspot.com/2007/03/choked.html&gt;&gt; This is really bad. [Ryan] Jordan, meet Bob Cringely. But then the article goes on to tar all the thousands of good Wikipedians -- and Wikia management, and (by direct implication) Jimbo Wales, AND all peer production! -- with the Essjay brush. Sure, anytime you have thousands of loosely vetted volunteers working on a project, the chances of coming up with one or two bad actors is high. But the Guardian takes the low road, smearing the efforts of the thousands who apply their expertise for the love of their craft, calling them "wrapped up in delusion," subject to "old fashioned cult appeal," dupes that "work for free" with "a dream that their donated effort will give them the prestige of an academic." As if there's no motive but money paid for work done, and no elevation of reputation not mediated by The Academy! Shame, Guardian. Shame.http://isen.com/blog/2007/03/guardian-smears-wikipedia-wikipedians.html&gt;&gt; This is particularly interesting to me at the moment, because one of the faithful is trying to get me banned from editing the Wikipedia article on Net Neutrality, simply to silence a point of view. Wikipedia is the place to go when reality doesn't live up to your expectations. Wiki-reality is so much better than real reality that once you go there, you'll never come back. Kudos to Seth, information entropy's biggest enemy. David Isenberg, who should be basking in the afterglow of his successful Freedom to Connect conference, is very upset with The Guardian for publishing Seth's opinion. The poor dude should join the debate rather than try to silence other points of view. Oops.http://bennett.com/blog/index.php/archives/2007/03/09/read-me-first/&gt;&gt; As this moment of crisis, I would like to remind ourselves that "The Wikipedia community encourages users to be bold in updating articles." Next time you see something wrong in a Wikipedia article, don't worry, go ahead and be bold in fixing the article to make it better.http://kempton.wordpress.com/2007/03/08/wikipedians-credentials/TECHNOBILE - PHONE DESIGNI agree, but most phones are now hands free, so although the design no longer allows lodging on one shoulder [surely this is not good for your neck] a conversation can be carried on regardless. Philip Pinel (no post town given)MICROSOFT V EUROPEWhile Wendy Grossman is busy defending the right to rely on a patent to prevent interoperability (and much has been written on this) she skates lightly across the desire or other wise of the European Patent Office and the UK Patent Office to allow software patents. Hmm, is it true? Do the EPO and the UKPO have a legal basis for issuing software patents? Let's take a look at the UKPO website....http://www.patent.gov.uk/policy/policy-issues/policy-issues-patents/policy-issues-patents-computer.htmOn software we see "Whether a computer-implemented invention is patentable depends on the contribution the invention makes. For example, if it provides improved control of a car braking system, it is likely to be patentable, but if it merely provides an improved accounting system, it is probably not patentable" Also, if it is not patentable in the UK it's not patentable in Europe And while we are at it, it turns out that the Supreme Court of the USA don't think software is patentable either...http://www.pubpat.org/softwarepatentwatch/index.php?m=02&amp;y=07&amp;entry=entry070222-175412The thing is, it didn't take me long to find this out. Gerry Gavigan, LondonHOMEBREW CONSOLINGYour editorial barely even scratches the surface of homebrew, the history of the consoles and the development scene. It is a cool notification of the 'scene' but nothing more than what is onwww.codejunkies.com. If you would like to gain some insight into the development scene instead, we'd be happy to help. Maxconsole info (no post town given)Keith Stuart's article failed to mention the GP2X (www.gp2x.com). Like the PSP it has a lively scene with forums (www.gp32x.com), a wiki (wiki.gp2x.org) and an archive (archive.gp2x.de) containing hundreds of homebrew games, emulators and applications. Unlike the PSP, the GP2X was designed for homebrew development (in the past Sony has tried lock out homebrew). It's a pity it isn't more widely publicised. Dave Parker, Gillingham, DorsetMACS OR NOT [LETTERS]Oh dear here we go again. Can't you set up an automatic filter that filters out letters from enthusiasts (of whatever persuasion) saying "Nur, nur, mine's better than yours!"? It's not as if they are a statistically significant sample or that they add anything to any sort of debate. John Stout, AughtonRather than continue the debate, I would like to point out that I am a power user of XP, I use it 10 hours a day at work, and my home PC is on 24/7. My work PC has been running for 48 days, my home PC, for 4 months. They have never crashed, apart from the odd application crash, the machines haven't. I absolutely hammer them in terms of usage. I can categorically state that of the 50 odd computers in this office, the only ones that require reboots are the Macs! In 12 years of computing I have never had a virus take affect or been unduly affected by trojans. I understand every single process on these machines and would know in a heartbeat if anything was wrong with them. I am not an MS fanboy, Linux would be my second choice and already am migrating my home PC's and some work PC's on to Ubuntu, Mac is simply not a realistic alternative in the modern business world. They are, as they absolutely love to point out, "for the fun stuff". For extra balance, I think iTunes, Garageband and iMovie are works of genius and stunningly good programs (iTunes on the PC is a load of old toss though performance wise). I recently gave my Mac owning friend a little Netgear hub - his little workgroup router had run out of connections so I offered him an old 10/100 switch - a small blue one. He returned it graciously, saying it didn't look right near his Mac's. He went out and bought a more attractive £100 model (mine was about a tenner). I won't repeat my response. It was enlightening. I realised we saw things differently. I wanted things to just work, he wanted them to work and look nice. I have better things to do than stare at computer peripherals. Comparing Macs and PC's, or more accurately, Mac users and PC users, is utterly futile. Its like convincing a United supporter to follow City, its not going to happen easily! They are tools for different purposes. The marketing and business models (open vs proprietary) are different. I hereby request that the debate end. The market debate ended a LONG time ago. Dave Ashton, MacclesfieldI am a Mac user, and Mail crashes on my Mac every day. Smug Mac users like you, give Mac users everywhere a bad name. Neil Churchill, LondonMac users might not suffer from Trojans, Viruses, frequent crashes, etc, but do they always have to be so smug about it? (Letters, 8/3/07) Us PC users don't go on about only needing one finger to right click. (It's true. That's all we need. One finger. Makes Macs look pretty sick, eh?) Stephen Parkin, LondonMore patronising by the few rotten apples. Rob Dunford may have "never once been plagued with any virus, rootkit, trojan, botnet, etc etc." but my guess is he's also never been plagued with much in the way of software either. And as for Jake Philips, it's not very surprising that nothing crashes on your mac: hardly anything will run on it in the first place. Dr. Daniel O'Toole, National University Of Ireland, Galway, IrelandCRACKING VISTAThat's not entirely accurate. If you were looking for a single key that would match out of the possible key base (which is about 167 bits large) - this is akin to decrypting a message that's been encrypted where only one key will work. You are basically looking for that single glass slipper that fits Cinderella. However, the issue with Microsoft keys is that the software has to accept not just the key on the box but almost all keys that have been generated for Vista and that will be generated in the future. The brute force keygen is looking for a slipper that fits Cinderella, but there are a huge number of slippers that will fit. Given the number of Vista versions and the likely size of the keybase, finding keys is a lot easier than decrypting a message. Also, there's another Vista crack that resets the activation timer called Timestopper which also seems to work ... For now. As you said, the trick is not getting buy Windows, it's getting past the activation servers. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes (no post town given)VIC'S STARTUPS&gt;&gt; I agree there is no big, over-funded bubble stretching its rather thin skin ever more taut. What there is, in my opinion, is a shower of little mini-bubbles all ready to burst - hurting little more than the egos of the increasing number of hopefuls setting up specialist social networking sites.http://www.smallbizpod.co.uk/blog/2007/03/08/uk-startups-mini-bubbles-and-the-vc/&gt;&gt; essentially small is not only good, it's also sensible.http://shedworking.blogspot.com/2007/03/stingy-startups.htmlEXPERT WITNESSESPeter Warren's account of the computer forensics expert witness scene (Guardian 08/03/2007) is largely correct, but some of his details on the scheme run by the Council for the Registration of Forensic Practitioners - CRFP - are not. CRFP's assessment concentrates, rightly, on how candidates' case-work but far from ignoring qualifications it demands to see original copies of any certificates and also probes deeply into the syllabuses behind them - important as there is now a proliferation of bodies claiming to offer "qualifications", some of them quite dubious. CRFP also wants evidence of on-going self-education and in any event requires renewal every three years. CRFP itself covers a very wide range of forensic specialities and the computer scheme has learnt from that. The problem any scheme has is the expectation that assessors will be at the top of their profession - impeccably ethical, earning £1500-2000 a day and still turning away work - that they will carry out very detailed reviews - but that the cost to candidates will be very low. So the task, in serving the courts, is not to devise the perfect scheme, but to get the best mix of compromises. Peter Sommer, Joint Lead Assessor, Computer Evidence Speciality, CRFP
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nintendo legend (I don't use that term lightly) Shigeru Miyamoto has "posted" a question at social search siteYahoo! Answersasking when users first heard of Nintendo and what they think about it now. Certainly a clever tactic by someone in the marketing department for some cheap market research, the 5400+ answers also demonstrate the demographics of social software users (perhaps drawing some reticent gamers into its fold too, by the power of gaming celebrity). They are disarmingly a lot younger than I am, with a decent gender split. Maybe that's the Nintendo factor, however.Most of the folks who have responded were under the age of 5 when they first heard of the console (regardless of whether it was a NES or an N64), which demonstrates how pervasive games are in our cultures, beginning in our youths. It would be interesting to see the results of a similar question, about the PlayStation brand. I imagine that the age at first sight would slant older, and not simply because the machine was released in 1995 (instead of 1985 - for me at least).So how oldwereyou the first time you hear about the PlayStation, and what does it mean now?
"Psychologists have taken the "media priming" effects of popular video console and PC-based games on the road, finding that virtual racing seems to lead to aggressive driving and a propensity for risk taking," according to a story in the March issue of the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, which is published by the American Psychological Association.Researchers at Munich's Ludwig-Maximilians University and the Allianz Center for Technology found that of 198 men and women, those who play more virtual car-racing games were more likely to report that they drive aggressively and get in accidents. Less frequent virtual racing was associated with more cautious driving.A quote in thepress releasesays:the authors observe that on a practical level, "Our results pose the question whether playing racing games leads to accidents in real-life road traffic." Based on their findings and prior research, they assert that, "Playing racing games could provoke unsafe driving. ... Practitioners in the field of road traffic safety should bear in mind the possibility that racing games indeed make road traffic less safe, not least because game players are mostly young adults, acknowledged as the highest accident-race group."Of course, the riskiest drivers are young men, and young men are also among the most likely to play racing games, so you'd expect a correlation.The article is available athttp://www.apa.org/journals/releases/xap13122.pdf
"A photograph of a young Australian policewoman's breasts, sent to her boyfriend as a get well message on her mobile phone, has sparked an investigation after it was circulated on internal police e-mail," reportsReuters.The Victoria state police constable was in her police uniform with her name badge visible, her shirt undone and her breasts exposed when she was photographed, Australian Associated Press (AAP) reported on Monday.The force's "ethical standards department" is now trying to work out "if an offence has been committed."Policewoman Melissa Scannell thus joins Claire Swire and others who have seen private things made public on an Internet scale....
Britain now has more mobile phones than people. But more surprising is that, according to Ofcom, 4% of adults aged 25-44 still don't have one. This suggests there exists a small cabal of mobile-phone refuseniks, for whom shunning the mobile is nothing to do with being very old, very young or very hard up, but a lifestyle choice. And it's a theory borne out by my inquiries."Not owning a mobile is part of my quest for personal freedom," says 42-year-old sales manager Mark Quigley. "They sell it to you as freedom, but it means you're contactable at all times of day.""I don't know anyone else who hasn't got one," says Charlie Thurrock, a 28-year-old production coordinator. "I do get some hassle from friends who want to contact me, but I think people have the right to ignore everyone if they want to."Whatever their reasons for opting out, people who say no to mobiles are badly out of step with a social etiquette that has been transformed by the new technology. "People get uncomfortable when you're arranging somewhere to meet and they realise you don't have a phone," says 37-year-old magazine journalist Cam Winstanley. "They like to say, 'See you in Leicester Square around seven,' and then spend 10 minutes wandering around clutching their mobile when they arrive."Missing out on social gatherings arranged by text is another possible downside. These days, if you're not on someone's Sim card, you might as well not exist. A study of US mobile users by Baltimore firm Context found that people tended to avoid contact with peers who didn't have them.The UK's 10 mobile operators have long since declared the UK a saturated market, writing off those who haven't surrendered as a lost cause. "The 60 million people in the UK who have a mobile see and value the benefits," says an O2 spokesperson. "But if a customer sees no benefit in a product, they won't buy it. It's as simple as that."Not even a high-pressure career is enough to convince some handset holdouts to sign up. "I don't need a mobile phone," says Treasury analyst Hazel Parker. "I feel I wouldn't be doing my job properly if I couldn't train staff to act in my absence. I can think of only one emergency where I wished I had one. I was up a mountain one day, and Radiohead tickets went on sale."
Perhaps the only MMO that can give WoW some competition, Lord of the Rings Online is launching this April. I chatted to the Executive Producer Jeffrey Steefel about Middle Earth and MMO's.Is WoW's huge success a benefit or a hindrance to LOTRO?A huge benefit. Think about it, what Blizzard has managed to do is hugely expand the market from something that was niche to mainstream entertainment. It has changed the entire landscape which means now is the perfect time to come out with a product like Lord of the Rings Online. After all, there's barely a person on the planet who hasn't heard of Lord of the Rings right? It also gives us a chance to reach out to a wider space, not just the WoW players, but RPG fans generally who have always wanted to experience this world.How do you design the game so that it appeals to more casual players, tempted in by the brand, and more hardcore players.We know we need to create an intense experience for MMO fans and also to those who know the lore and story inside out. But the casual mainstream audience is important too. The key thing is delivering on the IP. The movies have helped and hindered us. They've created a huge expectation and respect for the story. But it as also limited knowledge of the full story - for many people Lord of the Rings is what happened in those ten hours rather than the books. The truth is Lord of the Rings is huge compared to the films. So we need to deliver on the things that everyone expects. So you're going to Rivendell and the Prancing Pony and fighting with Aragorn. But not everyone can be walking down the path with Frodo and the fellowship. So the way we've done this is by making sure that people can interact with main characters. This is a real challenge to do well and not ruin the main story. The other way we make this work is by creating a story that intertwines with the familiar Lord of the Rings story. This is what we have done with Angmar. The War of the Rings is larger wider story and that has helped us.How do stop LOTRO becoming a theme park, where players queue up to see all the sites?The focus has always been on just game and Tolkein Enterprises understands that. They've let us use things like magic, which weren't in the book but work perfectly in the game. The in-game sites will attract people to play but they won't be the reason why people stay. People will be amazed by the size of Rivendell or the Shire but should see them as just part of the wider game. I like to think we could take the LOTR licence away and still have a great MMO - that's certainly what we are aiming for.How do the community features such as family and music work and how important are they to the vision of the game?It's all roleplay for now. We are being very careful about the family element at the moment. If it turns out to be fun and doesn't have pitfalls that we haven't thought of then there is massive potential. There will be housing in the game and we'll have to wait and see how family will affect this. Will you create a family tree? We're taking it slow and will see where it goes. Music on the other hand is just great fun. We really want to expand on this and take it further. MMO creation requires you to be open-minded but we're really optimistic about music.What about mounts?Mounts are available but they aren't cheap and you have to be a certain level. There will be fast travel available between towns though.How do you deal with players who are going to race through the game and exhaust the content you've created?I don't know how to help the really serious guys *laughs* The vast majority of people will find plenty of content to keep them busy. But the serious guys are a huge asset to the game and will eat up everything they can and so become a real bedrock of the world. Things like master crafting and the monster playing and raiding will be the main elements of the end game. Then deeds will come into play. You could be the person that saves a town in a live game event. All of these things will keep you interested.What about PvP? And why is not in the main game?The PVP is centred around Monster Play but right now we don't see ourselves creating PVP servers where you can run riot in the Shire. The Monster Play area is isolated but very large and we hope to add campaign and other PVP options to this area. From a design point of view areas like Helms Deep should be consumed with PvP combat. Or mounted combat - hopefully - in Rohan would work very well with PvP. And what about Mordor? Or Moria? That could be the ultimate PvP dungeon of all time. So nothing has been decided yet and we are keeping an open mind. But we want to project the lore.What was the thinking behind the 99 UKP lifetime subscription?The main reason is to reward the big fans and get the involved early. We want to populate the game and also make it easy for players to get involved.How important will kinships (guilds) be?We expect them to form very quickly and how advanced they get depends as much on the players as the tools we give.Isn't the gameplay just about the monster killing grind?We want to get you out of the grind. If you want to you can but we want to make it equally reward to explore, get involved with community and do some of the other achievements.
It is the most eagerly anticipated product launch since the last one. One second after midnight on Friday morning, a crowd is expected to surge to the tills on London's Oxford Street in the scramble to get their hands on the latest video games console, Sony's PlayStation 3.The days when a games console, such as the Atari, was only about games are long gone. The PS3 has the ability to connect to the internet, play the new generation of high-definition DVDs, and store photographs from a digital camera and music from an iPod. Its strength as a digital Swiss army knife could, in fact, also be its weakness, according to critics, who warn that dedicated gamers might be put off by the 'distractions' - and the &pound;425 price tag that comes with them.None of this is likely to stop diehards descending on the Virgin Megastore on Oxford Street from noon on Wednesday to queue for the much-hyped product launch 36 hours later. The lower ground floor of the store will be turned into a 'campsite' so people do not have to queue on the street outside - cold weather and even snow have been forecast.When the PS3 was launched in America last November - at a much lower price than in Britain - the fevered excitement descended into mob violence. Muggers held up of people waiting outside a superstore in Connecticut at 3am, demanding they hand over the money they had saved to buy a PS3, and one man was shot when he resisted. In Wisconsin, a teenager was injured when he ran into a pole while racing with 50 others for one of 10 camping spots outside a Wal-Mart. In California police closed a Wal-Mart after shoppers fought to get to the head of the queue. The consoles were soon changing hands on eBay for more than $2,000 (&pound;1,000).Retailers in Britain are trying to play down concerns that thousands of people will be left disappointed by a shortage of stock on day one. Sony has had time to ship 1 million PS3s for Friday's European launch, with 220,000 available in the UK - by far the biggest console debut yet. Virgin Megastores said it had received several thousand pre-orders. Stephen Lynn, a senior manager, said: 'The number of customers asking our sales staff about it over the last few weeks has been phenomenal.'The PS3 represents a huge gamble by Sony, under its British chief executive Sir Howard Stringer, to regain dominance in home entertainment. The much-delayed product is expected to hit the Japanese giant with losses of half a billion pounds this fiscal year. It makes a significant loss on every PS3 it manufactures and will hope to recoup the money from sales of games, more than 30 of which will be available at the launch.During a recent demonstration in London, gamers witnessed a preview of the racing game Gran Turismo featuring photo-realistic graphics in which light reflected off a car bonnet with stunning clarity. A war game, Resistance: Fall of Man, pays such attention to physics that shooting a window at the top causes a different shattering effect from shooting it at the bottom.The ultra-real visuals are made possible because the PS3 contains a Blu-ray DVD player, which it is hoped will also appeal to film fans: Blu-ray DVDs have more than five times the capacity of conventional DVDs, so can produce greatly enhanced picture and sound quality.Sales of the PS3 in America have not been outstanding. In February it sold 127,000 units, trailing behind Nintendo's less costly Wii console, which sold 335,000, and Microsoft's XBox 360, which sold 228,000. Even Sony's PlayStation 2 - the most popular game console - sold 295,000, continuing to outperform its more expensive successor.Bloggers have given it a mixed reception. One, named 'Guspaz', wrote: 'Assuming Sony sells every console in Europe that they ship, they'd still have sold only two-thirds as many as the Wii (and a quarter as many as the [XBox] 360). I don't think that it's too late for Sony to turn the PS3 around, but since it would involve swallowing their pride, popping their ego balloon, and taking heavy financial losses, I don't think it's likely to happen.' But David Carnoy, an editor atwww.cnet.com, said: 'Though not without a few minor drawbacks, the PS3 is a versatile and impressive piece of home entertainment equipment.'Experts in Britain believe the PS3 will make a solid but unspectacular start this week. Paul Jackson, principal analyst at Forrester Research, said: 'A lot of eyes are on Howard Stringer and whether the PS3 can reclaim the home entertainment crown for Sony. One product will not bring the corporation to its knees but they are pinning a lot of hopes on it... And I doubt whether Sony expected such a negative backlash from the online community.'How the rivals compareMicrosoft Xbox 360Launched:December 2005It does:Plays high-definition 360 and standard Xbox titles, as well as DVDs and CDs, and can connect to the internet for global tournaments.Has sold:10.4 millionHow much:&pound;279Nintendo WiiLaunched:December 2006It does:Less powerful than its rivals, but a 'motion-sensitive controller' has been worked into every game, so playing tennis or conducting an orchestra by waving the wand is a little like the real thing. Plays discs made for the Wii's predecessor, the GameCube.Has sold:4.62 millionHow much:&pound;180Sony PlayStation 3Launches:This month in Europe, earlier in US and Japan.It does:State-of-the-art games consoles with the potential for photo-realistic graphics. Plays high-definition Blu-ray discs, some original PlayStation and PS2 games, DVDs and super audio CDs. Owners get free online gaming and web surfing access.Has sold:1.65 millionHow much:&pound;425
BMW Z4 Roadster 3.2 M&pound;42,795Top speed:155MPHSeats:2Good for:BypassesBad for:Heart attacksLike oysters, brutalist architecture and Janet Street-Porter, there is something beautifully ugly about BMW's new two-seat sportscar. The Z4's vast bonnet is swollen with weird protruberances and growths. It's creased on virtually every panel, as if some origami expert has been let loose on the master plan, and then partially ironed it flat again. With its wrinkles, jowly front valence and downward sloping headlamps, it's the motoring equivalent of a Shar-Pei. And, like that aesthetically challenged hound, the Z4's stand-out ugliness causes a first gasp of horror, followed by the slow-burn of pleasure as the hideous brute finds a warm spot in your heart. As the French say, it is jolie laid.The design trail that's been blazed by Chris Bangle at BMW over the past years has taken the ultra-reliable car, made with speed-crazed wage slaves in mind, into controversial waters. BMW is no longer the first resort for those wanting understated anonymity. Drive one now and people look at you. The German carmaker has brought out nine new models in the past three years and all of them are an acquired taste. None more so than the Z4.When BMW brought out the car's predecessor, the Z3, it was regularly flagged up as being 'feminine'. And don't think for a minute that reviewers were using that adjective in a positive sense. With the Z4, BMW seems to have been determined to make as masculine a car as possible. From the four exhaust pipes at the back to the extra-wide tyres and the thick, rubbery steering wheel, the Z4 is as male as a badger-hair shaving brush. My wife drove the test car and pronounced it 'boorish' and 'pathetically macho'. Words which led me to expect the best. And the Z4 did not disappoint. Raw yet refined, powerful yet controlled, it's one of the most exhilarating drives I've had.Only about 1,000 will be sold in the UK, and almost all will be bought by men who are married and aged between 35 and 45. They will also all be driving enthusiasts. But you don't have to be Stirling Moss to work that out. Just look at it. It's all about the engine. The bonnet takes up half the length of the car - the driver and passenger crouching behind it. Under that swollen hood you'll find one of five engine choices. Starting with a basic 2-litre four-cylinder petrol which boasts a very sporting 37.7 miles per gallon to a 3.2-litre multi-award winning power plant from BMW's M division which takes the 1,500kg car from 0 to 62 in five seconds. Quick enough to make you prickle with nervous sweat between speed bumps.It was this flagship M Roadster that I was lucky enough to drive - &pound;43,000 worth of lipstick-red hedonism. And yet it's a BMW - the epitome of respectability and reliability.On the last Sunday of my test week, my 10-year-old son and I headed out of town early for a rugby match. We dialled up the heated seats, opened the roof, turned up the Kaiser Chiefs and hit the winding wintry roads of the South Downs. Boorish, pathetically macho ... and all the more brilliant for it.martin.love@observer.co.uk
