When I disconnect or log off via Ctrl-Alt-Del, the final closedown dialogue states other people are logged on to my computer when I'm the only person using it. Margaret NicolI don't have a good answer for this, but the possible implications are worrying: your PC may have a "backdoor" Trojan that opens it up to hackers. The Task Manager invoked by Ctrl-Alt-Del has a tab marked Users, so check to see if any other users are logged on. Also, click the Performance tab and look for activities that are not obviously the result of things you are doing.Even if you don't find anything suspicious, run an online virus scan atHousecalland download and runEwidoto see if you can find and remove any backdoor Trojans.Finally, install a proper firewall, if you don't already have one, and block connections if you don't know what they are for. (You will need to research the less obvious ones.) Zone Labs'Zone Alarmis one free option. Of the paid-for firewalls,McAfeeis powerful and easy to use, though I'm not a big fan of the rest of the suite.Backchat: "Margaret Nicol is not alone in getting messages about other users when switching off," writes James Prentice. "I get this from time to time for no apparent reason. I have come to regard it as just another bug in SP2!" Bob Evans says he also gets it on his new Dell. But it remains a mystery.
I have bought two used Dell Optiplexes for £70 each, to give to my kids as starter PCs. One has Windows 2000 Pro but all our other PCs are on XP Home. Do I have any options other than buying a full version of XP for £140? Mike O'ConnellMicrosoft says you can only upgrade Windows 2000 Pro to XP Pro, not XP Home. However, if you have the Windows 2000 Pro CD, you may find an upgrade version of Windows XP Home will accept this as valid media for doing a "clean install" rather than an in-place upgrade. If any readers have done this, please let me know.Backchat: Reader Ian Park has confirmed that it worked for him.
Is it possible to get rid of that annoying jingle played every time Windows XP boots up? I'd like to replace it with something else - nothing would do, too. James WiddenAll the Windows sounds are configurable. Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and run the applet called, in XP, Sounds and Audio Devices. Click the tab marked Sounds and scroll down until you find the entry for Start Windows. Select this and you will probably findWindows XP Startup.wavis selected. If you click the drop-down button (the down arrow) next to that, you will be able to select a different sound or the first option: none.Alternatively, you can click the button for Browse, which will take you to your Media directory. There, you can select a different sound, or navigate to another sound you prefer. It's simplest if you find the sound you want then put it in the C:\Windows\Media directory beforehand.There are lots of suitable (and unsuitable) wav files on the Open Program Wavs and Close Program Wavs pages at Wave Events (www.waveevents.com). This site has sections for 2001, Star Trek ("Program complete, enter when ready"), Star Wars and cartoons.Soundamerica.comis another good source, or you can try the sounds search engine,FindSounds.com.
Japanese airline JALhasannouncedthat it's providing Nintendo DS Lites to jonesing Executive and First Class gamers on their flights through August. No WiFi, of course, but this is a step up fromotherairbornegamingtreats, and responds to passengers'demandsfor broader entertainment options. Previously, gamers had to make do with inadequate interactive offerings using over-used and faulty controllers, but with individual DS Lites, gamers canTrain their Brains,go to warandtake care of their pupswhilst in transit. Clever Nintendo.
Don't get me wrong, I love the beautiful game -Saints, obviously - but anyone else had enough of the incessant World Cup hype? Listening to the radio this morning was something else. Weather reports from Germany, presenters moaning about last night'ssauerkrautand tedious interviews with hungover fans at campsites were only the start. You'd think England were playing Brazil in the final rather than Trinidad and bloody Tobago in the group stages such was the hysterical coverage.Luckily today's Technology supplement cares little for events in Germany, getting all excited aboutother stuffinstead. What concerns us, obviously, is the games coverage and there are some goodies to be found. Thereviewsgive the three games - Brain Training, Moto GP 06, Rise of Legends - four stars each. So all good games then, but I'd personally mark the latter two down for not including a word memorisation element.Elsewhere there is an article aboutgriefers in online games, while Alekslooks at sex and gamesand wonders why films can get away with so much more. "It seems extraordinarily inconsistent that a love scene in a movie only garners a 15 rating, but sexual activity in a game is bumped up to an 18," she says.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..That sinking feelingVenice's fight for survival has attracted international attention and large-scale funding. However, it is not the only city trying to keep its head above water, says Nigel Praities.Time to adopt the American modelA number of member countries continue to drag their feet over a European directive on access to public-sector information. Report by Michael Cross.Teaching cameraphones to read business cardsTransferring contact details straight to a mobile phone via a barcode could make commercial sense.Is it the end for net neutrality?Since the net is a place where tiny arguments can turn into the most thunderous of storms overnight, it is often difficult to measure the importance of arguments. But few dispute that "net neutrality" could be one of the most important.Who is Robert Scoble and does anybody care?Robert Scoble is Microsoft's alpha geek blogger, widely credited with giving the software giant a more appealing human face. The big news last weekend was that Scoble is quitting to join a video-blogging start-up company, PodTech.net.Mating games arouse wrath of 'moral majority'Aleks Krotoski: One year ago this month, a new landmark in computer gaming was set by a 36-year-old hacker whose talents simultaneously uncovered an explicit adult scene in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, and lifted the veil on an industry that has been largely ignored in interactive entertainment.Gamers don't want any more griefPlayers who abuse others in online games may soon be ostracised as virtual communities start to police their own environments, writes Martin Davies.Games of the weekBrain Training | Moto GP 06 | Rise of LegendsGentlemen, charge your enginesElectric-car technology is accelerating at such a pace that even the most sceptical of petrolheads will have to take notice.Broadband for all - not!Though many people assume broadband will be available anywhere within the nation, there are corners of the UK where the broadband dream remains just that.Music business needs to be more image consciousCharles Arthur: Cleaning out the loft I came across an armful of vinyl LPs; had they been CDs, of course, they'd have only been a handful. Their size and weight were striking; but one thing they had that CDs certainly don't is a canvas for artwork.Bargain hunters may not net the best priceVictor Keegan: Online shopping is so common among savvy web users that there is a danger of getting it out of proportion. At a recent morning conference at the Guardian some people, mainly women, said they did all their shopping online.TechnobileKim Thomas: Who in their right mind would be taken in by hoax email? Many more than you would imagine, actually.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesMobile madness | Webjacking | 20in to go | Pool protection | i-mode UK | Music turn off | Video mail | Passport updateLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Over on technology Blog, keen PS3 watcher Jack Schofield haspostedabout howacross-the-board delaysin the launch of Blu-ray players may place the current launch date of PS3 in doubt.Rumours appearing on the US blog Kotakusuggesting that beta machines have still not been produced have also added fuel to the fire (an apt metaphor in this case - Kotaku's mole claims that the hardware is failing to dissipate heat).Jack believes Sony has made two key mistakes with its next-gen machine: being too ambitious with the specs (Cell processor, seven SPE chips, etc), and using the machine as a Blu-ray Trojan horse too early in the lifespan of the high-def format. PlayStation 2 was useful as a DVD platform, but that console arrived four years after the launch of the DVD medium.Meanwhile, Ken Kutaragi is still spelling out his vision for the machine. In an interview with Japanese website PC Watch (more infohere) he admires the way in which Apple products take on a central role in their users' lives (and is a tad jealous about the price tag Steve Jobs can slap on his technology). Kutaragi apparently wants PS3 to form its own living room 'ecosystem' - i.e. to fulfil a central, all-encompassing role in the living room. Well, that's certainly a refreshing alternative to the hateful term 'entertainment server'. Although I'm still partial to 'games console'.More recently, he has been speaking to the NikkeiBP newspaper (morehere), declaring that, "the world has obviously underestimated our progress in software development" - a reference to the large number of games in development for PS3. He also chats about the possibilities offered by the Eye-Toy camera, and mentions that PS3 users will be able to upgrade their hard-drives in a year or so to a meaty 120GB. 'PlayStation 3 is a computer' is his consistent message.The soap opera rolls on toward a far from predictable conclusion. But, at the moment, the lack of sustained developer backbiting about PS3 suggests that the real hot air is coming from the web rather than the machine itself.
The disastrous flooding that overwhelmed New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina highlighted the vulnerability of low-lying coastal cities around the world. A predicted global sea-level rise of up to 88 centimetres over the next century, due to climate change, would put many major cities at risk.In New Orleans, it happened suddenly. Venice, by contrast, is gradually being submerged. Over the past 100 years the land level has dropped by more than 23cm, due to rising sea levels and land subsidence.Around the world, massive public projects such as the Maeslant barrier in the Netherlands and the Thames barrier in the UK have been constructed to protect economically and culturally sensitive areas from sea-level rises or storm surges. Venice, on the other hand, has only recently begun constructing a long-term solution - a large-scale barrier between the Venetian lagoon and the Adriatic Sea.Venetians are well used to high tides, or "acqua alta", invading their city. Piles of sandbags guard entrances to buildings and elevated wooden walkways help navigate around the worst of the flooding. But the problem is worsening. St Mark's Square was flooded seven times in 1900 but 99 times in 1996. "The flooding has heavily increased, especially in the past 40 years," says Professor Ignazio Musu, an economist based in the city.Venice has made an art of decaying beautifully. Acqua alta are picturesque for tourists, but hugely damaging and costly. High waters reach over the water-resistant marble foundations of the city to corrode masonry, interiors and artworks. "The effect on the cultural heritage, churches and artistic monuments has not been estimated properly," says Musu. "But when the floor of an ancient building is continuously flooded there is considerable damage."Venetians are escaping the flooding; most ground-level dwellings lie abandoned and the city's population has halved in the past 50 years, from 120,000 in 1951 to around 60,000 today.City delugedThe worst flooding seen in Venice was in 1966, when a storm surge deluged the city with metre-high waters for 15 hours. This instigated a debate about schemes to protect it. In the UK, there was a similar impetus after the floods of 1953, which affected 100,000 hectares of eastern England and caused 307 deaths; that resulted in the construction of the Thames barrier in 1974.Progress in Italy has been slower. After nearly four decades of debate, the ambitious idea of a barrier was backed by the previous Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, who laid the foundation stone of the Modulo Sperimentale Elettromeccanico, or Mose, project in 2003. The project, named after the biblical figure Moses, was one of Berlusconi's largest public works projects while in office.The size of the &pound;2 billion (&euro;3 billion) Mose project is impressive. It consists of 79 hinged steel gates, each 30 metres high, 20m wide and between 4-5m thick. At the three inlets of the Venetian lagoon to the Adriatic, these hollow gates will usually be filled with water and lie unseen on the ocean floor. After a storm or high tide warning, they will be pumped full of air and rise up to form a wall to restrain the tide. "If you are going to protect the city from the strength of the sea, then you have to have some hard structure," explains Musu. "If it is used properly, all the costs of high water will be avoided."The Mose project has attracted international attention. Professor Peter Guthrie, an engineering expert from Cambridge University, admits he is "very drawn to the simplicity of the design. It is a good technical solution to the problems of flooding in Venice."However, the barriers remain controversial with Venetians. Italians are generally cynical about large-scale government projects, and the citizens are concerned that the money could be better spent on restoration projects and reducing pollution. "The only money the Italian government gives is to support the Mose project, and this contributes to creating a negative opinion in the local population," says Musu.While work on the barriers has begun, their future is uncertain as the Italian political climate has changed. The recently elected mayor of Venice is reconsidering the Mose project. Last week, the Italian Minister of Public Works, Antonio Di Pietro, commented that the work on the barriers should continue as it is already one-quarter complete, but he called for a further meeting of the committee overseeing the project. The new Italian government, headed by Romano Prodi, also faces potential difficulties with its coalition partner, the Green Party, which opposes the barriers.Most experts agree that the project could be obsolete within 50 years if the higher predictions about sea level rises are realised. "You can't build a barrier and think that Venice will be safe for evermore," says Guthrie, "but it certainly is not possible to say that the barriers are a bad idea."However, some influential academics argue that the barriers are a waste of public money and are unable to protect the fabric of Venice. "Even with the Mose project there will be flooding in Venice," comments Professor Paolo Pirazzoli, a prominent geographer born in Venice. "If the sea level rises 20-30cm, then the barriers will not be sufficient."Irreversible projectHe also argues that the barriers will obstruct any future schemes: "The present project is not reversible and the passages [into the Adriatic] will be blocked by millions of tonnes of concrete. Some other defences must be constructed in the same place and this will not be possible."Other solutions have been suggested, such as raising pavements, reinforcing foundations and increasing resistance to water flooding by narrowing the inlets into the lagoon. Pirazzoli feels these options "may do the same work of stopping the flooding as Mose, but in a reversible way, and will cost ten times less".Environmentalists are concerned that the ecology of the lagoon has already been damaged by pollution, fishing and heavy sea traffic and that these barriers will turn the lagoon into a stagnant pond. "The project does not provide the long-term solution to the problems of the lagoon," says Michelle Candotti, secretary-general of WWF Italy. "Pollution will continue. Traffic will continue. And in the future a Mose 2 will be needed."Candotti claims that close links between government and big business in Italy have swayed decision-making. "The Mose is an oversimplification of a complex issue and it hides a lot of vested interests," he says.A meeting at the Royal Geographical Society in London on Monday evening debated the options to protect Venice from rising sea levels. In this debate, hosted by the Venice in Peril Fund, the author Andrew Wilson said it was imperative Venice is protected and that "it would be our responsibility if we allow it to be destroyed, simply because of a matter of money". Professor Sir David King, chief scientific adviser to the UK government, stated that "in the face of sea-level rises happening, the barriers which are currently being constructed will be insufficient to protect Venice over the next century". He argued that the problems of Venice should be tackled within a global effort to lessen the effects of climate change by reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and the emissions of greenhouse gases.It is unlikely that Venice will be left to sink. But it will take considerable long-term investment in the Mose barriers and other projects to restore and protect the city. As a World Heritage site, it benefits from significant international and national attention and funding. Less fortunate cities, in low-lying areas of Bangladesh or China for example, will struggle to preserve their way of life as sea levels rise. If adequate resources and political will are not available to protect these cities, unlike Venice, they face a grim fate of being abandoned to the sea.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
OK, let's start with a quick quiz. You receive an email from a friend telling you that if you forward the email to 10 people, and copy it to Sainsbury's customer service department, Sainsbury's will send you &pound;60 worth of vouchers. Do you: (a) shout, "Wow, that looks good!" and click the Forward button to send it to everybody in your address book; (b) think "Hmm, that seems a bit dodgy" and do a web search on 'Sainsburys' and 'vouchers'; (c) sigh, roll your eyes and press Delete?Being highly intelligent and sceptical you'll of course have chosen (c), or possibly (b). After all, who in their right mind would believe Sainsbury's is going to send out a potentially unlimited amount of money in vouchers just because people have been forwarding an email? The answer is: lots of people.I cannot quite believe the quantity of this kind of stuff that pours into my inbox - mostly from friends who in all other respects are smart, thoughtful and on the ball. It's just that when they see the words "IMPORTANT - PLEASE FORWARD" on an email, they suspend all critical judgment.It's not as if you need a lot of critical judgment to spot a hoax email. Last week, I had one purporting to be a poem written by a 10-year-old girl dying of cancer, urging people to live life to the full. If you forward the poem on, the message said, the American Cancer Society will donate money to her treatment. It took me less than three seconds to discover that the poem was written by a grown man and that, no, the American Cancer Society wasn't donating money. Well, of course not. What charity would be so fickle as to make the treatment of a dying girl dependent on the number of people forwarding an email?If a stranger came up to you on the street and told you that a supermarket was giving away free vouchers, you'd edge away. And if they shouted "THIS IS NOT A HOAX" at your departing back, you would - surely - move a little more quickly. So what is it about email that seduces normally sensible people?This stuff has been going around for years, and yet the stream of hoaxes is unending. (The best I've ever received told me to delete a particular file on my computer - a file that comes as standard with Windows - because it was a virus.)Who on earth is writing this stuff? My hunch is that the whole hoax email project is an experiment devised by a latter-day version of the psychologist Stanley Milgram, to find out if people really are as unthinking, uncritical and blindly obedient as he demonstrated.OK, whoever you are: you can stop now. Experiment over. They are.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mobile madnessThere are 30 countries where mobile phone penetration is above 100%, including Aruba and Hong Kong, according to the World Cellular Information Service. In the UK, Sweden and Italy, penetration has passed 110%.WebjackingLatest threat to PC users, according to Guidance Software, Inc: an email offers to "clean your machine". It then encrypts your hard drive and charges a &pound;50 ransom to decrypt it.20in to goDell has launched an XPS M2010 portable PC with a 20.1-inch high definition widescreen, 8.1 speakers plus a subwoofer, a detachable Bluetooth wireless keyboard, and 1.3 megapixel webcam for &pound;1,999.Pool protectionSenTAG is about to launch a UK-developed swimmer/bather protection system where swimmers are monitored via a small wristband. "It's ridiculous that anyone should still drown or become seriously injured in an operator managed pool," says the company.i-mode UKO2 says its version of Japan's i-mode service has 250,000 users accessing 150 sites, and serving more than a million page impressions per day. Also, 25% of users send email from their i-mode phones.Music turn offTiscali has had to drop its Juke Box service in the UK and Italy because the record labels say it is "too interactive": users can search by artist. Unlike "non-interactive" rights, interactive rights have to be negotiated separately with each label.Video mailSpringdoo has launched an attachment-free "video email" service. Users record clips online and viewers are emailed a link that lets them watch the clip.www.springdoo.comPassport updateThe UK's Identity and Passport Service is calling on all holidaymakers to check now that their passports are in order. Last year, 106,000 people paid &pound;48 extra for the same day passport renewal service after forgetting.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Exhibitions are the worst offenders. They create a pile of business cards that never get keyed into any electronic address book. Yet the solution is sitting in most people's pockets or bags: a cameraphone.Forget dedicated business-card readers - applications or products that promise to digitise those card details. They don't work as well in Europe where there's no standard layout for where on the card a person's name, job title and telephone number are placed. So recognition proves to be haphazard. However, the majority of business people possess a cameraphone; so why not use the camera to read business card information into the phone?One company, Abbyy, claims to have created an optical character recognition application so concise that it will run on most cameraphones. There's still the accuracy problem, though. A certain amount of checking and re-keying will always be required.The logical solution would be to turn all the data printed on a typical business card into a barcode that could then be read straight into a cameraphone. Traditional barcodes are recognised by swiping a reader in a single direction across the code itself. Two-dimensional barcodes can hold far more data in a small space: 1,000 characters can typically be accommodated by a 2D barcode, as opposed to 20 characters with regular barcodes.The catch is that there are at least three technologies vying to become the de facto standard. The main contenders are QR (Quick Response) codes developed by Denso Wave and popular in Japan and Korea (seehttp://tinyurl.com/guxtb). In Europe, there's the DataMatrix. French firm Abaxia is winning major converts to this format, which it calls the Mobile tag (seehttp://tinyurl.com/lcofe).The dark horse is the ShotCode from OP3, which is adding live users at an impressive rate (www.shotcode.com). Unlike QR codes and a DataMatrix, the ShotCode is round. "The QR code is the standard 2D bar code format in Japan," says Dr Tomy Kamada, co-founder of Access. "However, we're planning to use DataMatrix for European i-mode as the 2D bar code format as well as QR, because DataMatrix is already popular in Europe."For the adventurous, the appropriate code-scanning software for most leading handsets is available free of charge. So, too, is the software that turns business card data into a barcode that a cameraphone can read. Producing personal business cards with a built-in barcode is easy: most online card shops have a space on the card for a photo, which can simply be replaced with the barcode.The barcodes can be used for other applications. They can be printed on a poster and, once scanned, will fire up the handset's (Wap) browser and connect the mobile phone directly to an online site. That's great for ticket sales, for example.Abaxia's Mobile Tag system is attractive because the code's information is stored on a server, so contact details can be amended but the code won't change. But it's more expensive because it requires a brief GPRS connection. Other alternative technologies are more expensive. Nokia has supplied a handset (the 3220) to Vodafone Germany that can read RFID tags using an industry standard known as NFC (Near Field Communication). It's feasible to build an RFID tag into a business card. But will it prove cost effective? Only if you never give the card away, perhaps.
One year ago this month, a new landmark in computer gaming was set by a 36-year-old hacker whose talents simultaneously uncovered an explicit adult scene in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, and lifted the veil on an industry that has been largely ignored in interactive entertainment.The discovery of simulated fellatio buried in the GTA code resulted in an international scandal and lost its publishers millions of pounds after the game was removed from sale. It has since been the cornerstone product that has sent the games industry from courtroom to courtroom, defending itself against allegations of pornography.Yet, sex in games has been around since the 1980s. No one noticed the awful Sam Fox Strip Poker, the terrible Stroker or the appalling Lula series because these products had no erotic potential. In fairness, GTA's simulated sex act doesn't stimulate much arousal either; its phenomenal sales weren't the result of the interactive hanky panky lost in its bits and bytes.Historically, sex in games has been a real turn-off. It seems remarkable that an industry that has had young males as its core demographic has seen so little sexual output. But the tide is turning. According to Brenda Brathwaite, veteran games designer of 21 non-adult titles and 2005's Playboy: The Mansion, the earliest sexual activity in computer games was 1981's Soft Porn Adventure. Brathwaite, who maintains the International Game Developers Association's Sex in Games Special Interest Group and convened the first Sex in Games conference held last week in San Francisco, contends that many of today's products are replete with implicit sexual interaction. Like most creators of adult-themed games, she suggests that creating products with explicit sexual themes will help developers represent the complete spectrum of emotion, rather than the narrow continuum catered for in contemporary gaming.One of the key problems that dogs the industry is the perception that its products are for kids, so when jiggery pokery is discovered in an age-appropriate title, the moral majority proclaims it inappropriate. By that argument, much of the content on the radio, television and in film should also be treated as pornography. It seems extraordinarily inconsistent that a love scene in a movie only garners a 15 rating, but sexual activity in a game is bumped up to an 18.If the GTA scandal has had any positive impact, it is that interactive entertainment has had to look inward and focus on the adult content of its output. And so, the cosmic balance of media and sex has been re-established in the computer games industry.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Robert Scoble is Microsoft's alpha geek blogger, widely credited with giving the software giant a more appealing human face. The big news last weekend was that Scoble is quitting to join a video-blogging start-up company, PodTech.net.Big news? Well, it dominated the blogosphere's news systems such as Tailrank, it was the top search item on Technorati, and provided the first 13 items on TechMeme (www.techmeme.com/060611/h1920). The story was then picked up by the Wall Street Journal, Reuters and the Financial Times, and was the top tech item on the BBC's website. Forget about the World Cup, any number of assorted wars and natural disasters, one blogger's career issues were what mattered, apparently."OK, it is indeed a bit over the top," wrote Scoble in a blog post headed MediaStorm. "No one paid attention to when I took my other jobs."Scoble's blog, called Scobleizer, will continue as before. It wasn't an official blog, just something Scoble did off his own bat. He wrote about his wife and son (who also blog), the death of his mother, his visits to numerous blogger conventions and geek dinners - all accompanied by a stream of photos on Flickr.He was often critical of Microsoft, visited industry rivals, and regularly wrote approvingly of non-Microsoft products, which increased his credibility, and made him virtually untouchable. For Microsoft PR staff, it must have been like living with an unexploded bomb. But he still had huge PR value to Microsoft, because his comments were widely taken up by other bloggers, and he could send vast amounts of traffic to Microsoft sites such as Channel 9, where Scoble posted videos of Softies talking about products they were developing.But his defection to PodTech - where he has some chance of making riches beyond the dreams of salaried employees, thanks to a "significant equity stake" - needn't be bad news for Microsoft. Lots of people inside the company can still feed him stories, and when he's no longer a Microsoft employee, it may be easier to deflect his criticisms.As Scoble wrote in another post: "I love Microsoft and Microsoft did not lose me - at least as a supporter and friend. I am not throwing away my Tablet PC or my Xbox or my other Microsoft stuff."All round, then, it looks like a win for Scoble, who now has an even higher profile. It's a win for PodTech, which has enjoyed global publicity. It's a win for Microsoft, which - if it plays its cards right - can still use Scoble as a mouthpiece without actually having to pay him a salary. And it's a win for blogging, which, if you believe Reuters, AP, the FT and the BBC etc, is no longer a minor geek/tech pastime but worth serious attention.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Though many people assume broadband will be available anywhere within the nation, there are corners of the UK where the broadband dream remains just that.Right now, 74 of BT's 5,591 exchanges still provide no form of ADSL; 37 of them, serving about 6,600 premises, have a date for when they'll be enabled - ranging from last month to September.But BT has decided that the other 37 exchanges will not be enabled for ADSL; they are "unviable". The number of households affected is small, but the areas include places such as Selsted in Kent and a cluster of households in the E16 postcode - southeast of London City airport. (And the Outer Hebrides remain badly served.)If you want to know which exchanges are on the "unviable" list, seewww.adslguide.org.ukandwww.samknows.com/broadband. The SamKnows site also provides a wide range of maps.What is the plan for areas where BT or the Regional Development Agencies have not done something? To wait for BT to roll out its much-hyped 21st Century Network. This may see every exchange enabled for broadband; but another problem remains, which affects around 0.4% of households across the UK - ADSL is "distance limited". Its range varies according to cable thickness and other factors - the longer the line, the slower the speed of service possible. Of the 8 million premises that have applied for ADSL, around 32,000 have no service. (The line length put paid to the hopes of people in E16.)So what about "Max ADSL" and the "up to 8 megabits per second" that BT has trumpeted for the past few weeks? Unfortunately, not all exchanges providing an ADSL service will provide this faster service. There are 235 exchanges, mostly in Scotland, that will offer only a basic 0.5Mbps service no matter how close you live to the exchange.This is referred to as an "Exchange Activate" exchange, a basic ADSL service designed to be used where a full ADSL service would be too expensive to install.Another point rarely mentioned is that to get the full speed you need a short telephone line. The communications regulator Ofcom estimates that around 20% of UK lines are less than 2km long, and so will probably give a full "8Mbps" download speed. Around 80% of lines are under 5km in length, and so should achieve speeds of 2 to 3Mbps. For web browsing the difference isn't critical, but if video over broadband becomes popular that speed differential may mean the difference between seeing high-quality video live, or waiting for a show to download first.Openreach, the BT division that looks after its telephone lines, recently announced a &pound;1 billion upgrade for the UK telephone network. What's not clear is what is being upgraded. The moral is, while ADSL availability is more widespread than mains sewage or gas, checking the availability is worthwhile. Especially if buying in Selsted or London E16.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cleaning out the loft I came across an armful of vinyl LPs; had they been CDs, of course, they'd have only been a handful. Their size and weight were striking; but one thing they had that CDs certainly don't is a canvas for artwork.I don't know if there's a pub where former artists for record sleeves meet up, but if there is, the atmosphere is surely gloomy. Whatever happened to those big "gatefold" sleeves on double albums, where you had two feet of space to go mad? What about the photo booklet inserts that The Who used on Quadrophenia, telling a story to accompany the double album through dozens of wordless 11- by 11-inch black-and-white photos?We've lost that with CDs, and even more so with the shift towards digital downloads. In the latter case, "album art" is barely there any more; it's reduced to a 60K JPeg that doesn't tolerate being upsized far. You don't even get the depth of reading that a CD's sleeve insert can offer - although to be fair, some of the albums sold on iTunes come with PDFs of the liner notes.But that's hardly embracing the digital age, is it? Album art (or even "singles art") can and should be so much more; it's only a question of thinking about and exploiting the medium, a discipline in which the recording industry has at last begun to show some capability (excuse me while I join the thousands watching the Sandi Thom webcast).What does a digital download have, potentially, that the plain old CD insert or vinyl printed cover doesn't? Connectivity, that's what. For instance, a digital track can contain multiple artworks: why shouldn't one be a picture to go with the song, and another artwork, contained in the same song, be some notes from the artist, or the lyrics? (Don't worry about this bloating your tracks; a typical MP3 uses about one megabyte per minute, so a 60K picture is equivalent to a few seconds' worth of sound.)A classic example where this could have worked is in Kathryn Williams 2004 album Relations, a collection of cover songs (http://tinyurl.com/psqsj). The CD insert has a different picture for each song, and artist notes about it. But you're not going to get those attached to the downloaded songs, or even the CD. Why not? If the music business is serious about dragging fans to the download business, you'd think they'd be trying anything to enhance the experience. They could have included the photos in the CD, so that painstaking people could attach them to the music, once ripped for a portable player.But the ambitious could go further. Since we assume connectivity these days, why not have your digital download go looking for content? Or why shouldn't your music-playing program pick up the lyrics, or even just its title, and go and find a group of images from the web to match the song's title and display them in order? Why shouldn't the artist suggest a few words of metadata to be included with the song, so we can use them to search for images to produce "art" to accompany their song?Sure, musicians usually don't think in such visual terms; their strengths are more on the musical side. (Well, you'd hope so.) But in the early 1970s, the business's golden age, when it had more hit records proportionately than before or since (seehttp://tinyurl.com/kafe3), album covers became iconic because so many people saw the same ones. Now, the disposability of songs is, I think, partly down to the fact that it's harder to link an image to the artist or album. That's a mistake that the business should try to address - before we forget that there's more to music than just the sound.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Since the net is a place where tiny arguments can turn into the most thunderous of storms overnight, it is often difficult to measure the importance of arguments. But few dispute that "net neutrality" could be one of the most important.The debate rages around a simple question: should America's internet remain a level playing field? Those supporting neutrality say it should be declared illegal to create a two-tier system giving preferential treatment to companies that pay for better access.Network providers say it is unfair and unnecessary to have the government interfere in the free market. They have wheeled out a number of arguments: that they should be trusted to run the communications network, that they must find ways to pay for upgrading America's often decrepit networks, and that it is large dotcom corporations that should help shoulder the burden of costs.Unlike so many internet freedom campaigns, though, the argument for net neutrality isn't just supported by a ragtag bunch of developers and techno-hippies. Big online corporations such as Amazon, eBay and Google are among those lobbying to prevent telecommunications firms from exerting more power. Sergey Brin, the co-founder of Google and the world's 26th richest person, even trooped down to Washington to put his point across.But Brin's attempts were in vain. Last week, the House of Representatives kicked out the bill that would have enshrined the neutrality of America's internet in law. But the result has not stopped the controversy - especially since the Senate is now due to look at such legislation, and observers say it is likely to be more supportive.Smaller versions of the debate are being played out in particular areas. Companies such as AOL are planning a second tier of guaranteed-delivery paid email, and some providers are considering charging more for radio streams (Will licensing kill the radio star? May 4).And although it wouldn't have any direct effect on the net outside of America, say observers, it could restrict speeds on data coming from the US and, more, importantly, influence legislators in Britain and elsewhere.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When Meteo Consult, Europe's largest private weather information company, asked the Polish national meteorological office if it could use its forecasting data, it was told there was no licensing procedure. The information was not available to commercial users.This represents an extreme example of the variation between different governments' attitude to public-sector information: some European countries, such as Britain and Norway, make equivalent data available for free; another charges a licensing fee of &euro;186,000 ($127,000) a year. The differing access and pricing regimes are a nightmare for firms such as Meteo Consult, trying to compete in the global market.Such restrictive practices and prohibitive pricing mean that the European market in weather information is one tenth the size of that in the US, says Jennifer Campbell, Meteo Consult's managing director. "We need a single market for weather data in Europe," she says.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign has a simple answer to the problem: public bodies should make available freely for re-use all data they collect at taxpayers' expense. They should leave the business of selling value-added products based on the data to the private sector.Reality today is far more complicated. In the digital age, governments hold and maintain vast amounts of information, ranging from the dynamic raw data used to compute weather forecasts to the great art collections of the Louvre. However, interest is now growing in developing international rules to open up these treasure houses to the new knowledge economy.Policy workshopLast month, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development held a workshop in Paris (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/r3sy6) to investigate possible policies for access to public-sector information (PSI). The problem, illustrated by Meteo Consult's experience, is that countries are not starting from the same place. While nearly all democratic governments agree on the principle of allowing access to PSI (subject to measures to protect privacy and national security), attitudes to business re-use could not be more different. Take pricing. Policies on what public-sector agencies should charge range from "cost recovery plus profit" - the state aims to earn a return on its asset - to "free dissemination and marginal cost", the aim of our campaign.The main free dissemination example is the US. Its policy of free access is summed up by a 1996 circular by the federal Office of Management and Budget, which states: "The economic benefits to society are maximised when government information is available in a timely and equitable manner to all." This economic policy is rooted in three sets of principles of US government. These are:&middot;Legal. Specific laws govern public rights to access to government information and bar public agencies from making exclusive contracts with private firms to exploit public data. The US's Copyright Act forbids the federal government from claiming copyright (though individual states can, and use this to enforce charges).&middot;Ethical. This principle holds that the public owns the data, having paid for its collection and storage through taxes. Charging again would be wrong in principle.&middot;Political, as set out in the US constitution's right to free expression. "Closed information policies are a tool of repression and lead to corruption," says Paul Uhlir, director of international science and technology information at the US National Academies.The consequence is a policy that treats PSI as a global public good. Federal agencies can charge only the marginal cost of meeting a request for data. European governments, by contrast, generally seek to recover the costs of collecting or disseminating the data - or even, in the case of some "trading funds" in the UK, turning a profit for the exchequer. In this climate, moves to encourage greater access to and re-use of PSI quickly clash with other government policies to cut public spending. France, for example, has been struggling with the question of PSI since 1992. A new law, however, forbids exclusive licences and sets maximum charges, based on the cost of dissemination. Likewise last June, Denmark's parliament passed a law imposing marginal cost pricing for data.These new laws, replicated in most other European countries including Britain, implement a European Directive on PSI agreed in 2003. The directive falls short of promoting free access. But it prohibits deals giving private companies exclusive access to government data.The deadline for "transposing" these measures into domestic laws was last July. Britain met the deadline, just, with its public sector information regulations passed last year. But several European countries are dragging their feet. European Commission officials say that eight member states have adopted the deadline either partially or not at all. They are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Germany, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal and Spain.Blocking tacticsParticipants at the Paris workshop, which the Guardian agreed to report non-attributably under the Chatham House rule, had tales to tell of government agencies actively blocking moves to exploit the public data in their stewardship. Some agencies "simply don't get it - they have no idea that their data could be of interest to anyone else". Others are aware of the value of their information. One speaker told of "public bodies hiring expensive lawyers to find holes in the directive".Such legal fees are part of the hidden cost of government trying to run its public-sector information resource as a business. We argue there is also a longer-term opportunity cost - stifling a dynamic new knowledge economy. While the OECD has to tread carefully not to criticise the policies of member states, one outcome was a call for concerted international research evaluating different pricing models, and the costs of moving from one to the other. Such research is needed - our gut feeling is that it will point in one direction.&#183;See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Protecting personal data should be a priorityThe law needs to be changed such that people "own" their personal data and can thus control it in the same way as any other personal property (When did we last see your data?, June 8). The problem now is not too little data, but too much data that is not properly controlled, hence the rise in identity theft.Chris WallerBristolWishful thinkingThe function of the Google spreadsheet is not to unseat Microsoft Office. That's silly. However, Google is stretching the boundaries of what kind of applications you can write inside a web browser, using DHTML and JavaScript. Google is making applications this way that are: cross-browser (ie, Firefox, etc); and cross-platform (Linux, Mac, windows).These are in one way just research projects. In another way, though, they begin to build a library of useful programs that don't depend on a particular operating system. This is another approach to server-centric computing similar to Sun Ray, Citrix, etc.Jawaid BazyarforeThought.net&middot;I agree with you completely that storing your spreadsheets on Google's servers is never going to happen. But if you could have the convenience of a web app combined with storing your files locally, that could tip the scales, no?David van CouveringSun Microsystems, CaliforniaCulture clashSince Lawrence Lessig is so contemptuous of other people's intellectual property rights, I'm sure he won't mind if I arrange with his publisher for all his future royalties to be paid to me (Freedom fighter with a guilty conscience, June 8).With the exception of a few artworks hoarded in private collections, the bulk of the world's culture is available for all to read, see, watch, listen to, enjoy and be inspired by on payment of the appropriate ticket or purchase price. We are especially fortunate in this country with free libraries and museums, not to mention more internet content and radio stations than you can shake a stick at.Taking inspiration from something is not the same as ripping it off, and this is what copyright laws exist to prevent, thereby encouraging, rather than stifling originality. And with regard to the posthumous extension of copyright, why shouldn't an author's designated heirs have more right to benefit than some opportunistic stranger? Rather than promoting a Pirates' Charter, Lessig might do better to turn his attention to some of the real problems in the area of intellectual property, such as the excessive discounting of books and CDs.Root CartwrightRadlettYour current position is ...Wendy Grossman makes some good points about call-waiting music (Technobile, June 8), but I think she misses the main one. The worst thing about all such systems, whether accompanied by music or not, is not knowing how far up the queue you are. Callers on systems that tell you this - and they do exist - can easily calculate how long they will have to wait by observing how fast the queue "moves", giving them the option to hang up and try again later. Frankly, I don't understand why so few businesses make use of such systems: I am sure levels of user satisfaction would soar if they did.Paul SoferLondonCode breakerEric Sink was spot on with his assessment (Why we all sell code with bugs, May 25), but he missed one crucial reason why software ships with bugs in his initial three steps, and it's close to the third (ie fixing existing bugs and introducing worse ones): chasing bugs costs time and money. Some bugs are simply not worth the chase, and to spend that time and money ferreting out every last bug could bankrupt the company or drive costs to such astronomical levels that the product itself gets cancelled. Each bug is a contest of worth - and the winner is the one that produces the most revenue.Thomas J. TheobaldColumbia, Missouri
Music back-upI have been thoroughly spooked by stories of the potentially limited shelf-life of iBook hard drives, as I have 2,000 songs (6GB) in iTunes. What's the best way to back up these files?Yours in vague terror, Jamie MilneJack Schofield replies:All hard drives fail eventually, and even if they didn't, your PC could fail in a different way, or be stolen, so back-ups are essential. The obvious option is to burn audio CDs of the tracks, which also removes the iTunes copy protection. This is pretty secure, but takes time. You can also back up your songs to CD or DVD as data files: Apple offers step-by-step instructions athttp://tinyurl.com/be574, or see the account at One Digital Life (http://tinyurl.com/fnx3p). It's quicker and more convenient to back up to an external USB or FireWire drive, trusting to luck that two hard drives don't fail at the same time. External drives are cheap - I just bought a 320GB model for &pound;130.You could buy an iPod to provide a backup, and also provide music on the move. However, if your iBook fails, the iPod will not want to move your music back to what it will see as a different computer. There are ways round that, including the Backstage program from Widgetfab.com; the free but Mac only Senuti (www.fadingred.org/senuti/); and CopyPod (www.copypod.net).Incidentally, the G3 iBook has a relatively poor record for reliability. A MacInTouch.com survey of more than 10,000 notebooks found that between 49% and 74% of G3 iBooks needed repairs, mainly due to motherboard problems. However, the G4 model has a much better record. You can check yours athttp://tinyurl.com/r85vq.Mystery usersWhen I disconnect or log off via Ctrl-Alt-Del, the final closedown dialogue states other people are logged on to my computer when I'm the only person using it.Margaret NicolJS:I don't have a good answer for this, but the possible implications are worrying: your PC may have a "backdoor" Trojan that opens it up to hackers. The Task Manager invoked by Ctrl-Alt-Del has a tab marked Users, so check to see if any other users are logged on. Also, click the Performance tab and look for activities that are not obviously the result of things you are doing.Even if you don't find anything suspicious, run an online virus scan at Housecall (http://housecall.trendmicro.com) and download and run Ewido (www.ewido.net) to see if you can find and remove any backdoor Trojans. Finally, install a proper firewall, if you don't already have one, and block connections if you don't know what they are for. (You will need to research the less obvious ones.) Zone Labs' Zone Alarm is one free option. Of the paid-for firewalls, McAfee is powerful and easy to use, though I'm not a big fan of the rest of the suite.Upgrading 2000 ProI have bought two used Dell Optiplexes for &pound;70 each, to give to my kids as starter PCs. One has Windows 2000 Pro but all our other PCs are on XP Home. Do I have any options other than buying a full version of XP for &pound;140?Mike O'ConnellJS:Microsoft says you can only upgrade Windows 2000 Pro to XP Pro, not XP Home. However, if you have the Windows 2000 Pro CD, you may find an upgrade version of Windows XP Home will accept this as valid media for doing a "clean install" rather than an in-place upgrade. If any readers have done this, please let me know.Sounding out WindowsIs it possible to get rid of that annoying jingle played every time Windows XP boots up? I'd like to replace it with something else - nothing would do, too.James WiddenJS:All the Windows sounds are configurable. Go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and run the applet called, in XP, Sounds and Audio Devices. Click the tab marked Sounds and scroll down until you find the entry for Start Windows. Select this and you will probably find Windows XP Startup.wav is selected. If you click the drop-down button (the down arrow) next to that, you will be able to select a different sound or the first option: none.Alternatively, you can click the button for Browse, which will take you to your Media directory. There, you can select a different sound, or navigate to another sound you prefer. It's simplest if you find the sound you want then put it in the C:\Windows\Media directory beforehand. There are lots of suitable (and unsuitable) wav files on the Open Program Wavs and Close Program Wavs pages at Wave Events (www.waveevents.com). This site has sections for 2001, Star Trek ("Program complete, enter when ready"), Star Wars and cartoons.Soundamerica.comis another good source, or you can try the sounds search engine,FindSounds.com.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The gaming community calls them "griefers": people who like nothing better than to kill team-mates or obstruct the game's objectives. Griefers scam, cheat and abuse, often victimising the weakest and newest players. In games that attempt to encourage complex and enduring interactions among thousands of players, "griefing" has evolved from being an isolated nuisance to a social disease."The most common 'griefer counter-measure' is to put in place a strong community system," says Stephen Davis of IT GlobalSecure, a firm that specialises in developing security technologies for online games."These community services provide clan features, friends lists, reputation stats, and other features both to tie players more closely to the game and create an environment that reduces anonymity for misbehaving players." Increasingly, the solution to griefing is not simply to ban nuisance players, but to encourage the development of virtual societies capable of dealing with their own virtual crimes.This is becoming essential for titles falling within the genre of massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs). These complex and persistent worlds are particularly vulnerable to negative behaviour, not only because they offer more rules to break than the average first-person shooter, but also because there is more at stake for players. The gap between virtual worlds and real life is constantly closing, with developers encouraging in-game economies with currencies that translate to real-world pounds and dollars. A player might craft a rare item that can be sold via eBay; if such digital property is stolen, the player is effectively losing real money.Despite most online games being based around combat between players (often permitting the winner to take their opponent's possessions) the increasingly high stakes have prompted the gaming community to reassess its ethics, asking whether all strategies are equally permissible simply because they are all possible.Beyond the paleEven in games whose selling point has been their potential for ruthless competition, such as Eve Online (in which rival corporations trade and battle across the galaxy), some events have caused gamers to ask what is beyond the pale. One example last year entailed the coordination of large numbers of mischief-makers. Calling themselves the Guiding Hand Social Club, they exacted the ruination of a particular player and the corporation she headed, Ubiqua Seraph. Spending more than a year infiltrating Ubiqua Seraph and gaining the trust of its higher members, the Guiding Hand enacted an elaborate heist that resulted in the destruction of the organisation's limited edition flagship and the looting of its considerable funds. The damage translated to thousands of real pounds and years of effort. (The Guiding Hand leader's announcement and discussion thread is athttp://tinyurl.com/8jglz.)The scale of the persecution divided the community. Many felt the tactics, while sanctioned by the game's design, were despicable. "People work for months ... to buy things like battleships," said one irate gamer following the Guiding Hand's announcement.The players of World of Warcraft were left with a similar conundrum in March, when a group of gamers performed an act whose only purpose was to cause emotional pain. The death of a member of the community inspired her fellow gamers to hold a virtual funeral, which was raided by a malicious mob that made short work of the mourners, all of whom had relinquished their weapons as a sign of respect. Since the funeral was naively held in a zone designed for combat, few could question the legitimacy of the attack within the game's rules. None the less, the mourners were outraged, not at the penalties their characters would have to suffer, but at the brazen attack on their feelings.Many players also want a say in determining what behaviour is acceptable. Although Blizzard, the makers of World of Warcraft, reacted to griefing by banning more than 5,400 accounts in April, this is not a cost-effective way of moderating the world they have created.The act of terminating so many subscriptions and the staff required to man support lines come at huge cost to the developer. Stephen Davis estimates 25% of customer support calls to companies operating online games are a result of griefing: "For a small game, these costs can be the difference between success and failure. For a large game, these costs are a continual drag on the bottom line."Instead of the developer intervening, online gaming is seeing the emergence of systems by which the community can moderate itself. In 2003, eGenesis released A Tale in the Desert, which offered players the ability to make laws, determining what actions were permitted and even banning problem players. This experiment paved the way for the transference of some responsibility from developers to gamers. Xbox Live's Gamer Card system indelibly links your actions to your account by allowing other players to rate your behaviour. A low enough reputation will mean few people willing to play with you. Griefing has therefore become a relatively minor support issue for Microsoft.Self-government likely"I expect we'll see more and more self-government," says Scott Jennings, game developer and author of Massively Multiplayer Games For Dummies. "The reason is fairly obvious if not particularly noble: it's less expensive for game companies to have their customers police themselves than hire people to do it. The trick, and why you don't see it generally, is to construct self-policing schemes in such a way that they don't enable unscrupulous players to use them as tools of grief."Yet could this griefing become a mechanism of the game society itself? An MMORPG released in May, called Seed, invites players to elect one another to the position of administrators, whose actions can change the direction pursued by the game's entire community. Seed's website explains: "Administrators control the foundation of the trade economy. Players can influence large-scale development of game-world society by deploying or withholding resources for projects." The makings of a virtual political system have been created, in which griefing becomes a means of Machiavellian self-advancement."The evolution from game to virtual society is inevitable - you can believe that," says Dr Richard Bartle, industry godfather and designer of some of the first online games, known as multi-user dungeons (Muds). "What you can't believe is that these societies will necessarily be run along democratic lines. If a player gets the job of commissioner for public safety and decides to abuse the position by jailing all his rivals, so much for idealism."Bartle points to the "guild" system that many online games support as a microcosm of this behaviour: "Players are free to form groups with like-minded individuals, and organise however they please. Some guilds are democratic, some autocratic, and I dare say some are theocratic and everything else in between."Griefing has prompted the development of virtual societies where abuse, rather than breaking the rules of the game, becomes part of the world itself.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Brain TrainingNintendo DS, &pound;19.99Nintendo4 starsWho said games were bad for you? Brain Training marks the European debut of the hugely popular Japanese series that attempts to up your "brain age" and improve mental alertness. The tasks are varied. Some involve speaking out loud - name the colour of the word, not the word itself - while others involve speedy attempts at basic calculations or word memory tests. Brain Training restricts you to about 10 minutes play a day, which may seem unfair but it enables a graph to be built up that plots your grey matter's daily rating. Playing with a hangover is an easy way to get some spikes. Included is a solid version of Sudoku, which helps alleviate any niggling value-for-money concerns. Oddly addictive and one for all the family, Brain Training should appeal to anyone who forgets names or what they had for dinner two nights ago. Essentially all of us, then.Greg HowsonMoto GP 06Xbox 360, &pound;39.99Climax/THQ4 starsTHQ should be applauded for creating a specific next-generation version of its officially licensed game of the world's premier motorbike-racing formula, rather than tacking higher-resolution graphics on to a current-gen effort. The results are spectacular, with life-like graphics and realistic bike handling. This endows it with a steep learning curve, which a basic training option doesn't really alleviate, although in the easiest mode, your bike is given a power and handling advantage over its peers. Moto GP 06 lets you contest the 2005 and 2006 seasons, and, as you develop the confidence to bump up the difficulty level, really lets you feel as though you are emulating the likes of Valentino Rossi. It really makes sense on Xbox Live, with seeding to produce a level playing field, the chance to race a season against human opponents and even a Commentator Mode. A must for dedicated motorbike racing fans.Steve BoxerRise of LegendsPC, &pound;34.99Big Huge Games/Microsoft4 starsI was looking forward to this one - and I'm not disappointed. Rise of Legends is a masterful blend of turn-based and real-time strategy. The first phase involves conquering territories on the world map and developing them with resources. This remains slightly simplistic, with only one move per turn and only one general to make it with. This is a pity, as allocating each new hero unit its own army would have made things far more intriguing. Luckily, when it comes to combat, your heroes have a variety of special powers, each brilliantly animated. You get three large campaigns featuring very different races and, although the storyline that binds them is nothing special, their varied abilities have been perfectly balanced. The Vincis rely on mechanical contraptions, the Elim use magic and the Cuotl, technology. If looking for an alternative to the World Cup that could last longer than England, try this.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For the British motorist, it seems, the electric car has all the automotive appeal of a milk float. Last year, with prices of $3 a gallon looming, Americans bought 200,000 fuel-saving hybrids; the gadget-loving Japanese drove 60,000 off dealers' forecourts; but in &pound;5-a-gallon Britain, a mere 4,000 trickled on to our roads.Although no driver wants to be responsible for holes in the ozone layer, many seem to be trapped in the headlights of Top Gear spin, convinced that an electric car will have all the power and refinement of a golf cart, or that they will find themselves out of power in the middle lane of the M1.So what can be done to show the British that the electric vehicle is a viable, economic and non-polluting alternative? One venture that aims to switch the public on to the efficacy of such vehicles is greentomatocars.com. This London minicab company's fleet is comprised of petrol-electric hybrids: "We want people to see that electric cars are green and practical," says co-founder Tom Pakenham. "Our fares are the same as other companies', but our vehicles emit less than half the carbon dioxide of a traditional black cab."RechargingPakenham sees his venture as a way of familiarising people with green-car technology. "Some clients worry that if they book an electric car, it might run out of power on the way to the airport. So our drivers are all briefed to explain - when asked - how the hybrid uses the electric battery in slow-moving traffic, but switches to petrol on faster roads, recharging the battery at the same time."Of course hybrids burn petrol and emit CO2, but at lower levels than equivalent vehicles. The Toyota Prius (used by greentomato.com) produces 104 grams per kilometre, less polluting than a small car such as a Mini (129g/km) or Smart Car (113g/km), and one-third of the CO2 of the average 4x4. On the other hand, the hybrid Lexus belonging to the Conservative party leader David Cameron produces 184g/km while Gordon Brown's government-issue non-hybrid Vauxhall Omega churns out 276g/km.Given that hybrids are greener, rather than green, vehicles, Pakenham wanted to run an all-electric fleet. Unfortunately that was not possible. "There is no mid-size consumer electric car on the market," he explains. "I could have had them custom-built in the US. But at &pound;50,000 each, we wouldn't have been able to offer the same fares as other taxi firms."So greentomatocars.com plans to make its fleet less polluting with upgrades from Amber Jack. This involves the exchange of the Prius's nickel metal hydride batteries for lighter and more efficient lithium ion ones (the type used in mobile phones and laptops). They also fit a charger, so that the batteries can be connected to the domestic mains, and topped up overnight. Once converted, at driving speeds of less than 31mph, the Prius will run for 70 miles without using petrol. The petrol engine only comes into play if you exceed 31mph (a default set by Toyota) or go beyond the 70-mile battery range without recharging.The average town commuter may never burn any petrol with an "adapted" hybrid, effectively turning it into an all-electric vehicle. But to gain the full benefits from the conversion, the vehicle will need access to a domestic 13-amp power point for the seven-hour recharge (cost of electricity: 22p). And the upgrade will void the vehicle guarantee.The two-hour upgrade will be offered for the Prius from September, and there are plans to make it available for other hybrids sold in the UK. Unfortunately, only motorists whose wallets can stretch to a &pound;17,000 Prius and the &pound;9,000 modification will be able to drive them. But once they have bought the upgrade, for every 10,000 miles driven they would save around &pound;1,000 at current fuel prices. And in the urban environment, they would be producing virtually no carbon-dioxide emissions.The introduction of lithium-ion battery technology to electric cars signals a significant improvement in performance. The most potent example is the Californian Tango T600: it can accelerate from 0 to 60mph in four seconds, a figure that would leave most sports cars in its exhaust-free wake, and has a top speed of 150mph.With an on-road price starting at &pound;20,000, the Tango is the star attraction of electric sports vehicles (George Clooney has ordered one). But when more conventional cars incorporate the new lithium-ion battery technology, problems of limited speed and range will decrease. Such cars will reach the same speeds as petrol vehicles, and - most importantly - have a range of around 150 miles before needing a recharge.But while we wait for these vehicles to arrive, Britain's first and only all-electric consumer commuter vehicle (excepting Clive Sinclair's 1980s C5) is the G-Wiz. Making its debut in 2004, the two-seater lead-battery-powered vehicle has a top speed of 40mph (though one intrepid user claims to have pushed it to 49mph) and has a range of 40 miles before it needs a seven-hour recharge.Five hundred of these runabouts have appeared on the streets of London, mainly thanks to the congestion charge. It costs &pound;7,000 new, but its exemption from the charge means an annual saving of &pound;2,000. It is also allowed free parking in Westminster and the City.SocketsBut potential G-Wiz owners have run into the classic hurdle facing the electric car: access to recharging. If you don't have off-street parking - and around half of British households don't - you can't plug in your car at home. Some G-Wiz motorists (including the Guardian editor, Alan Rusbridger) charge their car at work. Others use sockets provided in some car parks.This lack of off-street parking, particularly in urban areas where exhaust pollution is a significant health problem, could halt the development of the electric car. "It's a chicken and egg situation," explains Keith Johnston, managing director of GoinGreen, the UK's first dedicated environmentally friendly car retailer. "The technology will develop quickly and prices will drop if more people buy them. But if they can't buy them because there is nowhere to charge them, then the opportunity may be lost."With transport a principal source of global warming gases, the electric car offers an immediate and practical solution. Of the green fuels cars can run on - such as hydrogen or biofuels - electricity is the easiest to access, with a national distribution system already in place. And though a lot of electricity is generated by burning coal or oil that produce carbon dioxide and other pollutants, it can be - and is - produced from renewables.Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are working on a long-term solution to the recharging problem, by refining lithium-ion batteries so they can charge in 10 minutes. But for the moment, these batteries are prohibitively expensive.Meanwhile, the electric car is ready to become a reality on our roads. But will we block the progress of the emissions-free environmentally friendly electric car because we can't get an electric cable from our house to the kerb?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft is inviting Xbox 360 owners to go online and have a game of FIFA World Cup against Chelsea winger Shaun Wright-Phillips. The 'Game with Fame' session will take place on June 20 between 5 and 7pm. Users just need to sign onto Live, add SWPhillips to their friend list, then check in when the session starts to see if they've been invited to play.Of course, as a Manchester City supporter, I can't help but point out that if Shaun had stayed with us for another year, he would have played more than 11 games last season, he might even have scored a few goals, and would almost certainly be playing in a rather more high-profile tournament at this very moment...I shall be signing in at the required time to put this to him.
There's an unusually l arge batch of Microsoft patches this month, as listed atSecurity updates summary for June 2006. Products affected include Windows, Internet Explorer, Word and PowerPoint.
I don't know if anyone has mentioned this before, but eBay's 200 million members are probably the world's biggest expert group. Its online auctions bring together the people who are among most knowledgeable about every type of product -- not just Beanie Babies and Pez dispensers -- because many of them are obsessive collectors, and they are willing to back their knowledge with cash.eBay is now providing a home for this expertise with a community-written wiki based on innovative technology fromJotSpot. You may as well start with the second article,Welcome to the eBay Wiki. (The first isReviews &amp; Guides - An Overview.)A good example of a guide isFor Baby: If the Shoe Fits, It Must Be Soft-Soled!This explains the basics of buying shoes for small children, comments on sizes, and provides pictures, specs, comments and prices for some of the main brands. It's great information if you're shopping, and not the sort of info you get onWikipedia.Most of the early contentis, naturally, about buying and selling things on eBay -- setting up a store, account management, seller tools etc. Most of it seems to have been posted by eBay staff, just to get the thing going.This is, of course, a baby step into the wiki world. There is no guarantee it will grow and thrive. But it could turn into a really valuable resource.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The New York Times has a report on thenew "powerplant" that Google is buildingon the border of Oregon and Washington, near the Columbia river, in the northwestern US.It's not alone: Microsoft and Yahoo are also building there, because electricity's cheap and the network connections are good. Plus the river means access to plenty of water for cooling.And why? Because of you, and us: if we have to wait that extra millisecond for a search engine results page, why, we quiver with annoyance. So Google/Microsft/Yahoo aim to bring the computing closer to where the searchers are, or to distribute it better (the effect is the same).At the time of Google's flotation there was a lot of speculation about precisely how big its Californian data centre was; some people then figured that it had to be the biggest non-military or government one on the planet.The new building "will probably house tens of thousands of inexpensive processors and disks". They'll run Google's customised version of Linux (though we'd like to know - have we overlooked it somewhere? - what their database is).And what holds it all together? Velcro. Yes indeed. The parts are "held together with Velcro tape in a Google practice that makes for easy swapping of components". Less sticky than duct tape, I suppose.
The "most e-mailed" story on the BBC News web site at the moment says "Ten cats are competing to find their perfect owner on a reality TV programme being shown in the US". Really.As on Big Brother, the cats will have to complete tasks, and will be graded on purring and catching toy mice. One cat will get the boot each day until a winner is chosen, but all 10 will be given a permanent home.I'd probably have missed this story but I was looking at BBC News's fascinating Flash-basedMost Popular Nowpage. It lists the most popular and most e-mailed stories and also includes a traffic monitor. You can have UK and international lists or click on the map for a regional view. There's a countdown timer and the list refreshes itself every 30 seconds. It's cool.There's also alow graphics versionfor the broadband-challenged.ClickingMost popular day, so fargets you bar charts for each hour for today and yesterday, so you can find the top stories and videos for each time slot.Most popular around the sitelets you check by section, eg Business, Entertainment, Technology etc.The major thing it lacks is the feature I love on the Web's best news site,Yahoo News. Yahoo News is superfast because you only have to put the mouse pointer over a story to get a pop-up showing the first sentence or two, and often a little picture. Unlike the BBC site, Yahoo News includes stories from Reuters, AP and other sources (you can add your own). And unlike Google News, Yahoo News actually shows new news, not just stuff that's been around for so many hours that it's been widely covered.
Sony has justpostponed the launch of its Blu-ray players again, which prompts the question: Is Sony really going to get the PlayStation 3 out this year, even in Japan, and if so, what sort of specificaiton will it have? There seem to be few or no real facts around, but there are plenty of negative rumours.Over atKotaku.com, for example, their "Phantom Insider" points out that "Fully functional PS3 betas still do not exist" and suggests the specification will be downgraded again. Either you can't get enough Cell processors at the promised speed or the machine still runs too hot: "The current designs despite having vents all over the place apparently still cant dissipate the heat to sufficient levels", says Kotaku's PI.The promised compatibility with the PlayStation 2 is also a problem, which Sony is apparently solving by stickingreal PS2 chips inside-- at least temporarily.Since this implies the PS3 hardware design may not really be finished, the obvious solution would be to put it in a bigger box. However, the PlayStation 3 is already the biggest console ever -- even bigger than the original Xbox.These are just the latest problems in a string of missteps that started with the faked Killzone video shown at last year's E3 games trade show. The result is that Sony's credibility is diminishing fast.So where did it all go wrong? In my view, Sony has made two big mistakes. The first is the design of the PS3, which seems to be too ambitious for the company to handle.The whole idea of a games console is that it should be cheap and relatively simple to mass produce -- and cost reduce. That suggests using (mostly) known parts. You can get lots of buyers if your console provides better games than a PC that costs three or four times the price, and that is less hassle to maintain. Trying to produce a console that is ahead of PC technology and costs two or three times as much as a PC to manufacture is insane -- especially since console buyers won't pay an economic price. But that's what Sony is doing.Sony's second big mistake is strategic, and concerns its use of the Blu-ray disc format.The PlayStation 2 certainly benefitted from providing buyers with a cheap DVD player as well as a games console. However, the DVD format was agreed in 1995 and the first players went on sale in Japan in 1996. The PlayStation 2 wasn't launched in Japan until March 2000, roughly four years later. By the time most US buyers were shopping for a new games console, DVD was already an attractive and established format.If Sony intended to repeat this successful strategy, it should have included Blu-ray in the PS4 in 2010-11.However, with the PS3, Sony is attempting to do the reverse, and pull off a strategy that has never worked. Instead of capitalising on a successful video format, it's trying to use the PS3 to establish what is starting to look like an unsuccessful one.Look at it this way. The original smash-hit PlayStation was launched in 1995, the same year that the two competing high-density CD camps agreed to back a single format: DVD. What would have happened if Sony had refused to agree a compromise with Toshiba's SD (Super Density) format but decided to use its own system in the PlayStation in 1995 -- and sell it at twice the price?Would you have bought one? I don't think so....PlayStation is a huge brand and may well be strong enough to swing it, but there's still a sting in the tail: the more PS3's Sony sells, even at $600, the more money it loses.It's a safe bet that Microsoft's bean counters have noticed that Sony is financially vulnerable, and I'll be surprised if Sony isn't walking into a price war. And if you have to fight a price war, it's better not to face a company with $38 billion in the bank.
Here's one for veteran arcade dwellers who were easily impressed by cartoon-style graphics in the early eighties: Digital Leisure has released a high-definition version of Laser Disc classic, Dragon's Lair. "Using today's most sophisticated film transfer equipment the original Dragon's Lair film master was pulled from the vaults at Technicolor and carefully cleaned, reprinted and captured for this HD experience," boasts the press release. Teary-eyed nostalgia lovers will also enjoy the new five channel surround sound audio mix. You can download a trailerhere.Naturally, Digital Leisure, which buys and re-purposes "video-intensive games" like a sort of videogame antique restorer/second-hand car dealer, plans to follow-up Dragon's Lair HD with the release of Space Ace HD and Dragon's Lair II: Time Warp HD, "over the coming months".Frankly, I find it comforting to think that, with each gigantic leap forward in content delivery technology, there will always be a new version of Dragon's Lair to showcase its benefits. When we're all buying machines that beam video directly into our eyes, nay into our very souls, Digital Leisure will be there, hawking a compatible version of this crusty, barely interactive caper.
Mary Jo Foley of Microsoft Watch did ane-mail interveiwwith Microsoft's departing geek blogger. Meanwhile, TDavid has called the odds onThe Scoblelizer Replacement pool.
I believe I could sweat for Britain. And a bicycling problem I confess I have no solution to is how not to arrive in a ball of perspiration at the far end of my journey.One way might be to wear cycling gear. You still sweat, but less - because the fabrics are thin and breathable. They do something called "wicking", if you believe the blurb on the label. This sounds vaguely pagan but is apparently a technical quality describing the garment's ability to transfer moisture away from the body. Bike-specific clothing is all very well for a long ride in the country, but around town I prefer to travel in civvies. Have you ever gone in to a high-street shop wearing a pair of cycling shorts? Self-conscious doesn't get near it. You might as well be in a tutu.I am not a Lycra fetishist. I could wear shorts and T-shirt, like many others, but I find it a big drag to carry a change of clothes around. And swapping outfits when you get to work may be all right for commuters, but what about in the middle of the day when I often use my bike to get to meetings? On warm days, I just have to try to ride sedately enough not to turn into a wet rag after 10 minutes.But on-bike temperature regulation is a more subtle and complex topic even than this. In the winter, you either have to judge your garmentry so that you're a bit too cold when you set off and grit your teeth until you warm up. Or you have to stop on the way to strip off a layer. Then there are those in-betweeny spring and autumn days when you're in two minds about what the "real-feel" temperature is - and no matter what you wear, it always seems to be the wrong thing.Finally, there's the heatwave. However slowly you pedal, you're going to sweat like the proverbial. And the worst bit is that you can be riding along with the illusion that you're reasonably comfortable and cool, only to stop for traffic and suddenly discover that, without the breeze, you're drenched. At such moments, a sort of psychosis kicks in: even the water seeping across the road from a leaking main starts to look delicious, as if that yukky dribble were something you'd want to bathe in.I spent Saturday afternoon riding around London - clothed - with protesters taking part in the World Naked Bike Ride. When I got home, I saw that my black T-shirt had collected tide-marks of exuded salt. Suddenly, naked made a lot of sense.&#183;Have you ever been fined for cycling somewhere (eg, a park or tow path) you feel should be open to bikes? If so, emailbike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
ModelMercedes R 320 CD1PriceFrom &pound;42,970Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.8 secsConsumption30.4 mpg (combined)CO2 emissions246g/km (road tax band G)At the wheelJ&uuml;rgen KlinsmannOn the stereoJames LastEn route forBaden BadenThey'd rather walkSir Bobby CharltonYou would call the R 320 a people carrier, if that didn't seem to be lowering its tone. After all, there are people and there are people, and this all-new six-seater from Mercedes seems to have been designed with only the better kind of chauffeuring in mind. It would make a suitable minibus for a truly exclusive Swiss private school. Or you could see it collecting a footballer from an airport. Either way, it is built to convey its occupants in conditions of comfort and space more conventionally associated with five-star hotels.Make that a suite, in fact. The R 320 is enormous - brazenly vast, in fact, and in these notionally concerned times, even in an automatic diesel format, it pumps its carbon dioxide with a rare insouciance. Parked on a suburban street, the car appears to have descended from the Planet of the Eco-Unfriendly Giants. Pedestrians seem to step cautiously round it, as if worried about what might emerge from it, or in fear of being sucked into its turbines.Yet the R 320 isn't even pretending, SUV-style, to be some kind of rugged, stream-fording, stonewall-climbing, cross-country tractor. There's no spare wheel tagged ostentatiously to the boot, no fat around the wheel arches, no nature-resistant cladding plastered to the front end. It is, quite simply, without disguise, a whopping great luxury saloon car for six.Or, as Mercedes prefer to put it, a "Grand Sports Tourer", though it's not clear where sports come into it, unless you specifically mean the sport of truck-racing. Touring, too, doesn't seem much to the point. Most likely bankers will buy the R 320 for their wives, and their wives will take their children to school in it and then, having stopped off at Waitrose on the way home, tether it carefully behind electronic gates.All Mercedes loudly announce their gladness to be German, but the R 320 is glad to be German plus. I toyed with accenting this noisy message by flying the flag of Germany from my test model's rear windows. Now, that would be a statement to make on English streets, as World Cup fever grips the land. But I backed down, figuring that the people at Mercedes would appreciate my returning the car with a full set of wheels and at least some of its glass intact.This is, after all, an expensive item to go casually putting in the way of danger. By fitting a few electronic oddments, Mercedes managed to inflate the value of my R 320 to just south of &pound;50,000. As they say in Germany, "ker-ching". That works out, roughly, at a cool &pound;8,000 per passenger.Still, the R 320 doesn't hide its costliness. Indeed, it chats openly about your capacity to afford it, which is presumably what you want, if you are spending this much on a car. Its interior is a sumptuous spread of carefully graded woods and leathers. Everyone gets a cupholder and four of you get access to fastidiously conditioned air and business-class legroom. The twin seats in the third row are, inevitably, more cramped, but even these will feel like Wyoming to anyone who has recently flown with Monarch Airlines.And, of course, in the now obligatory gesture towards adaptability, you can collapse those back seats to create some boot space, or topple the lot of them, in the event of I don't know what. Needing to stage an emergency indoor basketball match, presumably.All of which would surely command only one's rueful respect, if the R 320 wasn't, at the same time, so thumb-bitingly ugly. One wouldn't want to go so far as to maintain that this was Mercedes' bid to unseat the SsangYong Rhodius, notoriously voted Britain's ugliest car in an online poll. There is no arguing, though, that the R 320 is no Brad Pitt. I looked at it from every angle I could find, and couldn't make its ponderous bulk and swollen lines add up to anything even halfway attractive. I tried looking at the car through a squint, to see if it cohered any better. No joy. This car is only handsome if you look at it with eyes clamped shut and think of another car.All the more reason to be on the inside looking out, basking in the soft acoustics, floating on the cushy suspension, dimly noticing the engine tug through its seven gears without drawing breath. The stereo, needless to say, is a peach - achingly precise with enough bottom end to halt a charging rhino. Frankly, the R 320 only wants a flatscreen TV and a bathroom and you could live in it. At these prices, you may have to.
Last week's industry trade magazineMCVquoted HMV's UK games head saying that sales of the original Xbox were slow and that Microsoft had essentially hung the console out to dry. And he's not wrong - there will be no PSOne style reinvention for the Xbox. While they won't say it publicly, Microsoft's lack of first-party releases for the big black console essentially confirms the demise. But while this is a problem for retailers, struggling through this transitional period, is it a problem for punters?The hardcore will have moved on to the 360 while the younger audience that normally picks up older consoles has a large back catalogue to choose from. Of course, that doesn't mean that backwards compatibility isn't important. Especially during the slow launch period it was crucial to have access toolder games, most of which were 27 times more enjoyable than Perfect Dark Zero. But now that the 360 is in full swing, with a pile of decent games, do we still need to play our original Xbox titles? "Nobody is concerned anymore about backwards compatibility," said Peter Moore in May. Oh dear. It was only a matter of time before the backtrack arrived. "I want to be clear that my comments were not about 'nobody cares,'" Moore said recently. "Of course we care, and we're going to continue to get as close as we can to our stated target of every Xbox game being backward compatible to the Xbox 360."For most 360 owners it has became more of a political than a practical issue. They'll never play Grabbed by the Ghoulies on their 360, but it's the principal that matters. Or does it? Do you care about Xbox backwards compatibility?
If you're a bedroom programmer, want to be one or love oneandyou love retro games, you could be a contender in the2006 Retro Remakes competition. You've three months to create your opus, and there's a pretty spectacular kitty of prizes valued at over £4,000 to be won.There are few rules, but the most important one is that the games must be accessible to people of all physical abilities. If you don't know what that means, check out Barrie Ellis'Oneswitch.org.uk, a site which promotes titles that can be controlled with only one switch.Barrie got in touch with gamesblog to let us know that the compo - which kicked off on 1st June - is going swimmingly. If you'd like to know more, head over toRetro Remakes' forums forfull details and entry requirements.Glory could be yours. Who knows where it could take you? The2007 Independent Games Awards, perhaps?
Two rather downbeat features are orbiting the 'blogosphere' at the moment. Videogame design veteran Chris Crawford has just beeninterviewed by Gamasutra. His schtick has remained more-or-less the same for the last decade - videogames are dead and 'interactive storytelling' (or'Storytronics') is the future. You'll need to register to read the full transcript, but here's a taster:"...the industry is just rehashing the same stuff over and over. During the 80s there was a lot of experimentation, a lot of new ideas being tried (many of them really bad) but there was at least experimentation. Now we don't see any experimentation whatsoever."Well, we all know the shelves are flooded with genre titles and that publishers build their businesses around repeating winning formulas. But dismissing the entire industry is rather sweeping. At this year's E3 there was Spore, Okami, Viva Pinata, Super Mario Galaxy, Wario Ware Smooth Moves, LocoRoco, Seed, etc. Many of those can be slipped into current genres, but they all boast new ideas, new ways of doing things - they are, in varying degrees, experimental.All artforms eventually settle into genres - it is human nature. We need to categorise. We enjoy familiar experiences. It's true that experimentation was more common in the eighties, but back then the concept of the videogame was still being formed. That kind of freedom cannot be sustained.But while there are new people entering the industry, there will always be new ideas, and there will always be experimentation. We may have to look harder, but it will be there.Elsewhere, GameBizDaily has asked,Where Have All the Game Gods Gone?The article complains that no fresh, high-profile superstars have come along to replace the likes of Molyneux, Carmack, Meier, Miyamoto and Wright...Again, I agree with a lot of what's being said here. As the feature points out, game design has changed - it's more of a co-operative endeavour now. Also, the specialist media has evolved, running many fewer developer-focused features.But therearestars. The writer makes a cursory mention of one non-Western designer but ignores the likes of Tetsuya Mizuguchi, Hideo Kojima, Kenji Inafune and Keita Takahashi. In the US there are emerging names like CliffyB and Harvey Smith.Ultimately, if you take an overview ofanycommercial entertainment form the big picture is pretty depressing. Most of everything is rubbish. But it is not always helpful to point that out.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yesterday was thefourth anniversaryof paidContent.org, the incredibly popular digital media news blog that's run by Rafat Ali. Rafat, who seems to spend his days wandering around the conference circuit getting scoop after scoop on the business, has made his name in that time and is now generally regarded as one of the most successful reporter/blogger hybrids.Today another prominent tech blogger,Om Malik, has decided that he's quitting his job at Business 2.0 to turnfull-time blogging reporter. I suppose Om will produce a site similar to paidContent but focused on broadband technology - perhaps wider, too.It's part of an interesting transition taking place where a number of writers, pundits and technologists are finding their feet as bloggers and actually making (or trying to make) a living out of it. Michael Arrington ofTechCrunchrecently celebrated a year of doing so, and we recently saw Mac pundit John Gruber (Daring Fireball) go full-time as a writer thanks to the popularity of his site. (Jason Kottke, if you remember,blogged for a yearthanks to contributions from his readers)But it goes both ways. After all, the weekend was full of tech sites buzzing furiously - and somewhat bizarrely, in my opinion - about Robert Scoble'sdecision to quit Microsoftand join podcasting startup PodTech.net.But although Scoble's unlikely to become a bigger name after this move, his decision isn't really any different from Om Malik's. I suppose it's all about personal brand and personal profit: if you're a serf who is able to build up enough name recognition through the net, then you might have a chance to break free of your day job and get something better. Malik is the latest example of that; Scoble chose to join a start-up rather than simply turn full-time independent blogger, but it's only the recognition he gained through his blog that got him to that particular point.
A couple of indie gaming news snippets have caught my eye today. First up, Montreal-based developerStudio Archcrafthas just revealed that it's switching development of promising RPG Project Exile from GBA to DS.It's an action-based take on the genre with a distinctly old-skool (i.e. early-nineties) look.Screenshotsof the game have been drawing favourable comparisons with the likes of Chrono Trigger and Secret of Mana. From the website, it looks as though there are only six development staff including just one programmer - and they're promising to deliver by Q1 2007.Secondly, I really like the look ofBubble Thing, a shareware puzzler just released byQueasy Games. Bubble Thing was written during the 2006Toronto Indie Gaming Jamheld last month. The annual get-together sees a bunch of programmers turning up to write full playable games over the course of just three days. Imagine the Red Bull consumption...Via4 Color RebellionandMad monkey
According to a story inUSA Today:Nearly a year after the Supreme Court issued a landmark ruling against online music file-sharing services, the CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America says unauthorized song swapping has been "contained.""The problem has not been eliminated," says association CEO Mitch Bainwol. "But we believe digital downloads have emerged into a growing, thriving business, and file-trading is flat."Interesting factoid: "The RIAA has sued just over 18,000 individuals for sharing songs online, with 4,500 settling for about $4,000 per case."
"Apple's iPods are made by mainly female workers who earn as little as £27 per month, according to a report in the Mail on Sunday yesterday. The report, 'iPod City', isn't available online. It offers photographs taken from inside the factories that make Apple music players, situated in China and owned by Foxconn," reportsMacworld.The report claims Longhua's workers live in dormitories that house 100 people, and that visitors from the outside world are not permitted. Workers toil for 15-hours a day to make the iconic music player, the report claims. They earn £27 per month. The report reveals that the iPod nano is made in a five-storey factory (E3) that is secured by police officers.Another factory in Suzhou, Shanghai, makes iPod shuffles. The workers are housed outside the plant, and earn £54 per month - but they must pay for their accommodation and food, "which takes up half their salaries", the report observes.Comment: Virtually all of Apple's portable products are made in China, because it's cheap, and that's common in the cut-throat electronics industries. I'd be surprised if the conditions in the factories used by Apple's contractors were worse than the norm for large companies. However, asWired News's Mac fan Leander Kahney points out:The situation is too murky for a rush to judgment on Apple's ethics here, and it may well meet minimum global standards. But for a company that has staked its image on progressive politics, Apple has set itself up as a potential lightning rod on global labor standards. Sweatshops came back to bite Nike after its customers rose up in arms; and Apple can expect a similar grilling from its upscale Volvo-driving fans in the months ahead.Given that some iPods seem to fail comparatively quickly -- seeIs your iPod one of the bad Apples?-- and that Apple users have had problems with notebook reliability, it might pay to improve the quality.
Ah, the sun is out, heralding this year's selection of summer conferences. It's a bumper crop, with two new events dotting the events schedule in 2006. Check 'em out:Women in Games(10-11 July, Teeside)Top sessions include a keynote on Sex in Games, authored by IGDA Sex SIG moderator Brenda Brathwaite, an audience with Frag Doll Kirsten "Kitt" Kearney and "Locating the perfect ingredients in games for women" with Jo Clay, Technical Director of Strange Agency.Develop Conference and Expo(11-13 July, Brighton) Top sessions include, "Creativity led production: How to bring new ideas into line", with Rez, Space Channel 5 and Lumines creatorTetsuya Mizuguchi, the Serious Games workshop with Ben Sawyer of Digital Mill and the ARG group gathering. Plenty of great stuff on offer!EIEF(21-22 August, Edinburgh) Top sessions include, "Green Blood vs Red Blood," a look at what next gen hardware means for censorship, "Games that make me cry," with Edge editor Margaret Robertson and "More Magic Emotions," with Ken Perlin.London Games Festival(from 2 October, London) Top events include theBAFTA video game awards,GDC London(3-4 October) and theLondon Games Summit(4-5 October).UPDATE: I hadn't seenthis excellent postfrom Conrad at Joystiq. Go here for more detail on pricing, plus extra events
I'm just back from a holiday where the DS played a bigger than expected part. There was good and bad though. The latter was Tetris DS, which was a mess, literally. The purity of the original concept has been replaced by clutter and annoyance. Online is fun mind. The good news concerned mental workout game Brain Training, which I can confidently predict will be massive. Yes, I know it has sold over a zillion - or thereabouts - copies in Japan, so this is hardly a wild prediction, but everyone I showed it to last week loved it. And none of them were gamers. Even Zoo Keeper has finally been ousted from my sister's DS. Nintendo's touch generation stuff may be marketing puff, but I'm certain that Brain Training's mass market appeal will see it hanging around the charts for an age - think of it as the James Blunt of gaming. But better, obviously.
We've coveredhomosexualityingamingbefore and are interested in the topic, so when researcher Jason Rockwood contacted us to say he'd launched a survey about gaymers, we thought we'd pass on the link to you. Any and all takers can headhere.FromIn Newsweekly:Rockwood says, "The main purpose of the survey was to be a census. Before we can ask more intelligent questions we need to know who we are dealing with. First we need to prove that homosexual gamers even exist. Yeah it sounds ridiculous, but that's where you have to start on something like this. This survey is an attempt to quantify the existence of an invisible minority."All gamers - straight, gay, lesbian or transgendered, are welcome to take part!
"Online marketplace eBay Inc. is set to unveil a keyword advertising system for eBay sellers to promote auctions on other Web sites, borrowing from the strategies of Google and Yahoo," reportsReuters."Michael van Swaaij, eBay's chief strategy officer, told a conference of software developers here on Saturday of plans to allow eBay's army of auctioneers to run contextual ads on other Web sites in exchange for a cut of the resulting eBay sales."The system, called AdContext, is expected early next week.
US toy companyUSAopolyhas been granted the rights to create a version of Monopoly based around famous Nintendo characters. Instead of Park Lane, Pall Mall and the like, you'll be able to buy Mario and his chums. Check outPress the Buttonsfor more info and enticing images.Let's hope this starts a trend - a GTA Monopoly would be interesting. 'You have won second prize in a drive-by shooting competition. Collect £200. And a hooker'...
So did anyone spend the weekend using PES or FIFA to accurately predict the results of World Cup matches? With the possible exception of the Holland and Germany games, surely your encounters were more exciting?Or did you use gaming to escape the pretty much unavoidable footie carnival?
Demonstrations outside a few US Apple stores were organised by the Free Software Foundation'sDefective by Designgroup. There's avideofrom San Francisco.
"Thousands of bloggers gathered last week in the Riviera [hotel in Las Vegas] to exchange ideas, debate and plot their steady takeover of journalism and political debate from newspapers, magazines and television," reportsThe Observer."Anyone who thinks blogging is over-rated should have looked at the guest list of power players who followed the blogging herd to Las Vegas to woo and be wooed by these latest additions to the political scene. Reporters and columnists from all the main newspapers showed up, as did Democratic strategists. Even potential Democrat candidates for the 2008 presidential election pitched up to network and sell their political wares to the online community. Although the event was meant to appeal to all parties, its guest list was overwhelmingly liberal."
At Motley Fool, the investor site, Seth Jayson, says he "occasionally entertain[s] the thought that Google has, in fact,destroyed the Internet. Well, not the physical Internet, mind you. Just the whole 'looking for data' part of it that's key to Google's (alleged) information-based mission. The part that's held the key (so far) to its financial success."Any of you try searching lately? Notice the astounding lack of quality across the board, even at revamped competitors like Yahoo! and IAC/InterActiveCorp's Ask.com? I feel your pain. I, too, have spent hours stuck in the revolving door of link farms, splogs, and scraper sites. These sites look like they contain content, but when you see the results page, often it's not there (because of tricks like keyword stuffing and cloaking). If it is there, it's often recycled material from other providers, compiled by an automated process.The jokers who create these sites have one goal: Trying to get you to click on a Google AdSense link.Google search is being spammed to hell, but Google is making money out of it, so why should it care? In any case, Jayson doesn't believe Google can stop it:I think when you pit a few hundred Google Smarty Pantses -- who are getting fat on stock options and gourmet meals at the Big Goo campus -- against many thousand enterprising schemers on the Internet, the battle will go to those hungry schemers every time.Meanwhile, says the story, Google just keeps its inflated stock price in the air by announcing "doodads that no one needs, like an online spreadsheet", even if they have little chance of making any money.That's not much of a concern for the press out there, which is blissfully unaware of its prime position as Most Likely to Be Head Dupe in Google's hype machine. All the newsroom knows is that Google is prime headline fodder, and more importantly, it'snot Microsoft, so everything it does must be worthy of ink.Comment: There are certainly things to argue with in Jayson's commentary, but he's right on the money about the press hype. The problem is that journalism is basically a fashion industry. Google is today's blue-eyed boy, and gets the same sort of coverage once enjoyed by IBM, Microsoft, AOL and, to a much smaller extent, Yahoo! when they were in similar postions. However, what the press builds up, it later knocks down. That way you get two good stories for the price of one. This is an example....
