Almost 300,000 Britons used the internet for the first time in the three months to September, as the number of UK adults online rose to 41.6 million.Figuresreleased by the Office for National Statistics(ONS) reveal the online age divide is gradually closing, with 164,000 adults aged 75 and over using the internet for the first time in the period. Internet use among 16- to 24-year-olds is almost ubiquitous, with 98.6% of this age group online.However, the figures show that income and disability remain a barrier to getting connected. Britons earning less than £300 a week make up 13.5% of the 8.43 million adults who have never used the internet. Every one of the 1.4 million adults earning over £1,000 a week said they have used the internet.The research was taken from the quarterly Labour Force Survey and published by the ONS on Wednesday.The number of UK adults who had never used the internet decreased by 299,000, to 8.43 million, between April and September, compared to a decrease of only 12,000 between January and June. Almost 83% of the UK adult population have now used the internet.Disabled adults accounted for just over half of the 8.43 million adults who had never used the internet in the third quarter of this year, according to the research.Despite a relative boom in the number of adults aged 75 and over using the internet, 72.4% of this age group have still never gone online.
Viacom says that this year's MTV European Music Awards (EMAs) received their highest audience ratings ever in the UK, attracting a total audience of more than 306,000 people on the evening of Sunday 6 November.The network says there was more to this than a line-up of big stars, though. The televised awards were complemented by activity online – EMA-related page views on MTV's UK website were up 530% year-on-year to nearly 500,000 – and in MTV's mobile and tablet apps, with downloads up 159% year-on-year, although Viacom hasn't said how many that is.Gary Ellis, vice president of international digital media at Viacom International Media Networks, says that this year's event aimed to make more of an impact globally, through its use of social media and apps, and new categories like Best Worldwide Act and Biggest Fans."We wanted to tap into the global nature of digital media and expand the remit of the awards, and that worked out very well," he says. "We had 158 million votes this year, up 236% compared to last year, and a lot of that was driven by those new categories, although we saw increases across the board."One important change this year was the launch of mobile websites for the EMAs optimised for iPhone, Android and tablets, sitting alongside native apps. Ellis says that 141% year-on-year growth in the number of unique visitors to the website globally shows the value of this two-pronged app strategy."In the past we've had a WAP site, which was pretty strong, but we wanted to up the game and go for richer mobile web versions of the site. People are expecting a full website experience now, no matter what device they're accessing it from," says Ellis."We have also been watching closely the huge sales of tablet computers, and know that people are accessing websites from those devices. [Native] apps are still a priority for us – we had another app this year with more content and video integrated into it – but if you don't want to download the app, we want to make sure people get the best experience they can."Viacom also made everything more social this year, enabling fans to log in to the EMAs website using their Facebook or Twitter accounts, to make it easier to share articles and content from the site to those social networks. The site also sported some gamification features thanks to a partnership between Viacom and startup Bunchball.People earned points for watching videos, reading articles, voting and other actions on the EMAs site leading up to the event, partly to try to win tickets by topping the Bunchball-powered high score tables. The points system also tied into a group voting feature, which was the only way to vote in the Biggest Fans category."It was all about increasing engagement with the content," says Ellis. "Time spent increased, the overall engagement increased, and whether or not the activity happened on a PC, a smartphone or a tablet, everything connected to all the social networks and with each other. We absolutely want everything to be as integrated, shareable and connected as possible."During the awards ceremony itself, people continued to use these various devices while watching at home. Ellis makes a point of noting that the higher ratings were driven by the digital activity around the awards: an example of these other devices supporting television rather than cannibalising it."Our ideal scenario is to have someone watching the show on their TV, while also having their computer open or their smartphone or tablet to hand interacting around the show, the host and other viewers," says Ellis."Second-stream and co-viewing is very important to us. People want to talk about the show together and watch it together, whether virtually or physically. We want to create the opportunities for that to happen."
There's a tiny knob missing from my hands-free car kit, which I keep meaning to replace. The thing is, I don't think I can buy parts for it, so I probably need to fork out for a whole new system, which, frankly, I'm reluctant to do. Sound familiar? How many broken thingamajigs do you have around your home – and how many items have you chucked out with the rubbish?But what if you could design replacement items such as dishwasher parts, cord pulls and oven knobs, or even invent a new product and then "print" it out? That's right, print it. We're not talking paper and ink, but actual three-dimensional products that are printed out layer, by layer using a range of materials, such as plastic, powder, metal, and even chocolate, which are then bound together to form solid objects. Amazing eh?While you're just processing that concept, let me take you back to the early days of 3D printing, because although this technology may be new to you, major manufacturers have been using it for decades. Originally called rapid prototyping, it has become an essential tool, enabling designers to quickly and easily produce a sample product, which can then be tested, tweaked and re-printed, all within a matter of days.As with all new technologies, the early adopters were those with the most cash to splash. "3D printing in general has been around since 1986 or thereabouts," says Jake Durrant, senior lecturer at Ravensbourne digital design college. "But the uptake in industry has been governed by the disposable budgets of companies, so aerospace and Formula One were some of the first."Jake's colleague, Jon Fidler, used to work for Alpha Form, a company that fabricates parts for teams such as McLaren, Red Bull and Super Aguri. He says rapid prototyping was used to help with the constantly evolving design of the racing cars, as well as producing complete dummy cars for validation of design. "Components, such as the spoilers, are very complex shapes and they can be printed within 48 hours using printers, which gives a turn around of days rather than weeks compared to using more traditional methods of production."One of the reasons the cost of rapid prototyping was so prohibitive in the early days was because the patents on the various methods used, meant a handful of companies had an effective monopoly over the emerging technology. As a result there was a very protective spirit around the 3D industry and it remained an industrial process that only the chosen few were privy to.However, over the years, the technology has improved and simplified, opening it up to a broader market; an increasing number of manufacturers now use rapid prototyping – or 3D printing as it is now known in the mainstream. Chances are the shoes on your feet, or the coffee pot in your kitchen started life as a 3D printed prototype. Converse has been using 3D printers since 2004, which enables the shoe company to get more products to market more quickly, while Alessi has been able to improve it's best-selling La Cupola coffee-maker for 70% less cost and in a fraction of the time.One of the key innovators in bringing 3D printing to the masses was a lecturer from Bath University. In 2004, Adrian Bowyer invented a machine that could print around 50% of its own parts, and in 2008 it successfully managed to print itself. We're told that the "child machine was quickly put to work to make grandchild parts". Not only does this smack of child labour, it also sounds vaguely incestuous. But this ability to self-replicate means that unlike earlier 3D printers, the RepRap (replicating rapid-prototyper) offered little financial gain. It is for this reason that Bowyer decided to make his designs open source (so anyone can access them), and subsequently build their own printer, using materials costing around £250. The benefit for Bowyer is that he has been able to adapt and develop his design collectively.It is this collective ethos that is now key to the development of 3D printing. Since RepRap first appeared on the market there has been an influx of garage startups producing affordable, open source machines that you build yourself, which in turn have spawned thousands of DIY designers. "The RepRap was a very good breeding ground for innovation but as same time very chaotic for new users," says Erik de Bruijn, who was one of the first RepRappers to replicate functional parts. "So I decided to create the Ultimaker which enables users to get printing in a single day – it wasn't designed to self replicate."Neither was the Makerbot, although a year or so after its launch in 2009, one of its users managed to do just that. And in the true spirit of open source, he then shared his designs enabling others to follow suit. According to Bre Pettis, founder of the company, when they started they just wanted to make the cheapest 3D printer kit that anyone could put together; that actually worked. But now, with the help of the Makerbot community, they're making their printers better and better. "It's good for business to give our users access to our plans and design files. They're our R&amp;D department, so we get to benefit from any changes they make." His second-generation printer, called the Thing-O-Matic, retails at just $1,299 (£824).The Makerbot Thing-O-Matic 3D printer.  Photograph: Makerbot Industries"It has 90% of the functionality of professional printers, but at 1% of the price," says Pettis. These prices aren't just democratising 3D printing; they're democratising manufacturing. "We make 3D printers to offer an alternative to consumerism," Pettis continues. "Nearly three years after we began, there are now 6,000 folks with Makerbots and they get to make a choice between buying something and 3D designing and printing it."The design process is easier than you may think, as the software, like the machines, has being simplified. Until recently the only option was professional CAD (computer assisted design) software, which is expensive to buy and hard to master, but now there are alternatives such as Google's Sketchup! which is user-friendly and free to download. "Design is getting more and more accessible," says De Bruijn. "There are a number of websites that don't even have to install software – you can just start drawing straight away. Or if you don't want to create your own design, you can download one of 11,000 online. There is a massive sharing culture with 3D printing, which is forming the building blocks for a new age of design."Thingiverse.com is one such place where people can share their digital designs. Here you'll find all manner of bizarre and useful objects, from a car mirror (apparently a bear attacked his car: these things happen to guys that print 3D) to Wolverine claws (not made by the same designer, but could have come in quite handy during the attack I imagine). So, if you need to replace that aforementioned broken knob, chances are someone has already designed it for you, but if you can't find one to suit you can simply adapt the design to meet your needs and aesthetics – just make sure you upload the alterations. "We live in a throwaway culture, and I think Makerbot interrupts that," Pettis says. "It adds value to what you already have by fixing them."The Makerbot community is also working on ways to recycle the leftover plastic – and other household materials – so that you can re-use it to create more useful products. If this takes off it means we can recycle locally, rather than shipping it round the world where they turn it into something else and then ship it back again. As well as reducing our carbon footprint, using recycled materials for print purposes could also reduce our yearly spend on many essential items. Just imagine if you could recycle your child's outgrown shoes, chuck in some extra plastic or a milk bottle or two, and then remake them a size bigger.It's somehow ironic that the technology enabling manufacturers to produce more products more quickly is also the one that could stop the consumer from consuming. Fidler, however, thinks this is still a long way off; while 3D printing may be a great tool, the end product is still very much about the person using that tool. "There will always be a need for good design," he says. "We may get to a stage where you can customise certain manufactured designs, but at the moment good products are still all about the designer."He does have a point. You may own a top-spec digital SLR camera, but would you offer your services at a friend's wedding? And customisation of products certainly seems to be where 3D printing is heading – and not just in the home. Because one-offs can be printed so quickly and easily, the customer can make more demands on design. Bram De Zwart, the product manager at Dutch design company Freedom of Creation says that until now, products have been pushed into the market, leading to high levels of waste production. "3D printing enables much more of a pull distribution instead, so consumers can buy products that are really tailored," he says.A turtle shell racer built from printed parts. Photograph: David Neff/Makerbot IndustriesThe appropriately namedAlice Taylor, founder of MakieLab, a games and toys company based in London, agrees that 3D printing takes away the risk element of mass production, as you can print a product according to demand. "With traditional toys, the company comes up with an advert first to test it out," she says. "They then run the design over to China, where it is made in large numbers. Manufacturers are gambling on the fact that the end customer still wants the product. But by using 3D printing you don't have to make anything until they've hit 'buy', so it tips the whole process on its head."This is also good news for startup companies, as they can produce something for very little cost and test the market before filling a warehouse with products that might not sell. This is exactly how the Glif iPhone 4 accessory came to market. A prototype of the tripod mount and stand was made with the help of 3D printing company Shapeways, and the two young designers then sought funding through Kickstarter where it received in excess of $130,000 in pledges before going into production. You can now buy it online atwww.studioneat.comfor $20, although the final product is no longer 3D printed, but injection-moulded, which is the only process they felt would "create the Glif at a level of quality we deem acceptable."Taylor is also using Shapeways, and other prints shops, to develop a bespoke doll that you create on-line, but she is one of the few manufacturers that wants to continue using 3D printing for the customer-facing product. "The benefit of this technology is that we can make every doll unique if we want to," she explains. "So people can customise their doll to look like themselves, or a favourite celebrity if they want to." The downside of using 3D printing to build each and every doll is the cost, although Taylor says this is dropping rapidly, and also sourcing the right colours and materials. "It's really, really hard," she says. "If you want to make a traditional doll you'd go to factory in China and have a standard model tweaked. But with our doll we are literally starting from scratch, as we need to find plastics, joints and colours that will work with 3D printing. We are really pushing things."That's the great thing about this new community of designers. You get the feeling they love a challenge, and any limitation that 3D printing throws up – such as print size or materials they will pool resources and come up with a solution. Damn, they'll probably come up with several."One of the greatest things about 3D printing is that there are some limitations, but as with any engineering challenge these really inspire people to push past them," says Pettis. "I'm just curious what the community will do together and what kind of problems we can solve."•Read more about the future of printing and how to save money in everyday life
The next Xbox or PlayStation could be a tablet PC rather than a console, suggested industry veteran Guy Wilday on Wednesday.Speaking on a panelat the Launch Conference in Birmingham, the former Codemasters studio head, now working as a consultant, said that the traditional five-year console life cycle has stalled for good, and that delivering games on more flexible platforms was the future."The market has changed – the industry is focused on content," he said."It's less about rapid innovation of platforms and more about focusing on games themselves and making sure they're deeper. It's exciting, it's a very different challenge."Wilday praised the App Store model as a straightforward route to market for games, and suggested that future consoles would work in a similar way – even borrowing their form factor from mobile devices, a notionthat has previously been put forward by other developers."Will consoles be tablets?" he asked. "It's an interesting possibility. You can stream tablet content to your TV now, and tablet graphics hardware is becoming exponentially more powerful. That whole dynamic of having a device that you use in one way, then bring home and use in another way is an influence going forward."Intriguingly, Nick Burton – incubation director at Rare, the UK studio now owned by Microsoft and responsible for a lot of the early development work on the Kinect – suggested that console game development itself would be moving toward a smartphone model of shorter development periods, followed by regular post-release iterations as publishers use analytics to see how gamers are using their products, reacting with new content accordingly."Content is still king," he said. "But what I do think we're going to see is deeper use of analytics in games, especially as everyone becomes connected all the time – it makes it easier for us to tune our products to suit our audience, whether that's on a handheld device or a bigger platform."We're all getting a lot better at finding out what our audience wants and reacting to that. With that sort of iteration, long development cycles over multiple years is going to go away."As Burton's team worked with very early versions of Kinect, it's safe to assume the product he's currently "incubating" is the next Xbox console.His comments suggest that the next games platform from Microsoft could be built around a model that hovers somewhere between the smartphone market and the current Xbox Live set-up.But will the next consoles be entirely cloud-based, with game content streaming from remote servers rather than coming on discs or as downloads?Burton seems unconvinced for now."Cloud computing is interesting," he said. "There are balancing issues when something like Battlefield 3 is released and seven million gamers bring your server farm down on day one. But it does offer the potential for our industry to have very long tail on a particular device."It can become more like a set-top box – you just sell a small, cheap £99 'thing' and that's your gaming device for the next 10-20 years."It's early days though, the net's not ready – we're pretty well connected in the UK but many areas still have latency issues. I wouldn't want to do it just yet …"Maybe the Xbox 1080, then?
Before Altair, before even Sam Fisher, Ubisoft was well-known for analtogether less rugged lead character. And now Rayman is leaping back into the fray.Designed by the creator of the original game, Michel Ancel,Rayman Originsis a return to the foundations of the series as a 2D side-scrolling platformer, set in a lush fantasy realm. It's been created using a new highly intuitive graphics engine known as the UbiArt Framework, devised to enable small teams to create detailed environments and characters which can be iterated very quickly.The game – released on Xbox, PS3, Wii and later on the Sony Vita – isalready attracting praise from reviewers, and is due out in the UK on 25 November.  Ubisoft has created an interesting 'making of' video, looking into the creation of the title at the publisher's Montpellier studio. Take a look at it above ...
A selection of 23 apps for you today:There's No Place Like Space!US firm Oceanhouse Media has been turning Dr. Seuss books into apps for some time now. Its latest iOS app is a different beast, though: part of a new "Learning Library" series of educational apps based on the popular Seuss characters. In this case, it sees The Cat In The Hat introducing the solar system.iPhone / iPadGmailStop us if you've heard this one before: Google has launched a native Gmail app for iPhone and iPad. Well, relaunched is the better word: the app was pulled from the App Store shortly after its debut due to a push notifications bug. Now it's available once more, in a fully working version.iPhone / iPadWildChordsWildChords for iPad is an innovative attempt to make learning guitar more enjoyable. It takes the form of a colourful game, controlled by strumming a real guitar in time and with the correct chords. The iPad's microphone is used to detect whether players are in tune or not.iPadMinecraft – Pocket EditionAndroid owners got the first crack at an official mobile version of creative indie game Minecraft, leaving iOS users to put up with a series of clones. Now the real deal has launched on the App Store, although as on Android, for now it's just the creative side of Minecraft, building and digging, rather than the even-more gamey Survival mode.iPhone / iPadLet's Golf 2Gameloft's Let's Golf franchise has been popular on other smartphones, so now it's available on Windows Phone. As ever, cartoon golf with super-powers and different modes is the order of the day.Windows Phone(spotted byWPCentral)CIA: Operation AjaxThis iPad book-app from Cognito Comics tells the story of the CIA-led coup in Iran in 1953, offering 210 digital pages, sound and animation, as well as character dossiers and real declassified CIA documents.iPadDuke Nukem 3DReviewers of the latest console Duke Nukem game weren't impressed by it, but perhaps the brand's new tablet incarnation will fare better. It's just been released for the BlackBerry PlayBook, as part of a wider swell of 3D titles for RIM's tablet.BlackBerry PlayBookOfficial Norwich City FCNorwich City are back in the Premier League, and now the football club is on the App Store too. Its official app costs £2.99, and provides news, player profiles, live text commentary and stats on match days, and ticketing info among other features. Fans who choose to pay a £2.49 monthly subscription will get additional video highlights and TV news.iPhoneSing and SignBritish baby-signing programme Sing and Sign has a new iPhone app, designed to teach parents and babies to communicate through sign language. And, yes, singing. The app covers more than 150 signs.iPhoneBuddyCastBuddyCast is all about turning an iPhone into a music-streaming server and radio broadcasting tool. It can play songs on the device, but also lets users play DJ, streaming their music to friends while talking over the top. Audio can also be streamed to external servers. And the licensing status of all this? A question music rightsholders may well be asking in the coming days.iPhonePeek-a-Zoo – by Duck Duck MooseKid-apps publisher Duck Duck Moose has struck again with new iPhone app Peek-a-Zoo, which aims to introduce a series of animals to children, along with emotions, actions and activities. The app also features a soundtrack of jazz and classical versions of popular children's songs.iPhoneAshti Meets Birdman AlAnd more from the kid-apps / jazz crossover... Ashti Meets Birdman Al is an American book-app that wants to teach children about jazz history, including the likes of Billie Holiday, Thelonius Monk, Dizzie Gillespie and Cab Calloway.iPhone / iPadEmpire OnlineMassively multiplayer online roleplaying game Empire Online has been a hit on iOS, and has now made the jump to Android. Lakoo's title promises more than 300 maps, 1,000 quests and more than five million players to interact with.AndroidEtsyOnline crafts site Etsy has launched an iPhone app, providing access to its more-than 11 million listings. Buyers can search for items and buy them, while sellers can use its features to manage their items from their iPhone.iPhoneHome Electrical Safety CheckThe UK's Electrical Safety Council (ESC) has released an iPhone and Android app to help people do quick visual checks of their homes, to see if the electrics should be causing them any concern. The ESC is pitching it as a useful app to have to hand when viewing accomodation before buying or renting, too.iPhone / AndroidFish4jobsRecruitment site Fish4jobs has launched an app across four smartphones at once: iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and Symbian. The app enables people to search for available jobs based on location, and apply for them using existing Fish4jobs or LinkedIn logins. There's also a salary calculator to inspire the jobhunting. Grapple Mobile made the app.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / SymbianThe Nutcracker Musical StorybookMouse King Media's debut iOS book-app tells the famous Nutcracker tale through animation and music, with an orchestral rendition of Tchaikovsky's score, and 25 chapters to read.iPhone / iPadSpy Mouse HDSpy Mouse came out earlier this year on iPhone: it was the latest action-puzzler from developer Firemint – the company behind Flight Control and Real Racing. Now it's been upscaled for iPad, including new content and beefier graphics.iPadExtraction: Project OutbreakThere's a lot of buzz around this iOS game, thanks to its spectacular graphics. It's an action-shooter game based around a mercenary trying to eliminate infected soldiers after a military experiment gone-wrong.iPhone / iPadSupermanIs that an angry bird, or a plane? Superman is the latest iPhone game from the original publisher of Angry Birds, Chillingo. It's officially licensed, and sees Superman flying across the city to save the world from Lex Luthor.iPhone / iPadHomerun Battle 2Com2uS' original Homerun Battle 3D remains one of the best casual sports games on iOS, a couple of years after its release. Now it has a sequel, with more modes and social features. The core gameplay remains smashing home runs by tapping the screen, though.iPhone / iPadPod OdysseyCritically-acclaimed iPad space-maze game Pod Odyssey has a new version for iPhone and iPod touch, joining their bigger brother on the App Store as one universal title. The emphasis remains on guiding a space pod through mazes, avoiding robots and spiders along the way.iPhoneMedia Echo, The King's Speech Second ScreenTechnicolor – yes,thatTechnicolor– has launched an iPad app based on film The King's Speech. Available in the US only for now, it's designed to be used while watching the Blu-ray version of the film, offering trivia, video, audio commentary, actor profiles and other information synchronised with the movie.iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDon't be too disappointed by Google Music's lacklustre debut &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"There are two things the critics decline to acknowledge: that Google is providing a simple, free service, and that all Google products start out underwhelming and gradually expand. Android was a mess when it showed up. And it's still a mess — a mess blowing up to the tune of half a million devices a day. We all know Google doesn't ship complete products. So why do we waste our breath in day-one aspersion or praise when it's going to be a new Music down the line?"Microsoft drops Dryad; puts its big-data bets on Hadoop | ZDNet"Just a month after insisting there was still a place for its own Hadoop competitor, Microsoft officials have decided to discontinue work on LINQ to HPC [high performance computing], codenamed 'Dryad'. "In a November 11 post on the Windows HPC Team Blog, officials said that Microsoft had provided a minor update to the latest test build of the Dryad code as part of Windows High Performance Computing (HPC) Pack 2008 R2 Service Pack (SP) 3. But they also noted that "this will be the final (Dryad) preview and we do not plan to move forward with a production release." "Dryad was supposed to provide a way for running big-data jobs across clusters of Windows servers. It was designed to provide a platform for developers to build applications that can process large amounts of unstructured data." Wow. Hadoop is an open source high performance computing effort spun out of Yahoo. Microsoft is really opening up.Nokia Lumia 800 Windows 7.5 smartphone special offer &gt;&gt; Orange"Free Xbox 360 when you upgrade, while stocks last". Microsoft's spending its billions on this one all right. Wonder what phone people will upgrade from to this? And how many "unwanted gift" Xbox 360s will suddenly appear on eBay in the next few weeks? (Then again, Christmas is coming. People might keep them for presents.)Flash Facts &gt;&gt; David Egbert"Flash is alive and well. It will be receiving continued improvements for desktop web apps and mobile apps (don't forget, Adobe Touch apps are built on the Flash Platform. You better believe the Flash Platform will continue to improve)." Later he adds that "The preferred method for deploying content to mobile devices is creating apps (which both Flash Professional and Flash Builder can create) or using HTML5." So: Flash for mobile apps and for desktop. In which case why not use HTML5 for the mobile apps too? And if mobile is a bigger platform than the desktop (which it soon will be..) then...?'Stop Online Piracy Act': the Infographic &gt;&gt; AmericanCensorship.orgIf you wondered what self-inflicted idiocy looks like, here it is. Then again, these are the politicians who brought you the ineffective CAN-SPAM Act, which was meant to kill off spam, but didn't. We can only hope that if this act passes it's just as ineffectual.Apple introduces revolutionary new laptop with no keyboard &gt;&gt; The OnionThere's no date on this, but it dates from the past couple of years. Bear it in mind when you look at the next link. How is The Onion so good at reality?Steve Jobs's secret meeting to explore an iPod phone is revealing &gt;&gt; Patently Apple"After six months of working on the trackwheel P1 and multi-touch P2 phone options, Jobs called his inner circle into his conference room to make a decision. Fadell had been trying hard to develop the trackwheel model, but he admitted they had not cracked the problem of figuring out a simple way to dial calls." After six months? You'd think they'd realise that after six days.Knockout (dynamic Javascript library)Via @Amtiskaw: another dynamic Javascript UI library. Looks initially more complex than Tangle (which we linked to yesterday) but perhaps more powerful.The Changing Web (Geeks Only) &gt;&gt; Talking Points Memo"This is an amazing statistic, though admittedly you've got to be a bit of a computer geek to appreciate it and also probably have to have been around for the 1990s. But here's the number. Only 56.81% of visits to TPM (November 2011) come from devices or computers using the windows operating system." We were pointed to this by Tim Bray (XML inventor, Google engineer), who described it as "interesting hard browser-market-share data". Have a look at the mobile data.Geo withdraws from the BDUK game &gt;&gt; thinkbroadband"Geo Networks Ltd has announced the reluctant decision to withdraw from the BDUK [Broadband Delivery UK] Broadband Framework and future Next Generation Access procurements. "The lengthy press release on the Geo website explains the firm's reasoning, but while complaining about BT and its ability to exploit a pre-existing fibre backbone, withdrawing from the BDUK process and future NGA procurements is almost handing BT a victory without BT having to work for it." This is bad because it reduces the diversity of companies offering high-speed connectivity to areas beyond cities. Jeremy Hunt and Ed Vaizey really need to get on top of this: BT is going to dominate this hugely important market unless they do. And that means a privatised monopoly. Where's the EC's antitrust team when you need them?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google and Apple have stepped up their corporate battle with the launch this week of music services for their smartphone platforms.Android handset users in the US will now be able to get access toGoogle Music, where the search engine company has signed up the main music labels except, so far, Warner Music.The service is not available outside the US because Google has not completed negotiations with record labels to allow it to sell songs elsewhere.The Google Music offering comes with exclusive content from the Rolling Stones, Coldplay, Busta Rhymes, Shakira, Pearl Jam and the Dave Matthews Band.Songs are available in MP3 format encoded at 320Kbps. Song prices range from 69c to 99c and $1.29, the same as on Apple's iTunes.The absence of Warner Music means Google Music will lack some famous names such as Led Zeppelin and Prince which are available on rival stores such as Apple's iTunes."They've got to get that [music] catalog filled pretty quickly," said Mike McGuire, an analyst at industry research firm Gartner. "It's a launch, but it's kind of like a work-in-progress."Analysts say selling online music is unlikely to provide much of a lift to Google's revenue. But they say Google needs to be in the market to ensure that its Android-based mobile efforts can match offerings from competitors.Android is the world's No. 1 smartphone operating system, powering about 200m devices worldwide. But without a music service, Android-based smartphones and tablets may not be as attractive to consumers seeking a product that offers a seamless media experience.Apple and more recently Amazon, which has launched its Kindle Fire tablet and has a music purchase service, pose the biggest challenge there.In ablogpost on the launch, Google said that its online music store "offers more than 13m tracks" from Universal, Sony Music and EMI as well as a thousand independent labels. "You can purchase individual songs or entire albums right from your computer or your Android device and they'll be added instantly to your Google Music library, and accessible anywhere," it said.Meanwhile, Apple earlier this weeklaunched its iTunes Match service, also US-only due to licensing restrictions imposed by the record companies.iTunes Match allows any user of an iOS device – such as an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch – to download a copy of any of the songs they already own in their music collection on a "registered" computer to one of those devices.While Google offers a form of that service through Google Music (in the US only), the Apple service does not require people to upload their songs directly; the iTunes Match system notes what songs exist on the computer and finds a match from the iTunes Music Store.The service costs $25 per year, leading Jamie Rosenberg, Google's director of digital content for Android, to take a dig at it: "Other cloud music services think you have to pay to listen to music you already own. We don't," he said.Google offers free cloud storage for up to 20,000 songs, though customers have to physically upload them.Mark Piibe, EMI's executive vice president of global business development, said Google's plan to bring legitimately sold music to people in new ways can only be good for the market as a whole.Companies like Google and Apple need a way to keep users locked in to their respective mobile services, said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis. "Everyone is using music and media as a jail. Ultimately, this stuff is going to be stored in the cloud and it becomes harder and harder to switch systems," he said.By linking music purchases to an account on an Apple or Google device, the companies create a barrier for users to shift to another device – although both companies allow users to download songs to their own computers, which can then be uploaded or linked to in the other's service.In the US, customers without credit cards using T-Mobile's network will be able to buy songs and have the price added to their mobile phone bill.In an added extra, Google aims to make it feasible for artists to distribute their own work on Google Music: "Any artist who has all the necessary rights can distribute his or her own music on our platform, and use the artist hub interface to build an artist page, upload original tracks, set prices and sell content directly to fans – essentially becoming the manager of their own far-reaching music store."Google Music will work on Android devices running version 2.2 or above. To help jump-start the new music store, Google said it will offer one free song for consumers to download every day.Google is also seeking to boost its Google+ social network by offering US users the ability to share songs directly through the network to other people on the system – rather asFacebook has done with the music-streaming system Spotify: people can listen once to a song for free.
Today I am at theLaunch conferencein Birmingham. Where are you?
Nokia is to launch a tablet computer next year, making its first foray into a market which is dominated by Apple and has seen rival entrants lose millions.The tablet will go to market in June and will run on Microsoft's yet to be released Windows 8 software, the director general of Nokia France let slip in an interview on Wednesday.Previously, Nokia has said only that it is considering whether to launch a tablet. Paul Amsellem told French business publicationLes Echos: "In June 2012, we will have a tablet running on Windows 8."Microsoft has not confirmed when the next version of its Windows software is due for release, although it is expected in 2012. Windows 7 went on sale in 2009 and the company has promised to update the platform every three years.Nokia hitched its fortunes to Windows after being left trailing in the smartphone race by Apple and manufacturers such as HTC and Samsung that use Google's Android operating system.Microsoft is bent on making Windows Phone the third standard operating system for smartphones, alongside Android and Apple's iOS, and has reportedly paid Nokia more than $1bn to commit to using Windows Phone for its new range of smartphones, including the Lumia 800, which went on sale in Europe on Wednesday.Tablet computer sales are expected to explode over the next four years, with analysts at Gartner predicting they will outsell PCs by 60% by 2015. However, tablets could go the way of MP3 players and remain a one-brand market. Apple's iron grip on tablet sales has seen the California company shift more than 40m units since launch in January 2010, 11m of them in its last quarter.Rivals have barely made a dent. BlackBerry maker RIM had only shipped 700,000 of its PlayBooks at the last count, while Hewlett-Packard cancelled its TouchPad after just 48 days.The Windows tablet would mark Nokia's first major foray into computers since the Booklet 3G, a small laptop launched in 2009 that has remained a niche product.A spokeswoman for Nokia said: "The remarks were taken out of context. A simple example was taken to mean more than intended. Nokia do not comment on speculation or rumours and at the moment we are all concentrating on the Lumia 800 which went on sale this week."The Nokia chief executive spoke positively about Windows 8 at the Lumia launch last month, saying: "The user experience of Windows 8 is essentially a supercharged version of the Nokia Lumia experience that you saw on stage today."And you see the parallels and opportunity for commonality from a user perspective. You say wow, this is more than just smartphones, there's a broader opportunity here. And clearly we see that broader opportunity as well, without specifically commenting on what that may mean in the future."
Internet giants went on the attack on Wednesday, claiming legislation aimed at tackling online piracy would create an "internet blacklist bill" that would encourage censorship, kill jobs and give US authorities unrivalled powers over the world's websites.Internet firmsincluding Wikipedia owner Wikimedia, eBay, Google, Twitter and others protested as Congress discussed thecontroversial Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa)now passing through Washington.The act aims to tackle online piracy by giving the US Justice Department new powers to go after websites, both domestically and abroad, that host disputed copyright material. The act would allow the US to effectively pull the plug on websites and go after companies that support them technically or through payment systems. A vote on the bill could come as early as next month.Maria Pallante, register of copyrights, told the committee: "As we all know, the internet harbours a category of bad faith actors whose very business models consist of infringing copyright in American books, software, movies, and music with impunity."She said these "rogue" sites were the "dark side of the internet", and that while American authors, publishers, and producers had been asked to invest in online commerce, "in critical circumstances we have left them to compete with thieves."Sopa would redress the balance she claimed by "ensuring that our law keeps pace with infringers."She said the act would requires "all key members of the online ecosystem, including service providers, search engines, payment  processors, and advertising networks, to play a role in protecting copyright interests".Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat and one of the bill's sponsors, dismissed as "hyperbolic" charges the bill "will open the floodgates to government censorship." He said the comments belittled "the circumstances under which true victims of tyrannical governments actually live."The act has powerful support from the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Motion Picture Association of America, the American Federation of Musicians, the Directors Guild of America, the Screen Actors Guild and drug companies keen for a crack down on online pharmacies undercutting US sales.But it has met with almost universal criticism from the tech community. Mozilla, maker of the Firefox web browser, blacked out its name on its home page in an anti-Sopa protest, as did Reddit, the social news site. Tumblr launched a page attacking the act, and firms including AOL, eBay, Facebook, Google, Twitter and Zynga criticised Sopa in a full-page advertisement in The New York Times."We support the bills' stated goals – providing additional enforcement tools to combat foreign 'rogue' websites that are dedicated to copyright infringement or counterfeiting. Unfortunately, the bills as drafted would expose law-abiding US internet and technology companies to new and uncertain liabilities, private rights of action, and technology mandates that would require monitoring of websites," the firms wrote."We are concerned that these measures pose a serious risk to our industry's continued track record of innovation and job creation, as well as to our nation's cyber-security."In a blogpost, Google said: "We strongly support the goal of the bill – cracking down on offshore websites that profit from pirated and counterfeited goods – but we're concerned the way it's currently written would threaten innovation, jobs, and free expression."Art Bordsky, spokesman forPublic Knowledge, a Washington-based public policy group, said Sopa was "the proverbial bull in the proverbial china shop" and that the bill as it stands would have "terrible consequences" for the internet."The international aspects alone are very worrying," he said. "It appears that the US is taking control of the entire world. The definitions written in the bill are so broad that any US consumer who uses a website overseas immediately gives the US jurisdiction the power to potentially take action against it."At present, if Facebook, You Tube or other leading websites are found to be holding copyright material without permission, then they are told to take it down. Sopa would make it possible for the US to block the website. Such far-reaching powers could kill smaller firms and put off investors from financing new companies, said Holmes Wilson, co-founder ofFight For The Future, a lobbying group."Everybody uses the internet every day, these days. Everyone realises how important freedom is online. This isn't just for geeks any more," he said."The worst part of this bill is that the vast majority of the damage will be invisible – it will be all the companies that never start because this bill has effectively killed them."
It's Xbox's 10th birthday this week. That's not bad going, is it?Yeah, I know. Wow! Ten years! That is a long time. We were actually looking back on some of the launch pictures of the first console in the UK, and um … I suppose my hair loss since then does betray the timeframe, but it really does feel like a very short time ago.It's been a pretty solid decade of innovation, I hope. We're proud of all the industry-firsts we've brought, whether it's Xbox Live, or whether it's the 360 or whether it's Kinect. I suppose I'm fairly uniquely placed given my role and involvement throughout that journey since the first launch. From my point of view it's been a unique combination of first controller-based, gaming and the services we've brought through Xbox Live. Then more recently there's Kinect with gesture-based gaming, and a redefinition of home entertainment.It's been quite a journey, especially when you consider it began from a standing start in an industry, which, at the time, was dominated by Sega, Nintendo and Sony. I think people were sceptical about our chances, although we had some genuine experience on the PC side of things. Still, we were a new entry to the console market – we had a lot to learn and we had to learn it very fast.When you were on the cusp on the first Xbox's launch, like you say, you were entering new territory. What was the mood at Microsoft and how did you feel about it at the time? Were you nervous? Did you feel you were about to walk on a high-wire without a net?(Laughs) I will tell you the excitement at the time was palpable. I have vivid memories of the launch. We had one of these gigantic clock countdown timers on a digital display in the office and that was running for about three months before launch. It was a pretty big reminder every morning about just how close we were getting to launch.There was no doubt there was high anticipation. I mean, we were very confident that we were prepared to invest sufficiently and that we had a medium- to long-term outlook on the business. If you remember back to the first design of the Xbox with an internet port in the back of the console, online was very much a key part of the original architecture. We definitely had a long-term vision for what gaming would become and we made sure we came to the market with a very powerful gaming platform right from the outset.We launched with huge fanfare at the Virgin Megastore. Richard Branson was there. Jonathan Ross was there too – he gave away the first Xbox console to the first person in the queue. It was a critical moment, not only for the platform but also for the brand because entering the market and being successful required building a brand that was meaningful to an audience that we knew we had to appeal to. This was particularly important in the early phases where the core gamer was so critical.And the core gamer was also very brand-loyal.Oh, undoubtedly, and this is what I mean by the very powerful and very worthy competition that we faced – and still do to this day. We weren't in the least bit complacent. Forgive the pun, but we knew we needed killer app. At that time, we had Halo: Combat Evolved launching and for that to become the $2bn franchise that it is today and for Master Chief to become such a well known and iconic character was very defining in terms of our success. Of course, this was joined but a lot of our third-party partners who brought great content to the Xbox. Ubisoft's Splinter Cell, for example, was another defining content element for the Xbox.We had to have the content and we were fortunate to have such a powerful IP in Halo and that really has defined what FPS's on consoles look like and play like and certainly multiplayer and co-op innovations we had then have become the industry standard.It's quite hard to cram the best parts of the last 10 years, with the Xbox and the Xbox 360 into one short, concise answer … but give it a go! What have been the highlights for you?(Laughs) Well, look, I know it sounds a little contrived, but I feel amazingly privileged to have been involved in this pivotal stage of our success in the console market. I kind of had to pinch myself sometimes. At a personal level I feel very proud. I sometimes think we have to slow down a little bit and enjoy the success that we've had but there's always so much to do. We're always thinking about our next move in the future.I think the highlight for me has to be Xbox Live, both in the way it was introduced and the way we envisioned that connected world of online gaming. The way that's developed to a service that has more than 35m subscribers is amazing. It's a billon dollar business for us. I think what that's been able to facilitate in terms of entertainment, with live TV, with movie streaming and with the social connectivity has been a huge highlight and it's very much the oxygen for the business we have today.Microsoft chairman Bill Gates unveils the Xbox console during his keynote address at the CES  in Las Vegas on 6 January 2001. Photograph: John Gurzinski/AFPHow close are we to the next generation of Xbox consoles?Well, we're at the point in the lifecycle now where you'd expect to things to have reached a plateau and you'd expect to be mid-cycle. I think what we're really pleased with is that we're still growing. Kinect certainly put a shot in the arm of the business in terms of the console's lifecycle. The success there is well documented, but I think what that's done has given us access to so many more experiences. It's allowed us to integrate technology into what we're doing, giving us episodic interactive TV and building connections with organisations such as Sesame Street and National Geographic. It's created a whole new level of two-way TV integration that's given us a brand new growth spurt at this point in the lifecycle.I think we're in a rude state of health and we're obviously we're very happy with that. Unfortunately there's nothing to say about the future – you'll hear more about that over time. The future's very bright, though. There's still very much more to come. We'll probably talk about that at key events as they arrive. There's certainly a great decade ahead of us in terms of what our technology can do.How do you see the console business going forward in the future? Smartphones, social media and tablets have changed the game for handhelds and casual core games. Now we have cloud gaming as a model to contend with. Will consoles have the same impact and be bought in such great numbers in the future?Well, yes I do. I think the testament to that is the sheer number of people who continue to flock to the platform. I think, that said, no one – including us – can afford to be complacent about the services we offer. We pride ourselves on the position we enjoy in the living room as an entertainment hub and to continue to achieve that, you need to offer more and more services to consumers. Whether that's TV, general entertainment, Kinect and all of these things need to continue in combination. I don't think any one thing can set you apart sufficiently anymore. You need to offer those services and, of course, great games for your consumers.The consumer will continue to demand a great deal from all of us [in the console market] particularly at the moment when the economic situation is a challenge for everybody. Interestingly, I think that the gaming industry is doing disproportionately well at this time. People look for that kind of entertainment experience that gives right across the family and they may trade on other items for home entertainment.If we go back 10 years, our original vision for the Xbox was never that it was going to be some sort of Trojan Horse for the living room. We knew we needed to establish ourselves first with the core audience and build from there. But it was clear pretty early on with the Xbox 360 that people wanted more from their consoles. Consumers do look for a broader set of facilities and entertainment from each of their devices and they want integration across them.Now, I'd love to tell you that all of those aspects were completely clear in the architecture 10 years ago! But it was clear that we had to build for a connected future. We had a view that the first wave of critical mass and appeal would be the core audience and once we'd established ourselves there, we would broaden out.Would you say that Microsoft's way of navigating the market has been partly down to internal innovation and partly down to reacting to changes in the market in terms of consumer expectations and tech? And has this become easier over the last 10 years?You're right in that agility is key. We pride ourselves on being a very good partner and what I mean by that is, we do listen intently to our consumers but also to retailers and developers. We listen to their feedback on what we have right now and what they feel they need in the future. You have to be very tuned into what your partners are looking for. But you do need agility and you need the ability to adapt, whether that the insurance that the [hardware's] architecture gives partners scalability or whether you bring your consumers what they want in a timely fashion.It's very hard to be agile. As we grow as an organisation it's harder to turn as fast as we might always want. I think, though, if I look back over the last 10 years with Xbox, it's clear we've always been a very agile organisation in that we've been prepared to invest and, to speculate where appropriate, on the things we know will be successful in the long term and the short term. But that's still very hard.Success doesn't come easy. But I think if you maintain strong connections with your consumers and stay true to your commitment to bring innovation and invest sufficiently in research and development, you can fare very well. And we're good at those things.
The world of book-apps is a crowded place, with traditional publishers jostling with developers and startups (and sometimes collaborating with them) to explore the creative potential of digital books, and how to make money from them.Callaway Digital Artshas been one of the more high-profile book-apps startups ever since it was spun out from book publisher Callaway Arts &amp; Entertainment in the early days of the iPad.Its first title, Miss Spider's Tea Party, received plenty of attention, and since then the company has made book-apps for brands including Sesame Street, Thomas &amp; Friends and Martha Stewart, while also raising $6m from venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins' iFund.In October 2011, chief executive and founder Nicholas Callaway stepped aside to a role as chief creative officer, to be replaced in the CEO role by Rex Ishibashi. His background is in the games industry, as president of Electronic Arts Japan and chief executive of social games firm Ohai.He traces a line back from what's happening in apps now to "edutainment" companies like Broderbund and The Learning Company in the 1980s, and later companies like LeapFrog Enterprises that focused on hardware and software. "Those companies were successful in addressing the edutainment market, and creating brands of real value," he says."Broderbund and The Learning Company became billion dollar-plus companies, but then crashed and burned and are now smaller segments of larger companies. LeapFrog also had a big valuation before coming right down. But what we have now [with apps] is an ecosystem where we can create edutainment products in a way that's sustainable."So far, Callaway has released 10 apps: three based on Martha Stewart's lifestyle brand, and the other seven a mixture of own-IP and branded apps for children. Ishibashi's first job as chief executive has been to decide whether the company should specialise in one of those two areas, or continue exploring both."We know for sure that based on both licensing agreements and our own IP, we will absolutely be a major player in the kids market," he says. "As a startup company, focus is incredibly important, so when I look at the kids market, there is so much opportunity there in and of itself, that may be where we end up focusing. But I'm a few weeks in to the job, so we are still evaluating how broad our portfolio may be, including other segments."It's a fascinating time to be making book-apps for children at the moment, as companies explore how best to blend traditional storytelling with interactivity, animation and gameplay. Fellow startups likeMindshapes,Ideal Binary,Nosy Crow,Toca Bocaand others all have their own take on how those elements should be blended together.Callaway's roots may be in traditional publishing, but Ishibashi's background in the games industry hints at where the company sees this going in the future."We'll be playing somewhere between e-books and games, experimenting and pushing towards even more immersive experiences that start to feel like games," he says."That said, we're talking about a segment that's three through eight [years old], and traditional storytelling is incredibly important. We'll be experimenting a lot with what makes immersive interaction on a touchscreen, and exactly how deep those experiences should push into games."Like its rivals, Callaway is aiming to become a recognised brand in its own right – recognised by parents, specifically, who are choosing which apps to buy for their children to use.Cross-promotion is an important part of that: the ability to tell parents who've bought a Thomas &amp; Friends book-app about a new title in the series. It's the power of the network, again – something that most developers now realise is just as important to cultivate as Apple featured promotions on the App Store.Thus far, Callaway's apps have been iOS only, like a number of book-app publishers – rival Oceanhouse Media is one of the few companies in this space to be regularly launching book-apps across iOS and Android simultaneously."We're still evaluating the Android business system," says Ishibashi, who admits to being very interested in seeing how Amazon's new Kindle Fire tablet does."Currently, Android is largely appealing to an audience that's younger, male and generally doesn't have kids. But my understanding of Kindle Fire is that it's a device intended to be used by the family to consume digital media. But we think there's plenty of growth in iOS yet too."The perception of Android as a young, male-centric platform should change in 2012, partly due to tablets like Kindle Fire and Nook Tablet, but also because Android smartphones are being sold in large numbers at the high end as an alternative to the iPhone, and lower down as affordable entry-level smartphones.The recent launch of the Famigo Sandbox Android app, which provides recommendations of child-friendly apps, hints at demand from Android-owning parents.When Ishibashi joined Callaway, the company had another piece of news: the appointment of Kleiner Perkins partner Bing Gordon as a strategic and creative advisor. Formerly chief creative officer at EA, Gordon has since led investments in Zynga and ngmoco. A man with clout, to say the least. His involvement with Callaway can be seen as an important bet on the book-apps market."It wasn't a co-incidence that he joined us at the time he did," says Ishibashi. "It was one of the key drivers in the early stages of my discussions with the company and Kleiner Perkins to get me here. We have a loose commitment around the amount of weekly time we spend together, and I consider him to be an oracle of ideas that we haven't yet fully thought of, and positions we could possibly take the business."Gordon's involvement may also hint at a large second round of funding to come for the company. Later in our interview, Ishibashi talks about encountering parents whose children are using book-apps, including when "talking to potential investors", so there may well be more news to come on this score.In the meantime, the company is working on its next apps: one for Sesame Street and one for Thomas &amp; Friends this year, with more Martha Stewart apps and a "nice pipeline" for the first quarter of 2012. Ishibashi is also enthusiastic about the potential for creative exploration of these new digital formats."For 10 years I've been saying that the best digital should feel like the ultimate analogue," he says. "That's what we finally have with iPhone, iPad and Android devices, and we're anticipating a lot with the Kindle Fire as well. These devices are physically connected, human intuitive and easy to develop for as well."
It was in February 2000 that Vodafone, under the empire building Sir Christopher Gent, won the world's biggest ever takeover battle. Germany's Mannesmann succumbed to the British group's advances, following a bitter battle that had drawn in regulators, politicians and trade unions.A decade later, some investors are urging Vodafone's current boss, Vittorio Colao, to launch a new campaign on German soil. If Europe's largest economy allows consolidation, from the current four to three operators, the assumption is that a wave of deals will follow throughout Europe, leaving many countries served by just two or three networks.Should Colao heed the calls? And if he does, will consumers throughout Europe just end up paying more for the same services?Colao indicated this month that he was open to the idea of further consolidation in Germany, whether by Vodafone or another operator. Since winning the top job Colao has spent the last three years trimming rather than acquiring.That process is nearing its end. Minority interests have been disposed of, and Vodafone there are signs that Vodafone has begun to stir itself into expansion mode. It is already in talks to merge its Greek operations with a local rival and considering an acquisition in Spain.Vodafone is rich enough to pay out the highest dividends of any UK blue-chip stock. Its subsidiary Verizon Wireless, America's largest operator in which Vodafone owns a 45% stake, has finally restarted dividend payments, and is likely to hand over billions each year.The theory put forward by some industry watchers, including respected analyst Robin Bienenstock at Bernstein Research, is that Vodafone must act soon in Germany or not at all. This is because Angela Merkel's regulators will be most open to the idea of a lessening of competition while Deutsche Telekom is trying to salvage a $39bn deal to sell T-Mobile's US business to AT&amp;T.The Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit to block the merger. There are a multitude of local mobile phone operators in the US, but only four national ones. The deal would put AT&amp;T's 95.5m subscribers together with T-Mobile's 33.7m, giving them 42% of the 300m-plus customer base, and leaving today's number one operator, Verizon Wireless, with 32%.In the face of legal action by the DoJ, most businesses would simply walk away. But AT&amp;T is one of the most powerful lobbyists on Capitol Hill, and its lavish donations to special interest groups over the years have seen it garner support for the merger from some unlikely quarters.The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, a powerful mobiliser of the black vote, has written to regulators in support of the deal. Will Barack Obama risk a battle with AT&amp;T during his re-election campaign next year?The DoJ court case is scheduled for 13 February, will take six weeks, and a possible further six months for appeals to be heard. Germany would be foolish to resist a reduction from four to three operators in its home market while arguing for the same in America.The target for Vodafone, Bienenstock believes, is most likely O2. Its parent company, Telefonica, has made no noises about selling but is struggling with a large debt burden and may welcome the cash.O2 in Germany has just 18m customers, roughly the same as its KPN owned rival E-Plus. T-Mobile is the market leader with 39m, and Vodafone has nearly 35m customers. The merger would give Vodafone a market share of just under 50%.There are risks to being the consolidator. When T-Mobile and Orange joined forces in the UK, the companies lost momentum and customers. On the plus side, for the operators rather than the consumers, prices have increased and customer defections have reduced. The UK market has market become a more profitable one.What consumers must be wary of is that three players can reduce very quickly to two. In Germany, a marriage between Vodafone and O2 would leave E-Plus looking very small vulnerable – just as Three in the UK looks now, with about 10% of the market.British regulators have been keen to keep prices low by ensuring all four operators come away with a viable amount of spectrum from the forthcoming 4G airwaves auction. That line may be difficult to hold if Germany relaxes its rules in a way that benefits a major British company.As smartphones fly off the shelves, demand for better mobile internet will go through the roof. And consumers will want access to it wherever they are in the UK. Trials suggest 4G will be 10 times as fast as 3G, which users find frustratingly slow compared with the average home broadband connection.Should further consolidation be allowed, regulators around Europe would be wise to impose a properly policed obligation to create a wide ranging 4G network on the merging companies.Gent's glory days have gone. The Mannesmann deal made Vodafone worth £225bn, double the value of any other UK company. Since then, excitement about the world dominating potential of mobile phone companies has cooled a little, and Vodafone's shares are valued at £92bn. A new move on Germany would cause a stir, but not on the scale of a decade ago.
For years, Need For Speed was the games industry's equivalent of Justin Bieber – insanely popular despite lacking any discernible merit beyond an obscenely huge marketing budget.Then Electronic Arts finally entrusted the franchise to its best in-house arcade racing game developer, the legendary, Guildford-based Criterion, of Burnout fame. The result was last year's NFS: Hot Pursuit, perhaps the best arcade-racer ever.This year, the responsibility for creating EA's four wheel-based cash-cow has reverted to Canadian developer Black Box, creator of several old (and mediocre) NFS games. This time around, though, it has an unprecedented arsenal with which to elevate its efforts.For starters, the game has been built on the mighty Frostbite 2 engine, which powers Battlefield 3. And Black Box has been able to avail itself of Criterion's brilliant Autolog, which lets you race against your friends offline and constantly generates new challenges.The first thing you notice is the effect of Frostbite 2. Need For Speed: The Run looks absolutely stupendous – graphically, it's possibly the best-looking racing game ever, with incredibly lifelike landscapes stretching into the distance and gloriously crisp cars and cut-scenes.Encouragingly, Black Box has also sorted a problem that afflicted its earlier NFS games. The cars in The Run handle like they should – that is, fast, responsive and tail-happy, ever-keen to drift around corners.The single-player game's premise is good, too. You play Jack Rourke, a monosyllabic cipher entered into a Cannonball Run-style race from San Francisco to New York, with a $25m prize awaiting the winner.Jack's odyssey is split into nine legs, each itself split into stages. You're allowed five "resets" on each stage, which are triggered when you crash out or are busted by the police – or you can trigger them yourself, essentially committing suicide if you feel you're not going to be able to meet that stage's objective without rewinding to the last checkpoint.It's never good having to reset yourself in a game, and Need For Speed: The Run soon adds a whole host of instances of poor game design.You can, for example, change cars (which is essential if the road surface changes, as it does) by driving into petrol stations by the side of the road. But you're penalised so heavily for doing so – to the extent that it can make the difference between hitting or missing your objective – that you swiftly become reluctant to do so. And rather than remembering what car you'd rather be driving, it resets you to your rejected motor if you miss your objective.What is the point of having all manner of exotic machinery in the game if you're discouraged from using it? And whenever you find yourself in a particularly unsuitable car, there's never a petrol station to be seen.The checkpointing system can work against you – if you scrape through the first one on a stage, then wipe out, you can put yourself in a position from which recovery is nigh-impossible.There's a certain amount of variation in the gameplay: you might have to make up a certain amount of places in the race by overtaking a specified number of cars, battle other cars and stay ahead of them at certain points in time or simply race the clock when you've been delayed. But compared to Hot Pursuit, it feels linear and lacking in imagination.As you progress, you unlock a load of Challenges, allowing you to revisit the amazing settings in the game (the Colorado Rockies are particularly impressive). But Challenge restricts itself to the types of races found in the story mode, so you feel it has missed a trick.Attempts to spice up proceedings with things like on-foot sections in the story mode when you're caught by the cops are impressive to behold but humdrum to play.All of which is a shame since, technically, Need For Speed: The Run is vastly impressive. It's not a bad game – those who bought into the franchise years ago will find it perfectly satisfying. But it's just nowhere near as good as Hot Pursuit – which you can now pick up for next to nothing.You can throw all the technology you like at a game, but that will never be enough to gloss over fundamental design flaws.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
How's the battery life on your Android phone? With all the much-reported travails of some iPhone 4S owners over their battery lives, it might seem as though Apple's devices have a battery lifespan that would leave mayflies tutting. Because, after all, the area where smartphones presently can't hold a candle up to their featurephone predecessors is in battery life: Wi-Fi and mobile data connections suck the life out of devices so that where you might have got multiple days from the past generation, now you'll generally get 24 hours.Of course Android is the coming thing in smartphones (now that it makes 52% of phones sold in the third quarter) so we'd expect that it would be the trailblazer for battery life, given that there are lots of phone makers out there vying to offer the best possible hardware. So are Android phones really cutting it there? Or are they perhaps giving you the impression that they do well... when actually they don't?Android battery indicator: it looks good, but how full is the battery really?Look at the picture above: it shows a picture taken from an Android phone (a Samsung Galaxy S II, as it's easy to take a screenshot: press the home button and the power button). How full would you say that the battery is? 100%? 95%?Pull back and we'll see: nothing like it. According to the battery data (reached via Settings -&gt; About Phone -&gt; Status), which we're told by Google is the accurate one, that's actually a phone whose battery is at 88%.Android battery: does the icon agree with the real battery value of 88%?We looked at other phones (so far only Samsung ones, as those are what we have available) and this distortion of the battery charge is pretty consistent: the menu icon continually suggests that the battery is doing a lot better than the actual battery data shows.Android battery indicator: but how full?Here's another shot: guess how full?Here you go: this Android battery has 55% charge left. Is that what the menu icon is telling you, though?Why of course - 55% full.We contacted Google about this, and the indication is that the battery data given in the Settings is the correct one. The updating of the icon happens "every so often", we're told; quite how often is entirely up to the manufacturer, rather than being part of the Android code.It's an interesting twist, and we'd like to hear from owners of other Android phones (and especially makes and models): how truthful is your battery icon? (There's no option that we've found to show the battery percentage in the menu bar with Android; there is with Apple's iPhone, via Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Usage -&gt; Battery Usage where you can choose to turn the battery percentage on.)What this also means is that while the iPhone gives an accurate indication on its battery level of how far down the level has gone, you may be led into thinking that your Android phone has more juice left than it actually does. Certainly, my own head-to-head tests of a Google Nexus S phone (released December 2010) with an iPhone 4S shows that the Nexus S battery falls off much more rapidly than the iPhone's. (You would expect this, of course, since the Nexus has been through numerous charge/discharge cycles.) What was intriguing, though, was that the Nexus S (made by Samsung, again) would let you think that it's at least level-pegging with the iPhone for battery charge - but on investigating the actual battery charge, it manifestly wasn't.So, Android owners: have you looked at your battery charge and compared it with what the icon is telling you? If you've got a screenshot, we'd be interested - stick a link up.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTangle: a JavaScript library for reactive documents &gt;&gt; Bret Victor"Tangle is a JavaScript library for creating reactive documents. Your readers can interactively explore possibilities, play with parameters, and see the document update immediately. Tangle is super-simple and easy to learn." Tangle is HTML5 goodness. Swallow it whole.U.S. Retail Sales Rise, Beat Forecast on Electronics Gains - Bloomberg"Retail sales rose more than projected in October as Americans snapped up Apple Inc. (AAPL) iPhones and demand for automobiles improved, giving the world's largest economy a boost entering the final quarter of 2011. "The 0.5% gain followed a 1.1% increase for September, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was a rise of 0.3%. Purchases of electronics jumped by the most in two years." Really? The iPhone 4S goosed US retail sales? That would be pretty dramatic. Either US retail was dead before, or iPhone sales are astronomical.holman/spark &gt;&gt; GitHubShell script sorcery: "Just run spark and pass it a comma-delimited list of numbers. It's designed to be used in conjunction with other scripts that can output in that format."iPod nano (first generation) replacement program &gt;&gt; Apple support"Apple has determined that, in very rare cases, the battery in the iPod nano (1st generation) may overheat and pose a safety risk. Affected iPod nanos were sold between September 2005 and December 2006. "This issue has been traced to a single battery supplier that produced batteries with a manufacturing defect. While the possibility of an incident is rare, the likelihood increases as the battery ages." Scramble to find your five- or six-year old iPod nano! Free replacement!Linus Torvalds cries 'bogus' too often and too easily -- but the gullible believe him &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"I'm starting to see a pattern. For any intellectual property issues facing Linux (or at least the most popular Linux derivative, Android), Linus Torvalds has a standard answer at hand: after admitting that he doesn't know the facts, he claims that "this [whatever it may be] seems completely bogus." Or, interchangeably, "totally bogus". "If he did this only in private conversations, there would be nothing wrong with it. Everyone may opine on anything, with or without conducting in-depth analysis. But an authority like Linus Torvalds doesn't act responsibly by repeatedly giving interviews that are as ignorant as they are assertive."Windows 8 Failure Could Set Off Tech Industry Chain ReactionPaul Thurrott, nobody's idea of a Microsoft-hater: "Let's say Windows 8 is enormously popular, a Windows 7-level success story with customers. In this scenario, consumers have embraced ARM-based, iPad-like Windows 8 tablets over competing tablets and businesses have embraced a mix of more traditional Windows 8 PCs. That is, Windows 8 isn't just a platform for PCs, it's a platform a new generation of devices as well. Growth ensues. "But let's say Windows 8 flops with consumers on tablets. Yes, many still buy traditional PCs, because that's what they know. Businesses still buy Windows PCs, too, for similar reasons and because they are highly manageable and compatible. But the market for traditional PCs will eventually slow, flat-line, and then decline." He sees a worrying potential effect if PCs become ignored and tablets and smartphones take over: "Microsoft gets locked out of this future market for computing, at least from a platforms perspective."New study shows majority of Americans against SOPA; believe extreme copyright enforcement is unreasonable &gt;&gt; Techdirt"One of the talking points we've been hearing about SOPA from the lobbyists pushing to get it approved is that the majority of Americans are in favor of the bill, because they want to "protect" intellectual property or jobs. This has never made much sense, since SOPA doesn't protect jobs at all. It destroys them, by hindering one of the few parts of our economy that has been creating jobs -- new and small businesses, particularly in the tech community." SOPA = "Stop Online Piracy Act". In the US, of course.Andy Baio: Think You Can Hide, Anonymous Blogger? Two Words: Google Analytics &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Last month, an anonymous blogger popped up on WordPress and Twitter, aiming a giant flamethrower at Mac-friendly writers like John Gruber, Marco Arment and MG Siegler. As he unleashed wave after wave of spittle-flecked rage at "Apple puppets" and "Cupertino douchebags," I was reminded again of John Gabriel's theory about the effects of online anonymity. "Out of curiosity, I tried to see who the mystery blogger was." And he succeeded, because Google Sees All. Well, pretty much all.Microsoft annual meeting: Live notes from the scene &gt;&gt; GeekWireGood rapid liveblog of the Microsoft annual meeting. Shareholders being asked to be patient with Bing and Windows Phone as they're on the "path to profitability". Then the Q+A. Fifth question: Are we in the post-PC era? Ballmer: "We are in the Windows era -- we were, we are, and we always will be. ... We are in an era in which the range of smart devices is continuing to expand. That's a fantastic thing for Microsoft."Windows Phone 8 and Windows 8: cousins or siblings &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect Vision"For quite some time now there have been rumours about Windows Phone 8 (WP8) being based on the Windows NT kernel (WinNTk). More recently a blogger called MS Nerd made the case that this is not true. Well, I'm going to add fuel to the fire and make the case that Windows Phone 8 can and should be based on the Windows NT kernel." The point being that Windows Phone is presently based on Windows CE. Shifting Windows 8 to ARM would be.. well, Microsoft's done it. But is Windows 8 really shrinkable in this way? Then again, Apple did it - apparently - with Mac OS X being shrunk down to iOS. But shifting from WinCE to WinNT could mean another shift for third-party developers. Would that really work?Mobile phones approach total penetration globally, with smartphones moving toward market dominance &gt;&gt; PRNewswire"An overwhelming 95% of people around the world now own cell phones, according to a new nine-country study by SSI. Hong Kong (99%), China (98%) and Sweden (98%) have the highest cell phone ownership rates, while the US (89%) has the lowest. Findings show that, among cell phone owners, 42% currently have smartphones -- and 58% are planning to make their next cell phone a smartphone. "The highest rates of smartphone ownership are in China (68%) and Hong Kong (57%), while Japan (16%) and Sweden (33%) fall at the opposite end of the spectrum. Those countries that are lagging are likely to catch up soon, however, with almost half of respondents in Japan and Sweden intending to make their next cell phone a smartphone." Really interesting. The US is a mobile phone backwater.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
There is a virtual rush hour after the real one, and it slows down people who want to get things done there, too.New research has found that broadband download speeds in the UK drop by an average of 35% during the evening as millions of technology users go online and find themselves competing for the same bandwidth on phone lines in their area.The study by uSwitch.com analysed data from 2m broadband speed tests across Britain, and revealed a huge fluctuation in surfing speeds during peak and off-peak times.Those who navigate the web during the morning hours of 2am and 3am get the quickest download times, with a fastest average download speed of 9.6Mbps, analysts found.By contrast those who surf the web between 7pm and 9pm – the peak period when most people get home and go online – face the slowest times, with average speeds dropping by a third to 6.2Mbps.The figures include averages for fibre-optic connections such as Virgin Media's cable systems and BT's Infinity connections, although neither is yet broadly used.Most people use ADSL connections, which send and receive their signals over BT's copper wiring between their homes and the local exchange, and which have limited data capacity. At the exchange, the system generally links to high-speed connections into BT's "backbone" which has far higher speeds.The slowdown in speed comes from "contention" between multiple households trying to get data over the same copper lines: as more people try to get online and send and receive data, the amount that can be sent to each individual connection hits a peak.Most households are on connections with a "contention ratio" of 1:50, meaning that they may be sharing the connection to the exchange with up to 49 others.During the day many households will be unoccupied, so those on the line will be able to use more of its capacity. But as more people come home, the available capacity falls.The data, published by uSwitch, also uncovered huge regional variations in peak and off-peak speeds. Internet users in Evesham, Worcestershire, experienced a massive 69% drop, with an average morning download reading of 15.5Mbps, falling to 4.9Mbps in the evening.Weston-Super-Mare in Somerset saw a 64% drop, with off-peak times plunging from 9.5Mbps to 3.4Mbps during peak hours.In Wadebridge, Cornwall, web users were faced with relatively limp off peak speeds of 4.1Mbps, which halved to just 2.1Mbps in the evening.The communications watchdogOfcom said in Marchthat internet users were still only getting half of the headline advertised speed, and in September said that the average speed was 6.2Mbps, rather than the claimed 13.8Mbps.Ofcom recommended in Septemberthat ISPs should only advertise speeds that are in reach of at least 10% of customers – but now it may also have to specify a time of day for the testing.Higher speeds are available with the replacement of copper lines with fibre-optic systems, which have far greater capacity and do not suffer from the same contention problem.But BT has complained that it is too expensive to rewire the UK with fibre-optic and that it might not recoup the investment – which has led the government to examine other incentives, especially to bring fibre-optic connections to rural areas, which are seen as the most expensive to rewire, yet could benefit the most from higher speed connections by minimising the need for travel as fuel costs rise.Ernest Doku of uSwitch said only a small number of internet users are consistently enjoying the maximum headline broadband speeds offered by providers."It really is surprising just how much broadband speeds fluctuate at different times of the day, with drop-offs of almost 70% in some areas of the UK," he said."This research may help to shed some light on why many bewildered consumers, who believe they've signed up to a certain broadband speed, never actually feel like their connection is fast enough."Although providers are working hard to upgrade the UK's broadband infrastructure, there is a long road ahead to ensure that everyone can enjoy a much more consistent service."Mr Doku advised people to perform an online broadband speed test to ensure they are getting the best possible package for their area.
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Great British Chefs – FeastiveDigital firm Great British Chefs has released a new iOS app offering 60 recipes for Christmas and the New Year from chefs including Marcus Wareing, Tom Aikens, Vineet Bhatia and Simon Rogan. Step-by-step instructions, how-to videos and a shopping list feature are included, with more recipes to come in December.iPhone / iPadCardMunchBusiness-focused social network LinkedIn's CardMunch iPhone app has been out for a while, helping people scan business cards to store contacts. It has been relaunched with a big new feature though: the ability to map those cards to LinkedIn profiles to find out more about the person behind them.iPhoneBBM MusicResearch In Motion has released the commercial version of its BBM Music app in the UK. People pay £4.99 a month for access to 50 songs, but also all the songs in the collections of their BBM messaging contacts. The app includes playlist features, comments and chat, and the ability to download tracks for offline listening.BlackBerryCloset SwapChannel 4 has worked with Inensu on Closet Swap, a new website encouraging people to explore sustainable fashion: borrowing clothes from friends or buying them from vintage/secondhand shops, rather than new. Its iPhone app offers similar features with a mobile twist: people can snap clothing in shops to see if friends have something similar to lend, or use its map to find the nearest secondhand stores.iPhoneEscape &amp; ControlJournalist and filmmaker Jon Ronson's Escape &amp; Control is a series about "people trying to control the Internet", and has made the leap from YouTube to Android and iPhone, courtesy of an app from ChannelFlip. The free app streams episodes as soon as they are made available online, while also saving them for offline viewing. The link above is for Android,here's the iOS one.Android / iPhone / iPadFlypostFlypost is the latest social location app for iPhone. It wants to get people sharing details about gigs, films, art shows and other events in the UK and 20 US cities. Once at an event, users can rate it and share photos, while browsing a feed of what their friends are up to. The app was a finalist in the PepsiCo10 Europe contest, with its branding design the work of design consultancy Fjord.iPhoneThe Beano ComicPublisher D C Thomson &amp; Co has released an app for The Beano, promising "a hilarious slice of life from Beanotown every week to entertain children of all ages". It hints at future features including videos, audios and puzzles. Individual digital issues cost £1.49 via in-app payment, with a subscription costing £24.49.iPhone / iPadThe Dandy ComicThe Beano has been accompanied onto the App Store by a similar app for stablemate The Dandy, ensuring iOS users can get their comic-strip fix of Desperate Dan, Bananaman, Korky the Cat and other characters. In-app issues also cost £1.49.iPhone / iPadNY Times The CollectionThe New York Times has launched a standalone iPad app for its fashion and style pages, offering slide shows, videos, interviews and news. It will include coverage of Fashion Weeks in New York, Paris, London and Milan, and is free until the end of this year, after which point people will need a New York Times subscription to access the full content.iPadSurvivalDue out today, Survival is an app developed by digital agency Thought Den for wildlife charity Wildscreen. Aimed at children, it's a collection of mini-games built in HTML5 and JavaScript to raise awareness of endangered animals.HTML5Jurassic Park: The Game 1 HDTelltale Games' new Jurassic Park game is so monstrous, it only works on the iPad 2. Weighing in at 345MB, the adventure is set during the first Jurassic Park film, and uses Apple's AirPlay mirroring and dual-screen features.iPadPuff, the Magic DragonMore than one million people have bought the Puff, the Magic Dragon picture book in physical form. Now it's an app from Sterling Publishing and PadWorx Studios, complete with voice narration and singing from Peter Yarrow, who as one third of Peter, Paul and Mary made the original song that the book is based on.iPhone / iPadChampions LeagueRingier Studios has teamed up with Samsung for a Champions League "appazine" that's being made available for the latter's Galaxy-branded tablets and smartphones. It offers a mixture of video interviews, 3D animation, historical data and other features.Android (Samsung)Price CheckAmazon US has released an Android version of its iPhone Price Check app, which enables people to scan barcodes in shops to find the best prices on Amazon's website. It covers books, DVDs, CDs and games.AndroidFotopedia JapanPhotography site Fotopedia has launched a new iOS app with more than 1,000 photos of Japan, from its members as well as professional snapper Norbert Woehnl. It's aimed at tourists, so there are also interactive maps and a Trip Builder feature to plan a visit. The free app is sponsored by Narita Airport.iPhone / iPadSpace TripperSpace Tripper started life as an acclaimed shoot 'em up for PlayStation 3, distributed via Sony's PSN store. It's now available for iPhone and iPad, with 14 levels of space-based destruction.iPhone / iPadWorkSnugWorkSnug is an Android app that helps people find the nearest laptop-friendly workspaces, using augmented reality to point users in the right direction. "We've reviewed WiFi, noise levels, power provision, community feel, even the quality of the coffee, in workspaces across the world," explains the app listing. The Android release follows earlier versions for iPhone, Blackberry and Nokia handsets.Android
Wednesday – middle of the week. How are those Skyrim adventures going? Or are you still wallowing amid the Dark Souls?
Want a free iPod nano? Apple has them on offer if you are one of the millions of people who bought a first-generation iPod nano between September 2005 and December 2006 – and, crucially, if you can still find it.Apple has issued its offer on the first-generation iPod nano, the device which pushed the digital music player's sales into the stratosphere at the end of 2005, over fears that the battery could catch fire.The free replacement offer could cost the company millions of pounds – depending on how many people still have the ageing products in their possession.The company is offering a replacement schemefor the devices, which will now be between five and six years old. The scheme affects the slimline iPod nano model sold between September 2005, when it was first introduced, and December 2006.During that period, Apple sold just over 60m iPods in total, according to the company's official figures, although it is not clear how many of those were the nano model. During the same period, the company was also selling its second-generation iPod shuffle and the "classic" iPod with a hard drive. Apple declined to say how many iPod nanos are affected, but added that no other devices are included in the scheme.Owners of the first-generation iPod nano will be able to get a free replacement model once they have provided their iPod to Apple, either through a store or via a courier.Apple says the problem "has been traced to a single battery supplier that produced batteries with a manufacturing defect. While the possibility of an incident is rare, the likelihood increases as the battery ages." Owners are recommended to stop using the device and get the free replacement.The iPod nano's introduction in September 2005 by Steve Jobs saw sales of the company's music player rise sharply. During its first quarter, iPod sales increased from 8.7m in the third quarter of the year to more than 14m, and they never fell below 8m in any succeeding quarter until the second quarter of this year as the category fell out of favour with buyers in favour of the iPhone and iPad.There have been a number of device recalls over battery issues that Apple and other companies including Sony and Dell have had to make in recent years. Normally the problem has related to laptop batteries: Sony, which provides lithium-ion batteries for a number of manufacturers, issued a recall in 2008 which affected Toshiba, HP and Dell laptops.• This article was amended on 16 November 2011. The original referred to the first-generation Apple iPod nano being "recalled" over safety fears, and said that owners of this model will receive a free current model once they return their iPod to Apple. Apple have not issued a recall but are offering a free replacement, which will be a replacement first-generation iPod nano rather than a current model.
These two platforming icons have crossed swords before – for the Beijing and Vancouver Olympics – and now they're back for an early bite at London 2012.Like the first outing, this is a series of mini sporting games, albeit featuring an impressive 30 events. Obviously, I can't cover all of them, but they're roughly split into skill, speed and Quicktime-style disciplines.Despite Nintendo boasting a more memorable cast, the 20 characters are evenly split between the two camps with Mario, Luigi, Bowser, Princess et al competing against Sega's Sonic, Knuckles, Dr Eggman etc and divided into speed, power, skill and all-round characters.Each has their own special powers – so in Badminton, Mario can turn his shuttlecock into a fireball, whereas Sonic's becomes a speed blur. Experimenting when to use these skills ultimately determines your medal and how many scratchcards you get to trade in Bonus Mode for extra music or costumes.Single Match gives you 12 sports in either versus, team or co-op action.There's also an entertaining London Party Mode, that has you chasing characters around overhead 2D (or less convincing 3D) London streets to complete a sticker book, with interspersed sports events triggered by the chimes of Big Ben.Finally, there's a selection of 10 Dream Events that take a more imaginative approach to events, for instance cloud-hopping through Long Jump or climbing on board a Discus to scoop up rings.None of these are particularly true to their original sports, but that's what makes Mario &amp; Sonic so appealing to younger players; taking familiar characters and themes and twisting them any way the developers feel inclined.If you like thrashy, button-mashing games where energy counts over skill, Mario &amp; Sonic will keep you amused for hours. However, Sega has opted not to make use of Wii Motion Plus, which would have made events like Equestrian or Cycling a lot more controllable.Quicktime events or those where you hold the controller vertically work fine, and the Nunchuck/Wiimote combo is great for Swimming. However, those that require the Wiimote to be held horizontally or use more buttons, feel sluggish and imprecise, particularly when manoeuvring.On the plus side, co-op sports like rowing that rely on synching your movements with your buddy in time to an onscreen meter are unexpectedly good fun.Mario &amp; Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games may not do either universe justice when it comes to their distinctive gameplay or graphic styles. However, the use of London landmarks and actual event venues makes for a colourful diversion with more than enough variety to keep the kids happy.But if it's greater skill or realism you're after, you had better hang on for more accurate Olympic sims to arrive in the run-up to next year's Games.• Game reviewed on Wii
This week it's all about your smartphone. It's been a good week for Apple and HTML5 as Adobe announces it will discontinue the Flash plug-in on mobiles – but what does it mean for the media companies that rely on them?Google TV gets another relaunch, this time for Android, but are our expert panel of Charles Arthur and Michael Brunton-Spall read to tune in?Plus Charles talks about the latest tactic to stop malware devastating your phone with Kevin Mahffey of Lookout.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The smartphone market grew by 42%  year-on-year in the third quarter to reach 115.2m units, with Google's Android operating system running more than half those sold, according to data from the research company Gartner.The overall mobile market grew by just 5.6% worldwide, to 440.5m units, as smartphones grew further to hit a record 26% of the total sold.Smartphones also continued their pattern of outselling PCs, which first happened in the fourth quarter of 2010; the gap between smartphone and PC sales is now widening steadily.The success of Android, which powered 52.5% of handsets shipped – compared to 25.3% a year before – just three years after its launch indicates that the open platform, which allows handset makers to install it without paying a licensing fee, has been a roaring success for adoption.The figures from Gartner suggest that 218m Android handsets have been sold since the first went on sale in the fourth quarter of 2008.In total, more than 1bn smartphones have been sold since the first quarter of 2007, according to Gartner's figures from the past four years.The explosion in smartphone usage has principally come from Android handsets which have seen strong sales growth, especially in China.Yet sales in the third quarter did not accelerate as quickly in other regions, said Roberta Cozza, principal research analyst at Gartner."Demand for smartphones stalled in advanced markets such as Western Europe and the US as many users waited for new flagship devices featuring new versions of the key operating systems," she said. "Slowdowns also occurred in Latin America and the Middle East and Africa."Gartner said that Samsung was the leader in smartphone sales, pegging its shipments at 24m – less than the27.8m suggested in October by Strategy Analytics, and close to that suggested by rival research firm IDC, whichput the figure at 23.6mmore recently.Apple saw its share pushed down marginally from 16.6% in the third quarter of 2010 to 15% in 2011 even though sales rose from 13.4m to 17.3m, as purchases stalled in the expectation of an improved iPhone model – which did not arrive until October, pushing those sales into the fourth quarter.Carolina Milanesi, Gartner's smartphone analyst, said: "Brazil, Mexico, Russia and China represented 16% of Apple's third-quarter sales, confirming that the iPhone has a role to play in emerging markets."BlackBerry maker RIM saw further erosion of its share from 15.4% a year ago to 11% as sales remained almost flat at 12.7m."Android benefited from more mass-market offerings, a weaker competitive environment and the lack of exciting new products on alternative operating systems such as Windows Phone 7 and RIM," said Cozza."Apple's iOS market share suffered from delayed purchases as consumers waited for the new iPhone. Continued pressure is impacting RIM's performance, and its smartphone share reached its lowest point so far in the US market, where it dropped to 10%."But Gartner expects sales to grow more rapidly in the fourth quarter, as roughly 20m extra handsets are sitting in wholesale and retail channels ahead of the expected Christmas rush in sales."Some consumers held off upgrading in the third quarter because they were waiting for promotions on other new high-end models that were launched in the run-up to the fourth quarter holiday season," Cozza said."Other consumers were waiting for a rumored new iPhone and associated price cuts on older iPhone models; this affected US sales particularly."Nokia's Symbian, which the company has said will be phased out, nevertheless sold 19.5m handsets, more than Apple achieved, but its market share halved.Microsoft's Windows Phone platform, only launched in October 2010, shipped on just 1.7m handsets – a fall from the second quarter, when Gartner says it shipped on 1.72m devices.Some of the fall may be due to some customers waiting for Nokia handsets to ship with Windows Phone, which has begun this month in the UK and a number of countries. US and Canadian shipments of Nokia phones with Microsoft's OS are not due to start until 2012.
A selection of 11 apps for you today:This Day in Pink FloydSting yesterday, and now Pink Floyd join the App Store with an official app based on the calendar. It has music facts on the band's career for 366 days of the year – yes, Leap Years are included – as well as a guide to the band's 167 official studio tracks, images, trivia questions and a free Shine On You Crazy Diamond ringtone.iPhone / iPadAdobe Touch appsAdobe has launched its six Adobe Touch apps on Android. Adobe Photoshop Touch, Adobe Collage, Adobe Debut, Adobe Ideas, Adobe Kuler and Adobe Proto all run on Android tablets with the Honeycomb 3.1 software or higher. Adobe Ideas is already on iOS, but the other five will head to Apple devices in 2012.AndroidMade in a Free WorldSocial location as a force for good? Made in a Free World is part of the Slavery Footprint campaign against forced labour, and has been produced together with the US State Department. The idea: people check in at retailers to earn points, but also to ask those brands about their supply chain. Facebook and Twitter features are also included.iPhone / AndroidTouchnote Postcards for iPadUK startup Touchnote was doing the whole "turn mobile photos into physical postcards" thing long before Apple's own Cards app was released. Now the company has beaten its 900lb rival to iPad. The service remains the same: pay £1.49 to turn a digital pic into a physical postcard that's sent to any address you like.iPadRough RoadsRough Guides is best known for its travel guides, but now it's getting into the iPhone games market with Rough Roads. It's a driving game that passes through Tokyo, New York, London, Egypt, India and Australia, and is based on an existing online game played by more than 10 million people.iPhonePogoplug CloudCloud hardware firm Pogoplug has a new service called, sensibly enough, Pogoplug Cloud. It offers 5GB of free storage for photos, videos, music and other files. iOS and Android apps have been released alongside it.iPhone / Android / iPadBitTorrent RemoteRecord labels and movie studios, look away now. BitTorrent Remote is an Android app providing remote access to the latest BitTorrent application for Windows and Mac computers. It can be used to add, remove, start and stop torrents downloading on the desktop.AndroidVodafone Meet AnywhereMobile operator Vodafone's new Android app is all about conference calls: seeing who joins, dialing out invites, and recording or taking notes during the call. It requires a Vodafone Conferencing account from the Vodafone Global Enterprise division, though.AndroidCNNMoney for AndroidCNNMoney has launched its business, finance and technology news app for Android, pulling in real-time stockmarkets data and helping people track the stocks that are most relevant to them.AndroidLorenzo Mattotti – Jekyll &amp; HydeThis version of the popular horror story is a graphic novel with additional video footage, sketches, annotations and a theatrical reading, although it's in Italian, so for now non-speakers will only be able to admire the visuals.iPadRumpelstiltskin HDAnother fairy-tale book-app for iOS, this one sporting game-like graphics and the option to spin scenes through 360 degrees. It's the work of Silicon Beach Software, its first book-app.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Death Of The Spec &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"Earlier today, my colleague Matt Burns wrote a post noting that most tablet makers may be largely failing because they've sold their soul to Android and are now just in the middle of a spec war, which no one can win. I'm gonna go one step further in that line of thinking: the spec is dead. "There have been a few key stories from the past couple of weeks that highlight this new reality. Barnes &amp; Noble unveiled the new Nook Tablet. Consumer Reports looked at the iPhone 4S. And the first reviews came in about the Kindle Fire. "On paper, the Nook Tablet is the Android-based reading tablet to buy. It has twice the RAM of the Kindle Fire, twice the built-in storage space, a better battery, and it's lighter to boot. Yes, it's $50 more expensive, but come on, the RAM difference alone is worth well more than that. Clearly, this is the better value for your money. "And yet, the Nook Tablet will not outsell the Kindle Fire." Exactly. Please, let specification-led posts die.Android sells the smartphones; Apple makes the money &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"The following bar graphs, lifted from a report issued Sunday to Oppenheimer clients by Ittai Kidron and George Iwanyc, may tell you all you need to know about where the smartphone market is headed."BBX-powered BlackBerry London phone purportedly pictured &gt;&gt; BGR.comTo us, this looks like a Photoshop job. The lack of shadow around the sides; the odd shape of the top and bottom compared to the side; the lack of apparent depth. Nice that RIM has folk prepared to Photoshop concept phones for it, though.ICS is coming to AOSP - Android Building | Google Groups"Hi! We just released a bit of code we thought this group might be interested in. Over at our Android Open-Source Project git servers, the source code for Android version 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) is now available." The mystery of the non-appearance of Android 3.0 grows: "This release includes the full history of the Android source code tree, which naturally includes all the source code for the Honeycomb releases. However, since Honeycomb was a little incomplete, we want everyone to focus on Ice Cream Sandwich." What does "a little incomplete" mean? Also: what if some of this code is found to infringe Apple, Oracle's or Microsoft's intellectual property? Is it legal to download but just infringing to make a device that uses it?Siri sibling Trapit launches as intelligent discovery engine for the web's content &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Say hello to Trapit. The latest offspring from CALO, the DARPA-commissioned artificial-intelligence project that gave birth to iPhone virtual assistant Siri, launches in public beta Tuesday as a personalized discovery engine for the web. "The service offers web denizens a search-free, sit-back-and-relax way to stumble upon news articles, images, videos, recipes and other content on specific topics of interest. More than 10,000 participants have been using Trapit to find and "trap" content since the site's private beta release in June. "'We're revolutionizing the way people will access content on the web,' Trapit CEO and co-founder Gary Griffiths told VentureBeat. 'This is the web following you.'" Note: not voice-activated.Computer virus hits ambulance services in St John, New Zealand &gt;&gt; Stuff.co.nzNote that this is in New Zealand: "A computer virus disabled the automated response system of St John communication centres across the country this week. "Ambulance communications operations manager Alan Goudge said systems were back up and running yesterday morning after being attacked by the virus on Wednesday night. "The incident forced staff to allocate ambulances manually but it is still unknown if any emergency call-outs were affected. "'Anti-virus software protected the systems but as a result of the virus it impacted on some of the systems services, mainly those related to paging and radio. Back-up systems immediately took over when it was detected and the workload was managed manually,' Mr Goudge said."Android Market harboring music pirates &gt;&gt; Neowin.net"Yarr, matey, what's the difference between Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market? The number four free app on the App Store is a basketball mini game; the number four free app on the Android Market helps users illegally download MP3s. "Due to its open nature, the Android Market is no stranger to piracy enabling apps, but it's interesting that Google has done nothing, even though the app, MP3 Music Download Pro, has been getting a lot of attention lately. Apple would've nipped it in the bud a long time before it got anywhere near the top charts. According to PC Magazine, the RIAA sent a take down notice to Google back in August, and guess what? Google actually declined to remove the app." It is still there, though the addition of adware has cooled peoples' eagerness for it.RIM: 2012 BlackBerry phones will be charming, whimsical and fun &gt;&gt; Pocket-lint"Research In Motion's senior vice president of Industrial Design, Todd Wood, has told Pocket-lint that the next range of BlackBerry smartphones will be officially summed up using the words "charming, whimsical and fun"." To be honest 'whimsical' is not a word we've ever wanted to have attached to a mobile phone. "Reliable, consistent, long-lasting" - those are good words.iPad only used once a week, say a quarter of owners &gt;&gt; CNET UKLet's just whooooooaaaa there on the headline: "say a quarter of those polled in sample whose method is unclear." (The survey was allegedly carried out by or for myvouchercodes.co.uk but we can't find a trace of it on the site.) It then says that only 42% of iPad owners use it every day. Hint: PR surveys like this aren't intended to transmit any news; if they do, it's an accident on a par with Aeschylus being killed by a tortoise dropped by an eagle mistaking his bald head for a rock. What's far more interesting, though, is reading the comments on the CNet piece and figuring out from them who actually owns an iPad and who doesn't. It's not hard. (Thanks @jforbes for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
An Australian court has agreed to hear in March a case brought by Samsung Electronics to ban sales of Apple's latest iPhone – though sales will be allowed to continue as normal ahead of the full hearing on alleged patent infringements.Apple and Samsung have been locked in a legal battle in 10 countries involving smartphones and tablet computers as they jostle for top spot in the fast-growing markets. Apple is also Samsung's biggest customer, buying mainly chips and displays.Separately, Samsung said it has decided not to try to block sales of the iPhone in its South Korean homeland – though it gave no clear reason. The South Korean newspaper Chosun Ibo quoted an executive saying: "We concluded that we should engage in legal battles with Apple only in the global market, but not in order to gain more market share in Korea."However, Samsung has sought to block sales of Apple's latest iPhone 4S, which went on sale in early October, by filing preliminary sales injunction requests in four countries including Australia.The decision by the court to hold a full hearing in March gives Apple at least four months to sell the new iPhone in Australia. Apple stunned Wall Street in October withquarterly results that missed expectationsfor the first time in years as customers held off buying iPhones until the October launch.Since then, sales of the iPhone 4S have reportedly been very strong, with sellouts in the US and Hong Kong. Samsung meanwhile has been judged to have shipped more smartphones in the third quarter of 2011 than any other company, including Apple, though it gave no figures itself."The case will be fixed for a hearing for three weeks, commencing in March, 2012, with the date to be fixed on Friday," justice Annabelle Bennett told the Australian Federal Court in Sydney on Tuesday.Bennett said sales of the iPhone 4S in Australia would be allowed to continue in the meantime."I stand over the application for an interlocutory injunction, that will stand over to the same date, as that of the date of the hearing," she said.Lawyers for Apple had wanted a hearing for the case to be held in August next year, but Bennett said this was too far away."They are trying to expand the Android market. The longer it's left, the harder it will be for Samsung," Justice Bennett said.Samsung uses Google's Android operating system in its smartphones. In October, Samsung filed preliminary injunction motions against the latest iPhone in Japan, France and Italy, claiming the product infringed its patents.The case in Australia will centre around alleged infringement of three patents and more than 25 claims.Samsung's latest salvo came after the South Korean electronics giant suffered a series of setbacks in its ongoing legal battles with the US company.Apple has scored preliminary injunctions against some Samsung products in Australia, Germany and the Netherlands, and further seeks to block sales of Samsung models in the US, the key smartphone battleground.In Australia, Samsung has appealed against a court's decision to grant a preliminary injunction blocking the sale of Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet, with a full court hearing scheduled for 25 November.
Tuesday is here! Let's talk about computer games and stuff.
He is a world renowned novelist whose books have sold in the millions and gathered dozens of awards - along with an infamous death threat. But Salman Rushdie has discovered that even his high profile is not enough to satisfy Facebook's real name police.Rushdie became embroiled in a battle with the social networking website after his account was deactivated for breaching its strict real name policy. Facebook claimed that Rushdie, who refers to himself by his middle name, Salman, was an imposter.The author had to send a photograph of his passport to the security team to prove his identity, but when his account was reinstated he found his name had been changed to Ahmed - the first name on his passport.The novelist, whose books include Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses, took to Twitter to vent his frustration, appealing directly to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to reinstate his preferred name.In one tweet about the conflict, he wrote: "Morons. @MarkZuckerbergF? Are you listening?"Rushdie faced a similar ordeal with Twitter just months ago when users of the site questioned whether he was the man behind the @salmanrushdie1 account. After having his identity verified by Twitter, the imposter using the @SalmanRushdie account was forced to hand over the name.This time, Rushdie used his dedicated Twitter followers to make an impassioned plea to Facebook to reinstate the name he uses on his novels and is known by millions of fans across the globe.Making references to other famous figures, he tweeted: "Dear #Facebook, forcing me to change my FB name from Salman to Ahmed Rushdie is like forcing J. Edgar to become John Hoover."Or, if F. Scott Fitzgerald was on #Facebook, would they force him to be Francis Fitzgerald? What about F. Murray Abraham?"Scores of followers retweeted his pleas and after two hours he claimed a victory after Facebook reverted his name back to Salman Rushdie.He wrote: "I'm Salman Rushdie again. I feel SO much better. An identity crisis at my age is no fun. Thank you Twitter!"Just received an apology from The #Facebook Team. All is sweetness and light."
Ordinary people, it is said,are earning six-figure sums after uploading home videos to YouTube. Through a partnership scheme, owners of original material earn a slice of the revenue from ads surrounding their video, although at about 60p per 1,000 hits, the big money is reserved for clips receiving hundreds of millions of views. So how can you turn your home videos into viral sensations?When in doubt, use a pandaPandas are funny because they look like people in panda suits, and if you can get one to do anything vaguely adorable you're normally on to a winner. Unfortunately pandas are rare, and therefore quite expensive to own, but if you don't mind a weird colour such as yellow you can pick one up for less than £3,000 on the internet. Oh, hang on – that's a Fiat Panda.Record your baby's every moveLaughing babies are popular, twins doubly so, and videos of tinybabies playing with extremely large dogsconstitute an entire market sector. Obviously you shouldn't put your baby at risk. See what happens when you give a doll to your rottweiler.Film your cat appearing to say something in EnglishFirst find out what words, if any, your cat can pronounce. Second, turn your camera on and ask your cat a question to which that word appears to be an intelligent answer. This may take some months.Don't record your own lame version of a popular songYou may get the hits, but YouTube won't compensate  you unless you've secured all rights and permissions.Make a video of a  dog wearing shoesSome people will think it's cruel, some will think it's funny and others will find it unbearably twee. That covers just about everybody.Title your video "Just Try To Watch This Without Laughing."Chances are people will queue up in their millions just to tell you how unfunny it is.
Age:In gestation.Appearance:Like the wind.In what way?As the fourth generation (geddit?) of high-speed mobile internet, 4G is a) invisible, and b) very fast.How fast?About 10 megabits per second.Which means what?That it's about  10 times quicker than 3G, the  wireless system currently used by smartphones.And how will this change my life?You'll be able to watch The X Factor, in high-definition, on your phone!Is that it?You could play multiplayer Grand Theft Auto, on your phone!Right. Anything else?You could  video-call your mum! On your phone!I'm sold. When can I get it? In  fact, forget 4G: when I get some  decent phone reception full-stop?Where do you live?Rural Yorkshire.Ah. I'm afraid 4G is currentlyonly being trialled in central Londonand Canary Wharf.You mean a bunch of bankers can use their smartphones to play multi-player Modern Warfare 3 while I abseil from my bathroom trying to find a  single bar of reception?In theory. Except that since no phone is yet 4G-compatible, the 1,000 anointed triallists will only be able to access the network on their tablets and laptops, with the help of some handy dongles.How do you become a triallist?By  being a lucky O2 customer, or working for John Lewis.I must say this is bloody unfair. I work at Debenhams, and I'm with Vodafone.In which case you'll have to be patient.Why?Because a) due to complex bandwidth constraints, 4G can't be rolled out nationally until 2013, when our TV networks switch from analogue to digital.And b)?Mobile companiesare still squabblingabout how much they should pay to use the  bandwidth.How are other countries managing?Slightly better. 4G is already fully  operational in parts of the US, and  has been used by laptop owners in  Germany and Scandinavia.Do say:"Yes I know you're on the train – it's a video call."Don't say:"I SAID I'M ON THE TRAIN!"
The announcement by Adobe last week ofthe death of Flash on mobile deviceswill have a significant impact on an unlikely player, Windows Phone. Like a butterfly that flaps its wings and causes a hurricane on the other side of the globe, this move will drive developers away from the Windows Phone platform at a time when adoption is most critical. Let's look at why …SilverlightIf Flash isn't supported on Windows Phone and was neverplanned to be, why does Adobe killing off Flash bode so badly for Windows Phone?When rebooting their mobile strategy, Microsoft's engineers decided that the only road available to developers looking to target the platform would be a cut-down version of Silverlight, dubbedSilverlight for Windows Phone.A quick diversion to explain Silverlight. Back in 2003, Microsoft started talking about a new vision for Windows.Longhorn– the codename for what ultimately became Vista – contained a number of technologies that were ultimately canned. ButWindows Presentation Foundation(WPF) made it through the process to the present day. WPF was intended to revamp the way that system and application user interfaces are constructed on Windows. Architecturally, WPF borrows from a composed, declarative user interface approach popularised by HTML. The key word is that WPF "borrows" from HTML, but itisn'tHTML. It uses an XML-based construct called XAML as its markup language. The back end is written in .NET. You cannot use HTML authoring toolsets or allied languages (specifically JavaScript) to build applications for WPF.Silverlight was created as a cut-down version of WPF that would run as a browser plug-in to compete with Flash. Silverlight for Windows Phone further reduces the full Silverlight functionality. So when developing for WP7 you're actually using a cut-down version of a cut-down version of WPF.AIR-y FairyFlash became a successful technology because it allowed web developers to jazz up a website outside of the capabilities provided by BLINK and MARQUEE tags. Although it was a pain for developers to use, Flash did manage to change the world both directly through is proprietary toolset, but more importantly because it was closed (and difficult) it encouraged the open standards community to dramatically improve presentation capabilities inHTML5. (From here on, I'll use "HTML5" to mean that combination of HTML5/CSS3/Javascript, used wisely and for good to implement Cool New Stuff, or Old Stuff You've Seen Before But Implemented Using New Tech. Such as theAtari logo, which works on Chrome or Safari, or WebKit mobile browsers.)Although Flash has had a bumpy ride on mobile, especially with regards toiOS support, Adobe has managed to be pretty clever and, rather effectively dodged a bullet.Clearly, Adobe's executives saw the writing on the wall with Flash on mobile some time ago and did two important things. Firstly, the engineers decided that it made sense to gently kill off the old-school approach of building Flash applications, and move over to offering first-class support for HTML5. Developers could now build Flash applications either in "old school, this-is-how-we-did-it-in-the-year-2000" mode, or in "open standards makes more sense, we'll just use HTML5 and CSS and JavaScript" mode. This runs contrary to Silverlight, where the open standards track is not available.The second thing Adobe did was to break the association between the browser and Flash, viaAIR. AIR allows developers to buildstand-aloneapplications based either on Flash or HTML5. (You can do the same "out of browser" thing with Silverlight, incidentally.)AIR is very interesting in the mobile space because it allows developers to target multiple devices with the same or "similar enough" codebase. Cross-platform development is particularly important today because the mobile market is in flux driven by market consolidation. Being able to build an application for one platform that can be (relatively) easily moved to an entirely different platform allows developers to more properly control the risk of targeting multiple platforms. It's no longer safe to bet the farm just on iOS or Android. Serious mobile app developers need to hit those two platforms at least. (And as consolidation continues to happen, who knows what's waiting round the corner in terms of new platforms and paradigms.)But the really big, relatively unreported news that overshadows all this is in October, Adobeacquired PhoneGap. For the uninitiated, PhoneGap is a technology for building cross-platform mobile applications on (importantly) iOS and Android, and (incidentally) BlackBerry, webOS, Symbian and Bada. Adobe says it will donate the PhoneGap project to theApache Software Foundation(although for reasons unknown it will renamed to the un-Googleable "Callback").By putting it into the ASF, PhoneGap is now going to get some first-class geek love from now and into a very long and happy future. Both products will feed into each other, likely culminating with some mashup of AIR and PhoneGap becomingtheway to build cross-platform mobile apps.But notice what's missing from the lineup of devices that PhoneGap and AIR can target? Yup – Windows Phone.Windows Phone futureAdobe killing off mobile Flash has caused a lot of noise, but very few people actually care. Flash on mobile isn't particularly pretty, and the iPad in particular proved that users didn't need it. It was already dead - it just needed a coup de grace.But pre-announcing the death of Flash on mobile gets Adobe's message about their future technologies front and centre and under discussion. We now know that for them, HTML5 and related open standards are where it's at.Seeing as Silverlight was a direct competitor to Flash, it is suddenly left not looking too clever. Microsoft watcher par excellenceMary Jo Foleyblogged last week that "Several of my customer and partner contacts have told me they have heard from their own Microsoft sources over the past couple of weeks that Silverlight 5 is the last version of Silverlight that Microsoft will release. They said they are unsure whether there will be any service packs for it, and they are also not clear on how long Silverlight 5 will be supported by Microsoft." (Here's thelink.)We know already that Silverlight doesn't pass a "common sense" test in terms of technology support; everyone knows HTML5 is the way to go, and Silverlight doesn't play that game. As Foley says, Microsoft are also being wobbly about its support in the future. Microsoft's intentions get more obvious with Windows 8. The new-style, native, immersive Windows 8 applications ("Metro" apps), can be built with either HTML5, or WPF (seehere). WPF in these Windows 8 Metro apps is likely to be a sop to developers who have WPF and/or Silverlight skills; I suspect that the devs inside Redmond know that HTML5 is "for the win".That means the only place in the entire Microsoft software stack where wehaveto use Silverlight is on WP7. By beating its wings over Flash on mobile, Adobe's butterfly could cause a hurricane in the minds of developers who would otherwise build apps for WP7, because why would you work with a toolset that is still only addressing a small part of the mobile market, but which worse still is not clearly aligned with the juggernaut that is HTML5? Although Nokia's Lumia marketing spend (siphoned from Microsoft) pretty much guarantees that WP7 devices will get into people's hands, where's the incentive for developers to invest their time and expertise in building up the app ecosystem?Furthermore, Windows 8 and Windows Phone look as though they're ona trajectory of convergence. A Windows Phone 8 that can accept HTML5 as a first-class developer toolset mitigates the problem of WP7's toolset being niche. But we are many, many months away from Microsoft even talking about this, let alone seeing any implementation.This is a real shame, because the work Microsoft has done with Windows 8's immersive applications proves that deprecating the proprietary and closed Silverlight model and re-purposing WPF so that apps can be coded using open standards is more than a possibility – it's eminently doable.It's just a shame it may well come to late for Windows Phone.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I'm sure this is an answer you're getting a lot these days, but quite simply it's the iPad 2 for me. It's improved my life in every possible manner except for my sex life. I have no complaints with it, except that it doesn't support Flash – other than that it's probably my favourite possession of all my possessions at the moment. It's almost perfect.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it right now – it never leaves my knee. I work in television, and 70% of the work I have to do is reading as well as watching stuff. With my iPad on my knee I can read scripts, I can watch TV shows, I can download newspapers and I can search for information online. In fact, I've started to feel strange if it's not by me – I even take it to the bathroom. I've even got my curtains at my house wired up to my iPad, and it also controls all the lights in my house.What additional features would you add if you could?Some sort of tea-carrying device would be good. I drink 10-15 cups of tea a day, so it would be good if it just had a circle in it where I could put my tea cup right through the middle of it, and then it would reform itself once I had finished my tea. At the moment I use it as a tray when I'm carrying things around, so often I have a mug of tea on top of my iPad. And I just wish it would make that system a little bit safer, because one day it's going to have a bath in lovely Earl Grey.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think the one I have got in my hand at the moment will be obsolete, but as a piece of technology I think it's here to stay. I'm imagining it will be incredibly more advanced. I can't even think what it might be able to do 10 years from now, bearing in mind that the things it does today I thought wouldn't happen for another 10 years. I'm almost nervous of what it might do in 10 years.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That I'm not very good with it, actually. I'm very backwards, which is why the whole iPad thing has been a revelation – you just point your finger at it and push a button. I've just not got the mind for technology, and I've developed a slight fear of it.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Get good at pointing at it, and pressing the button. The other thing is to have a younger brother who is really good with it and can do it all for you.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a real luddite – embarrassingly for my age. I'm still under 40, and we're supposed to be good with this shit.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Relatively, it was my Aiwa midi system that I bought when I was 18. If you remember stereos in those times, they looked like mini tower blocks – it was all about how high your midi system was, and how many lights were on it. I think I paid £1,200 for that about 20 years ago, and it was an enormous investment at the time – it was about how expensive a car might feel to us today.Mac or PC, and why?I've got both – I've got a PC on my desk at work and I've got a MacBook Air as well as my iPad, and neither of them get switched on. I don't use either, and I don't need to tell you what  bit of kit has replaced them.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I download everything now.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't want anyone seeing what goes on in my house, even if it is a robot.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Some sort of hair regeneration technology, because I'm going a bit thin. I don't want to do a painful surgery like Wayne Rooney – I want a hair app. I want to download my hair, and I don't think it's going to be far away.•Ash Atalla produced The Office, Look Around You, The IT Crowd and Man Stroke Woman. His latest sitcom, Trollied, is out now on DVD.
By now, Ezio Auditore da Firenze has to be the hardest-working man in video games. At the age of 52 he is still committed to saving the world and unlocking the secrets of the universe, during an era where most men entered their autumn years at 45 and died at the age of 59.Not only that, the sort of activities required by Ezio's world-saving efforts involve parkour, sword-fighting and climbing up towering structures with no safety line attached. In light of his spry athleticism, it almost seems unfair that NPCs comment as often as they do in Assassin's Creed: Revelations that: "You'd think that behaviour would be beneath him at his age!"Mind you, the odd ageist crack is pretty small potatoes when you consider the big picture in Revelations. Ezio's quest ultimately plays a part in how a barman in the 21st century called Desmond winds up trapped in a high-tech machine, which allows humans to share the memories of their ancestors.The game begins with Desmond adrift in the Animus, with questions surfacing about the state of his body in the real world. He runs into a sarcastic bloke called Subject 16, a disembodied consciousness who informs him that the memories of Ezio and Altair have become too intertwined with his own. If he returns to his body before he finishes exploring them, he'll go into mental arrest.To that end, he needs to follow Ezio into Constantinople in 1511 AD, as he searches for decryption keys left behind by Altair, that will allow him to learn the whereabouts of an item that could end the war between the Assassins and the Templars.As convoluted as all of that sounds, in practice it's pretty straightforward. Players control Ezio for the lion's share of the game, jumping in and out of Desmond's and Altair's storylines at certain stages.Most of the action takes place in Constantinople at a time when the Ottoman Empire is on the rise, and as a venue for adventure it holds its own impressively against the Renaissance and Medieval environments featured in the earlier games.The streets buzz with market sellers, town criers and guard squadrons who patrol the cobbles. Head up above street-level and majestic spires and sun-kissed domes jut out against the undulating concrete rooftops.As with every other city in the series, Constantinople is a joy to explore and its map is filled to bursting with activities. Players can still buy shops and businesses, kit themselves out with weapons, armour and equipment, hunt for treasure chests and hire the odd band of thugs or Romany women (standing in for courtesans) to run interference.It almost goes without saying, because this is an Assassin's Creed game, that everything looks historically accurate and absolutely gorgeous to boot.However, while the graphics remain a series strong-point, wrinkles and blemishes are beginning to become a little more pronounced in other areas. Over the last four main games – leaving aside the titles that appeared on handhelds and on Facebook – the gameplay has been tinkered with and augmented somewhat, but key flaws still remain.The free-running control system is still twitchy, meaning the segments involving parkour are never as free-flowing as they should be – a problem the series has had since the first instalment.Climbing has been improved over time, but the routes up towers and buildings aren't always clear. Sometimes the player is required to hit the jump button in order for Ezio to reach a handhold above him, but it's never clear when this is the case.Hit jump at the wrong moment and Ezio will kick off the building in the opposite direction and crash to the street below (although the introduction of parachutes in Revelations softens the landing somewhat).Perhaps the most baffling aspect in Revelations is the fact that the developers have remapped some of the controls. It's a small consideration, certainly, but long-time fans of the series may be somewhat irked when they instinctively reach for the parry command in every second sword fight, only to find they've left themselves open to attack.We also lost count of the number of times we accidentally fired Ezio's flintlock at the top of a tower by pressing Y, having become so used to associating that button with the panoramic View Point animations in all the other games of the series.Still, not all the changes are bad. One of the first and best new additions in Revelations is the Hook Blade, which replaces one of Ezio's concealed blades from the last two games. In combat, it gives Ezio a couple of options aside from basic melee; it can be used to trip up opponents, or as part of an evasive move in which Ezio flips over their back and leaves them sprawling in the dust.The Hook Blade also comes in handy in Ezio's rooftop travails. By hitting B mid-jump, the player can extend Ezio's reach, allowing him to jump over greater distances between rooftops, and reach ledges that are higher above him on vertical climbs.There are also a number of ziplines throughout Constantinople and Ezio can slide down them using his Hook Blade, and even, if the player times it just right, leap off and assassinate any enemies Ezio is sliding above.On top of that, Ezio now has the ability to craft a variety of explosive devices ranging from smoke bombs that detonate on impact, to bombs which shower the ground with fake coins when they explode, to good old fashioned stink bombs that leave opponents briefly dazed.Players will find casings and ingredients for Ezio's bombs in shops and treasure chests dotted around the city, and in the pockets of guards they've killed. They can then make bombs at crafting tables at the local assassin's guild.Ezio can still recruit assassins to his cause, as was possible in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood – and, once again, he can train them up to Master Assassin level by sending them out on missions in faraway lands. Ezio can also still deploy assassins as a distance attack, provided they're all not overseas poisoning someone.It's worth levelling all Ezio's assassins up as Master Assassins can be put in charge of Guild Headquarters, which protects them from attack. This, of course, takes quite a bit of time to do, so in the meantime, players can prepare themselves for a series of tower-defence games.Throughout Constantinople, there are towers that are under the control of the Templars, the Ottomans and the Byzantines. Not only does this make the areas around them rather dangerous, it prevents Ezio from buying up businesses and earning cash.To seize control of these towers, Ezio has to identify the local leaders (or leaders), kill him (or them), and then set the tower on fire (in a manner very similar to the way he took control of the Borgia towers in Brotherhood).At that point the tower becomes a Guild HQ, and until it has a Master Assassin installed it's vulnerable to attack. When this happens, players have to win a tower defence mini-game, in which they place blockades in the path of oncoming soldiers and place assassins on rooftops, who rain down arrows and musket balls. They also have a larger attack in the form of a cannon, which needs to recharge over time.While the tower defence game is enjoyable for the most part, towards the end it starts to eat into the proceedings. Annoyingly, while it's presented as an optional side-quest, it's actually necessary to capture all the towers in order to progress through the game easier.Players that don't bother with it face an uphill battle as without Guild HQ's, they can't recruit assassins, guards recognise them more often and businesses are locked away from them. After a while, the notification that a Guild is being attacked becomes irritating, as it usually interrupts a more fun and worthwhile activity – like picking the pockets of NPCs, for example.Overall, it feels a lot like the multiplayer mode in that, while neither is bad, they do seem a little unnecessary in an open-world game, which is largely story-driven.It's in the plot where Assassin's Creed: Revelations shines the brightest. It's story may be madder than a bag full of spanners, but it's populated by colourful characters, chock-full of interesting and amusing events and the way it unfurls overall is simply magical. And holding everything together at the centre is Ezio Auditore, one of the most engaging and best-written characters in gaming.While Assassin's Creed is strictly speaking Desmond's story, and Altair featured before we made Ezio's acquaintance, players have spent more time with the Florentine noble than any other character in the series.We've seen him evolve from a young Lothario into a stern man of action, shared his losses – both familial and social – and guided his blade in quests for both revenge and knowledge. Without giving too much away, his tale in Revelations is one of the series' best and certainly worth exploring.In fact, Ezio Auditore is, simply put, the only reason one needs to pick up a copy of Assassin's Creed: Revelations. While it doesn't feel like the step forward for the franchise that its two predecessors did in their day, Revelations can confidently stand shoulder to shoulder with the better titles of 2011.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The western European PC market fell by 11.4% year-on-year in the third quarter of 2011 to 14.8m units as netbook sales collapsed by 40%, according to new figures from the research group Gartner.And the picture is unlikely to improve in the fourth quarter as PC vendors struggle to cope with the effects of a shortage of hard drives caused by flooding in Thailand, which has affected a number of factories making platters and other key elements for the drives.The western European PC industry continued to perform below normal seasonality, according to Meike Escherich, principal analyst at the group, who noted that the results make unpleasant reading for the PC industry, as the third quarter is traditionally a strong consumer quarter, driven by back-to-school sales. The data come aspart of Gartner's regular filings.The consumer market, which normally makes up about half of sales, declined by 18% year-on-year. The mobile PC market – including netbooks – fell by 12.8%, while desktop sales fell 8.7%.Gartner breakdown of PC sales by vendor in western Europe for third quarter of 2011HP held on to its top position as it weathered uncertainty about the chances that it would spin off its PC unit – a suggestion that has since been rescinded by Meg Whitman, who replaced Leo Apotheker as chief executive.Computers makers have been seeing interest in netbooks drop off rapidly. Paul Hunter, vice president of HP's Personal Systems Group in the UK, told the Guardian last week that whereas 12 months ago they would make up 30% of consumer notebook sales, now they were down to 15% and falling rapidly."Some of that is a move to tablets, and some is that the price difference between netbooks and [larger-screen] notebooks doesn't exist," he said. "People were using netbooks as a secondary device; now they're either buying notebooks with SSDs [solid state disks] or tablets."Meanwhile, Asus and Apple showed strong growth, of 20.3% and 19.6% respectively, to take third and fifth place in the sales rankings for the region. Apple achieved a 7.6% market share, its highest for many years, as its sales increased amid the declining market.The figures confirm suspicions that netbooks are being all but killed off by the interest in tablet computers such as the iPad.Figures released by GfK for the UK in the second quarter of 2011suggested that tablet sales had already outpaced those of netbooks, and that trend – with tablet sales growing and those of netbooks falling – shows no signs of changing.The fourth quarter is also expected to be tough for PC companies as they struggle with shortages of hard drives. Though many are expected to have safeguarded supplies, prices are rising, and they may be forced either to absorb the cost – which will hit profitability – or raise prices for consumers, which will put the smaller companies at a disadvantage against those able to command better prices on large volumes.The Thailand floods, in whichhundreds have died, seem to be a disruptive influence on the market, said Ranjit Atwal of Gartner.He thinks the main impact will be seen at the start of next year. "Historically, PC vendors try to pass these costs on to customers, but given the economic environment, it's difficult to do that."The extra cost will not be "huge", he suggests, "but there's a feeling that PC prices should always be falling." Static prices won't help because consumers "aren't buying PCs as it is, given their lack of attractiveness".In Europe, Acer struggled as it tried to clear out a huge inventory buildup whichsaw 300 staff lose their jobs in Europe earlier this yearamid suspicions of fraud.Its total sales almost halved, from 4.1m to 2.2m, though it retained the second place behind HP. Dell's sales dropped by 10% to 1.45m, putting it only a couple of points of share ahead of Apple.Gartner western Europe PC sales by vendor, 3Q 2011Vendor3Q11 Shipments (,000)3Q11 Market Share (%)3Q10 Shipments (,000)3Q10 Market Share (%)3Q10-3Q11 Growth (%)HP337122.7364521.8-7.5Acer Group224815.2409524.5-45.1ASUS156710.613027.820.3Dell14529.816139.6-10Apple11327.69475.719.6Others505134.1513130.6-1.6Total1482110016733100-11.4
More than 118.5 million people in the UK and US play social games at least once a week, according to a report commissioned by publisher PopCap Games. The figure is based on an online survey of 1,201 people in the two countries by Information Solutions Group.That's an increase of 71% on the number of social gamers suggested by the same report in 2010. The new study also claims that 31 million players have bought virtual currency in social games, up 86% year-on-year.Bout 35 million people now playing social games are new to these kinds of games since February 2010, according to PopCap, while 17% are new to gaming itself. The publisher says that the average first-time social gamer is now a woman aged in her fifties, with 55% of social gamers being female.The report has a barrage of statistics showing social gaming's growth, including the claim that 81 million people play these games at least once a day and 49 million play them several times a day.Roughly 29% of British social gamers are playing on a smartphone, while 13% are playing on a feature phone – the corresponding percentages for the US are 28% and 8%. Meanwhile, 8% of UK social gamers and 12% of US social gamers are playing on tablets.The study also hints at cannibalisation of other gaming platforms, reporting that 33% of social gamers who previously played on other devices are now spending less time on them as a result.Are social games killing the console, then? No – the important stats are those about these games attracting new players who have not previously played on a console.PopCap's research also found that social gamers spend 56% of their time on social networks playing games. It also finds that 17% of all social gamers and 23% of "avid" social gamers – those playing for more than six hours a week – are playing games on Google+. A long way behind Facebook (91% on both counts), but still impressive for Google's new social network.In terms of the games being played by most people, FarmVille, Bejeweled Blitz and Mafia Wars take the top three spots in the report, attracting 51%, 44% and 29% of social gamers respectively.PopCap also breaks down the total hours of weekly gameplay, though, finding that Gardens of Time and The Sims Social are performing well, with 33% and 27% of their players respectively playing those titles for more than three hours a week.Finally, the survey found that 8% of social gamers across the two countries use hacks, bots or cheats to get an advantage in social games regularly or occasionally, although 82% have never used or even considered using such technology. At least, not until the researchers put the idea into their heads, anyway.
Back in 2009, the BBC approached Ofcom for permission to add "digital rights management" locks to its high-definition broadcasts. The locks would work by scrambling some of the information used to decode video, and in order to get the descrambling key, manufacturers would have to submit to the rules of the DTLA, an offshore consortium led by Intel.This was a strange request for the BBC to make. There aren't any licence fee payers who put a cheque in the post this year and thought, "Gosh, I wish there was a way I could do less than the law allows with the video my licence fee pays for." The BBC has always eschewed DRM in its Freeview offerings, and other public broadcasters in Europe, the US and Canada eschew DRM. German law prohibits DRM on its public broadcasts, and American law prohibits DRM onallbroadcasts, both commercial and non-commercial.What's more, the DRM scheme proposed by the BBC had three major flaws: first, technical experts believed it would be trivial to defeat; second, the part of the broadcast that the BBC wanted to scramble was shared by closed captions and assistive audio tracks used by disabled people; and finally, the full rules set out by DTLA for its DRM were governed by confidentiality agreements, which meant that UK manufacturers would be ordered to comply with a set of secret rules that the public wasn't allowed to know.There were other important problems, of course: the proposal violated the EU common market by breaking foreign TV receivers and it meant that popular free/open source receivers and recorders would be frozen out of the UK device market.The consultation received 459 responses. Of these, 432 of those came from individual licence payers, and 426 opposed the BBC's proposal.Twenty-six institutions filed 27 responses (Channel 4 responded twice); 17 of them supported the proposal. This includes broadcasters (two different divisions of the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and ITV); a bunch of rightsholder groups such as the Motion Picture Association (run by the US film studios) and Pact; the DTLA itself; and some of manufacturers who license DTLA's technology. The arguments they made were pretty unconvincing, boiling down to "We'd make more money this way," and "Rights-holders may boycott TV if we don't give them this."The opposing institutions included a coalition of computer science academics, the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB), educators and the Linux Foundation. I wrote comments on behalf of the UK Open Rights Group.To sum up: the licence fee-paying public overwhelmingly rejected the proposal. So did independent scholars, public interest groups, educators, and disabled rights groups. The vast majority of support came from the BBC (who'd started the whole thing, no surprise there!), broadcasters, and rights-holder groups.The BBC is a public broadcaster, and its charter sets out the requirement for everything it does to meet a "public value test." Ofcom, the independent regulator that oversees the BBC, is charged with "[making] sure that people in the UK get the best from their communications services and are protected from scams and sharp practices, while ensuring that competition can thrive".So what did Ofcom do? Naturally, it listened to the public, ignored the uncompetitive rent-seeking proposals from the commercial sector, adhered to EU law, and rejected the proposal.Well, that's what they did in a parallel universe. Inthisuniverse, Ofcom accepted the self-serving arguments of the companies they're meant to be regulating, ignored the public whose interests they were meant to be safeguarding, and gave the BBC what it asked for.Why did it do this? It's a secret.But not any more.BBC tight-lippedThe BBC's comments to Ofcom were released with several redacted sections. These sections were withheld on the basis that they were "commercially sensitive" and couldn't be seen by the general public. Ray Corrigan, one of the Open University academics who signed on to the opposing comments from the computer scientists, filed a freedom of information request to discover what this secret evidence was. After all, there was nothing else particularly compelling in the BBC's proposal, so the really meaty arguments had to be there.Ofcom rejected the FOI request, saying that the law prohibited it from releasing "commercially sensitive" material. When I asked it whether this meant that anything could be kept out of the public's eye by slapping a "commerically sensitive" label on it, at first they said this was so. But on further questioning, their spokesperson wrote, "we would consider the information on a case-by-case basis and consider the contents of any document to see whether an exemption applies, rather than automatically withholding it because it's marked as 'commercially sensitive'."Next, Corrigan tried to get the information from the BBC. The BBC also refused to disclose it. I exchanged several emails with a tight-lipped spokesperson. They declined to grant me an interview with Graham Plumb (the BBC's head of distribution technology) or any of his colleagues involved in the submission. They sent this terse statement:The Ofcom report was submitted in confidence because it contained commercially sensitive information regarding the BBC's negotiations with rights-holders. Such negotiations are standard practice when agreeing commercial contracts. These contracts enable the BBC to provide audiences with a wider choice of programmes than would otherwise be possible.The spokesperson refused to clarify or expand on this statement.So, this is weird. Fundamentally, the BBC and Ofcom were claiming that it was in the public's interest to deny the public's wishes, but it wasn't in the public interest to know why this was so.I started to ask around. One very senior executive with BBC Worldwide (the commercial arm, charged with selling BBC programmes abroad) expressed bafflement: "I don't understand why they want this. It certainly doesn't come from us. We don't need it to sell BBC programming."Eventually, I got my hands on a copy.Redactions revealedHere are the "commercially sensitive" portions of the BBC's Ofcom filing that the public hasn't been allowed to see until now:1.4. The BBC confirms that it is very unlikely that content which has been directly commissioned by the BBC (alone) would be not be available for broadcast on platforms not supporting content management. However, it should be noted that independent producers frequently retain secondary rights in such content. At some point in the future, a powerful independent producer might insist that it would only accept a commission from the BBC on terms which required the BBC to guarantee that the first (and potentially subsequent) transmissions of this content would be broadcast with content management applied.Here, the BBC admits that all the content it commissions would be available without DRM. In other words, the stuff that we think of as "BBC programming" (as opposed to joint productions, independent commissions and programmes licensed from abroad) will be available even if the BBC doesn't get its wishes.It's impossible to see why this would be "commercially sensitive". Why shouldn't the public know that the BBC won't insist on restrictions on the video whose production the licence fee pays for?The hypothetical business about some independent producer at some future date insisting on DRM is frankly laughable. If an indie doesn't want to sell the BBC a programme it's commissioning on the terms the BBC want, the BBC can commission from another indie – just as it would if an indie wanted to use an actor or writer the BBC didn't like, or wanted more money than the BBC was prepared to spend. Commissioners solicit pitches from indies on set terms, and the speculative, unnamed indie that won't come up to these terms is a pretty unconvincing spectre.1.5. The BBC wishes to emphasise that in commercial negotiations with right-holders (and co-producers) the BBC normally seeks to obtain the most flexible and least restrictive rights at the best possible price. In general, this flexibility is intended to allow the BBC to show content on one or more occasion(s), sometimes on more than one of the BBC's &nbsp;channels and ideally on both broadcast and non-broadcast platforms (eg the BBC iPlayer). Inevitably, in these negotiations, content rights-holders are seeking to maximise the income from their investment and may seek to increase the price of rights in proportion to the flexibility requested by the BBC.Again, it's impossible to see why it would be "commercially sensitive" to admit that some rights-holders and partners ask for more money when no DRM is deployed. It's also impossible to see why Ofcom would take this very seriously: the BBC isn't saying that itpays moreon no-DRM terms, just that more isasked for. This is anaecdote, not evidence.1.6. The highest value acquired content, such as first UK free-to-air broadcast rights for popular films or television series, are significantly more likely to be subject to restrictions. For example, in recent negotiations between the BBC and (separately) HBO Enterprises, Sony Pictures Television International, 20th Century Fox International Television and Warner Brothers International Television Distribution, each of these suppliers has separately made it clear that they are unwilling to provide the BBC with linear HD broadcast rights to some high value content unless the BBC undertakes to apply content management controls to all HD format broadcasts of this content.Aha! At last, the BBC names some names. Unfortunately, these aren't very convincing names.Fox broadcastsallits HDTV in the US first, where it is prohibited by law from adding DRM. A substantial fraction of Warner and Sony programming also gets broadcast in HD in the US first. These rightsholders maysaythat they demand DRM, but the fact of the matter is, when they don't have a choice, they broadcast without DRM. If Ofcom doesn't give them that choice, there's no reason to think they'll behave any differently here than they do at home in America.HBO, on the other hand, is a different story. All HBO content goes out first over DRM-locked cable channels in the USA. If the BBC was going to get new HBO material for broadcast, it's at least credible that HBO would demand DRM.But the BBC isn't going to get any new HBO content for its broadcast for the next 10 years, because HBO has an exclusive, 10-year deal with Sky.The exception to this is BBC-HBO co-productions – fundamentally, the BBC is saying that they don't have control over the programmes it pays for with our money. That's embarrassing, but it's hardly "commercially sensitive".1.7. Whilst this acquired content represent a small proportion of the BBC's HD output, free-to-air television audiences perceive significant value from access to content of this type (for example feature films) from the BBC.Apparently "people like movies" is "commercially sensitive".1.8. The proposed launch of a BBC1 HD simulcast later this year is likely to slightly increase the amount of acquired content which is would be subject to HD broadcast limitations on platforms where no content management is present. The BBC very much wants to avoid a situation where it is necessary to blank any acquired content either on BBC1 HD or BBC HD.[NB The BBC's plan to launch BBC1 HD this autumn is known to Ofcom but remains highly confidential and subject to final sign-off by the BBC Trust].It's true that thiswasconfidential (the trust approved BBC1 HD earlier this month), but it's not any more. But it's also unnecessary to the BBC's argument: it's possible to say "we foresee acquiring more content" without saying "because we're planning this confidential thing that we don't have permission to do yet".3.4.1 These approaches include:(i) Implementing HD broadcast recording and access systems which implement end-to-end content protection using the technologies which have been specified in the DTG D-Book.(ii) Using professional Freeview HD broadcast receivers combined with their own secure storage and retrieval systems.(iii) Developing or purchasing from their suppliers secure storage and retrieval systems which integrate direct reception of unencrypted HD video, audio, subtitle and audio description signals with EPG data licensed by the relevant broadcasters.3.4.3 In respect of the approach outlined in section 3.4.1 (iii), the BBC has suggested that it would be prepared to consider licensing arrangements which would allow libraries, archives and larger educational establishments to make use of EPG data under condition that:(i) the products and systems using this EPG data together with video, audio, subtitle and audio description recordings would only be made available to educational establishments, libraries, archives and other equivalent organisations;(ii) the purchasers or users of these products or systems would need to confirm these would only be used for educational, criticism or review, news reporting or other purposes which are permitted under UK legislation; and(iii) these products and systems would need to incorporate all necessary security controls to prevent the illegitimate copying, distribution or use of HD broadcast recordings for other purposes.3.4.4 It is the BBC's firm view that the approaches suggested in this section would fully accommodate all current and likely future legitimate usage requirements by even the largest establishments, whilst avoiding compromising the integrity of the HD content management system or requiring any circumvention of this system.3.4.5 The BBC requests that Ofcom do not publish the specific details relating to these approaches – due to the concern that the above explanation provides information which is helpful to those who may wish to circumvent the content management system.Here the BBC discusses its plan to accommodate educators, critics and archivists. It plans on establishing a confidential marketplace for more powerful "professional" TV receivers and recorders that can defeat its scrambling system. This bizarre system – creating an entity that would have to manufacture and distribute these devices, after approving the credentials of archivists, critics and scholars – is meant to be kept secret because it makes it clear that it would be easy to defeat the scheme.So here you have the BBC claiming in one breath that its partners want effective protection from copying, and in the next breath saying that this won't be very effective protection.Funnily enough, "this will be easy to defeat" is a point that many of the individuals and institutions who formed the majority opposed to this plan made in their statements.DRM BritainAfter I received the redacted material, I approached the BBC and Ofcom again. The BBC refused to answer my emails until I sent copies of the unredacted text to the executives responsible for the memo. Then, a BBC spokesperson again refused to let me speak to anyone responsible, and said:Sections 1.4 - 1.8 of the BBC's Ofcom consultation response were submitted in confidence because these contain commercially sensitive information regarding the BBC's negotiations with rights holders. Such negotiations are standard practice when agreeing commercial contracts. These contracts enable the BBC to provide audiences with a wider choice of programmes than would otherwise be possible.In redacting sections 3.4.1 – 3.4.5 of this consultation response the BBC was seeking to avoid publishing any information which would be helpful to individuals who might seek to circumvent Freeview HD's content management controls whilst also recognising that under UK copyright legislation, prescribed libraries and archives (which include the British Library and the British Film Institute) and educational establishments have more extensive rights to reproduce and retain copies of broadcast programmes than do individual viewers who only have a right to record programmes so that they can watch them at a more convenient time (the timeshift exception).The BBC remains convinced that disclosure of the redacted information included in these sections of its Ofcom response would not be in the public interest.In other words, "Auntie knows best, so shut up and run along and let us get on with breaking your TV."Ofcom was equally unhelpful in explaining why any of this material passed muster in its "case by case" evaluation of confidentiality. Rather, it switched back to its statement that it had to take all claims of confidentiality at face value, and freedom of information seekers need not apply when one of the companies it is meant to be regulating tells it to keep mum, no matter how compelling the public interest and how unconvincing the claimed need for confidentiality.And now we're gearing up for DRM Britain. Our BBC will give privileges to American TV companies that the US government won't give them, and our "independent" regulator won't even tell us why.In the new DRM world, the rights you've enjoyed to your licence-fee-paid material are now contingent. If you want to save your copies to your computer, transfer them to your tablet or phone, loan them to your neighbours, excerpt them for education, criticism or parody, you're going to have to ask a committee for permission. If your kids want to do these things, they're going to have to seek this permission as well, and if you have the sort of children who aren't comfortable making submissions to regulatory committees, then your children won't be able to do what other children all over the world are accustomed to doing.British manufacturers who want to make digital television receivers and recorders will have to accord with the secret rules set out by the DTLA, which includes a ban on free/open source software, such as the popular MythTV package.This package is already in use by many British licence fee payers (some of whom wrote in to Ofcom about it) and DTLA rules it out because it can be modified by its users. Despite the fact that so many British engineers started their journeys by building BBC receivers, there are no user-servicable parts allowed in the new, HD, DRM BBC.Welcome to DRM Britain. Our BBC will give privileges to American TV companies that the US government won't give them, and our "independent" regulator won't even tell us why.•The author gratefully acknowledges the research contributions of Ray Corrigan and Beth Bernier Pratt
The thing that sets Get Up and Dance apart from rival compulsory choreography experiences is that it's bossier. Just Dance sounds quite laissez-faire about getting down, and who wouldn't be flattered by an invitation to a DanceStar Party? But ordering me out of my seat and up to the boogying point, with two imperatives? That's almost rude.Manners aside, this is an unremarkable package. There are 25 songs on board, and thanks to a something-for-everyone selection policy, you'll probably like three of them. With Black Kids and The Noisettes nuzzling up to Taio Cruz and Timbaland (featuring Katy Perry), it's all about as well-considered as a Steve Lamacq guest slot on Kiss FM.Then some lumbering jackass chooses Achy Breaky Heart and it feels as though the forces of Gold FM have staged a brutal and inhumane coup.That inconsistency across a limited tracklist takes a big bite out of replayability (Just Dance 3 offers double the songs, for a relatively small price jump) and suggests that Get Up could turn out to be a bit of a single-use purchase.Yes, it'll do the job for a multigenerational social gathering (or "Christmas day" as humans call it), but this is a disc that will be lucky to see daylight at any other party. On the other hand, and at least it's free from the dreaded asterisk – as in, "Toxic* made famous by Britney Spears (*performed by the Superdrug Covers Band)".After the minor hold-up of finding the one song you want to dance to (alone, in co-op or competitively with up to four players), it's into the actual routines.The tracking of the Wii is pretty robust and feels fair. The routines themselves are decent, if a little goofy. Having the original videos in the background should be a selling point, but it actual works against the game when you're watching Salt-n-Pepa doing cool body popping to Push It while you follow an awkward, generic sexy dance.There's little to excite or inspire in the interface: points rack up, but there's no razzle-dazzle stuff to reward you for a winning streak. I want my onscreen avatar to shine like an animated glostick every time I get a perfect, dammit.There's some concession to longevity with a training mode. This lets you choose from five fitness levels ("I don't even know what my legs are for" up to "Marathons are for babies"), then gives you a four-week programme of dancing to follow.Given that each four-song session probably burns less than 100 calories, this isn't going to see anyone shimmying their way into svelteness, but it's OK if you're after some cheery cardio. And that's the best you can say for Get Up and Dance: it's OK. Not broken, not bad, and not doing anything you can't find better elsewhere.• Game reviewed on Wii
2011 is becoming the games industry's Year of the Remake. First came GoldenEye, and now the game that kicked off the Halo legend and put the original Xbox on the map.At first glance, taking old (if classic) titles and giving them makeovers that bring the full force of modern console technology sounds like an exercise that occupies a point somewhere between pointless and cynical. But once you sit down to play them, doubts rapidly evaporate.There's no doubt that Halo Combat Evolved Anniversary is a labour of love. Microsoft has gone out of its way to be faithful to the Xbox original: it contains the same levels, plot and enemies – operated by the same artificial intelligence, so that they behave identically.But this time around, it's viewed through the filter of the graphics engine from Halo Reach, so while it feels exactly the same as the first game, it looks an awful lot more magnificent. And, just to emphasise that it's all about adding a new visual gloss to the precise experience that Halo Combat Evolved provided, you can hit the back button at any time (except during cut-scenes) and revert to the original graphics.Which is utterly fascinating – a bit like like archaeology on your console. Outdoor environments, in particular, benefit from the Reach engine – in their original state, they look textureless and considerably bleaker, with great slabs of greys and browns, and a fog, instead of detail, in the far distance.There's a technological cherry on top of this graphical icing, too: the game runs in stereoscopic 3D, if you have the means of displaying it.Microsoft would no doubt argue that a whole generation of gamers, although devoted to the Halo franchise, never played the original game, being too young to own an Xbox. If that describes you, Halo Combat Evolved Anniversary should offer a pleasant surprise.It starts with Master Chief emerging from cryogenic storage on the spaceship Pillar of Autumn, under attack by the Covenant as it hovers over the mysteriously encircled planet Halo. Everyone crash-lands on the surface, and Master Chief's initial mission is to rally the survivors and rescue Captain Keyes from the Covenant spaceship where he is being held.It may have looked a bit dodgy by modern standards, but you're instantly struck by how Halo emerged with its glorious gameplay fully formed. You couldn't ask for more feel from the control system, and its distinctive weaponry and vehicles wisely remained untampered-with throughout the franchise's evolution.There's even a genuinely surprising twist when you encounter the Flood for the first time, annoying though they may be. And Halo Combat Evolved's single-player game is much meatier than has become the modern norm.That, of course, is due to the fact that when it was released, broadband was more of a pipedream than a reality, as was Xbox Live. But it did have a multiplayer side, achievable by connecting up Xboxes with network cables. And yes, we really did lug our Xboxes around in those days (along with TVs).Perhaps it shouldn't surprise us that Halo's multiplayer proves to be so good: Microsoft was already involved in PC games, and developer Bungie was keen to woo PC gamers – which meant the multiplayer side of the game had to be spot-on.But it really is a joy playing Halo Combat Evolved Anniversary via Xbox Live – what you get, essentially, is Halo Reach's multiplayer, complete with the switchable load-outs involving jetpacks and so on and, of course, its graphics, enacted on the first Halo's maps. Which, it transpires, are magnificent and varied.It would be idiotic to assert that Halo Combat Evolved Anniversary is an essential purchase: it's a curiosity, aimed at the first-person shooter cognoscenti and Halo completists. But if, for whatever reason, you missed it first time around, prepare to be impressed.It's a mighty fine game – for my money, the best in the Halo franchise – that deserves to accumulate a cult following. Microsoft should be applauded for having the balls (and the money) to exhume it in such a magnificent manner.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 12 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)12 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (26)PC (15)13 (1)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (43)34 (3)Fifa 12(3+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (37)Wii (7)PSP (4)75 (5)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (9)56 (2)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)27 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)18 (4)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)49 (8)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)3310 (–)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)2411 (9)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (20)3DS (3)512 (7)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)513 (15)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (2)PSP (0)1214 (6)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (89)PSP (11)415 (12)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)316 (14)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (30)DS (27)3DS (14)PS3 (13)2717 (20)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (35)618 (13)Pro Evolution Soccer 2012(3+)PS3 (56)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (10)PSP (6)519 (–)Tintin: The Secret Of The Unicorn(12+)Xbox 360 (33)Wii (31)PS3 (26)3DS (9)120 (11)F1 2011(3+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (48)PC (2)8UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamREVIEW: Kindle Fire is no iPad killer - but it is a killer device &gt;&gt; Chicago Sun-Times"The Fire is by no means a dumb device. It's just that it's more of a "hall pass" than a real computer. I can research, write, and file a 2,000 word article on my iPad, complete with photos imported from my SLR. The most ambitious thing I could accomplish with the Fire would be to receive a Word file attached to an email from my editor, make some cuts and changes, and then email it back. "I'm sure that the Kindle Fire team sleeps soundly, regardless. Through all of the Fire's features and the ways that the device presents itself, Amazon clearly wants to define the Fire as a content device with tablet-ish bonus features available to users who wish to seek those functions out." Generally, he's positive about it; his point though is that it's not an iPad or a personal computer. Compare and contrast...Is this really the tablet everyone's talking about? &gt;&gt; WiredWired isn't aflame: "The Fire isn't a dud, but its real-world performance and utility match neither the benchmarks of public expectation, nor the standards set by the world's best tablets. "The Fire's 7-inch, 1024×600 screen is too small for many key tablet activities. The Fire's processor, a 1GHz dual-core chip, appears all but insufficient for fluid, silky-smooth web browsing, an area where I found performance to be preternaturally slow. And unlike most of its tablet competitors, the Fire lacks a camera, 3G data connectivity, and a slot for removable storage. "As an assembly of physical components, the Fire lives at the bottom of the tablet food chain -- and this limits what the Fire can actually do as a piece of mobile hardware. But all those consumers who pre-ordered the Fire knew this going in, right?"Google Chrome will add search inside every web page with Apture acquisition &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"What will the Internet look like in 5 or 10 years? Will it still be a series of linked pages that users browse through, one at a time? Google may be betting that it will be something very different, if the company's latest acquisition is any indication. Apture, the service you can see in action if you highlight any word on this ReadWriteWeb, has been acquired by Google, the two companies announced this morning. An addition to offering media-rich contextual search pop-ups on the pages of publishers who have installed the service, Apture also offers a browser plug-in that adds the same functionality to any page on the web. Much of that same functionality will be baked into Google's browser Chrome very soon."Teaming up to take down threats &gt;&gt; Dark Reading"Policy makers and government officials have used the term 'public-private partnerships' as a way to fight online threats so frequently that it has become code for doing nothing. Yet the recently announced Operation Ghost Click shows that such teamwork is necessary to take on cybercriminals and more advanced threats online." What's more, it actually works.Twitter / @iTod: when Apple's name was changed ...Todd Ditchendorf, ex-Apple, on whether you should use a comma ("Apple, Inc") or not ("Apple Inc") - which was the subject of some testy legal discussions between Apple and Samsung last week.Migrations Map: Where are migrants coming from? Where have migrants left? &gt;&gt; MigrationsmapNice work from Martin De Wulf, especially the HTML aspects.Logitech 2012 business strategy (PDF) &gt;&gt; LogitechThis is where Guerrino De Luca, Logitech's chairman, announces that there isn't going to be a followup to the Google TV Revue, on which it lost a giant amount (but not $100m; that's a misreading). Worth reading through (note: it's a PDF) for other notes about the PC market and which users Logitech is targeting in the western PC market. The answer is really surprising.Mark Zuckerberg Is losing his war on privacy &gt;&gt; The Atlantic Wire"Facebook is historically not a big fan of making users opt-in, regardless of negative feedback. The German government has been battling with Facebook for months over the launch of a facial recognition feature that required users to opt-out in order to prevent Facebook from collecting their data. Facebook has pushed back hard, insisting that they hadn't violated any laws and refused to meet officials' requests to make the feature opt-in. The German official at the center of the controversy announced on Thursday that "further negotiations are pointless," and he was preparing legal action against Facebook. Awkwardly, news of the German lawsuit broke around the same time news of the FTC settlement leaked."Clarifications on Flash Player for mobile browsers, the Flash platform, and the future of Flash &gt;&gt; Mike ChambersMike Chambers is in charge of developer relations for Flash at Adobe: "given the fragmentation of the mobile market, and the fact that one of the leading mobile platforms (Apple's iOS) was not going to allow the Flash Player in the browser, the Flash Player was not on track to reach anywhere near the ubiquity of the Flash Player on desktops. "This effectively meant that if you wanted to use Flash to deliver a rich web experience in the browser on mobile devices you would have to provide both a Flash based, as well as HTML5 based solution. Given the strong support for HTML5 across modern mobile devices, it simply made more sense to create an HTML5 based solution. Now, there are some exceptions to this, especially around advanced video content, but it is very clear that HTML5 is the solution to turn to if you want to provide a richer browser based experience that works across browsers on mobile devices." Impressive how Adobe has grasped this - and wants to win it.Ice Cream Sandwich Face Unlock feature compromised &gt;&gt; YouTubeWe were assured by Hugo Barra that the Face Unlock feature couldn't be compromised by a photo. This video suggests that even with a phone trained with a face, a photo can unlock it.Why the Apple iPad is the future &gt;&gt; The GuardianFrom January 2010: Dan Catt (one of the Guardian's developers) writes: "Like it or not, the iPad is going to change, radically, expectations of how we read - that's its key selling point. And even if the Amazon Kindle is easier on the eyes with its "virtual ink", and its battery lasts longer, the fact it's also grey, doesn't play Doodle Jump and, well, just looks a bit rubbish in comparison, will make all the difference in the end." Seems rather prescient now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Sting 25Sting is celebrating 25 years of being "a renowned musician and humanitarian" in the words of this new iPad app devoted to his solo career. It includes photos, handwritten lyrics and journal entries, interviews and concert footage, as well as 360-degree zoomable views of his signature instruments. Fans who have his music on their iPads can also play it from within the app: everyone else gets iTunes preview clips.iPadLego Duplo JamsLego's Duplo sub-brand has a new iOS app blending music and bricks, aimed at toddlers. The idea: they tap on bricks to build cars, trains and other colourful objects, while singing along to music and adding in their own sounds.iPhone / iPadZeroPC Cloud Navigator HDZeroPC's Cloud Navigator app is for Android tablets, and is a central hub to access files and documents stored in various cloud services: Dropbox, Google Docs, Facebook, Flickr, Evernote, Box.net, Instagram and SugaSync. A future update will add the ability to upload files and share them between services.AndroidDoodlecast for KidsiOS-owning parents with children who like to chatter as they draw will love Doodlecast for Kids. It's a digital painting app which uses the microphone to record what your child is saying while they create – and which then turns this into a video that can be shared with friends and family.iPhone / iPadKinderTownApple still doesn't have a separate Kids category on its App Store, with apps for children dispersed between Books, Games, Education and Entertainment. New app KinderTown aims to help parents find the good stuff, cataloguing more than 47,000 educational apps, and getting teachers, parents and children to test them.iPhone / iPadSuperRopeCasual game SuperRope already has more than two million players on iOS, so developer Craneballs Studios has brought it to Android. It features rope-climbing coin-collecting action.AndroidCondition ONECondition ONE is a new iPad 2 app that promises "next generation immersive video". How? Watch its videos, and you can control a virtual camera, looking up, down, left, right and diagonally. The demonstration videos are from military campaigns: an eerie cross between news footage and first-person games.iPadSpielberg: The Man, The MoviesBauer Media's Empire magazine has released a new iPad app devoted to film director Steven Spielberg, offering reviews, features, interviews, trailers and clips from his movies.iPadHot Wheels RC iNitro Speeders for iPadMattel's latest app aims to connect iPads with its iNitro Speeders range of remote-controlled cars. It turns the iPad into the controller for the cars, while also including a standalone game to play with virtual versions.iPadPlaydPlayd is a mobile social network based on checking in Foursquare-style to console and PC games. "Discover new games among your friends, and engage in discussions with other gamers around your favorite titles. Earn rewards in the form of tokens and and/or DLC content that can be unlocked in game," promises its store listing, which also suggests consoles can be connected to the app to make such check-ins automatic.iPhone / AndroidStuck On EarthStuck On Earth wants to be "a new kind of travel app", and has already won an Audience Pick award at the Launch conference in the US for its charms. The iPad app offers a mix of locations and photos, targeting three kinds of people: photographers, explorers and daydreamers.iPadLook in My Eyes: Steam Train 2"Do you have a young train lover who needs practice with eye contact?" asks the App Store listing for this new app from FizzBrain. The idea: children can play with virtual trains and travel the world, but also practice looking into characters' eyes. It comes with strong testimonials for the previous version from parents with autistic children.iPhoneTalking Horse – Jumps Season 2011/12Weatherbys has released a new version of its Talking Horse app, which provides betting tips for the horseracing jumps season, including listings of races, horses and jockeys.iPhoneMadden NFL 12EA is certainly putting some welly behind RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet: Madden NFL 12 is its latest big franchise to make the leap to the device, offering similar features to the existing iPad version.BlackBerry PlayBookMixeliPad app Mixel claims that it "completely reinvents collage so that everyone can do it" – an art application that mixes and matches images to share with other people.iPadeToro OpenBookInvestment network eToro has launched an HTML5 app for its OpenBook social trading platform, which works on iOS and Android smartphones and tablets. It offers traders the key features from the website version, with its mobile web nature keeping it flexible for future devices and platforms.HTML5CodeRunnerCodeRunner is the latest location-based game for iPhone, which wants to get players running around their town or city hunting virtual enemies, hacking wireless networks (not real ones) and bugging mobile phones (and again..) to discover the secrets of "The WOMBAT Project".iPhone
Uh-oh, it's Monday. How did you spend the weekend? Let me guess... Skyrim? Am I close?
London will begin to switch on 4G high-speed mobile internet with the launch of the first large-scale public trial in Britain.Initiated by O2, Britain's second largest operator with 22 million customers, the trial involves more than 25 masts covering 15 square miles in Canary Wharf, Soho, Westminster, South Bank and King's Cross. It will run for nine months, and the equipment installed will eventually become part of O2's first commercial 4G network.The technology is 10 times faster at navigating the internet than the current 3G networks, which often frustrate smartphone users because they are significantly slower than the average home broadband connection. The 25 masts in London will be able to carry more data than O2's entire national 3G network.Britain's 4G or long-term evolution (LTE) upgrade, expected to begin in earnest in 2013 after a much delayed spectrum auction, will make mobile networks powerful enough to handle video calls, high definition TV and live multi-player gaming. About 1,000 users will be invited to join the London trial, including staff at John Lewis department stores, O2 customers and selected small businesses.Network operators are hoping 4G will give them the capacity to connect more than phones, with cars, gas and electricity meters and even fridges all expected to be able to send and receive messages over the airwaves in future."There's no doubt that the mobile networks will have the capacity to support everything being connected," said Ronan Dunne, UK chief executive of O2,.  "We will start the dialogue with business about what are the new use cases, putting onto mobile what we used to do on fixed line in the past."Initially, the O2 trial will not involve phones, because no compatible handsets exist yet. Samsung dongles will be handed out to plug into tablets and laptop computers, as will portable miniature modems that can create small WI-FI hotspots linking into O2's 4G infrastructure or "backhaul".A smaller public trial opened last month in Cornwall, where Everything Everywhere is collaborating with BT Group to bring fast mobile internet to 200 people in the village of St Newlyn East for a three-month trial.LTE has been deployed commercially in Germany and Scandinavia, though it is mainly used to connect computers via dongles rather than for phones.Dunne dismissed fears that Britain will fall behind the rest of Europe in introducing 4G. "This is demonstrable evidence of my intent. We'll all be ready to get off the blocks as soon as the spectrum is cleared. Nobody will have a national network on day one, but there is the opportunity to have significant coverage ready to go."The UK auction has been pushed back into the second half of 2012 after veiled legal threats from O2 and Vodafone, who are unhappy with the terms of the auction which they believe could give rivals Everything Everywhere and Three an unfair advantage. Culture secretary Jeremy Hunt is aiming to thrash out a compromise so that theregulator Ofcom can publish its auctionrules in the summer of 2012.Spectrum for 4G will not be available until the airspace is cleared when the analogue television signals are switched off at the end of 2012. O2, which has spent £500m upgrading its network this year and is likely to spend a similar amount in 2012, will not disclose what proportion of its network will be ready for switchover on day one, but it will cover large urban areas.The new technology is capable of speeds of up to 150 megabits per second. During the trial, users will be more likely to experience average speeds between 25Mbps and 50Mbps. When 4G is introduced nationally the average speeds are likely to drop to between 10Mbps and 15Mbps. This is faster than 3G, which averages between 1Mbps and 1.5Mbps, and compares well with the average household, fixed line broadband connection, which rose to just under 7Mbps this year.Live gaming against other players and video calling without delays will become possible from phones, because the speed at which new information loads onto the screen will be reduced from 1 second to 0.07 seconds.
Price £39,930MPG 31Top speed 155mphLast summer the celebrity chef and motor enthusiast James Martin set out on a week-long tour of these isles in search of our best and worst roads. Packed into his car and funded by Mobil 1 was enough scientific testing equipment to give even Professor Brian Cox something to think about. State-of-the-art technology measured noise and vibration, driveability and congestion. James's heart rate, sweat and stress levels were also recorded. It turns out that the A74 from Lanarkshire to Kirkton is both the bumpiest and noisiest road in Britain, with decibel levels of 80 meaning it's as loud as having a whistle-happy referee sitting in the backseat. Overall, the worst road is the M1 at Sheffield and the best the A82 from Glasgow to Fort William. But what makes a road good to drive is so much more subjective. For me nothing ever beats the big-sky thrill of cresting the final tussocky hill on the beach-bound road that sweeps towards Burnham Overy Staithe. It means a&nbsp;week of family, cards, crabbing and the dizzying openness of Holkham's sands. It also means a week of driving on the empty roads of the Norfolk coast.Deserted roads are things I fantasise about. Trouble is, this is increasingly becoming nothing more than a&nbsp;fantasy. Last month the number of cars on the world's roads passed the 1,000,000,000 mark – a fact drowned out for many by the global population hitting 7bn at the same time.If you divide a&nbsp;country's population by the number of cars owned and then by the total length of the roads in that nation, you come up with some arresting figures. In the UK there are 143 cars per mile of road.  In Australia it is just 31. In the US it is 60 and France 61. Spare a thought for South Korea, where it is 298. (Thanks to Wards Auto for doing the sums – maths has never been my strong suit.)This week I've been sniffing out empty tarmac whenever I can as I've been driving the intoxicatingly powerful Audi RS3 Sportback. The race-tuned hot hatch with 335bhp, four-wheel drive and a&nbsp;seven-speed dual-clutch gearbox fizzes and crackles with energy. Sit behind the wheel, engine burbling and popping, and you feel like a&nbsp;comatose patient in the seconds before the defibrillators are strapped to your chest.The A3 may be Audi's rather dull mid-level family hatchback. But what is crucial here is the RS. The initials come from the Germanrenn sport,which translates as "racing sport". The elite RS models are designed, developed and produced by Audi's high-performance subsidiary Quattro GmbH, at Neckarsulm. The RS3 costs almost £40,000 – double the price of a standard A3, but the cheapest RS ever produced. The car is leathery and luxurious, as you'd expect from a&nbsp;premium Audi. However, the 2.5-litre turbocharged five-cylinder engine is truly astonishing. To put it through its paces I set off with my 15-year-old son to root out the emptiest roads we could find. I found that accelerating from 0-62mph in 4.6 seconds produces enough adrenalin to rouse even the most morose teen from their torpor.After the highs, a sugar low. We pulled into a drive-thru Krispy Kreme, where I discovered 4.6 seconds is  also how long it takes a hungry boy  to demolish a Glazed Original.And if you need a second opinion…Just as I was preparing to publish my review of the Audi RS3, I received an unsolicited email from a young man named Tyrone (@rollinwithtyty). He also happened to have written a review of the RS3 and, believing that two voices are usually better than one, I thought you might like to see it too…For a family-sized five-door hatchback to seduce me into spending £40,000+, it would have to make my toes curl sideways. Quite frankly, the RS3 sort of does. Upon start up, the breathtaking 335bhp, 2.5litre turbocharged five-cylinder TT RS engine rumbles in a manner most menacing. The flappy paddle seven-speed twin-clutch S-tronic gearbox and Audi's legendary Quattro 4WD system are all weapons grade. I'm convinced the sheer grip of the thing can shift the earth's tectonic plates.It's monumentally fast and the 0-60mph in 4.6 seconds entices you to drive as if you've taken complete leave of your senses. If you have a partner waiting at home for you of an evening, they'll be convinced there's someone else, because the RS3 consistently lures you into taking the long way home for no reason but the thrill of it. It's like therapy – it allows you to release your "inner thug" during the journey back to mundane civilisation.The therapist's "couch" is, in fact, a Recaro bucket seat and the interior is of a quality you'd expect from Audi. There's much wizardry and illumination on display and along with the dashboard's cockpit-like display, the night drive is lit like Vegas. There are subtle reminders aplenty that you're driving a covert warmonger; RS3 badges, aluminium foot pedals and a limiter which introduces itself at 155mph.Externally, the deep front grille with twin air intakes, carbon-fibre flared front wings, 19in, five-spoke alloys, the rear roof spoiler and diffuser, again remind you of the combatant threat – in a stealthy Euro-fighter sort of way. The LED running lights also swagger ominously. Its GT-esque ground-covering capability gives you the impression that it'll cross continents willy-nilly before asking: "What now?"Ride quality is a tad firm due to the front strut and rear multilink suspension, but stopping power is immense. The huge 370mm discs surrounded by four piston callipers explain why, and the steering is so precise, you'll think it's laser guided. Disappointingly, it doesn't sound like a Eurofighter, even with the optional Sport mode activated, which opens up the exhaust system's "sonic flap" (and sharpens throttle response), it still doesn't crack the sound barrier.So, the RS3's a Eurofighter! You can use it to shoot to Europe, drop hellfire, then head back sonically (whilst attending therapy) – and all before tea-time. Moreover, you can do it with the kids in the back, a fair-sized boot full of their trash and little would the cherubs know – you'd have launched a pre-emptive strike before they can say: "Are we there yet?"I say it's all terribly exciting. Your bank manager will say "It's all frightfully expensive." He'll also point out there's a Golf-R (VW's Eurofighter) which does the same sort of thing – though not as savagely – for eight grand less. The problem with this is that while the RS3 definitely curls your toes the fact that the money man undeniably has a point will most certainly uncurl them.
When a fellow MP once observed to Ernest Bevin, foreign secretary in the postwar Labour government, that his cabinet colleague Herbert Morrison was "his own worst enemy", Bevin – who loathed Morrison – famously replied: "Not while I'm alive, he ain't." I keep thinking of this every time Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, appears in the news. The man does indeed appear to be his own worst enemy – alienating all but the most sycophantic supporters, repudiating his "authorised" biography, and so on. The impression one gets from conversations with people who have worked with him is that, as a colleague, he makes the late Steve Jobs look like St Francis of Assisi. But the truth is that Assange has far more formidable enemies than himself. And many of them work for what we might now call "old media".This was particularly evident when the "Cablegate" controversy erupted a year ago. The US government, impaled on its ownwindy rhetoricabout the importance of a free and open internet as a scourge of authoritarian regimes, suddenly found itself on the sharp end of a spot of networked journalism. And it responded by launching a ferocious attack on WikiLeaks which has been subsequently dissected by the Harvard legal scholar Yochai Benkler.In his paperProf Benklerchronicles how the US government vastly overstated the extent of the actual threat of WikiLeaks. But, more significantly, he also shows the extent to which mainstream US media connived in this enterprise. He analysed all the news stories at the time of the embassy cables release and found that in the first fortnight of the controversy about two-thirds of news reports in the US explicitly misstated what WikiLeaks had released – claiming that hundreds of thousands of cables had been "dumped" online at a time when only a few hundred cables had been released, in redacted form, and only after they had already been published by one or more of the traditional newspaper partners in the endeavour (theGuardian, theNew York Times,El PaísandDer Spiegel)."The pattern of misreporting in the news media,"Benkler maintains, "fit the pattern of overstatement by government actors, both administration officials and senators. It fed into a description of WikiLeaks as though it was some terrorist organisation as opposed to what it is, which is, in fact, a journalistic enterprise." The US vice-president Joe Biden described Julian Assange as "like a hi-tech terrorist" – a phrase that Benkler characterises as capturing "the overstated, overheated, irresponsible nature of the public and political response to what was fundamentally a moment of journalistic disclosure".The most depressing thing about old media's treatment of the controversy was its implicit denial that, in the end, WikiLeaks and traditional news organisations are in the same business – namely publishing, in the public interest, information that powerful agencies in society wish to keep secret. The idea that WikiLeaks might be entitled to the same first amendment protection that US news organisations enjoy doesn't seem to have occurred to many of the print journalists who gleefully traduced the website and its erratic founder.And yet, as Benkler puts it, if Bradley Manning (the whistleblower who allegedly supplied WikiLeaks with the confidential information) "had walked off a military base in Oklahoma and handed the disc with the files to the editor of a tiny local newspaper of a small town 100 miles away, we would not conceivably have treated that local newspaper as categorically different from theNew York Times. Indeed, we lionise the local newspaperman as a bulwark against local corruption".Quite. By conniving in the "framing" of WikiLeaks as a terrorist organisation, old media were implicitly rendering it ineligible for constitutional protection.  And, worse, – this also enabled them to overlook what amounts tolegalised torture of Private Manning by the US authorities.The strangest thing of all is that theNew York Times– which, remember, was a partner in the release of the redacted diplomatic cables – has been perhaps the sharpest old media critic of WikiLeaks. Last week its esteemed media columnist,David Carr, returned to the fraywith a piece about WikiLeaks's current financial and other problems and asking "Is this the WikiEnd?" And yet Carr's employer is the same newspaper thatreleased the Pentagon papers in 1971– and went all the way to the supreme court to defend its right to do so. I can't see much difference between what WikiLeaks did with the cables and theNew York Timesdid with the Pentagon papers. The lesson for old and new media  alike is simple: from now on, we're all in this together.
With more than a century worth of history, it's little wonder cinema finds itself endlessly rehashing its greatest moments for a quick buck. Video games, however, have no such excuse. As they're still in their relative infancy, it's simply depressing to see a 14-year-old classic already being remade. Which makes a further twist of the knife, in this case the remake being rebooted just a year later, inexplicable.GoldenEye: Reloadedis an HD twist on last year's Wii game, itself a retelling&nbsp;of the Bond film – with Daniel Craig replacing Pierce Brosnan and the story neatly updated; fewer gadgets, more brutality.Single player is entertaining, if short, with neat nods to the original, but it feels dated with linear levels and poor AI. The enhanced multiplayer, however, is whereReloadedshines. There's four-player split screen for retro fun, with up to 16 players scrabbling to be Oddjob online. It's just a shame no one is refreshing the FPS genre in the same way the original did back in the 90s.
WhileModern Warfare 3unsurprisingly dominates sales and publicity in the weeks surrounding its release, there's a sharp, nuanced game making inroads on its flanks – and players willing to experiment withDoDonPachiwill be rewarded with a very different kind of shooter, one making its debut in the UK.DoDonPachi: Resurrectionis the latest in a long-running series of arcade games from Japan, where the 2D shooter genre that started with the likes ofSpace Invadersremains popular&nbsp;today.Like almost all the output by cult developer Cave,Resurrectionis both difficult and intense. Beneath the game's apparent simplicity – dodging fields of bullets and shooting down enemies on a 2D plane – lies a complex scoring mechanic that requires great skill to master. It is very short yet really engaging, with the gameplay itself offering hours of manic, entertaining fun.
