Internet trolls are attempting to get police Swat teams sent to the homes of critics of Gamergate in an escalation of intimidatory tactics.Five police officers were sent to the home of a Seattle-area web developer after an anonymous tip was phoned in, in the latest attempted “swatting” attack linked to the Gamergate movement.Swatting – also known as “SWATing” – involves placing hoax distress calls to police departments in an attempt to encourage the dispatch of an armed response team to the targeted address.Such hoaxes – which more commonly involve the sending of takeaway food to be paid for on delivery – can be conducted from anywhere in the world with little chance of the culprit being traced, making them a popular intimidation tool.Related:Gamergate: a brief history of a computer-age warWeb developer Israel Galvez, the most recent swatting target, is a prominent opponent of Gamergate, a movement opposed to the increasing prominence of feminist critics and designers in gaming.Aware of the use of swatting, Galvez had warned his local police department that they may receive such hoax calls, in order to prevent a full scale police response with the potential for a tragic outcome.Heavily-armed police units have been known to respond to calls with overwhelming force. In October,a man in Utah was shot and killedby a Swat team dispatched after he had called a suicide hotline, and in November, a Swat team wasvideoedshooting and killing a dog after responding to a dispute between neighbours.The swatting incident, the second this week linked with Gamergate, was co-ordinated on the “baphomet” subforum of the 8chan image board, a 4chan-style community which has become a hub of the movement, along with a subforum on the social news site Reddit.Once the group had Galvez’s personal details, including his address, they sent his information to community colleges, car dealerships, and magazine subscription services, before making the hoax distress call to police.The board also attempted to swat a former member-turned-critic, Grace Lynn,successfully sending 20 police officers to her former home in Portland, Oregon, in early January. An anonymous caller claimed he had taken “multiple hostages and was threatening violence”, according to local newspaper reports.The term swatting dates back to at least 2008 . But the practice has become more serious in recent years, witha campaign in 2013 to swat multiple celebritiesincluding Tom Cruise and Ashton Kutcher.
David Cameron is “living in cloud cuckoo land” when he suggests a new Tory government would ban messaging apps that use encryption, security experts have told the Guardian.The prime minister has pledged anti-terror laws to give the security services the ability to read encrypted communications in extreme circumstances. But experts say such access would mean changing the way internet-based messaging services such as Apple’s iMessage or Facebook’s WhatsApp work.Independent computer security expert Graham Cluley said: “It’s crazy. Cameron is living in cloud cuckoo land if he thinks that this is a sensible idea, and no it wouldn’t be possible to implement properly.”Other security experts echo Cluley, describing the approach as “idiocy” and saying Cameron’s plans are “ill-thought out and scary”. The UK’s data watchdog has also spoken out against “knee-jerk reactions”, saying moves could undermine consumer security.Meanwhile a start-up has warned on the possible effect on Britain’s nascent technology sector of Cameron’s plans. Eris Industries, which uses open-source cryptography, has said it is already making plans to leave the UK if the Conservative party is re-elected with this policy in its programme.On Monday, Cameron made a speech in which he decried the ability of ordinary people to have conversations on which the security services were unable to eavesdrop.“In extremis, it has been possible to read someone’s letter, to listen to someone’s call, to mobile communications,” Cameron said. “The question remains: are we going to allow a means of communications where it simply is not possible to do that? My answer to that question is: no, we must not.”Cluley said either tech companies would have to work with UK government and build backdoors into their software to allow the authorities to intercept messages, or the apps themselves will have to be banned.“If there are backdoors in the apps, or if weak encryption is used, then you are only opening up opportunities for hackers to break in and steal information too. That’s not going to go down well with businesses or consumers,” Cluley said.Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge, said: “This is just what the agencies pushed in the late 1990s, after Al Gore persuaded Tony Blair to go back on his pre-election promise not to ban encryption.“Industry fought back, along with civil society, and the outcome was the Rip Act, which gives a chief constable the power to demand decryption.”Peter Sommer, professor of cybersecurity and digital evidence at de Montfort and the Open Universities, said: “The National Crime Agency and the people there understand that relationships with people and the companies like Google are important, as they will help you, but passing laws and badmouthing in public is simply not going to work,”“But at the top there’s been the kind of idiocy exemplified by what happened in the basement of the Guardian, where there were obviously lots of copies of the Snowden material but they insisted on the destruction of a computer that might have been used for storing them.”“Yes you can pass laws in Westminster until you’re blue in the face but you can’t enforce them,” said Sommer.The UK’s data watchdog, the Information Commissioner Christopher Graham and data privacy campaigners were equally worried by Cameron’s comments and the implications it could have on data security and privacy.“We must avoid knee jerk reactions,” said Graham. “In particular, I am concerned about any compromising of effective encryption for consumers of online services.”“Citizens, businesses, and nation states need to protect themselves. Internet companies are understandably offering their customers online services that are better encrypted following recent security incidents,” said Graham.“Cameron’s plans appear dangerous, ill-thought out and scary,” said Jim Killock, director of the Open Rights Group. “Having the power to undermine encryption will have consequences for everyone’s personal security. It could affect not only our personal communications but also the security of sensitive information such as bank records, making us all more vulnerable to criminal attacks.”“The only practicable way forward is a new international treaty on access to communications data and content, which must involve safeguards that will be acceptable to all,” said Anderson.Preston Byrne, the chief operating officer of Eris Industries, warns that his company will be forced to leave the UK if Cameron’s comments on the technology become policy, and move to “more liberal climes such as Germany, the U.S., the People’s Republic of China, Zimbabwe, or Iraq.”Byrne, who is also a fellow at the London-based free-market think tank ASI, told the Guardian that “secure open-source cryptography is at the core of our business… so we were able to make the decision more or less immediately.”Eris Industries uses technology loosely based on the bitcoin cryptocurrency to build a decentralised network, with potential applications in communications, social networking and community governance. But,Byrne warns, “none of these benefits can be realised without secure cryptography, including end-to-end encryption.“David Cameron has said this measure is designed to ‘modernise’ the law. He fails to understand the full extent of how out of date the law is. The only way you can shut down cryptographic distributed networks today is to either arrest the vast majority of (or in the case of a blockchain database, all) persons running a node and ensure that every single data store containing a copy of that application database is destroyed; or shut down the Internet.”As a result, he tells the Guardian, “I’d be very surprised if the Conservatives stick to their guns on this.”One insider at a major US technology firm told the Guardian that “politicians are fond of asking why it is that tech companies don’t base themselves in the UK”.“I think if you’re saying that encryption is the problem, at a time when consumers and businesses see encryption as a very necessary part of trust online, that’s a very indicative point of view.”
With a flurry of Android Wear smartwatches already on sale, and the Apple Watch coming this spring, some mobile developers are already exploring the potential for wearable games.One of them is Six to Start, whichcrowdfunded its smartphone fitness game Zombies, Run! on Kickstarterin 2011, and went on to sell around one million copies across iOS and Android.Chief executive Adrian Hon was enthusiastic about the creative potential for smartwatch and wearable games in a speech at the PG Connects conference in London, but warned peers off expecting a gold-rush comparable to smartphone and tablet gaming.“I just want to inject a dose of scepticism here,” said Hon, towards the end of a talk challenging developers to look (and think) hard before they leap into wearable gaming.He began by talking about Zombies, Run! which puts people in the midst of a zombie apocalypse, and gets them to play by running in the real world.“When we designed this three years ago, there weren’t really any popular smartwatches or things like Google Glass, but we treated the smartphone as a wearable computer,” he said.“A lot of people wear their smartphone on their arm when they go out running: it’s like a big, massive smartwatch that looks really stupid! And if they are wearing headphones, they can interact with a game and experience media.”Since then, the likes of Samsung, LG and Motorola have launched Android Wear watches;Apple has unveiled its Watchand released a software development kit for developers; and Google has launched a different form of wearable device: the Glass eyewear.Hon gave Android Wear and Glass in their current states short shrift. “To be perfectly honest, there are not that many people using Android Wear. It’s not a big market,” he said.“A lot of Android Wear devices are being sold for very low prices, which makes me quite concerned about the future of that platform. You can get an LG smartwatch for £70 or £80, which given that it retailed at £200 or £150, is not a good sign.”‘Google Glass? It’s not even worth prototyping for it’Hon suggested that “right now, we’re not seeing the consumer demand” for Android Wear smartwatches, although he admitted that this may partly be a chicken-and-egg problem of not many interesting apps available to sell them.Hon was more cutting about Google Glass, though, based on his experiences porting Zombies, Run! to the device. “Right now, the battery life for Google Glass is no good, the input is no good, it’s too expensive and you can’t use it when it’s raining,” he said.“It’s an interesting experimental device, but it’s not there for consumers yet. It’ll be interesting in five to 10 years time, but having made an app for Google Glass, it’s not even worth prototyping for it. It’s so far from a consumer-ready device that anything you learn will not be valuable in the future.”Six to Start is exploring smartwatches, in the hope that Apple Watch will be a success, and that Android Wear sales will also pick up steam partly on the back of that.He suggested that the most interesting challenge for smartwatch developers will be to think about these devices in terms of their new forms of input, particularly in situations when people aren’t able to look at a smartphone screen.“Whenever you’re thinking about making a smartwatch application, think about why someone isn’t just going to look at their phone, which has a bigger, better touchscreen display,” he said.“What are the situations when people are actually going to use a smartwatch? When you’re moving, on the go, when you’re exercising or don’t want to carry the phone with you. And we have new forms of input such as buttons, and new forms of output: the ever-present screen that you can see all the time.”Hon added that for fitness apps and games, one big benefit of a smartwatch is the “known body position” of the device – worn on the wrist, whereas a smartphone might be in-hand, in a pocket, buried in a handbag or strapped to an arm.“With health and fitness apps, we would love to know when people are doing push-ups or jumping or skipping or running, and with a smartwatch you know where it is on the body, which can help a lot with that,” he said.Zombies, Run! treated the smartphone as a wearable device.Hon warned that there are plenty of challenges in store for developers, even if smartwatches take off. Many of these are creative headaches.“It is hard to focus on a small screen while you’re moving, let alone while you’re running. If you’ve tried walking round looking at a smartphone, well, it will be harder if you’ve got a watch. And it will probably be unsafe, actually,” he said.“It’s something you have to think about if you do want people to look at their smartwatch or wearable while moving: maybe just show a colour – red is bad and green is good – because you have to simplify it. Otherwise people will have an accident and that’s not good!”What about if people aren’t moving? Hon suggested again that the smartphone will usually be the device of choice in those situations: “If they’re not moving, why aren’t people looking at their phone? They will still probably default to the phone if they want to get anything done.”Hon said that battery life may be a barrier for smartwatch apps and games, although he hopes that if these devices “train” their owners into charging them once a day, this may not be a big issue.The capabilities of the devices, for now, may be more restricting. “If you have looked at the Apple Watch SDK, there’s not a huge amount you can do,” he said.“You can do some interesting things in terms of notifications, in terms of setting things off on the phone, but particularly you can’t really have the watch work independently from the phone, and that’s the case for most Android Wear apps as well.“For early adopters that’s not going to be a problem: people will have their phone and watch on at the same time. But that’s not a mass audience.”‘A dose of realism: not many people are going to have these’Hon also outlined some business challenges for anyone hoping to make their fortune – or even a sustainable income – from smartwatch games in particular.“I don’t think that smartwatches at the moment are quite there in a position to be owned by most gamers, by which I mean over 50%. They’re not going to be cheap – Apple Watch is gong to be $350 and good Android Wear devices are $200 – and while everyone needs to own a smartphone pretty much, not everyone needs to own a smartwatch,” he said.“It’s a dose of realism: not many people are going to have these, and it’s going to be interesting to see how that works, particularly for freemium games.”Even so, Hon said there is lots of potential for experimentation by developers, including the physical fitness category that Six to Start focuses on. He warned that for now, there are “very few successes” in that genre for developers to take inspiration from.“I think it will take years to figure out what works here,” he said. “There’s no reason to believe there’s going to be a gold-rush as there was for iPhone and Android [games]. We don’t know yet if people are actually going to spend money on smartwatch apps either.”•Two months with Android Wear: the best smartwatches yet•Android Wear: the nine best free apps for Google’s smartwatch
Tinder, the dating app which has turned “swipe right” into a legitimate expression of romantic interest, has made its first acquisition, taking over messaging appTappy.Tappy, which will now cease to exist as a stand alone entity, marketed itself as a messaging app which was the antidote to texting.Similar toSnapchat, users would begin a dialogue by sending photographs to one another which disappeared after a period of time. In Tappy’s case, 24 hours.Unlike Snapchat, however, Tappy allowed users to start a message thread with photographs to create a visual dialogue.Launched in July 2014, Tappy promised: “It’s like having a live chat room attached to your fun and wacky moments.”Screenshots of Tappy’s interface from the Apple app store. Tappy will now cease to exist.Photograph: Chill Inc/AppleIt’s thought that Los Angeles-basedTinder– which has grown rapidly in popularity since its launch in 2011, to the point where it makes more than15 million“matches” a day (October 2014) – will use its acquisition of Tappy to improve its Tinder Moments service.Tinder Moments allows users to send self-destructing photos to those they have matched with, but interestingly not in private messages.Sean Rad, co-founder and CEO of TindertoldTechCrunch:“We’re very good at connecting people, but there’s this ‘what happens after that?’ moment that we want to improve.“We not only want to get better at the way we use criteria to connect people, but we want to broaden the reasons for connecting in the first place.“The Tappy team will help us tackle both fronts, the pre-match experience of creating that first connection and the post-match experience of communicating with that person.”Tappy, which was co-founded byBrian Norgardand Dan Gould, received $10m in funding from Los Angeles based start-upChill(also founded by Norgard). The terms of the deal have not been disclosed.On joining the Tinder team, Norgardsaid:“The chance to work with Sean was too strong of a draw because we knew that if we could couple Tappy DNA with Tinder DNA that we can do awesome stuff.“Messaging has gotten very overheated, and this gives us the chance to lead from the front.”•Tinder: the ‘painfully honest’ dating app with wider social ambitions
It’s Tuesday!
Facebook is weathering the growth of rival social networks including LinkedIn and Twitter well, according to anew study of Americans’ social media habitsby the Pew Research Center.Contrary to regular speculation that Facebook users are drifting away, Pew’s survey of 1,597 adult internet users in the US found that 71% were using Facebook in 2014 – the same percentage as the previous year.70% of Facebook’s American users said they visited the service every day, up from 63% in 2013.Pew also noted that Facebook use grew sharply among internet users older than 65, with 45% of them using the social network in 2013, but 56% in 2014. The only age group to see Facebook penetration fall was 30-49 year-olds, from 79% in 2013 to 73% in 2014.Pew suggested that rather than people fleeing Facebook for other social networks, the trend is more for people to use those rivals as well as Facebook. 52% of online American adults now use two or more social media services, up from 42% in 2013.LinkedIn and Pinterest were used by 28% of people canvassed in September 2014 for the study, up from 22% and 21% respectively the previous year. Twitter grew from 18% to 23% in the same period.Meanwhile, Facebook-owned Instagram has also been growing fast in the US according to Pew’s figures, which show 26% of adult internet users there using the photo and video-sharing app in 2014 – up from 17% in 2013.However, that figure rose to 53% for 18-29 year-olds, making it considerably more popular for that age group than Twitter (37%), Pinterest (34%) and LinkedIn (23%), although still some way behind Facebook’s 87%.Pew’s study does not tell the full story about social networking habits in the US, though. First, because it only focuses on adults, meaning that the apps and websites being used by teenagers are not examined.Second, and related, the study did not include apps like Snapchat, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.In August 2014, research firm comScore estimated thatFacebook Messenger had 39.2 million adult users in the US, while Snapchat had 26.5 million and Kik Messenger 17.2m. The company did not measure WhatsApp usage.•Facebook trumpets video growth as it prepares to take on YouTube
Spotify added 10 million new users in the last two months of 2014, taking it to 60 million at the end of the year according to new figures published by the streaming music company.15 million of those users were paying subscribers, up from 12.5 million in early November, when Spotify last released figures at the height of its dispute with musician Taylor Swift.The new figures were revealed in ashort blog post published by Spotify. The company has maintained its conversion rate of 25% of its users paying for the service since May 2014, when it reached 40 million users and 10 million subscribers.Spotify was already by some distance the most popular music subscription service in the world, with rival Deezer claiming 16 million users including six million paying subscribers, and subscription-only service Rhapsody having two million customers.Spotify’s numbers will have been swelled by apre-Christmas promotionoffering people three months of its premium subscription service for $0.99, rather than the usual monthly cost of $9.99.The company alsointroduced its “family plan” in November, enabling subscribers to add up to four family members with their own accounts on the service for $4.99 a month.However, the latest figures will be brandished by Spotify executives as more proof that the company’s free, advertising-supported tier, including thefree mobile version that it launched in December 2013, remains an important stepping stone towards paid subscriptions.“More than 80% of our subscribers started as free users,” wrote Ek in hisNovember blog postresponding to the furore around Swift’s removal of her music from Spotify. “If you take away only one thing, it should be this: No free, no paid, no two billion dollars.”The latter figure related to the amount of royalties paid out by Spotify since its launch in 2008, including $1bn paid out in 2014 alone.2015 will be a crucial year for Spotify, and not just in terms of whether the company can win over more of its critics among artists and songwriters. It will be facing growing competition from deep-pocketed rivals like Google and Apple, while also possibly going public with its long-anticipated IPO.•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?•Spotify v Artists: 10 things to read to understand the debate
How would you feel if your local bakery started demanding to see your last five text messages or the phone numbers of your friends before selling you a loaf of bread?Pretty startled, if the fear andloafingloathing exhibited by Danish shoppers in a hidden-camera video produced by the Danish Consumer Council is anything to go by.The consumer rights body wanted to raise awareness of the kind of permissions that smartphone apps routinely request, even if it’s not clear why they are needed.If Your Shop Assistant was an Appshowed what happened when a bakery assistant asked for similar permissions, including access to people’s text message history and details of their past movements.According to president Anja Philip, the video should make people think twice before sharing certain personal information with apps, if they are not sure how that data will be used.“They are for instance allowed to view your calendar and text messages, use your photos and see your location. Something that you would never accept in the physical world,” said Philip.“Companies should not collect more information about consumers than is strictly necessary. Instead we would like to encourage them to start competing to provide consumers with proper digital privacy protection.“This would enable consumers to choose services from companies that are concerned about protecting their privacy. This choice is largely absent today.”The topic of apps and privacy made headlines in 2014, for example when security company SnoopWall discovered thata range of popular Android torch apps were overreaching on permissionsincluding the ability to delete other apps, track location and view call details.The developer of one app, which had been installed more than 50 million times, wastaken to task by the Federal Trade Commissionin the US for not disclosing enough information to smartphone owners about its data usage.In September 2014, areport by the pan-governmental Global Privacy Enforcement Network(GPEN) studied 1,200 apps and found that 85% were failing to adequately disclose how they were collecting, using and sharing personal information.•Information Commissioner’s Office releases app privacy guidelines
If you’re looking for a quick way to burn through all your loose change, veteran electronics firm BayTek may well have the most efficient solution – a Flappy Bird arcade game.The Wisconsin-based company has just unveiledits new machine, based on the 2013 smartphone title, which became an unexpected viral hit in 2013. Requiring players to deftly tap one button in order to keep the onscreen bird in flight while avoiding a series of pipes, the game has been downloaded more than 50m times, at one point reportedly making over $50,000 a day in downloads and in-game ads.Although creator Dong Nguyen withdrew the game from sale for several weeks, allegedly worried about its apparently addictive impact, he later re-released it. Since then, a massive merchandising business has nested around the unlikely hit, with tie-in clothes, toys and books.The new arcade machine boasts a 42-inch screen, and a single giant red button to control the hapless avian hero. As players avoid pipes they earn tickets, which the machine fires out at the close of play. These can then usually be spent on items in the arcade shop.Flappy Bird is certainly not the first smartphone title to get the arcade treatment. The likes of Temple Run and Doodle Jump have also been successfully converted. It’s not yet clear, however, how many turns one coin buys you - most single Flappy Bird attempts last several second at most.A tie-in cartoon, movie and cable television drama series are surely already in the pipeline.
Anonymous, the leaderless collection of hackers, has begun an effort to eliminate terrorist Twitter accounts, in retaliation to theattackswhich took place in Paris last week.Twelve individuals werekilledduring an attack on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. Four people died in ashootingin a kosher supermarket and a policewoman was alsomurdered.The campaign by Anonymous, named #OpCharlieHebdo, seems to have been targeted by hoax marketing company,Rantic.Rantic, tied to the sockpuppet account@marielynn124, has registeredopcharliehebdo.comwhich redirects to Rantic.com. The faux marketing company has previous form for hoaxing.The OpCharlieHebdo Twitteraccounthas moved swiftly to distance itself from Rantic’s meddling.We&#39;re not responsible ofhttp://t.co/SBWJDNXpjH, this is a fake, and maybe a scam. Avoid it !#OpCharlieHebdo#JeSuisCharlie#CharlieHebdo&mdash; OpCharlieHebdo (@OpCharlieHebdo)January 8, 2015The #OpCharlieHebdo campaign released a statement in a Pastebinpost:“Anonymous has always fought for the freedom of speech, and will never let this right besmirched by obscurantism and mysticism. Charlie Hebdo, historical figure of satirical journalism has been targeted.Anonymous must remind every citizen that the press’s freedom is fundamental to democracy. Opinions, speech, newspaper articles without threats nor pressure, all those things are rights you can’t change.”A video, consisting of black-and-white photographs of protests in Paris and soundtracked by ominous moody music, was also posted toYouTube, expressing the aims of the group. Anothervideowas denouncedas fake.The main aim of the actual “operation” seems to be reporting terrorist Twitter accounts to have them removed.Do you want to help us ? Find terrorists twitter profiles, report them.#No2IS#JeSuisCharlie#OpCharlieHebdo#CharlieHebdo#StopDonkyLovers&mdash; OpCharlieHebdo (@OpCharlieHebdo)January 9, 2015Supposed marketing company Rantic has been quick to hijack the campaign. Rantic has a history linked to hoaxes and trolling.Before Christmas, Ranticregisteredtheinterviewstream.com domain, which was purportedly whereSonywould first streamThe Interview.Rantic is also thought to beresponsiblefor the website which appeared last year, EmmaYouAreNext.com, which hosted a fake countdown to non-existent nude photographs of Emma Watson.The website was presented as being the work of4Chan, the message board behind the hacking scandal which exposed photographs of celebrities includingJennifer Lawrenceand Kate Upton, in what became known as “The Fappening”.A false rumour was alsospreadby the group thatGrand Theft Auto Vwas to be pulled from PC release.It’s unclear what Rantic actually does, except forsell fake web trafficand social media followers. The group has been known to go bySocialVEVO, andBusiness Insiderand theDaily Dotreported last year that members included Jacob Povolotski, Yasha Swag, Swenzy, and Joey B.Rantic’s biggest claim to fame to date howeverappearsto be arap songabout pickles (8m views on YouTube).Taking credit for the #OpCharlieHebdo campaign seems to just be its latest meddling.This article has been corrected to remove a reference to Alex From Target. The viral sensation surrounding the teen which was claimed to have been started by a different marketing film,Breakr, and not Rantic.•Mark Zuckerberg, Apple and Google respond to Charlie Hebdo attack
More than 150 artificial intelligence researchers have signedan open lettercalling for future research in the field to focus on maximising the social benefit of AI, rather than simply making it more capable.The signatories, which include researchers from Oxford, Cambridge, MIT and Harvard as well as staff at Google, Amazon and IBM, celebrate progress in the field, but warn that “potential pitfalls” must be avoided.“The potential benefits [of AI research] are huge, since everything that civilisation has to offer is a product of human intelligence; we cannot predict what we might achieve when this intelligence is magnified by the tools AI may provide, but the eradication of disease and poverty are not unfathomable,” the letter reads.“Because of the great potential of AI, it is important to research how to reap its benefits while avoiding potential pitfalls.”The group highlightsa number of prioritiesfor AI research which can help navigate the murky waters of the new technology.In the short term, they argue that focus should fall on three areas: the economic effects of AI, the legal and ethical consequences, and the ability to guarantee that an AI is “robust”, and will do what it is supposed to.“If self-driving cars cut the roughly 40,000 annual US traffic fatalities in half, the car makers might get not 20,000 thank-you notes, but 20,000 lawsuits,” marking one potential legal pitfall. And the ethical considerations involved in using AI for surveillance and warfare are also noted.But in the long-term, the research should move away from the nitty-gritty, towards tackling more fundamental concerns presented by the field, the researchers argue – including trying to prevent the risk of a runaway super-intelligent machine.“It has been argued that very general and capable AI systems operating autonomously to accomplish some task will often be subject to effects that increase the difficulty of maintaining meaningful human control,” they write. “Research on systems that are not subject to these effects, minimise their impact, or allow for reliable human control could be valuable in preventing undesired consequences, as could work on reliable and secure test-beds for AI systems at a variety of capability levels.”The letter is also signed by physicist Stephen Hawking and entrepreneur Elon Musk, who has been outspoken about his fear of super-intelligent AI in the past.“I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, it’s probably that. So we need to be very careful,” the space-flight and electric-car pioneer said in 2014. “I’m increasingly inclined to think that there should be some regulatory oversight, maybe at the national and international level, just to make sure that we don’t do something very foolish.”Alongside Musk’s two major projects, SpaceX and Tesla Motors, he is also an early-stage investor in Vicarious, an AI research firm which aims to build a computer that can “think like a person,” and DeepMind, the Google-owned AI research company. He made the investments, he has said, becausehe fears a “Terminator”-style outcome if AI researchgoes wrong.•Elon Musk: artificial intelligence is our biggest existential threat
I don’t often see a YouTube video that truly worries me, but one from the LA Auto show in November still gives me shivers. It was meant to be reassuring and delightful, because it was showing how Google and Apple want to integrate their mobile phone systems – so your phone, basically – into car dashboards.Thevideois about eight minutes, with Dom Esposito trying out a Hyundai Sonata at the show that works with both Google’s Android Auto and Apple’s CarPlay. “We’re going to put these two head-to-head to see which one offers the best in-car mobile experience,” promises Esposito. And so the terror starts. He sits in the (left-hand) driver’s seat and shows how you plug your phone into a cable, which projects a version of the phone screen onto a dashboard display, which makes it “a little bit safer and easier to use it [your mobile] while you’re on the road”.No, Dom. No, it doesn’t. The Android Auto interface is like Android – stuffed full of more things on the screen than you actually need to interact with, and offering confusion at every turn. CarPlay (pictured) is better, because it tries to make you use voice control and a minimum of distraction. But safer? I’m not feeling it. The first concern comes just 1’40” in the video, where the perfectly sensible Google Now-style cards (showing your expected time to destination and the weather) are interrupted at the top of the screen by a notification – look, someone’s sent you a WhatsApp message. The reaction of the typical smartphone user (many of whom can be found in the comments of the piece) is: “Great, a notification!” The reaction of anyone who has ever thought about high-speed car impacts is: “Um, that looks a little dangerous.”It’s not perilous – yet. Tap on the notification and it’s read to you. You can then dictate a reply. But by 2’20”, Esposito is showing off the phone interface, with a dialpad so you can call people. At this point, alarm bells should ring. It’s hardly news that distractions cause accidents.Research from 2008, looking at nearly a quarter of a million road accidents in the UK that year, found that distractions such as talking on your mobile, eating, changing the radio station, shaving (shaving?) or applying makeup, or rubbernecking at other crashes caused 80% of accidents. And more than 2,500 people died in road accidents in the UK that year. Distraction kills.Watching Esposito poking and scrolling and prodding the Android Auto interface to switch between navigation, phone calls, and music, doesn’t seem like it’s tackling the root of that problem. How about Apple’s CarPlay? This appears at 4’30” in the video, and offers a very simplified dashboard – big icons (and not many of them). The main method of using the phone is via the voice system Siri, though you can reach the contacts, and also scroll through your music – not much of an improvement on Android Auto in the distraction stakes – though the big touch targets and insistence that you dictate, rather than look at, messages, seems a good step. Again, though, there’s a pop-up notification when a new message comes in, which looks like a great way to get distracted. Like Android, the messages are read to you by voice; they don’t appear onscreen.I know how distracting it is trying to change the radio stations, or get the heating levels right in a car; and we read about enough crashes where people were on the phone, or replying to a text. Just as worrying are the commenters on the video, who sing the praises of Android Auto because it has more things you can do at any time on each screen. That really misses the point of good interface design, which must be sensitive to context; offering lots of choices at a time when you want very few is bad, not good design. I’d have been happier if Esposito had shown off interfaces that offered the very minimum — maps, voice-only interactions. It’s not a problem if you walk along a street buried in your smartphone. In a car, it can be lethal.
Hacking group Lizard Squad may have been using “thousands of hacked home Internet routers” to run its LizardStresser service, which helps anyone launch distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks to knock websites offline.The grouplaunched LizardStresser at the end of 2014, shortly after its own attackstook down Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox Liveonline games services over the Christmas period.LizardStresser would charge all-comers between $6 and $500 to launch their own attacks on websites and internet services, with the high-profile console attacks serving as a “huge marketing scheme” for the group’s commercial ambitions according to one member.Now online security researcher Brian Krebs claims that LizardStresser was itself runningthanks to thousands of internet users failing to change the default passwordson their home broadband routers.“As it turns out, that service draws on Internet bandwidth from hacked home Internet routers around the globe that are protected by little more than factory-default usernames and passwords,” wrote Krebs in a blog post outlining his findings.According to Krebs, the malware used by Lizard Squad to build its network of “stresser bots” has been online since early 2014, and can affect commercial routers at universities and companies as well as homes.“in addition to turning the infected host into attack zombies, the malicious code uses the infected system to scan the Internet for additional devices that also allow access via factory default credentials, such as ‘admin/admin,’ or ‘root/12345’,” wrote Krebs.“In this way, each infected host is constantly trying to spread the infection to new home routers and other devices accepting incoming connections (via telnet) with default credentials.”Krebs worked with a group of unnamed – at their request – researchers who he claims are working with law enforcement officials and ISPs to help take infected systems offline, and thus disrupt the LizardStresser botnet.In the meantime, he advised internet users to always change the default credentials on their home router – including the user name and password – and also to encrypt the connection if they are using a wireless router.•Man ‘linked to Lizard Squad hack’ arrested over 2013-14 cyber-fraud
Visceral indie shooter Hotline Miami was one of the most notorious releases of 2012 – a relentless top-down-viewed blast-’em-up, following a masked hitman on a series of hallucinogenic assassination missions.But the title was just as well-known for its astounding soundtrack, a collection of raw glitch-fueled electronica, drawn from a range of underground EDM artists. The sequel, due this spring, is set to continue the trend. Soundtrack contributions from the likes of M|O|O|N, El Huervo and Perturbator have already been confirmed, as has one track from synthwave outfit Magic Sword, “In The Face of Evil”.The group will however, be providing another track from its forthcoming album, Volume 1 – and they’ve sent it to us for a listen. “The Way Home” is typical Magic Sword, a moody, fantasy-tinged electronic epic, drawing inspiration from classic 1980s synth movie scores. It’s very definitely prime Hotline Miami material.“One of the creators Jonatan Soderstrom reached out to us after a friend of his introduced him to our music,” said one half of the anonymous duo. “We really like the original Hotline Miami, so were excited to get involved with the sequel. Hotline Miami has a lot in common with 80s movies like Thief and Blade Runner. Movies like that and their synth-heavy soundtracks have always been big inspirations for us.”Here’s the track:In December, Hotline Miami publisher Devolver announced a special edition of the sequel, complete with a three-disc vinyl soundtrack album.
Virtual reality becomes a realityOculus Rift has reignited excitement around the possibilities of virtual reality. Last year, games such asEve Valkyrie,Elite: DangerousandAlien: Isolationwere demoed to critics and consumers using the Oculus headset, which resulted in enthusiastic discussion over the technological leaps that have been made in this area. Oculus Rift will be released this year and now has the support of Facebook, whichacquired the VR technology and the company behind it for $2 billion. Meanwhile, Sony has joined the VR battle with itsProject Morpheusheadset for PlayStation platforms, unveiled to the public in March last year. There are still some problems to overcome, including concerns about headaches, games design and price. But virtual reality is closer than it has ever been to transforming not just video games, but education, social networking, TV, retail and a whole host of other industries, too.Shigeru Miyamoto.Photograph: NintendoThe return of Nintendo’s magicianShigeru Miyamoto is the video games legend who created Mario, Donkey Kong, Zelda and countless other totemic characters for Nintendo. He has spent much of the last decade overseeing their development efforts, but with Wii U struggling for popularity – and big developers such as EA refusing to make games for it – he has returned to the design board to create three titles that demonstrate what the Wii U can offer. He gave the world a taste of these games at US expo E3 last year. The first was Project Guard, where players must defend against an invasion of robots. Then there was Project Giant Robot, which sees gamers build their own machines and battle each other. And the final title is a new game in the hit Star Fox series. We’ve only seen a glimpse of these projects, but the involvement of Miyamoto alone means they’re worthy of attention.Assassin’s Creed meets DickensThey’ve not all been masterpieces, butAssassin’s Creedremains one of the most exciting annual video game franchises, and 2015’s title will take on an extra special focus for UK gamers because it is set in Victorian London. Little is known about Assassin’s Creed Victory aside from some early concept visuals, but we should expect Oscar Wilde, Jack the Ripper and a whole host of Victorian celebrities to show up. And who knows, maybe some fictional stars could appear too, such as Dr Jekyll and Sherlock Holmes. England’s industrial age certainly offers a lot in terms of narrative potential, with dirty back alleys, cobbled streets and rattling stagecoaches to fight over. This will also be the first Assassin’s Creed helmed by Ubisoft’s Quebec studio, which suggests we might see a different take on the hit series this year.Halo 5: GuardiansThe Halo universe expands2014 was a good year for Halo enthusiasts, with the release ofHalo: The Master Chief Collectionfor Xbox One and the Ridley Scott-produced live-action web-series Halo: Nightfall. Yet 2015 will be the real ‘year of Halo,’ with a mobile game (Halo: Spartan Strike) and a TV series produced by Steven Spielberg, which is due towards Christmas. And these are all building up to one game:Halo 5: Guardians. Gamers have already been given a taste of what to expect from Halo 5 with an online multiplayer beta version, and it’s showing a lot of promise. There have been a number of welcome additions made to the series, such as the ability to float in the air, dash along the ground and crash down on enemies. We still know little about the story, but this is already set to be the biggest Xbox One game of 2015.The 3DS evolvesNintendo is no stranger to creating updated models of its recent hardware. The 3DS has already received two redesigns, including the super-sized 3DS XL, and the cheaper, 3D-less version, the 2DS. However, the next update for Nintendo’s portable console is the most extreme we’ve seen yet. The New 3DS and New 3DS XL feature additional buttons, an extra analogue ‘nub’, an NFC reader for those Amiibo toys and improved CPU to increase the speed of the console’s menus. That’s on top of the usual tweaks such as improved battery life and 3D screen. It’s almost like an entirely new console, and one game in particular – Xenoblade Chronicles – will only work on the New 3DS models. Interestingly, the New 3DS now has the exact same number of screens, buttons and sticks as the Wii U; could Nintendo be about to create games that will work across both consoles?Clash of the treasure-huntersTwo of the biggest names in action platforming go head-to-head for the first time in 2015. Sony’s developer Naughty Dog will follow-up its critically laudedThe Last of Uswith the fourth game in its Uncharted series – A Thief’s End. The PlayStation 4 exclusive will have a darker tone to the story than in previous iterations, and a 15-minute live demo (shown last month) highlights just how incredible the game is shaping up to be. Meanwhile, following the successfulTomb Raiderreboot in 2013, Lara Croft will return in Rise of the Tomb Raider. Little has been shown of that title besides a teaser trailer featuring Lara speaking with her psychiatrist, but what we do know is that the game is temporarily exclusive to Xbox One this Christmas, which will add extra spice to the rivalry between these two massive games.In with the newIt’s not all about the major sequels. Last year we saw ambitious new games such as Destiny and Watch Dogs, and that trend continues into 2015. Over the next 12 months we’ll see a new shooter from the creators of Left 4 Dead called Evolve, where one of the several players controls a giant monster. PS4 has several exclusive original titles, including Victorian action game The Order: 1886 and space exploration adventure No Man’s Sky. Microsoft has its time-bending third-person shooter Quantum Break, while Nintendo has Splatoon, a co-op shooter for Wii U where players must command a team of squid with paint guns. And one of the more intriguing titles is called The Division, an open world game for multiple platforms where a team of agents must prevent the collapse of society in the wake of a pandemic. There’s certainly no shortage of new ideas in 2015.Steam ControllerGolden age of SteamSteam is the world’s biggest digital PC games retailer and now it hopes to take on PlayStation and Xbox with its line of Steam Machines. These are pre-built PCs created by a number of different manufacturers (including Alienware, Gigabyte and more) all with a special operating system created by Steam. Each machine differs in specifications and price (ranging from the £350 to £4,000) but they have one aim: to make PC gaming simpler and more suited for the living room TV. Central to this is the Steam Controller, which is designed not just for games that use pads, but also for software that traditionally uses the keyboard and mouse – including strategy games. Steam Machines are unlikely to threaten Xbox or PlayStation, but if they work well, they should make the complex world of PC gaming significantly easier to access.The stuff that streams are made ofStreaming music via Spotify and watching TV and movies over Netflix has transformed how we consume entertainment. But the streaming phenomenon has yet to really work in video games.OnLive– the PC game streaming service – has had a difficult first few years, its pricing is high and the service is not without its faults (although it has significantly improved over the last 12 months). But in 2015 Sony will launch PlayStation Now – a new service that will stream PlayStation content (initially PS3 games, but PS4, PS2 and PS1 could follow) to a range of devices, including PlayStation consoles, Sony TVs and tablets. The idea of playing Uncharted without the need for a console is enticing, but the challenge will be getting the pricing right for everyone, and ensuring the technology is fast enough. PlayStation Now enters beta stage in the UK this year.Legend of Zelda saddles upNintendo’s fan favouriteLegend of Zeldaseries is back with two games. Majora’s Mask 3D is a 3DS remake of the N64 classic that is due in the Spring. The game weaves a dark tale where Link must save the world of Termina from being crushed by the moon in just three days. The game was criminally overlooked when it first launched in 2001, but it has since gained a cult status and fans campaigned for this remake. Also on the slate is an all-new Zelda adventure for Wii U. It is currently without a name, but we do know that gamers will have complete freedom in a world that is far larger than in any previous installment. Zelda games have a habit of slipping from their release windows, but Nintendo insists this ambitious and visually beautiful adventure will launch this year.More capers for the Caped CrusaderThe Batman: Arkham series is proof that not all licensed video games have to be mediocre. The London-based studio Rocksteady, who created the first two games in the acclaimed franchise, is returning for the final time with Batman: Arkham Knight. The story sees Batman confront Scarecrow, who has returned to unite his enemies in a bid to kill the Dark Knight. The Gotham City in Arkham Knight is five times the size of its predecessor (Arkham City) and introduces Batman’s gadget-infested vehicle, the Batmobile, for the first time. The game has already picked up numerous awards at the various events where it’s been demonstrated, and thousands of fans flocked to MCM Expo in London last October to get a glimpse of the game and speak to its creators. Batman: Arkham Knight is being developed solely for Xbox One, PS4 and PC and is set to arrive on June 2nd worldwide.The Millenium Falcon and Tie FightersPhotograph: AllstarThe Year of Star WarsFor all the excitement around video games in 2015, the real geek moment of the year will take place on December 18th, when Star Wars Episode VII: The Force Awakens arrives in cinemas. Nevertheless, the world of gaming will be getting in on the Star Wars mania with Star Wars: Battlefront. The original Battlefront and its sequel were third person action games released in 2004 and 2005, and were cult favourites. Several attempts at a third game were cancelled, but now Electronic Arts is planning to resurrect the series with this reboot. Very little information can be gleaned from its meagre teaser trailer and behind-the-scenes footage, but we do know it is being crafted by award-winning Battlefield developer DICE. If the studio can work its magic, and Battlefront lives up to its predecessors, then this could be the biggest game of the year.metal gear solid vPhotograph: PR HandoutMany happy returns...In truth, any number of projects could have made this list. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain is expected this year. Resident Evil returns in an episodic adventure called Revelations 2. Battlefield Hardline gets its belated launch in March. Ubisoft’s Rainbow Six franchise will finally make its comeback. Beat ‘em ups Mortal Kombat, Tekken and Street Fighter will receive new titles this year, and RPG fans have plenty to look forward to with The Witcher 3, Bloodborne and Fable Legends. Plus there are rumours of a slimline Xbox One and a new Wii U. 2015 is shaping up to be one of video games’ most exciting years.
What type of game is most philosophically suited to the new year? What’s the game equivalent of the feeling you get about now – the blank page, the year ahead waiting to be filled with things, the hopefulness and uncertainty, the determination? I suppose some might suggest a minimalist game, for that new year paring-back, or maybe a simulation game like SimCity, for that feeling of starting from scratch. But I’m going to posit the tower defence game as the genre that can tell us most about starting again and the complex business of New Year resolutions.The idea of tower defence games is there in the title. You have a tower – or a base, or a canyon pass, or a suburban home in the middle of the zombie apocalypse – and you have to defend it. But you’re not just firing rockets or arrows or laser beams as attackers arrive – instead, you have to lay your plans carefully in advance and then see how they unfold. You might be able to see where I’m going with this new year’s resolutions analogy already.In the moreishKingdom Rush, you’re defending medieval-fantasy-style environments against increasingly intense waves of demons, goblins, yetis and that well-known medieval staple: rocket-riding super-fighters. You take a look at the terrain, you pick from wizards, soldiers, bombers and archers to defend the territory. You position them. And then you unleash the hordes. You have to move quickly, because every enemy slain leaves you in a slightly different tactical position, with new opportunities to exploit. As your troops defeat the monsters, you can level-up the different kinds of emplacement, maybe ending up with machines that shoot lightning, or mages that can turn enemies into sheep.It’s not chess. But on the other hand chess too is a game of defending territory and laying plans of attack. There’s something very human and engrossing about games of battlefield plans. The ability it calls on – to imagine what others are going to do, to try to think more moves ahead than they can – might be one of the core skills of the human brain.Probably the breakout success of the tower defence genre isPlants vs Zombies. I can’t recommend this game highly enough, especially as it’s relatively family friendly (no young children), and doesn’t seem set up to tempt players to buy add-ons.Unlike so many rather dour and serious fighting games, Plants vs Zombies is, as the title suggests, joyfully funny.The setup is: you’re in the midst of a zombie apocalypse. This, of course, is bound to happen at any moment, so it’s as well to keep up your skills. All you have to defend your house is a range of supercharged, intelligent, aggressive plants – and we thought genetic modification of crops was going to cause the apocalypse; turns out they’re our saviours. You plant your rows of Pea-Shooters (obviously they’re mini-cannon that shoot peas), Wall-Nuts (they’re sentient nuts that form a wall; Tall-Nuts are even better), Winter Melons (they shoot melons that freeze opponents) and so on. You have only a limited number of spots to fill and you’ll have to leave room for sunflowers – which produce sun – to keep on purchasing the sun that buys the plants.It is about as much of an acid trip of a game as that suggests, but the mathematics of the game’s mechanics are both subtle and rock solid. Deciding which plants to pick to defend against different foes, coming up with a new idea about how to defeat a particularly tricky zombie, devising a flexible set of strategies that you can alter mid-game, and then constantly monitoring and course-correcting if things go wrong – all these elements of gameplay are highly engrossing as well as hilarious.So, I’m going to suggest that tower defence games have a little bit of advice for us about how to approach the new year, and how to think about the plans we make. Making plans is deeply pleasurable – from the number of stationery fetishists I know who like to start the year with new pads and pencils,I think the making of the plans can be much more enjoyable than putting them into effect. But in a tower defence game you learn that even the best-made plans need constant correction. Things change in the heat of battle.Games, like other forms of art, are very often a stylised version of real life. Most art takes a particular part of life – from domestic worries to state-sponsored killing – and emphasises it, refines it, dramatises it, extracts it from all the other parts of life that are constantly intermingled. I’m not sure I’ve seen a better representation of the interaction of strategy and tactics than the tower defence game. As in games, so in real life: the blank page of the year (or the zombie-filled garden) lies ahead. We lay our plans. But the one thing we know is that it won’t all go smoothly – that’s what makes it so exciting.
In the year Australia was meant to roll ahead with broadband infrastructure to rival other developed countries, the nation has found itself dropping well behind the curve when it comes to internet speeds.Australia’s average connection speeds rank just 44th in Akamai’s annual State of the Internet report released on Monday, down four places from the previous year’s report which examines internet connection speeds and broadband uptake around the world.Independent telecommunications analyst, Telsyte’s Chris Coughlan, told Guardian Australia that the drop-off is the result of delay, indecision and policy change on the national broadband network (NBN), the fibre optic network being rolled-out nationally.“We’ve stagnated,” he said. “Each time there has been a policy change with respect to the NBN it has resulted in a two-year delay in infrastructure being rolled out.”Under the previous Labor government the initial tender was to build a fibre-to-the-node network (FTTN), but because Telstra did not provide a compliant response, “that basically went out the window, that’s when they changed tack to fibre-to-the-premise broadband,” Coughlan said.“Because NBN couldn’t initially use Telstra’s copper network, NBN was put in the position of having to build its own network. “That was just four years in the making,” he said.Then Australia had a change of government which changed approach again, deciding to negotiate with Telstra for the use of their copper, switching the NBN back to its initial FTTN roll-out.“The only winner out of all this is Telstra,” said Coughlan. “Each time it opens up the books on renegotiating access to some of their critical infrastructure it gains more from it.”NBN Co and the government also face more pressure as the US pushes to change the definition of broadband. Federal Communications Commission chairman Tom Wheeler proposed raising the definition of broadband internet from 4Mbps downstream and 1Mbps upstream to 25Mbps down and 3Mbps up.The proposed category change “raises more doubts around FTTN if it is not engineered correctly,” Coughlan said.In order for Australia to move its internet rankings to at least the top 10, Coughlan said “basically, we need to get on and do it”.Any more delay “would just be dumb” he said.While many analysts and consumers have been critical of the NBN’s FTTN approach, arguing copper could potentially slow connection speeds by up to 50%, Coughlan said if done well, FTTN can still compete.“If FTTN is done well – and that means very short local loop lengths – then we can compete, right. However, if the local lengths are not less than 400 metres maximum, then speeds will suffer. Then we will really need to think about FTTP,” he said.A spokesman for communications minister Malcolm Turnbull said: “It is not always the ‘last mile’ connection that affects the line speed that an end-user can achieve, with a number of other limiting factors affecting the speed between Akamai’s server and the premises. However, it is a big concern that one in three users recorded speeds of 4mbps.“The key to the government’s reform of the NBN project is to make sure we deliver badly needed upgrades to our broadband infrastructure – to close the digital divide – much sooner and at less cost.“As the recent cost-benefit analysis of the NBN found, the greatest economic benefits of this infrastructure will be achieved by upgrading those with no broadband and poor broadband by 2020, many years ahead of Labor’s project. The study found the multi-technology mix will deliver $9 of economic value for every $1 of economic benefit delivered under Labor’s project.”
Jim McAuslan, British Airline Pilots’ AssociationWe welcome the development of new technologies – we are not about trying to stop drones. What we are about is trying to make them as safe as possible. We are trying to pull together different people in the industry and see whether we can come up with recommendations about how we make Britain a safe drone zone.We are thinking about registration of the drones, registration of the owners, a concept called geo-fencing which allows drones to be programmed so that they are not able to fly into areas that are at risk – and proper enforcement of existing regulations so, if someone is discovered flying in an unsafe way, they are prosecuted.Paul Rigby, Association of Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems and UAViate LtdWhat we need is more education, we need to ensure that the people know the rules. The Civil Aviation Authority has just published a document which tells you what the rules are. The airspace system is quite well organised – the military are flying out there, there’s commercial airlines, private pilots, gliders, parachutists – everyone knows what the rules are, everyone knows what they are doing until these consumerists turn up. They are the ones that are causing a bit of mayhem – the hobbyists aren’t a problem.Maybe it would be possible that when you go [to buy a drone], you have to sign an agreement to say that you know what you should be doing and you know what the rules are, and when you open your box there should be a list of the rules in there. Or maybe it should be mandatory that you have to be a member of a club and you can’t just buy it off the shelf unless you know what you are doing.Gerry Corbett, Civil Aviation AuthorityDrone flying is already proving to be a highly popular hobby. The CAA is working with other bodies, such as the police, to try to make a distinction between what are in effect flying toys – some of which can carry cameras – and unmanned, remotely piloted, aircraft. Toys can be controlled by existing public nuisance and public order legislation. Unmanned aircraft, on the other hand, should be overseen by us for public protection.At the moment people are generally flying sensibly and complying with the rules, such as keeping the drone within “visual line of sight”, keeping clear of other aircraft, and not flying close to people or buildings. There are dangers of course in the rules not being followed – not just for safety, but also for privacy and security. As the technology improves and the entry cost lowers, the public will certainly need to be assured that the appropriate controls are in place.Toby Pocock, SkyvantageAs a commercially approved drone operator by the CAA, Skyvantage adheres to the rules of flying UAVs and we are insured with public liability cover. However, the problem is not with licensed operators; it is with a few amateur enthusiasts. Theoretically, they should only be able to operate in designated “remote control” zones which currently exist but policing this is going to be very difficult. The fact that the drone can be operated remotely means flying it where it shouldn’t be is easy.Unfortunately, I cannot see any law being brought in or enforced until there is an accident. It is a shame as there will always be a few idiots who want to fly somewhere they shouldn’t, like near an airport or above 400ft and higher, well into airspace. Thousands [will have been] sold this Christmas so we may not have to wait long for a serious incident.Daisy and Kitty Jencks, Jencks &amp; CoWe use our drone to take aerial shots of parties and weddings, usually filming the venue before it has been dressed, then taking footage of the marquee and other props being put in place, and speeding the whole thing up. We don’t use it much to film guests, because people don’t like buzzing above their heads and wonder who’s filming them.Light regulation is a good idea – drones are easy to get airborne, but if they drop out of the sky, that’s serious. If users had to attend a half-day course, ideally costing no more than £75, that would be fair. Maybe resellers should bundle a training course voucher into the price of the drone? Obviously there need to be rules too.
Originating from the superb bonus levels inSuper Mario 3D World,Captain Toadis a Mario game minus the plumber’s primary form of transportation – jumping. Toad’s limited limb powers alter the genre significantly, from Mario’s high-mobility platforming to a much more sedate puzzle adventure. Each of the game’s 70-odd levels sees you moving a mostly defenceless Toad through the mushroom kingdom’s familiar archetypal tricks and traps, with the lack of leaping forcing many a new tactic. Manipulating the game’s camera is equally as important as moving the little guy, and every level requires an improvement in spatial awareness skills. Given its humble beginnings,Captain Toadpushes the concept further than one imagines it could and, just like its source game, it’s filled to bursting with ingenious ideas, in-jokes and irrepressible charm. Yet another highlight in the growing Wii U catalogue.
You taught yourself to code and built some apps, then sold your work to Yahoo! for $30m … easy-peasy?We did IT at school but it was just PowerPoint and all that stuff – coding wasn’t on the curriculum. But once I started downloading iPhone apps, I began to teach myself theObjective-Ccoding language with the specific goal of building apps. I just saw a massive opportunity and I had lots of ideas. Every app I developed was like a learning exercise and I’d get better through trial and error.Were you entrepreneurial at school, flogging Mars bars to your classmates?No, I wasn’t into any of that. But when I put my first app on the App Store, it made £79 in a day. And that’s when I realised there’s a material element to this.When you launchedSummly, which led to the deal with Yahoo!, how did it feel to be compared to Larry Page, Jeff Bezos and other Silicon Valley billionaires?I see myself as a work in progress, so there’s no point evaluating those kind of comparisons now because they don’t mean anything.The Summly app, which prompted the $30m deal with YahooPeople like Ashton Kutcher, Wendi Deng and Stephen Fry became investors in your company. Did you feel nervous doing meetings and being responsible for their money?I was nervous for my first TV interview and when I met Li Ka-shing [the Hong Kong billionaire who invested $300,000 in Summly in 2012] but I also saw that I had absolutely nothing to lose. I was making it up as I was going along, and I still am, because that’s how it works in the startup world. And so in that sense it’s liberating. And I could always go back to school … basically, this is better than homework.TheNews Digestapp you have created for Yahoo! builds on Trimit and Summly, your previous news summarisation apps. It provides users with 10-12 summarised news stories, twice a day. That’s quite a newspapery model?We had three quite radical dogmas with this product. It should be twice a day and not live; it should be finite, instead of infinite streams of information; and it shouldn’t be personalised – it is definitive, so we all read the same digest. There is this visceral moment where people throw away newspapers, which was totally missing in digital. And there’s also like a wider sense of people wanting to be in the know and intelligent, and if you’re reading personalised information you can never be assured that what you’ve read is important in a wider scheme.Yahoo News Digest, which was created by Nick D’Aloisio.Does that sense of completion work only for people brought up on newspapers?To me it was very natural. It’s all about use case. I don’t mind being overwhelmed with social media because it’s addictive and exciting for different reasons but something about news consumption, I think a lot of people may see it as a chore, something they need to do and don’t necessarily want to. And so for these utility-like behaviours, it’s really good to be in and out. So the simpler you can make the experience, the better, so that’s why we constrain it.Is the summarisation done purely by algorithms or are human beings involved?We realised very quickly it’s optimal to have a hybrid of editorial and algorithm. The two areas for human involvement are proofreading for the coherence, because no one’s solved the problem of natural language. And the second thing is the selection of the stories in the digest because, we can’t have any false positives – if things that shouldn’t be in the digest are, people will stop trusting the service.So do you think the summaries are improvements on the original stories? A story from a news service like AP or Reuters is already supposed to be pretty definitive and free of bias.Even an AP story is longer than it needs to be. We’re trying to kind of take the best bits from multiple sources, and that’s quite a hard thing. We’re still learning how to do it that’s why we still rely on editorial as well as algorithm. I think that’s a real benefit. Also it’s not just a textual summary, we augment the story with atoms of information such as Wikipedia entries, Tweets, maps and links to related stories. You can assimilate more information because a lot of it is visual rather than text.Do you see what you do as part of the “explanatory journalism” trend, likeCircaorVox?Yeah a little bit. I think it is very educational, people are preparing for Oxbridge interviews using the app, especially PPE students. It used to be the Economist, now it’s Digest.You’ve talked about the “pseudo-gamification of news”. What do you mean by that?We wanted to have a reward mechanism, so there’s a motivation for reading more stories. At the moment it’s pretty low key, so as you read the stories, a little circle of check marks marks your progress. If you read all the stories you unlock a little bonus piece of content. It could be factoid or a might be a quote. We’d love to introduce some more reward elements; that’s been happening in games forever.Isn’t it a bit depressing that you have to give people tokens to make them read more news?We’re not paying people, we’re just giving them bits of ancillary information. Knowing that there’s something else is a good motivator, and a lot of products do that ... and it’s fun.You’re developing News Digest for the forthcoming Apple Watch. How many words could you get on an Apple watch?Two or three sentences at most. We’re thinking very closely about what’s the optimum length of information for a watch. Our hypothesis is that we expect there’s going to be an extremely high frequent number of sessions, hundreds and hundreds of sessions. But micro length, so like five seconds, two seconds, 10 seconds. We’re trying to think of what’s the most novel news experience you can have, that’s very much focused on the time and tempo element of the watch and the small screen. It’s amazing working with Apple on that stuff.Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during the launch of the Apple Watch.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersAre the visions of AI outlined by film-makers in movies likeHerpretty good guesses of where we are heading?I thinkHeris a pretty good guess. Not in terms of how it ends but the stuff about a virtual assistant which has a personality and can adapt around you. I think it won’t be as great as what it is inHer, but the Siri is now a very primitive example of what it can be. My dream is an assistant who would teach me about things around me. I think that’s coming in the next 10 or 20 years.What do you mean by that?So as I’m sitting at this table, it’s explaining about convection currents and the heat. It’s telling you what calories are in that chocolate eclair. If you say something I don’t understand it explains what that word means. It’s aware the whole time.Sounds like more information overload.I guess it is but it’s relevant information. Basically it’s a virtual brain. I would love that.So we’re 10 years from a virtual brain?I don’t know about the singularity but I think predictive systems are getting better at determining what you want to learn or what you want to ask.The virtual brain knows what you want before you realise it yourself?No, but without me having to actually input “what’s the weather like”?, it can tell from sensory data that my body temperature’s changed, and therefore I might be wondering why has the change happened. So it’ll tell me that the weather’s just dropped or whatever. There’s a lot of things you can do with prediction based on the sensory stuff. The Apple Watch is a great example of prediction through biometrics.Elon MuskandStephen Hawkinghave made alarming predictions about AI…I think they’re overestimating the power of it. When I say virtual, I do not think there’ll be a sentient cognitive brain that’s as good as a human. In specific domains the AI will get very strong. But this kind of generalist view that it’s going to be a brain as good as a human being – that’s almost impossible to see happening.What are the technical barriers to doing that?A lot of it is around learning. It’s easy to teach a computer how to recognise a mug or something, because you send it lots of information and it can build its own image of what a mug is. That’s possible because it’s a physical object ground in the physical world. But if you try and teach it an abstract concept, like God, how do you even begin to do that? Because a lot of what God is is grounded in what people’s own weird conceptions are, which are continuing to morph over time. It means something different to everyone. No one knows how to ground these very high level abstract concepts in a machine.Don’t you think AI could be dangerous in fields such as warfare?Obviously I think any automated technology has got potential danger but human error is worse.So would you rather be a passenger on an aeroplane piloted by a human or by a robot?I’d want both, I would want a hybrid. Not one or the other.I imagine you’re looking forward to completing your computer science and philosophy degree so you can move to the Valley full-time?I’m not at Oxford for the degree. It’s more just environment, you’re meeting others, really intelligent people who have completely different interests. And what I find refreshing at Oxford, compared to somewhere like Stanford, is that computer science is seen as very theoretical or mathematical, it’s not seen as entrepreneurial. In the Valley everyone cares about making money; at Oxford they’re the opposite.What will be an important trend in2015?Anonymity’s back in fashion – which is very much like the original web. A lot of people are scared of giving away their data, they want to go back to a very basic form of the internet. Similarly people are getting bored of streams of information and personalisation and they want to go back to simpler user interfaces. So products that are distilling and simplifying are going in the right way.If users are withholding their valuable data what’s the business model?It’s a great point. They’re going to have to come up with new ideas. But I think there needs to be an overhaul in monetisation, the advertising model is getting old, people don’t want to opt in. And ads are difficult to do on smaller screens, so they’re going to have to re-think the model now.Could you summarise this interview with your software?Algorithmically, it would be quite possible because there’s a question and answer structure. The algorithm could begin to look at the first few sentences of each answer, and trying to tell them which are most important. But I wouldn’t want to summarise an interview in that way. I would think it’s better the human does it. In the end it’s like there’s no point in doing AI for the sake of AI, it’s only when there’s a practical need. In the case of news information, because there’s such an abundance of articles, so much redundant duplication, it doesn’t make sense for humans to be paid to sift through it all, because you can do it algorithmically. In the case of a Q&amp;A, because they are rarer and because the person who’s conducting it is a human, it makes more sense to have an editor who’s human.
1. Settings Search BarTip #1: Settings searchSettings now has its own dedicated search bar. While this may seem like a very minor addition, it’s actually a great timesaver when you know exactly what you’re after. For example, let’s say you want to change your network settings, but you don’t know where to look. Just head to settings and search for “network” and you’ll find what you need almost instantly. This is one of many neat little features in Lollipop that really helps to increase efficiency in a simple and intuitive way.2. Swipe Twice For New Notification BarLollipop comes with a new notification bar - simply swipe down once from the top of your screen to look at your notifications and swipe down once more to access your quick settings. As in previous versions, it’s still possible to access your quick settings with a little more speed by swiping down with two fingers instead of one. From here you can access all the usual and familiar Android features, with a few new options introduced with the new OS, such as flashlight.3. FlashlightTip #3: TorchAndroid finally has its own built in flashlight button, which can be found in your notification screen. This feature, which has been on iOS and Windows Phone for some time now, uses your phone’s LED flash as a torch at the touch of a button. Previously, Android owners were forced to download a separate flashlight app, which if you’re upgrading, you can probably go ahead and delete now unless you’re after specific third party features, such as strobe lighting or timed flash effects.4. Data Usage NotificationThis is a handy feature if you’re on a strict data plan and you have a tendency to go a bit overboard. Use the two fingered downward swipe to access your quick settings before tapping on your phone’s signal symbol. A new screen will appear displaying the amount of mobile data you’ve used. Tap More Settings and you can set a specific data warning as well as a data limit, making it almost impossible to veer outside of your contract and saving you from racking up some unsightly bills. For instance, if you have 5GB of data a month, you can set the warning at 4GB and the limit at 5GB. Once you reach 5GB of data usage, your phone will turn off all data.5. Hide Or Disable Sensitive NotificationsNotifications have received a lot of special attention in Lollipop. Not only do you have more control over them (such as double tapping to open the app associated with the notification), but they’re now also displayed on your lock screen, allowing you to see what’s happening on your phone at a glance. The downside to this however is that so can anyone else. If you’re receiving notifications that display sensitive content, you can make sure this is kept hidden until you enter your passcode. Just head to Settings &gt; Sound and Notifications and under the setting that says ‘When device is locked’ select ‘Hide sensitive notification content’. You can also hide all notifications if you wish.6. Long Press To Remove Notification SpamTip #6: Silence notificationsWith a lot of apps come a lot of notifications. Sometimes these are helpful, such as weather updates or chat notifications, but other times they’re a pain in the neck, such as software updates or intrusive games urging you to buy upgrades. Next time you receive a notification you don’t want, tap and hold it until a small ‘i’ appears on the right hand side. Tap the ‘i’ button and you can either block the app from sending notifications in the future, or set it as a priority, so that it’s always at the top of your list and will come through even when your phone is set to silent.7. Do Not DisturbTip #7: Do not disturbLollipop’s do not disturb features are incredibly easy to set up. Turn your volume up or down using the rocker switch on the side of your device and a small window will pop up with the options None, Priority and All. Tap None and no notifications will wake up your phone, this includes calls, texts, updates and even alarms. Tap Priority and only specific interruptions will be allowed through - to set these up, tap the little cog wheel on the top right hand corner. Finally, All will allow all notifications to come through. Each of these setting can be assigned to work for a specific amount of time or indefinitely.8. Create Profiles, Limit FunctionalityTip #8: Add usersYou can now create custom and guest profiles in the latest Android update. Swipe down on your notifications bar and tap the profile icon in the top right hand corner to view the user profiles currently available. If you haven’t used this before, you will see your own profile and the option to log in as a guest or create a new profile. Logging in as a guest is a quick way to share your device with limited functionality - perhaps if you’re loaning your phone to a friend or a co-worker for a few hours. Creating a new profile however will provide the user with their own space, which can be customised with more features that are not available in a guest profile.9. Pin Your ScreenWhile separate user and guest profiles are great for loaning your phone to friends, it’s possible to limit the functionality of your device further by pinning your screen. Go to Settings &gt; Security and turn Screen Pinning on to activate this feature. Now you can pin a single app to your screen by switching to the multi-task view and selecting the green pin button on the bottom right corner of your selected app. The specified app will stay open while all other functionality on your phone will be disabled unless you type in your passcode. This is great if you wish to lend your phone to someone who wants to make a quick phone call or search for something online, but you don’t want them nosing through your device.10. High Contrast TextTip #10: High-contrast textA number of experimental features have been added to Lollipop. One of these includes the introduction of high contrast text. Head to Settings &gt; Accessibility and you’ll find it under the System sub-heading. The effect is actually quite subtle, but if you’re struggling to read some of the text on your Android device, it could make all the difference. At the time of writing, it doesn’t seem like all of the text is affected. However, this is marked as experimental, so various inconsistencies should be expected.11. Colour Inversion And Colour CorrectionTip #11: Colour inversionIf you’re colour blind or your vision is impaired then these features could improve your experience with Android’s new OS. Go to Settings &gt; Accessibility and scroll to the Display sub-heading at the bottom. Turning Colour Inversion on will dramatically change the look of your device and may be more soothing on the eye for some people. Selecting Colour Correction will allow you to choose from three different colour modes - Deuteranomaly (red-green), Protanomaly (red-green), Tritanomaly (blue-yellow) - which may be beneficial to some colour blind users. As with the high contrast text, this is an experimental feature and may slow down your system.12. New Lock Screen Swipe OptionsThe lock screen has undergone some small but pleasing changes with the introduction of Lollipop. You’ll notice there are now three icons at the bottom of your screen when you wake up your phone. These include a phone, a padlock and a camera. Swipe directly upwards and you’ll unlock your phone just as you normally would. However, swipe from left to right and you’ll not only unlock your phone, but you’ll be taken to your contacts list. Swipe from right to left and you’ll go straight to your default camera app. These features are fairly minor and hardly ground-breaking, but they’re a nice addition that can really help to increase overall efficiency.13. Battery SaverTip #13: Save batteryThe battery screen will not only give you the usual handy breakdown of what’s draining the most juice from your system - complete with a swanky looking graph and an approximation of how long you have left until your phone dies - but it now has a very effective battery save feature. You can get there by swiping downwards from the top of your screen with two fingers and tapping the battery icon before tapping the three dots in the right hand corner and selecting Battery Saver. Turn this on and it will attempt to reduce your device’s battery usage by limiting vibrations and most background data. Additionally, apps that rely on syncing may not update unless you open them. This feature turns off automatically when you charge your phone.14. Unlock Your Phone With Your FaceThis is not a new feature and frankly, a bit stupid. However, it seems to be more reliable than in previous versions of Android, it’s a lot of fun and opening anything with your face feels very cool and futurey, so to hell with practicality. Go to System &gt; Settings &gt; Smart Lock and select Trusted Face. Go through the on screen instructions and before you know it you’ll be accessing your phone with your gorgeous looks. Please keep in mind however that this is a bit of a gimmick. Face matching is less secure than a password, pattern or four digit PIN and if anyone looks like you, they can potentially unlock your phone.15. Cast Your Screen Via ChromecastIf you’ve been using Google’s simple but brilliant Chromecast - a small media streaming device that plugs into the HDMI port on your TV, essentially turning it into a (slightly) smart TV - then you’ll be pleased to know Android has made it even easier to operate. Previously you’d have to download an app in order to cast your device to your TV, however this functionality is now built into Lollipop. Just double swipe down to access your notifications bar and select the Cast button. Your device will automatically detect your Chromecast and you can begin casting instantly.16. Access Alarm QuicklyTip #16: Access alarmOnce you’ve set your alarm, you can now access it from the notifications bar. Drag down from the top of your screen twice (or use the two finger method) after you’ve set your alarm and you’ll notice a new clock icon, which will display the time at which your alarm is set to go off. Not only does this mean you won’t have to go back into your clock app to make sure you set the correct time, but if you tap it, it will take you directly to the app, where you can change any settings as you normally would.17. Wake Your Phone With Your VoiceTip #17: Wake your phone with your voiceFrom your home screen swipe left into Google Now, tap the three bars in the top left hand corner and head to Settings &gt; Voice &gt; “OK Google” Detection. From here you can turn voice detection on, which will work even when your device is locked and the screen is off, allowing you wake your phone or tablet by simple shouting “OK Google”. However, a word of warning - according to Google, when using voice activation commands or touching a microphone icon, a recording of the next thing you say, plus a few seconds before, may be used and stored by the search giant and associated with your Google account to help recognise your voice and improve speech recognition. If that makes you uncomfortable, you might want to make sure this is turned off.18. Tap and GoTip #18: Tap and goTransferring your contacts and details from one phone to another can be incredibly tedious, but if you’ve bought yourself a new Nexus 6 this year, there’s a quick and easy solution. On booting up your phone for the first time, it will ask if you would like to take advantage of Tap and Go. Tap yes and hold your old Android phone against the back of your new one. All of your data will be transferred across to your new phone via Bluetooth, saving you the hassle of potentially manually installing large swathes of apps and typing in missing contact details.19. Apps Remain After RebootTip 19: Apps after rebootHere’s another small feature from Lollipop that’s so useful, you’ll wonder how you lived without it. Ordinarily, any apps you have open will be completely closed and shut down when you reboot your phone, which is particularly annoying if you’re working on a lot of different things at once. However, Lollipop now solves this issue with their new Overview screen (this used to be called Recent Apps), which retains all of the apps you were using, even after a reboot. You can access the Overview screen by tapping the square button on the bottom right hand corner of your device.20. 5.1 Surround SoundTo get the best available sound quality from your device open Google Play Movies &amp; TV, tap the three bars on the top left hand side of the screen, select Settings and tick Enable Surround Sound. This will now activate 5.1 surround sound whenever it’s available. If you’re dubious, there’s even a demo you can play to test the quality, which is just below the Surround Sound setting.21. Remove Download ClutterWhenever you download an app on Android, it will automatically place it on your home screen. A lot of people don’t like this as it can cause a lot of unnecessary and extremely disorganised clutter. To disable this, open the Play Store, tap the three bars in the top left hand corner, select settings and uncheck the ‘Add icon to Home screen’ setting.22. Lollipop Easter EggTip #22: Lollipop gameThis is completely pointless but a lot of fun. Head to Settings &gt; About Phone and tap Android Version four times in quick succession. You will be presented with a small coloured dot. Tap the dot and it will grow into a lollipop. Keep tapping and it will change colours. If you hold your finger down on the lollipop, the entire screen will change. Tap the screen once more and you’ll be able to play Android’s version of Flappy Bird, which is just as rage-inducing as the original and just as pointless.* This article was amended on January 13. A tip about double-tapping the screen to wake-up your device was deleted as the feature has been removed in a recent update.
Muscled out of the limelight by Christmas blockbusters,Rock Boshers DX: Director’s Cutis a left-field release well worth rescuing from obscurity. A nostalgia-soaked 2D shooter that celebrates the peculiarities of the ZX Spectrum era, it was originally released as a PlayStation mobile title and has now been given a director’s cut treatment, with a widescreen and HD polish for the new formats. The game sees a youthful Queen Victoria fighting on the surface of Mars and does an authentic impression of a ZX title, right down to the crunchy audio and faux-tape loading screen.Twin stick shooting in claustrophobic maze arenas is the gameplay focus and it is terrific fun. Those who don’t remember the Spectrum might be oblivious to much of the detail that makesRock Boshersso adorable, but it has the pace, grace and, most importantly, the loading times of a contemporary creation.
Oh no, it’s Monday, how on earth did that happen? Oh well, now we’re here, we may as well talk about games.
What is life, morality, truth or, indeed, the very nature of God? Weighty concepts for a philosophy degree, let alone a first-person puzzle game. YetThe Talos Principlefearlessly explores these themes and interweaves them with sublime level design and a prime mental workout. Awakening on a pedestal, a booming voice from the ether identifies itself as Elohim and instructs you to collect sigils. Truth is subjective, though, and while you chase the artefacts, utilising a variety of tools to reposition weights and lasers or avoid hazards, the nature of this testing environment begins to reveal itself.There’s a disarming moment early on, signing into the first of the game’s anachronistic computer terminals. Your fingers, seen for the first time, are robotic, while QR codes graffiti the world, informing of AI experiments or myths from antiquity. With such masterful use of environmental storytelling, the mystery at the heart ofTalosproves as compelling as mastering its dozens of puzzles.
You will probably have seen Damian Kulash thrusting around on a running machine or spinning on a robotic chair surrounded by Japanese umbrellas. Kulash is frontman of OK Go, a pop-rock quartet whosehomegrown videoshave drawn more than 200 million views on YouTube, and earned them a place among America’s most playful and tech-savvy bands.A grasp of digital innovation might seem an unusual feather in a rock singer’s cap, but Kulash doesn’t see it that way. “I’ve been saying for a while now that nerds are the new rock stars, and that goes both ways,” he says. Kulash straddled this boundary at university, where he studied computer science and music. “I remember sitting with my friend and saying ‘dude, what are we going to do? Are we going to start a startup or a band?’ And at almost the exact same moment he said ‘startup’ and I said ‘band’. He sold his startup to Microsoft, so he’s got a lot more money than I do!”Kulash didn’t leave technology behind, however. He has been working with Sriram Kosuri, a biochemist at UCLA, on a project that is not only groundbreaking for a band, but is at the cutting edge of genetics. “I was at a conference, the Future of Storytelling, where a book had been encoded in DNA,” Kulash recalls, “and I was fascinated by lots of parts of that idea.”After some cajoling, he convinced Kosuri that the next object to be encoded should beHungry Ghosts, OK Go’s fourth album, released last year.Encoding an album “on DNA” involves translating the data from binary to a ‘base 4’ code, using the four nucleotides – A, C, T and G – found within the structure of DNA. Thousands of albums could then be stored in a few drops of liquid. To hear the album, however, it would have to be taken back to a lab to be retranslated.“It was clear that the lab wanted to work on encoding bigger data sets,” says Kulash with combined modesty and pride. “It’s arbitrary as an artistic gesture, but the scientists are actually figuring out a lot of actual cryptography and biology, so it’s win-win.”Science projects and hi-tech videos are not the extent of OK Go’s unusual and colourful oeuvre. Andy Ross, the lead guitarist, is also a programmer who, alongside writinga smartphone game for Lindsay Lohan, has made apps to accompany the band’s releases, and built a digital version of ‘Say the Same Thing’ - a word game OK Go used to play on tour, and are now in talks to develop into a TV gameshow. The band is even planning a ‘Maker Faire-style’ combined music and technology show, to tour this summer. Kulash is often asked whether such projects eclipse their musical output, but he is staunch in the belief that muddling and marrying these various pursuits is how artists should work. “The idea that music is this very pure thing – only the recording – is a historical oddity,” he says, “and it’s breaking down pretty quickly.”To illustrate his belief in the blurring of science and humanities, Kulash recounts the experience of seeing the interior of the Nasa vehicle assembly building, an “incredibly huge” structure that reminded him of a cathedral. “I realised the place that I was standing in wasn’t really any more scientific than it was religious. To send someone to outer space, to put a man on the moon, requires as much faith as it does science,” he says. “I’m not saying that putting out our record on DNA is equivalent to putting a man on the moon, but I think science can be moved forward by artistic gestures.”THE MUSIC VIDEOSA MILLION WAYSA lo-fi video of the band dancing to their 2005 song A Million Ways was emailed to fans and promptly became one of the most downloaded videos of all time. The highly geometric, deadpan routine, performed on a patio, was choreographed by Kulash’s sister, Trish Sie.HERE IT GOES AGAINThe 2006 single Here it Goes Again was accompanied by one of their most memorable videos: a gauche but mesmerising dance set around a block of eight moving treadmills.Timemagazine ranked it among its 30 all-time best music videos, alongside those for Michael Jackson’s Thriller and Beyonce’s Single Ladies.I WON’T LET YOU DOWNThe enormous popularity of their early videos has allowed the band to expand in scope, most ambitiously last year when their video for I Won’t Let You Down was released. Made in conjunction with Honda and filmed on state-of-the-art drones in a huge vacant warehouse in Japan, the video features thousands of extras and was inspired by the large-scale choreography in classic Hollywood musicals.
Wayne Fromm was on holiday in Florence in 2002, with his daughter Sage, when they ran into the classic tourist’s problem. They wanted a photograph of themselves on thePonte Vecchio, but it was crowded, there was nowhere to rest the camera and they felt awkward about asking somebody else to take their picture. Being an inventor, mostly of toys, Fromm was not going to ignore the problem.“We were just alternating pictures,” he tells me from Las Vegas, where he’s been attending this year’sConsumer Electronics Show. “So when we came back to Toronto I started thinking about how I could create something.” It would take Fromm a long time to perfect a telescopic pole and grip that you could travel with, but which would hold a camera far enough away without slipping, breaking or being too heavy.“I spent a couple of years looking at umbrellas, taking them apart,” he says. “I was studying magnetic pickup tools. I was studying anything that had extendable segments and a rod. I just kept meeting one impasse after another.”Finally, in 2005, he filed patents – later granted – for a device he called theQuik Pod(as in “quick tripod”). A brief recap on 2005: Twitter didn’t exist. iPhones didn’t exist. YouTube didn’t exist. If you knew anything about social media, you knew that MySpace was the future. Fromm had invented the selfie stick ahead of time. Far ahead. Probably too far, if we’re going to be honest.Fromm worked tirelessly to promote his product. He made an infomercial. He demonstrated it on QVC. He tried to crack Japan. He tried Britain. He tried Germany. The Quik Pod got quite a bit of attention, including fromJay Leno. It made some money. But it never quite reached liftoff. “It was a success, but it was hard to get into the stores. The buyers in the photo industry just looked at it as a gimmick.”Nobody is saying that now. Hundreds of thousands of selfie sticks are selling all over the world, but few of them are Fromm’s. Search for “selfie stick” onamazon.comoramazon.co.uktoday and you won’t find a Quik Pod anywhere near the first page. It’s an expensive product aimed at the semi-serious photographer. It comes with its own carry case with foam compartments, and relies on the camera’s timer to take pictures. Today’s Bluetooth-enabled versions, many of them Chinese-made, sell for less than £10 each, and by the bucket-load. Where possible, Fromm is trying to protect his patents, but the monopoly on monopods (the selfie stick’s formal name) appears to be lost.And should it be any different? Now 60, Fromm stands a good chance of being remembered as “the man who invented the selfie stick”, not least because he’s the man saying that he did so. However, as he admits, people had stuck cameras on poles for years before him. Which raises the question, is a selfie stick really something you can invent? “In hindsight, it’s a simple idea,” Fromm admits. “But if you look at anything – a shoe horn, shoelaces – there’s nothing that wasn’t created by somebody … If it were not for my work over the 10 years, today’s selfie stick would not exist.”
When I ask Emily Brooke if she thinks we’re in the middle of a hardware revolution, she doesn’t hesitate. “Yes I do,” she says firmly. “It used to be the big tech companies that made hardware. Now people like me with a university project can prototype, manufacture and ship their product to consumers around the world within just a couple of years.”In 2011, towards the end of a product design course at the University of Brighton, Emily Brooke came up with an idea for a bike light. As well as providing conventional illumination, the Blaze Laserlight, as she called it, projects a green bike symbol onto the ground five metres ahead of the cyclist, alerting other road users to their presence. She created a prototype and in just five days raised £25,000 on Kickstarter, proving there was demand for her product. Thanks to a recent development in laser diode technology, she found that her idea was both achievable and affordable. At a factory in Shenzhen it became tangible, too, and the 29-year-old shipped her first product last February. Now the light is being sold in 47 countries.Brooke is one of a growing number of tech entrepreneurs who are discovering that hardware is no longer off limits to cash-strapped startups. Recent technological developments such as 3D printing have made the prototyping process easier and more affordable. No longer do you have to fulfil a minimum order requirement at an injection moulding factory in China, shelling out thousands, to find out whether an early iteration of your product works. A working prototype can be built using accessible technology over the course of a weekend.The internet has helped smooth the process too. Before the product even exists, a startup can form relationships with future customers through social media and use crowdfunding platforms such asKickstarterto raise money. Often this is just enough to get the enterprise off the ground, but it can help persuade manufacturers and venture capitalists that there’s enough interest in the product to make it worth investing in.Another factor that made Brooke’s journey a little easier was the intervention of a company called PCH International. A middleman connecting large western brands such as Beats and Apple with factories in China, PCH recently turned its attention to hardware startups. It now runs two incubators in San Francisco: Highway1, a four-month mentorship programme for early-stage startups; and Access, which helps more established companies achieve scale. Brooke, a graduate of the latter, describes their work as “inspirational”.Repaying the compliment, PCH’s founder and CEO Liam Casey tells me that startups such asBlazeare shaking up the hardware industry. “Big companies are usually constrained by technology and product roadmaps which slow down innovation,” he says. “When you work with startups, they’re far more disruptive in their thinking and their inexperience is a phenomenal innovator. We call them ‘Generation Y Not?’ They may not always be right but they speak with such clarity and passion, they’re worth listening to.”Casey, who previously worked in the garment industry, agrees that it’s a “phenomenal time to be involved in hardware”, but he stresses that the revolution is happening in prototyping, not manufacturing, which still remains an expensive task for companies large and small. “The fabrics of innovation are much more available,” he says. “Since the downturn in 2008, people have started to hack with hardware. Now you have Raspberry Pi and Intel Edison and 3D printers. These things are fuelling the imagination and convincing the entrepreneurs to take a chance.”The profile of the typical hardware entrepreneur is changing, he says. “Some of the best people we’re seeing now would have been completely focused on software in the past. We’re seeing a lot of designers with much bigger ambitions.” Casey welcomes this development but warns that the pitfalls have not disappeared. “The basic obstacles are always going to be there. You can have a great idea for a company – hardware, software or whatever – but that’s only the first step. The fundamentals of growing a company are still a huge challenge.”Brooke echoes this. “There’s a slight risk of glamorisation in hardware. People are attracted by the easy part, which is getting yourself a prototype so you can crowdfund all that money. The really hard part is making it scalable. There are lots more hardware startups around me in London now but the number actually shipping product is still incredibly low. We’re doing it, but we still have all the problems of a tech startup. Hardware is hard!”
When a 24-year-old American called Eron Gjoni posted a blog complaining about the behaviour of his ex-girlfriend, it is unlikely that he expected to ignite a culture war which is still reverberating through the industry six months later.“The Zoe post”, published in August 2014, made a series of unfounded accusations that Gjoni’s former lover Zoe Quinn, an independent games developer, had traded sex for positive reviews. Soon, an army of internet dwellers had seized on this opportunity to police a woman’s sexual behaviour under the guise of promoting “ethics in games journalism”. What was most astonishing aboutGamergatewas how quickly it grew. Like a hurricane, it ripped new grievances out of the ground and rolled them up with long-established hatreds and arguments. Its supporters call their enemies “social justice warriors” and worry that they will usher in a new age where the latestCall of Dutywon’t let you shoot nameless baddies - but instead ask you to talk about your feelings.Over the course of the autumn, Gamergaters seemed angry about many things: the increasing number of women playing and featuring in video games; the sometimes overly cosy friendships between games developers and the journalists who covered their work; and the meaninglessness of “gamer” as an identity in an age where your grandma can play a £2.99 puzzler on her iPhone.For Gamergaters, the “good old days” were the time when games were designed with teenage boys in mind, and were deliberately tasteless, violent and macho. So it is no wonder that many of them hate Twine – a simple tool which allows anyone to build a text adventure on a web page. The Twine scene is also notably liberal and progressive: several of its leading lights are gay or transgender, and subjects include mental illness, gender dysphoria, sadomasochism and kinky sex. Twine games are unavoidably lo-fi – a stark contrast to the lavish visuals and A-list voice acting found in blockbuster console releases. Many titles are designed as a deliberate rebuke to the mainstream, which rarely shows much interest in depicting alternative lifestyles or engaging with social issues. For these reasons, it’s unlikely Twine will become the next YouTube or Vine: its fans love it precisely because it is a niche community rather than a venture capital-chasing startup.Which brings us to the subject of money – another Gamergate grievance. Because Twine developers do not have access to the vast marketing budgets of major studios, many games journalists who sympathise with their artistic and political aims have championed them. Some writers have contributed to crowdfunding appeals for independent games. On a site calledPatreon, both games journalists and developers have solicited donations from friends and fans.This activity fostered the idea of a network of friends who had financial stakes in promoting each other’s careers. The Patreon concept was seized upon by Gamergaters – though there are larger ethical issues to address, such as the alleged practice of publishers offering YouTube stars money to cover their games positively.Nonetheless, in the wake of the online storm, sites such asKotaku– part of the Gawker network – banned their writers from contributing to crowdfunding appeals. Kotaku’s US editor Stephen Totilo wrote that Gamergate “has been, if nothing else, a good warning to all of us about the pitfalls of cliquishness in the indie dev scene.” While Gamergate had sporadic victories –Intel pulled ads from a site called Gamasutraafter a letter-writing campaign – its main legacy seems to have been to entrench existing divisions.Five months on, the movement has faded to a background hum. Gamergate supporters still congregate on sites such as Reddit to discuss how to persuade advertisers to boycott websites they dislike, but much of the energy has dissipated. Like many Twitter campaigns, the ease of joining – which made it so powerful initially – eventually destroyed Gamergate. It became a magnet for sexist bullies who drowned out any substantive points. That said, the forces that drove it have not abated, so Gamergate is unlikely to die – it will simply mutate.
Play: Pimp your veg with 3D add-onsHi-tech meets lo-tech in the Open Toy project. Designed by Samuel Bernier and his team at le FabShop, these plastic add-ons can be knocked up with a 3D printer and popped on to almost anything, aubergines included, to instantly transform the mundane into the magical. Featuring components including propellers, wheels and wings, it only takes a moment to make a marrow mobile in the guise of a submarine, helicopter or rocket. The plans are open source and free to download from platforms includingthingiverse.com. Go on, play with your food!Smart boxing gloves from MM8.Photograph: .Sport: Intelligent sportswear with plenty of punchSure to be a hit onKickstarterthis month, sportswear firm MM8 has produced a smart collection for boxing and martial arts. Featuring a range of gloves, punch bags and punch pads, each piece of kit contains battery-powered sensors that collect data about the speed, force and knock-out power of your jabs – together with the number of calories you’ve burned. The info is then sent, in real time, to an app on your phone. But you’ll have to be quick to get your mitts on this kit – a limited number of items are on offer to backers before 3 February, provided you have at least £75 to throw into the ring.The Drop kitchen connected scale and recipe app.Photograph: PRCooking: Get the Drop on creating the perfect cakeIf your New Year’s resolution to take over the kitchen is hanging in the balance, theDrop scales and recipe appcould be the answer. Consisting of a set of scales hooked up to your iPad, Drop guides you through each step of your bake to help you whip up a cake that would make Mary Berry proud. Instead of weighing each ingredient individually, you simply sling them in, sequentially, to the same bowl and Drop will tell you when you’ve reached the right amount. Besides offering scrumptious ideas, the app can rescale recipes to suit and offer suggestions for replacement ingredients should your store cupboard run short of an item. Available for around £65, plus VAT, it could prove to be a helpful bake-mate.Build a virtual tablet with Bitsbox.Photograph: PRLearning: Become a code breaker and build a virtual tabletGetting your kids interested in coding is one thing, but helping them stick with it is another. Luckily the brains behind Bitsbox have a plan. Aimed at youngsters aged seven and up, this coding kit comes with a booklet packed with exciting apps – all you have to do is pop online to make use of a “virtual tablet” and follow the instructions to build, customize and download it. Every month a new kit arrives, replete with booklet, stickers, trading cards and toys to fuel the momentum. Currently up for funding on Kickstarter, the first kits are expected to ship in the spring for around £25, but if you can’t wait, pop along tobitsbox.comand have a go for free.The bionic runner from Run4.Photograph: PRHealth: Can’t decide between jogging and cycling?If you’re planning to earn your go-faster stripes this year, check out theBionic Runner. Resembling the love child of a bicycle and a treadmill, its creators, Run4, say it allows your legs to move as if running, while reducing the risk of injury. The upshot is a machine that “allows you to train harder from day one” while its foldable design makes it perfectly portable, offering another option for that morning commute. Complete with a 12-month warranty, it’s due to be available online this month for around £780, but if the price leaves you in need of a sit down, beware – the Bionic Runner doesn’t come with a saddle.
When did your love of gadgetry start?From the moment my dad [a music promoter] bought an eight-track. I was about five. He put it in his car and I was amazed that we could listen to the music we wanted, rather than the radio. I’ve still got it, along with some of his tapes: stuff like the Eagles, Wings, Glen Campbell and Kenny Rogers. When I was young, my parents also bought me a Polaroid camera. I couldn’t believe I could hold a photograph two minutes after taking it. So I’ve always been astonished by what technology can do and appreciated the pleasure it can bring.How has technology changed a TV presenter’s work?Formula 1 tends to be live broadcasts so we don’t really have a script, but I constantly use my iPad Mini. I’ve got all the stats, driver biogs, course graphics, rules and regulations on there, so I refer to it all the time. And for social networking too. Programmes are very interactive now, we involve viewers as much as we can, so I read out Tweets and Facebook messages from the iPad.Are the F1 drivers all very tech-savvy?Absolutely. It’s a hi-tech sport, so they have to be. Nobody’s wandering around with an old Nokia! Although I wouldn’t blame them, because it wouldn’t have a GPS signal and nobody would be able to track them [laughs]. The teams use cloud-based technology for instant sharing of information, beaming it globally between factory, garage and pit lane.Are F1 cars full of amazing gadgetry?They’re a strange combination. In terms of aerodynamics, there’s bits you can take off and put back on, so they’re adaptable. But in the cockpit, it looks they’ve just arrived from Mars. We’ll see some of it filter down into our cars in a few years’ time – hopefully the fuel-saving technology. Huge advances have been made, cutting fuel by a third with very little loss of power or endurance, so transferring that into everyday cars would be extraordinary. F1 engineers are some of the best in the world and all about problem-solving, so they’re dealing in cutting-edge stuff.You co-hostedThe Gadget Showon Channel 5. What was the best device you saw?I piloted a personal submarine. I love diving but to go down without tanks, without even getting wet … wow. I hung out of an RAF Chinook helicopter, testing night vision goggles. Because I did the show for eight years, everyone thinks I live in a fully automated house and don’t lift a finger. The reality is, I left three years ago, so most of the stuff is completely obsolete – that’s an indication of how fast consumer tech moves on.Did you ever break anything?All the time! If anything was remote controlled, it was guaranteed to get broken. If it had an engine, we’d be guaranteed to crash it.What’s your own favourite gadget?MyIT7x2 headphones. They travel well by folding and they’re super-comfy with well-cushioned cans. They have noise reduction, connect easily via Bluetooth and have a microphone so I can take phone calls. I wear them when I’m travelling or working out. I chose the gold colour for my football team Wolves, obviously.Are you a phone junkie?I like to go off-grid and completely relax, so I shut it off at night and sometimes during the day if I’m not working. No phones on the dinner table is a rule in our house. Conversation is still king. I like to combine the old with the new – embrace technology but remain traditional.Do you ever use textspeak or emojis?No textspeak but emojis are handy. If you’re being sarcastic or cheeky – which, being from the Midlands, I am quite a lot! – a little winky face can take the sting out of it.Are you an Apple addict?Yes, it all started with the iPod. In my screen test forThe Gadget Show, I talked about how the iPod was the first mainstream gadget that was truly unisex: plain white, beautiful, worn like an accessory, highly desirable for both genders, but also did its job. It was game-changing and I’ve been an Apple devotee since. I’ve got Apple TV, MacBook Air, iPad, iPhone, the lot.What are your favourite apps?The ones I use most are functional: travel, news and radio apps. After each Grand Prix, I make a Flippergram of my weekend behind the scenes. Headspace meditation app is another favourite. It helps clear everything when I’m feeling cluttered.What’s the most expensive gadget you own?It’s probably my Sonos hi-fi system, which I’ve added to over the years. Unless vehicles count: I’ve got a Triumph Bonneville T100 bike and a Fiat 500 convertible car.Do you have flash gadgets in the kitchen?Yep, I love them. The kitchen’s finally caught up with the tech revolution of the past decade. I’ve got a fridge with an ice dispenser and five sections at different temperatures, a dishwasher in a drawer, a washing machine with dirty-clean and non-iron options. And one of my all-time favourite gadgets is the kettle - it’s the one thing I use all the time.Love or loathe social media?Both. I adore Instagram for beautiful images. I love Twitter for breaking news and people who make me howl laughing but hate the way other people think they can be disgustingly rude to you. The anonymity of social networking is slightly disturbing. You have to laugh it off or ignore it.What’s your all-time favourite computer game?ProbablyPongorSpace Invaders[laughs]. I got hooked onAngry Birdsfor a while but I’m not a huge gamer. I’ve got an XBox and play occasionally but it’s not really my thing. I’m too busy watching TV drama, especially Nordic ones. Anything with a dead person and a subtitle. I spend any spare time using Apple TV and Netflix to catch up with those.A few quickfire questions: sat nav or atlas?I’d like to say atlas but it’s probably sat nav these days.Kindle or paperback?Paperback. I’ve got a Kindle for my travels but nothing beats that feeling of turning pages.Self-service supermarket checkout or manned?Manned, unless there’s a long queue. I quite like chit-chat. Exchange a bit of banter, then go on my way. How old-fashioned of me to enjoy talking to people [laughs].What gadget would like to see invented?The obvious, I suppose: a machine that would get me from A to B without having to spend hours travelling. Or something that could choose my clothes and do my packing.If you could time travel, where would you go?Back to the 60s because it was such an incredible decade for music. I’d watch the Beatles at the Cavern and Elvis in his ’68 comeback special.Have you tried Google Glass?No, I don’t want to. This is what concerns me about technology: sale of personal data. We consumers might get sold out and need to be careful. Something likeGoogle Glassmeans all sorts of advertiser data can be stored, sent, sold and used. I don’t like that level of manipulation. I’m worried that despite all the small print, when we sign up for stuff and click on things, we’re giving away information that we’ll never take back. It will get mis-sold. Problems happen with security too.
Half of everything that gets madegets made from concrete. In terms of usage, it is the single most popular material on the planet – if you want to build a dam, a bridge, an airport or a city, this is the material of choice, yet very few people will admit to liking the stuff. No matter how beautiful they find the Sydney Opera House, how sublime they find the Millau viaduct or how awestruck they are by visiting the Hoover dam, concrete’s image never seems to improve. However, perceptions may now be changing as new forms – such as self-healing concrete – are being brought into production.Concrete is poured into existence, which is what makes it such versatile and liberating stuff. Build a mould for your structure, pour in the concrete and hey presto, you have something that can last for thousands of years. For example, the dome of the Pantheon in Rome was built from concrete 2,000 years ago.The hey presto bit is interesting. During the pour, a mixture of cement, stones and water hardens to become synthetic rock. It is not a process of drying out; instead it undergoes a series of chemical reactions via the formation of a gel. Gels are semi-solid and wobbly types of matter. The jelly served at children’s parties is a gel, it doesn’t flow like a liquid because it has an internal skeleton which prevents the liquid moving around. In the case of jelly this is created by the gelatin. In the case of cement the internal skeleton is made up of calcium silicate hydrate fibrils, which are created as a result of the chemical reaction with the water. The gel formed inside the cement is constantly changing and, as the fibrils grow and meet, they mesh together forming bonds and locking in more and more of the water, until it becomes fully solid.Modern concrete is reinforced with steel rods, which gives it architectural versatility and robustness. You’ll see them sticking out of all construction sites during a concrete pour. Getting their design right is vital if you want a bridge or a dam to be able to withstand bending forces and shocks.As with any recipe, if you get the ingredients or process wrong, then you get a mess. In the case of concrete though, the problems can go undiscovered, because on the surface all concrete looks roughly the same. This can lead to catastrophe many years after the structure is built. The extent of the devastation due to the 2010 earthquake in Haiti was blamed on shoddy construction and poor quality of concrete: according to government figures, an estimated 250,000 buildings collapsed, killing more than 300,000 people and making a million more homeless.Sydney Opera House: among the best-loved concrete structures in the world.Photograph: Hemis/AlamyGiven that most of the world’s infrastructure is made from concrete, the upkeep of concrete structures represents a huge and growing effort. Even well-made concrete needs to be looked after, especially if you want it to last sustainably for thousands of years. It would be ideal to find a way to allow concrete to care for itself. Materials scientists have now done just that. Self-healing concrete works by embedding bacillus pasteurii bacteria inside the concrete along with a form of starch which acts as food for the bacteria. Under normal circumstances, these bacteria remain dormant inside the concrete. But if a crack forms, air gets in and the bacteria wake up and start to eat the starch that has been added to the concrete. They grow and reproduce themselves and in the process they excrete the mineral calcite, a form of calcium carbonate. This calcite bonds to the concrete and starts to build up a mineral structure that fills the crack and seals it up.Research now showsthat the cracked concrete can recover 90% of its strength with the help of these bacteria.Another new type of concretecalled pervious concrete allows rainwater to flow straight through it, and is designed to protect urban structures from flooding. There is also aself-cleaning concretethat incorporates particles of titanium dioxide which, in the presence of sunlight, causes the degradation of dirt on its surface through a process of photocatalysis. These new materials have the potential to change how concrete looks after itself, and thus how we feel about it.There are some signs that concrete is being culturally embraced. In the recent British filmLocke, Tom Hardy plays John Locke, a construction manager in charge of the largest concrete pour in Europe. Although he is the only actor to actually appear in the film, several other characters are crucial to the plot, and one of them is the concrete itself. The pouring of the material – insistent, demanding and transformative – is metaphorically linked to the imminent birth of a child.Locke is portrayed as solid, dependable, obstinate and, like concrete, when put under extreme pressure is immovable. The film is well worth seeing, not least because of its nuanced portrayal of this most fundamental of materials.
You are reading the technology supplement, which means you are: a) already very knowledgeable and interested in commercially available computerised goods; b) an inhabitant of a dystopian bookless future teaching yourself English with the only available resource; c) a rabbit examining the bottom of your hutch; or d) Siri.Who is Siri? And why am I writing about it now when you’ve had it on your phone since 2013? I’m afraid that, just like arriving at 3.30am on Katie’s birthday last year, I am very late to the party. Like a reverse-Eve, I have never had any curiosity about Apple products. Sure, I was aware of them from their aggressive product placement in American sitcoms and Stephen Fry, but I am not giving up my Nokia until I complete Snake.If you asked an average British person “Who is Siri?”, they would say “He is a little man who lives inside your phone, and his brain is the internet so he knows absolutely everything and you can ask him questions.” I borrowed my boyfriend’s iPhone without asking and posed some questions of my own.Sara: “Who is Siri?”Siri: “Siri? That’s me!”An evasive circular argument. So Siri is Siri. But he has revealed his voice to me, and it is decidedly mannish.Sara: “You are a male!”Siri: “I don’t have a gender”How modern. Apparently Siri can have gender reassignment surgery with a quick fiddle of his settings.Extensive analysis was conducted before deciding whether consumers would respond better to a male or female imprisoned in their phone. Almost every country in the world had a female Siri programmed – but not, initially, in the UK and France. We must presume the results highlighted that our testosterone-fuelled men couldn’t handle a woman knowing more than them: “She reckons it’s a left, but she probably don’t know what she’s talking about.” *Man turns right and falls down well.* Most UK Siris are female now, so make sure you have a very secure well guard.If you’re wondering how I got my knowledge without a Siri search, I Asked Jeeves. He has lost a lot of weight; I’m not sure if it’s the pressure of fame or if he can’t afford to eat, but it’s very worrying.Jeeves is also spreading a rumour that rather than being open-minded and filthy like the rest of the internet, Siri has restrictions on what it will help you with. Asking for details of an abortion clinic is one example where Siri will not engage and will simply direct you to a search engine, but don’t take my word for it, grab a friend’s iPhone and ask it over and over again in a public space while crying.Conversely, if you ask Siri for a brothel he will helpfully correct that to an “escort service” and find you the nearest. Awful sexist.After an afternoon of interviewing Siri it turns out there are millions of questions that it can’t or won’t answer: How did you get my phone number? How many Siris are there? Did you have a Christmas party? Who is playing the tiny xylophone before and after each interaction? Are you spying on us, plotting the downfall of our species? (If you are reading this from a dystopian post-Siricalypse future, I hope that you can admire my foresight while you pity my powerlessness.)I’m not saying we should be scared and paranoid, but should we? Or at least question it a little? Even quicker than the development of super-technology is the human adaptation to taking it for granted. We live in a world where regular people converse publicly with an inanimate object and escape Bedlam or a dunking. Perhaps Furbies paved the way, getting us used to a vocal relationship with a friendly robot and, BAM!, now we are dependent on them for knowing what time the shops open.All we know for sure is that Siri is Siri. And that you shouldn’t get maudlin after a wine and try to free him, because your boyfriend’s product insurance will be invalidated and every young person at the Genius Bar will laugh as you exit.
Some years ago, I had a conversation with a senior minister in which he revealed that he thought the web was the internet. While I was still reeling from the shock of finding a powerful figure labouring under such a staggering misconception, I ran into SirTim Berners-Leeat a Royal Society symposium. Over coffee, I told him about my conversation with the minister. “It’s actually much worse than that,” he said, ruefully. “Hundreds of millions of people now think that Facebook is the internet.”He’s right – except that now the tally of the clueless is now probably closer to a billion. (Facebook has more than 1.3 billion users, some of whom presumably know the difference between an app and the network.)Does this matter? Answer: yes, profoundly, and here’s why. As I write, thenumber of internet users worldwidestands at just over 3 billion, or 42% of the global population. That sounds impressive until you remember that it means that 58% of our fellow-humans stillaren’tnetworked. But every prediction I’ve seen suggests that that will change, and that in the next decade another 2 billion people will get an internet connection.Most of them will connect to the network not via a PC (or even a tablet) but using a mobile phone – a smartphone, that is to say a phone that can run a web browser, do email, etc. And those devices will hook up to the internet via the wireless networks owned and operated by mobile phone companies.What this means is that, one day, most people’s connections to the internet will be mediated by some of the richest companies in the world, namely telecoms (or telecommunications companies, to give them their full titles). Globally, there are about 900 of them and they take in$1.3 trillion in revenue each year, which is about four times the combined revenue of Google, Apple, Microsoft and Intel. Using a phone to, say, browse the web requires that digital data shuttles to and fro across these telecoms’ mobile networks, which is why if you want to use a smartphone you need a “data plan”. And – as you doubtless know to your cost – data plans don’t come cheap.For users in developed countries the high cost of mobile data is annoying but not a showstopper. In developing (ie poor) countries, however, it is. And since most of the next 2 billion internet users live in these countries, if the dream of ubiquitous connectivity is to be realised then some way has to be found to make that mobile connectivity affordable.To date, there have been only two big ideas about how to do it. One is Google’sProject Loon, which aims to provide free internet connectivity by ringing the globe with high-altitude balloons sailing on the winds in the stratosphere, 20km above the earth. It’s a classic Google “moonshot” project – insanely ambitious, technically difficult and with no guarantee of success. Many people are sceptical about its feasibility, and some (like Bill Gates) areopenly contemptuousof it as a vanity project for high-IQ nerds.The other big idea comes from – you guessed it – Facebook. Here the proposition is that the company does a deal with telecoms firms in developing countries which ensures that data rates for users of the Facebook app on their smartphones are zero, or at least capped, while the data going to and from other apps costs the usual arm and a leg. So when a new user in Somalia, India or Burma switches on her shiny new budget smartphone what she sees is a Facebook app which provides “internet” connectivity free, while other apps incur whatever charges are levied in the data plan agreed with the mobile operator.The term for this wheeze is “zero rating” and it’s fiendishly cunning. Sure (say its advocates), it effectively locks poor people into Facebook’swalled garden, where they can be “monetised” if they ever have anything worth monetising. But isn’t limited access to an online world made up of Facebook, Google, Twitter – and maybe Wikipedia thrown in as a gesture of goodwill – better than no access at all for people on the other side of the digital divide?This is a pernicious way of framing the argument, and we should resist it. The goal of public policy everywhere should be to increase access to the internet – the whole goddam internet, not some corporate-controlled alcove – for as many people as possible. By condoning zero-rating we will condemn to a lifetime of servitude as one of Master Zuckerberg’ssharecroppers. We can, and should, do better than that.
Game schedules shrivel up and die between mid-December and the end of January, and the only real action over the last few weeks has been in downloadable content.The Dark Below(PS3, PS4, Xbox One &amp; Xbox 360, pictured) is the first expansion for the shooter-meets-massively-multiplayer-game Destiny. Its slightly miserly extra content comprises a single cinematic sequence that will leave you with just as many questions as when you started watching it; a few new raids, strikes, story missions and exotic weapons; a hover-bike that can do mid-air stunts; and the ability to level characters up to 32. MeanwhileStorm Island(Xbox One) for Forza Horizon 2 gives you the intermittently rain-lashed Isola Della Tempesta to drive around on, with its own set of 12 championships, as well as a variety of appropriately rugged off-road vehicles in which to enjoy the howling winds, horizontal rain and mud.
Inspired by Captain Toad’s appearances in Super Mario 3D World, Treasure Tracker’s puzzles get you to guide Toad in his quest for coins, diamonds and each level’s gold star. Every one of its puzzles is a miniature world that you can rotate to look at from every angle, and you can also move certain sections of landscape on the touch screen by tapping them, adding an extra layer of complexity to your treasure hunting. Toad still can’t jump, so your progress is a lot steadier than when playing as Mario – although he can hurl turnips at enemies if they prove tricky to avoid. Along with three gems, every puzzle has its own hidden objective, each as thoughtful and carefully chosen as the pared-down parts of its elegantly designed levels. Endlessly refined, its refusal to reuse ideas makes each level into a surprising and compelling discovery. The sort of joyously realised little gem for which Nintendo is justly famous.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Adventures Of Bertram Fiddle, iOSThe streets of Victorian London are being stalked by fiendish serial killer, Geoff the Murderer, and even the great Sherlock Holmes hasn’t managed to come up with any leads. Enter Bertram Fiddle, a third-rate explorer in desperate need of a new expedition to mollify the nagging of his embittered wife, who wants him to settle down and earn a steady income at Mr Dulsworth’s Adequate Soap Company – a fate Bertram is keen to avoid. What ensues is a delightful point and click adventure suffused with dad-grade puns and characters with names such as Count Fulchmuckle and Lord Arthwipe. Although not particularly complex and offering little in the way of innovation, its gentle, self-referential humour and high production values make it a pleasure to explore, the cavalcade of gags propelling you through weaker moments.Rumpus Animation, £2.99
The first time I ever had a boyfriend with a car, it was a VW Scirocco: low, square and noisy (the car was cool as well). In the 1990s, people had Sciroccos as a kind of subtle joke. It was a sports car, but also a period piece – so it was no longer sporty, but it still thought it was. I don’t know who the joke was on – the car? The world? Yourself? – but it was definitely irony based.So I never understood why VW brought it back, because, new (it was redesigned in 2008), it wasn’t funny. It was just sporty. Ah, but there it is: turns out that funny doesn’t add very much to the driving experience, whereas sporty really does.The look is completely different. Everything that was previously square is now round, though it is deceptively low and surprisingly wide. There is a certain open-faced friendliness to the front-on look of this new model, which is the diametric opposite of the original. The interior is sleeker and younger than that of, say, a Passat, but it will be deeply familiar to VW loyalists. Maybe too familiar: if this is meant to be the daring version of more sober models, it could convey that much more strongly with visual cues like – well, I don’t know. I’m not a car designer. But I would have known them if I’d seen them. The seats are sculpted, which starts off weird but is actually very pleasing.It’s a delightful drive: there is more oomph than you expect, it moves through the gears like a minnow, it takes everything effortlessly. It’s so responsive, like (I imagine) teaching a gifted child: the more you ask, the more it can instantly do. I started to anthropomorphise it, imagining its moods on a spectrum from lively to boisterous. It was surely only a matter of time before I started calling it “she”.Initially, I thought of it as a classic city car for people who would have bought a Golf but wanted to kid themselves that they would once in a while need to get to 60mph in a short time. It’s not that: given its performance, this car is wasted on city driving. In traffic, it’s almost painful: you can feel its impatience, and also the pedals are set quite high for constant stop-starting. It has a cool energy-saving feature whereby the engine cuts automatically when you’re stationary in traffic. (This is actually rather common now. I wish I could stop being so surprised.)Knowing I had this speed and grace at my disposal altered my driving style a bit: I started to race people off the lights and generally behave like a dick. Then I had a flash of unwanted insight into how I must appear to the outside, in my purple mid-price sports car, driving like a boy racer with the reaction times of someone recently roused from anaesthetic. The only plausible explanation for me being in this car is that I have bought it as an 18th birthday present for my spoiled son, and am driving it home while having a nervous breakdown. But inside my head, we look tremendous, the Scirocco and I.Scirocco R-Line 2.0-litre TDI 150 PS 6spd manualPriceFrom £27,375 (as tested: £29,565)Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption67.3mpgCO2emissions109g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating7/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter.
Las Vegas Strip, home to a dozen of the world’s biggest hotels and usually busy every hour of the day and night, was closed to traffic. Then, to the delight of the large crowd gathered outside the Cosmopolitan, a sleek silver car pulled into the kerb. But nobody got out.The vehicle, not unlike the Hoff’s 1980s Knight Rider, was the star of the show on day one of this year’s Consumer Electronics Show – the biggest, gaudiest, noisiest trade show in the US.More than 150,000 people from 170 countries were in town for the four-day event to get a look at the 20,000 new gadgets, gizmos and tech trends, ranging from double-screened smartphones and helmets that promote hair growth to wardrobes that steam clean their contents (then shake out any creases). And, of course, driverless vehicles.The one outside the Cosmopolitan was the Mercedes F 015 Luxury in Motion. It had inward facing seats, set around a little coffee table, LED displays front and back to communicate with other drivers and pedestrians, and gesture recognition, so it can be controlled with body movements.For those who really can’t let go of the past, there was also a steering wheel, although Mercedes insisted it will really not be necessary when the car appears in showrooms in 15 years’ time.Fortunately for technophiles, most of the gadgets and technology on display at the CES will be with us, on us and in our homes a lot sooner than that. Here are some of the highlights:Health and fitness gadgetsThese are no longer just about counting steps. The gizmos on display measure your heart rate, blood pressure and muscle tone. And they are better looking too. Judy Tomlinson, chief executive of wearable technology company FashionTEQ, said: “We’re really starting to see the fashion of wearables come through.”The latest fitness trackers can be woven directly into shirts, shorts, socks and pants, meaning clunky wristbands might soon be a thing of the past.“Smart textiles can solve some of the problems seen by wearables,” explained Stanislas Vandier, deputy chief executive of French wearable technology firm Cityzen Sciences. “We can place the sensors precisely where they need to be while making them hidden and flexible.”The prototypes on show included smart shirts, packed with movement and flex sensors and capable of monitoring a wearer’s heart rate. The data is then beamed to a smartphone.Early examples such as a shirt for tracking tennis performance or a pair of cycling shorts for recording rides could be on the shelves by Christmas. And socks that track a run using pads on the soles of the feet are now available for £130. Sadly, they can only be washed 35 times.SuperchipsThese include the Nvidia Tegra X1, with 256 processor cores and eight CPU cores. What does that even mean? “More power than a supercomputer the size of a suburban family home from 15 years ago,” according to the maker.8K TV4K may be new in Currys, but it’s been overtaken already. Sharp just unlocked a new level. It’s not strictly 8K because it uses pixel-splitting to produce “virtual 8K”. It also requires shows and films to be made in 8K. But that will come.Internet of ThingsThis much heralded breakthrough could finally be happening this year. “We’re entering the third age of technology,” said Samsung UK vice president Robert King. “It’s no longer about standalone devices but interconnecting them so they can do more together.”Samsung says every one of its products, including washing machines and driers, would be internetconnected within five years. New smarthome accessories include fridges that know what’s on their shelves to locks that will let family members into the house.Driverless carsThe Mercedes was not the only model on show. Audi had a car that can arrive to pick up its driver at the touch of a button on a smartwatch, while Japanese carmaker Nissan announced it was teaming up with Nasa to work on the technology too. BMW executive Dr Werner Huber said fully autonomous cars were still some years away, but a helpful robot co-driver could be commonplace far sooner.“We are closer to the autonomous car, but not in the sense that you can read a newspaper behind the wheel,” said Huber. “It’s better to have a combination of the driver and a robotic system.DronesThe halls of the CES were buzzing with these. They included the Nixie, that turns from a bracelet to a flying camera drone when flung into the air.There were flying robots to carry loads, to fly into tight spaces, to provide lighting and just for toys. There was also “follow me” technology in some drones, so they can track and film anyone wearing a device on their wrist. All be available before the year is out.Chris Anderson, chief executive of drone maker 3D Robotics, said the attraction of drones was simple: “You want a flying phone, but until we invent anti-gravity, drones are basically it.”RobotsStandard non-flying bots weren’t left out of the CES party, and included toys to teach kids how to code. But robotics is also about boosting the performance of the human body.Nate Harding, chief executive and cofounder of Ekso Bionics, said: “People will be running faster and jumping further, and grannies will be showing off their new hip exoskeletons.”Exoskeleton devices that help people to carry heavy loads, and others that could enable paralysed people to walk again, were also on show.
On Christmas day, Hideo Kojima, the creator of the famed Metal Gear Solid series, played an amusing trick on his fans. He told them via social media to visithis studio’s website Kojima Stationon 25 December, to see a special video announcement. They did so in their droves – only to sit through three hours of Kojima opening Christmas presents and talking about movies while wearing a santa hat.However, right at the close of the video, he did make one revelation concerning forthcoming title Metal Gear Solid V: Phantom Pain – the game will include a chick hat.Apparently, if players are killed too many times while negotiating a tricky sequence, they will be given the option of putting a chicken hat on the head of grizzled hero Snake. From this point, enemy soldiers will think he actuallyisa chicken, leaving the spec ops agent to continue his infiltration.It sounds ridiculous, but then the Metal Gear series has always been known for effortlessly combining its dark political themes with moments of surreal hilarity. Take for example, cast regular Johnny Sasaki who is perpetually struck down with diarrhoea, or the appearance in Metal Gear Solid 3 monkey hero Spike from Ape Escape or indeed any time in which Snake eludes enemy guards byhiding in a cardboard box.This is, of course, not the first time gamers have been offered special clothing or items to help with tricky moments. In several Super Mario games, a power-up named the invincibility leaf appears if the player dies too many times; touching it allows our plumber hero to don a beautiful white and gold tanooki suit, making him – yes – invincible. In Sonic Lost Worlds, the hedgehog hero’s pal Tails provides players with remote control vehicles to help them if they repeatedly fail at certain tasks.There are also much more subtle aids. The infamous “Rubber banding” system in racing games, slows down leading cars to allow the player to catch up, while the Uncharted series provides successively more obvious hints when you take too long solving a puzzle. Developers will also quietly help players without telling them: Max Payne 2 is one of many shooters that subtly makes enemies more stupid and health packs more powerful if players are regularly seeing their protagonist blasted across New York.The Metal Gear chicken hat is particularly wonderful, though because of its diametric opposition to the idea of Snake as a thoughtful and serious soldier, battling enemy terror cells. Also, in this era of Twitch streams and YouTube “Let’s Plays” it’s going to be a super obvious indicator that someone is having a bit of trouble filming their walkthrough.Kojima has always enjoyed manipulating the rules of game design and game play, often breaking the fourth wall between the action and the participant. Making players switch controller ports and featuring characters whocan “mind read” by accessing a gamer’s PlayStation memory cardare two of his most famous tricks. So as daft as the chicken hat is, it’s unlikely to be only piece of fowl play in Phantom Pain.
More than 30 million Netflix users live in countries where the service is unavailable without the use of location-masking software, giving the company a hefty financial incentive not to crack down on members who use the technological loophole to watch content not authorised for their country.The figures, which come from market research firm GlobalWebIndex, show that Netflix has more than 20 million users in China alone, all of whom must connect through virtual private networks (VPNs), as the streaming video provider has not yet launched in the country.Not every Netflix “user” is a subscriber to the service, however. GlobalWebIndex surveyed almost 200,000 individuals across 32 markets, and asked how many of them had watched Netflix in the previous month using a VPN. A significant proportion of those saying they had will have watched at a friend’s house, or been sharing a username with others – indeed, as of October 2014, the company had 16 million international members, significantly less than the total number of users of the service.“Account sharing is pretty widespread,” says Jason Mander, Head of Trends at GWI. “Our numbers are always going to be higher than the number of paying subscribers.”Nonetheless, he says that the figures show that Netflix would be “be shooting themselves in the foot if you blocked considerable levels of traffic coming from outside your official countries … the fact that it’s already talking to them and getting money from them is a good thing.”And it seems Netflix agrees: the company’s chief product officer emphatically denied rumours that it had been cracking down on VPN users at this year’s Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.“The claims that we have changed our policy on VPN are false,” said Neil Hunt. “People who are using a VPN to access our service from outside of the area will find that it still works exactly as it has always done.”Netflix can’t welcome VPN users too openly, however, since the company’s fraught relationship with content providers hinges on them enforcing international restrictions. “I think the tension here is that it’s not a problem for Netflix per se,” says Mander. “The actual studios might be much more concerned about it. But by the nature of how a VPN works … it’s very difficult to tell if someone’s using one.”One of the outcomes of the Sony Pictures hack has been evidence of just how much Hollywood studios care about VPN usage, as emails from 2013 show a Sony exec complaining that “Netflix do not closely monitor where some of their subscribers are registering from and don’t take steps to counter circumvention websites that allow people… to subscribe illegally”. He specifically cited Australia and South Africa as countries without legal Netflix services despite high penetration. GWI’s figures show that 5% of internet users in those nations accessed the service in the last month.Mander says that accessing better entertainment content is “by far the most common” reason for using VPN services. “Beyond that, accessing social networks is big in places like China. Then there’s quite an important group of people who are using them to hide their identity, particularly in France, Germany and the UK.”•Netflix denies crackdown on VPN users
APPSHERE BETAAndroid - FREELooking for an alternative to Google Maps on your Android device? Nokia has made its maps and satnav app available in beta form for free. It’s impressive, whether navigating on foot or by car, particularly offline when reception is low or non-existent.PAUSE - CURATED MUSIC STORIESiOS/Android - FREERecently ported from iOS to Android, this is an excellent way to catch up on new music if you don’t have time to read dozens of blogs. Its magazine-style issues are released every three months with reviews, features, interviews and streamed music.HUMINAndroid - FREEHumin is an interesting attempt to reinvent the humble contacts app, sorting the people you talk to and text in a smarter order than alphabetical. It lets you search by contexts, including where they live and when you last met them.WIREiOS/Android - FREEBacked by one of Skype’s founders, Wire is aiming to top that app as a better way to communicate through voice calls and instant messaging. Its swish design impresses, as does its call quality, but for now it’s missing one big feature: video calls.7 MINUTE SUPERHERO WORKOUTiOS £1.99/Android £2.19This app’s developer was behind the undead-themed fitness app Zombies, Run! This hass a different slant: you battle virtual alien invaders with real-life punches and crunches.STAMPY CATiOS/Android - FREEMillions of children are avid viewers of the Minecraft videos of Stampy, aka British YouTuber Joseph Garrett. Now there’s an official app for his engaging blend of creativity and digital buffoonery – crucially, without swearing, unlike many of his peers.LINGUA.LYiOS/Android - FREERecently crossing from Android to iOS, Lingua.ly aims to help you learn languages by reading articles and tapping on words you don’t know to get their translation. This is then reinforced with multimedia flashcards. Simple and very effective.WAKIE – SOCIAL ALARM CLOCKiOS/Android - FREEYou set an alarm and are woken up by a call from a real person: another Wakie user. But they’re friendly, with calls capped at 60 seconds and the promise of “no awkward goodbyes”. It’s rather charming.MY LITTLE MONSTERiOS - FREENot many children have a 3D printer to hand at home, but My Little Monster lets them dabble with the new technology from afar. They create a colourful little monster within the app, customising its eyes, teeth and accessories. Then you can order it as a 3D-printed figurine for under £19, including postage.INDIEGOGOiOS/AndroidIndiegogo is the main rival to crowdfunding website Kickstarter: a place where musicians, film-makers, gadget makers and others try to raise money for their grand schemes. Indiegogo’s app is an easy way to keep track of campaigns you’ve pledged to, as well as browsing ones you might be interested in.GAMESCROSSY ROADiOS/Android (freemium)The most addictive mobile game in recent memory, this takes the road-crossing premise of arcade classic Frogger, then runs (well, hops) with it. Your job: to cross roads, rail tracks and rivers with a host of characters, hitting restart after every splat to get them back into the action.80 DAYSiOS (£2.99)/Android (£3)Jules Verne’s book gets reinvented as an excellent mobile game: a choose-your-own-adventure novel that encourages repeated ‘plays’ to discover different cities and characters. Sitting somewhere between books and gaming, it’s an absorbing read and play.BEST FIENDSiOS/Android (freemium)Tired of match-three puzzle games in the Candy Crush style? Best Fiends could be the answer: you trace lines of coloured symbols to help your cute fiends destroy grumpy slugs. It’s got lots of just-one-more-go addictive qualities.PEGGLE BLASTiOS/Android (freemium)The original Peggle remains a brilliant mobile puzzler and while its reinvention as a freemium game was risky, it should find a wider audience. Firing balls into a screen of pegs to make the orange ones disappear sounds simple, but there’s plenty of strategy involved.TWISTY HOLLOWiOS (£1.99)/Android(£1.80)There are no in-app purchases in Twisty Hollow, just your own skills. It’s a neat spin on the match-three genre, as you work your way through 50 levels making combinations to build items for townsfolk.BEAN DREAMSiOS(£1.99)Many think great platform games need physical controls - buttons and joypads. Bean Dreams proves them wrong: it’s a beautifully crafted platformer with slick touchscreen controls and bags of character. Its polished sound and visuals ooze quality.SEABEARDiOS (freemium)Seabeard takes many of its cues from Nintendo’s Animal Crossing franchise, but adds other features. This pirate game sees you restore an island village and quest across its quirky world.PAPERS PLEASEiPad(£4.99)By some distance the bleakest game you’ll play on iPad – but also the most thought-provoking. You play an immigration officer in a fictional east European country, juggling rules and responsibilities with a sharp revolutionary subplot.THE SNOWMAN AND THE SNOWDOGiOS/Android(£2.99)If snow comes in 2015, kids’ interest in walking in the air may be rekindled. This is a lovely take on the latest Snowman TV film, as you soar above London and other cities collecting snowflakes.WORLD OF WARRIORSiOS/Android (freemium)This colourful game comes from the company behind children’s virtual world Moshi Monsters, but it’s for gamers of all ages. You collect historical warriors and send them out to fight, upgrading their levels as you go. It has the makings of a fun and rewarding game.
It might be huge, streamlined and powerful, but the great white shark is in danger. An estimated 100 million sharks, including great whites, are killed every year, threatening to throw our oceans, their populations and habitats into disarray. “They’re the balance keeper, they’re like the lion of the ocean,” says Chris Fischer.As the founder ofOcearch, Fischer is taking action. Since 2007, his non-profit organisation has enabled researchers from institutions worldwide to tag and monitor the movements of around 80 great white sharks and a host of other predators. The result is a wealth of data that not only provides insights into behaviour, but focuses conservation efforts.“You’ve got to know where [the sharks] mate, you’ve got to know where they give birth, you’ve got to protect the nursery and you’ve got to understand their full range so you can put policy in place across that range,” Fischer explains.It’s a team effort. Using a bespoke lift fitted to their research vessel, the Ocearch crew traps a shark and brings it – briefly – to the surface. Scientists then have 15 minutes to take blood and parasite samples, body measurements and muscle biopsies, tests that provide clues to the shark’s age, diet and reproductive status. Each shark is also furnished with a number of trackers: an accelerometer to capture data on pitch, roll, depth and tail beats per minute; a pop-up tag to monitor its dive profile; and an acoustic tag to reveal if it ventures near specially placed receivers.While these last for periods ranging from weeks to months, a SPOT tag attached to the dorsal fin lasts about five years – every time the fin pierces the surface, the tag signals to a satellite, allowing the shark’s location to be pinpointed in near real-time. Together, the tech has yielded a host of insights, including a greater understanding of migration routes and patterns. “Big mature females have a two-year migratory path and the mature males have a one-year migratory path to and from the breeding site,” reveals Fischer. “That’s because the females have roughly an 18-month gestation period so they can’t go to the mating site every year.”And with the shark’s trackers feeding open-source data to the website,ocearch.org, you too can keep tabs on their movements. “Everything is inclusive,” says Fischer. “That’s how we’re going to turn a charismatic ocean project into a global ocean movement – because we need one of those right now.”
Tech companies including Facebook, Google and Apple have condemned theattackson the offices of the French satirical magazine,Charlie Hebdo, in which 12 people were killed, including eight journalists.Facebook’s CEO,Mark Zuckerberg, in apostpublished on his personal profile page on Friday morning, called for a rejection of “extremists trying to silence the voices and opinions of everyone else around the world”.“I won’t let that happen on Facebook,” he wrote. “I’m committed to building a service where you can speak freely without fear of violence.“My thoughts are with the victims, their families, the people of France and the people all over the world who choose to share their views and ideas, even when that takes courage.”Zuckerberg also revealed he had received death threats two years ago in response to content depicting the prophet Muhammad on the social networking site.“An extremist in Pakistan fought to have me sentenced to death because Facebook refused to ban content about Muhammad that offended him.“We stood up for this because different voices – even if they’re sometimes offensive – can make the world a better and more interesting place,” he wrote.More than 188,000 people have so far “liked” the post, which has been shared more than 16,000 times.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s post on the Charlie Hebdo attacks.Photograph: FacebookMeanwhile,Googlehas a black ribbon on its homepage and has pledged €250,000 (£195,000) via theDigital Press Fundto support the magazine.Surviving journalists at the publication have vowed to publish an issue of the magazine next week, but with a much larger than normalprint run of 1m copies.Apple has updated itsFrench websiteto include a banner with the words “Je Suis Charlie” (I am Charlie).The Je Suis Charlie on Apple’s French website, displayed to support the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo.Photograph: AppleThe phrase has become a defiant slogan and show of solidarity after the Paris atrocities, and the hashtag#JeSuisCharlieis trending on Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr.In 2010 Applebannedan app by Pulitzer prize-winning political cartoonistMark Fiorefrom itsiTunesstore,citingits terms of services forbid the lampooning of public figures.The company reversed its decision after criticism from free-speech campaigners.Media companies have also come together to support Charlie Hebdo, including the Guardian Media Group which hasdonated£100,000. It is expected Le Monde, France Télévisions and Radio France will do similar.•#JeSuisCharlie: grief and solidarity on Twitter after brutal Paris terror attack•How Apple could bite the free press
Kickstarter crowdfunding has become a familiar way for new 3D printers to introduce themselves to the world, withnearly 40 having successfully hit their funding goalson the site so far.One of those projects was Robox from British company CEL, whichraised £280,891 in December 2013for a product that aimed to “demystify” 3D printing and make it accessible to more people.Just over a year later, CEL has shipped around 6,500 of the printers around the world, and grappled with the service and support issues that selling to a mixture of experienced users and complete novices entails.“It’s been a massive learning curve, with huge positives and a couple of small negatives,” says Chris Elsworthy, chief executive of CEL and inventor of the Robox.“We had a huge number of really excited people on board who wanted to help us develop our product, but at the same time, all our successes and failures along the way were exposed to all those people,” he adds.“We didn’t realise how public everything was going to become, and how much effort we’d have to put into managing the situations. It’s unusual: having to tell all your customers about all your trials and tribulations. But it’s great that everyone wants to be involved.”When it launched on Kickstarter, Robox was pitched as “the simplest, most reliable and comprehensive 3D printing platform available” – a printer that would sit in an office or workshop and do its job without a fuss.“That’s what customers want: print this part, come along later and pick up the part and walk away. That’s what 3D printing has been missing until now,” says Elsworthy.“The early community was great in that it was people who were well educated in engineering and electronics, who could dedicate their time to making these printers work and tinkering. But 90% of users out there aren’t interested in that: they’re interested in getting results.”Around 6,500 Robox 3D printers are out in the wild.In some cases in the wider industry, those results haven’t come as easily as many people had hoped. One of the challenges facing 3D printing is the gap between the hype around what’s possible with this technology, and the reality of what many people can actually do once a printer is in front of them.“I blame you!” laughs Elsworthy. “Well, the media in general. In some ways, the media hype around 3D printing has helped us massively: the whole world knows about it now. But there’s often now an expectation that people can go home and print a new kidney for themselves, which is all good to go.”Clearly, it isn’t. “3D printing is a well-tuned prototyping technique that is just moving into manufacturing as a whole. It’s still very niche, but the media have hyped it up as the next industrial revolution that will see us all printing our own consumer goods by the end of the decade,” says Elsworthy.“And it’s true, that will happen. But what’s never advertised is that there’s a long way to go now with early adopters working with 3D printing, tuning the process and making it easier for everybody else.”With kidneys a no-no for now on the average 3D printer, what will people be printing? That’s another question mark around 3D printing in 2015: many people think the technology is cool, but can’t think how it’ll fit into their lives.Elsworthy hopes that the industry is on the cusp of answering these questions, and stresses that he doesn’t think it’s just about the ability to order products and print them out at home.“It’s not just about getting things cheaper. Everything you produce can be customised to your requirements, whether it’s pastry cutters to make the holly for your Christmas cake exactly the shape you want, or to print 100 forks of a dining set with each one different from the last,” he says.“It’s giving people the ability to make anything they like in any fit they want, customised to their own needs.”He adds that better services showcasing 3D designs and sparking people’s imagination will also be important, as well as tools to help them create their own models without needing a training in computer-aided design (CAD). Elsworthy cites theTinkercadwebsite as one example.“You can go from not knowing anything about 3D drawing to producing parts within a few hours. My oldest boy, who’s 10, went through the tutorials, and afterwards went straight on to drawing himself a model of a shark with an articulated joint,” he says.“All these kids who are playing Minecraft: those skills are so easily reproduced in producing three-dimensional parts for a 3D printer. And when I’ve gone in to talk to children at my sons’ school, they all have lots of ideas about what they’d want to print, and none of the barriers of adults.”My Mini Factory showcases 3D designs for printing.CEL has also worked with theMy Mini Factorywebsite, where people can browse, buy and download 3D-printable objects, with popular items ranging from tanks and models of weapons from console game Destiny to a tooth-shaped toothbrush holder.Elsworthy thinks that the more people browse these kinds of websites and see what can be done with 3D printing, the more ideas they’ll have to customise those items and make their own.“There’s a growing community of makers in the world, and until recently they’ve been on the outskirts of society. But there’s going to be a huge change: people who are makers and want to make their own things and customise their own stuff will become the foreground,” he says.“I’m really keen on making everybody a maker, not making it geeky. Why can’t we print our own things and make our own stuff? And when it becomes socially acceptable to talk about things you want to make in your own home, without being a geek, this will be as commonplace as 2D printing.”Part of that process will be the price of 3D printers coming down. Currently, Robox costs £999.90, which still makes it one of the cheaper models available. Elsworthy agrees that prices will inevitably come down over time, but says the cost of a 3D printer is about much more than the hardware.“We could probably bring down the price if we just looked at the technology and its material value, but we have to consider how much support each printer is going to need, and how much new content and extra development will go into keeping the system alive,” he says.“A lot of the money we’re charging is for future development and making sure customers get the best support. The worst thing we could do is sell it at a really low price, and then never offer that customer good support. It’s not just about owning the hardware: it’s about owning it and making sure you’re comfortable with it. It’s no good to sell it at £300 and say ‘you’re on your own!’.”It’s that comfort that Elsworthy thinks will help to swell the ranks of makers using 3D printing for personal and commercial use alike. He also thinks that as more and more creations are shared publicly, more people will gain the confidence to customise them and create new things.“When I see a product, my first thought is often ‘if only it had this, or if only that part was shaped differently, it would be much better’,” he says.“When I was younger, I used to take all my Christmas toys apart to see how they worked. Maybe I’ve never grown up! But this is what 3D printing can deliver, and it’s not just for geeks or the design industry: this is now available for everyone.”•MakerBot’s 3D-printable Stegosaurus skeleton has classrooms in mind
The starting price of apps on Apple’s App Store has increased by up to 15% overnight, after the company raised prices to account for tax and foreign exchange changes.On the British App Store, the new starting price for non-free apps has risen by 15% to £0.79. But the price rises aren’t uniform: the next tier has remained static at £1.49, while the tier after that has also increased by 15%, from £1.99 to £2.29.Apple told the Guardian that “Prices on the App Store are changing to account for adjustments in value-added tax (VAT) rates and foreign exchange rates.”The new prices increase an already large disparity between the cost of software in Britain and the US. A $0.99 app now retails in the UK for £0.79, which is $1.19 at current exchange rates, although the US list price is exclusive of tax which ranges from 0% to 7.5%. The price rises also filter through to organisations using in-app purchases to sell digital media, such as the Marvel comics app.Prices rose across the European Union, in part to reflect new regulations in the EU which require online sellers to charge VAT based on their customer’s location, rather than their own. With Apple’s nominal European headquarters located in the low-tax jurisdiction of Luxembourg, the amount of VAT it owes has gone up in most EU countries.That regulation came into place on 1 January, but until now the extra tax had been paid out of the developers’ share of the revenue, rather than being passed on to consumers.As well as the EU price rises, Apple also dropped prices in Iceland and “changed” them in Russia, with some rising and some falling. Both countries have seen interest rates fluctuate in relation to the US dollar in recent years.The last price rise on the UK App Store was in 2011, when the base price rose by 10p to £0.69. The store is somewhat unusual in allowing developers to set their own prices, but only from a pre-set collection of tiers, rising in roughly dollar increments. That allows Apple to maintain uniform pricing for apps across national borders.It’s related to the controversial VAT Mini One Stop Shop (MOSS) regulations introduced by HMRC, which have seen many small online retailers struggling and ultimately closing due to their inability to comply with the new rules. Small businesseswere granted a six-month grace period, but ultimately many worry that the requirements will still prove impossible to follow.“Where before the tax laws offered sole traders, micro-businesses, and hobbyists a clear run-up and a way to grow easily, now it’s erected an obstacle course that will stop many even opening up,” Megan Kerr,a writer,told the Guardian this week. “And others, like me, risk suffocating silently, strangled by regulations we can’t keep up with.”•Developers made $10bn from iOS apps in 2014
It funded the first smartwatch, it broughtVeronica Marsto the silver screen. Now crowdfunding could make a controversial coffee easier to palate. Made from beans found in the droppings of a small carnivore known as the common palm civet, Kopi Luwak is said to derive its ballyhooed flavour from the beans’ journey through the civet’s innards. Yet what began as a curious cuppa has become a bitter example of animal exploitation.With business booming, civets are taken from the wild in numbers that flout official quotas, shut up in cages and force-fed coffee berries – their droppings harvested to fuel a thriving trade. They are also being snapped up as exotic pets with owners ignorant of their needs. “What we have noticed over the last four years is the number of civets is just rising astronomically in the markets,” saysProfessor Anna Nekarisof Oxford Brookes University, who has been studying the plight of such mammals in Indonesia. It’s a dire situation that PhD student Peter Roberts is hoping to tackle. With Nekaris as one of his supervisors, he is planning to track wild civets in Java using radio collars, a project that will yield greater insights into their habitats, range, diet and activity. That, he says, will prove pivotal in improving conditions for those in captivity. “What I want to try and do is tie the two things together and say you need to improve your welfare standards because this is how they would normally behave in the wild,” he says.But financing such a project is tough. Already self-funding his PhD, Roberts applied to zoos for support but drew a blank: with a swath of endangered animals to consider, civets simply weren’t a priority. Yet he believes the research is urgent. “Over the next few years the rise in popularity of Kopi Luwak and civets as a pet could actually put significant pressure on the wild populations,” he says.He has turned to crowdfunding for help and the project can be backed atcrowdfunder.co.uk/civet-research-project/until 21 February. Roberts hopes to raise enough to buy GPS collars and part-fund someone to help monitor the project in Indonesia. It’s an experiment, but one Roberts hopes will pay off.
It’s Friday! Let’s talk about video games all day.
In many ways, this year’s CES technology show in Las Vegas is business as usual. Devices are getting thinner, a new acronym is spawned every minute, and every company is revolutionising something in their press releases.What are the products whose implications will last longer than the in-show hype, though? Below, we’ve rounded up 25 of the new products and technologies from CES 2015 that are worth talking about. Which, note, isn’t the same thing as calling them the “best” products or the ones most likely to be commercially successful.Take a read, then have your say in the comments section on some of the issues raised by these products.Gogoro SmartscooterGogoro’sSmartscooteris an electric scooter with a range of nearly 100 miles, but you don’t recharge its battery: you swap it. The company will operate a series of hubs where batteries can be reserved ahead of time, then swapped for the one that’s running out. There’s no news on its launch date or likely price, including the cost of the ongoing subscription for the batteries.Talking point: better or worse than the Tesla model of charging points?Voxel8 3D printerThere are plenty of 3D printer companies showing off their new devices at CES, but theVoxel8is the most intriguing of the lot. Its focus is on printing electronic circuits rather than just plastic objects, using conductive ink that dries quickly, and can be embedded in other objects. In the future, it could be used from devices including hearing aids, wearable gadgets and even quadcopter drones.Talking point: What does it mean for tech if we can print our own circuits?Nvidia Tegra X1Nvidia’s latest chipisn’t a chip – at least not according to the company, which is pitching it as a “superchip” thanks to its 256 processor cores and eight CPU cores. Introduced at CES amid some grand claims – “more power than a supercomputer the size of a suburban family home from 15 years ago” – it’ll be making its way into products in due course – including cars, via Nvidia’s Drive CX cockpit computer, which sports two of ‘em.Talking point: is “mobile computing” a separate category any more, processor-wise?Sharp Aquos Beyond 4K Ultra HDTVIf you’ve been playing oneupmanship with friends on the quality of your television, Sharp just unlocked a new level: 8K. Well, not strictly 8K – hence the “beyond 4K” in the title ofits new TV, which uses pixel-splitting technology to deliver an effective resolution of 7,680 x 4,320. Or, as the company is pitching it: “virtual 8K”. It’ll also be one of the flagship models for Google’s new Android TV platform.Talking point: that’s a nice 8K telly, but who’s making 8K shows and films?SkySpecs Guardian droneRemember that hovering drone in TGI Friday thatspoilt Christmas for one diner by flying into her nose? It turns out some drone companies are thinking hard about getting drones to avoid humans.SkySpecs showed its Guardian droneat the TechCrunch Hardware Battlefield contest during CES, with its ability to sense humans walking towards its whirring blades, and take evasive action.Talking point: how would this work in a crowded area: for example a restaurant?The Razer OSVR Hacker Dev Kit.Razer OSVR Hacker Dev KitKnown for its PC and gaming accessories, Razer is also hoping to give Facebook’s Oculus Rift virtual reality headset some competition. ItsOSVR headsetisn’t a commercial product, as such: the $199 device is more a development platform to help people experiment with VR apps and games, with partners including Unity, Sixense and Leap Motion.Talking point: can this stop Oculus dominating developers’ thoughts for VR?Siemens smart hearing aidsIn terms of technology that actually has an impact on people’s daily lives, drones and VR headsets come a long way behind hearing aids. That’s whySiemens’ latest productsin that category deserve a wider airing: the “smart” part is their promised ability to adapt to different conditions, as well as their integration with iOS and Android apps for other features.Talking point: hearing aids – will people want apps for that?Sony FDR-X100V action cameraGoPro doesn’t have the “action camera” market all to itself: traditional tech firms like Sony are just as keen to be helping bikers, skiiers and other explorers – drones included – record their feats. Itsnew $500 camera’s key selling point is its ability to record at 4K resolution, as well as the promise of wind-noise reduction.Talking point: can Sony dislodge GoPro as the helmet/drone-cam of choice?HP Zvr 3D displayThere are plenty of concept products floating around CES 2015, as in previous years. HP’s Zvr display will be going on sale, though, with a pair of glasses and a connected stylus that enable users to seeandmanipulate objects in 3D. Including, inthe CES demo given to The Verge, a beating heart. For educational potential alone, this is well worth watching.Talking point: when will this tech be affordable enough to be more than a novelty?Intel CurieIntel wants to be big in wearables: 2014’s acquisition of fitness-tracker firm Basis Science and its$25m investment in smart eyewear maker Vuzixshow that.Curieis the latest sign of its ambitions: a button-sized device including Intel’s system-on-a-chip for wearable devices. The idea is that manufacturers will use Curie to give them a head start when making wearables, including preserving battery life.Talking point: fitness-trackers, yes, but what else will Curie power?The Volkswagen Golf R Touch Concept car.Volkswagen Golf R Touch ConceptThe fact that Minority Report gets wheeled out so often as a comparison for whizzy gestural user interfaces suggests we need more filmmakers to dream up future tech. Without Tom Cruise in sight, the controls forVolkswagen’s new concept car’s dashboard are interesting: tracking hand movements via a 3D camera to trigger volume, lighting and other features without you actually touching the dashboard.Talking point: is this more distracting than reaching out for a knob or button?MakerBot’s new 3D printing materialsMakerBot didn’t launch any new 3D printers at CES, focusing instead on announcing some new materials for its customers to print with. Itsnew filamentsuse composites of limestone, iron and wood to provide a greater range of looks and textures for items printed. Good for anyone making prototypes of objects that don’t lend themselves to a plastic finish.Talking point: a bigger leap forward for 3D printing than any single new printer?Snapdragon CargoQualcomm is another big company that wants to take a pivotal role in new technologies: drones, in this case.Snapdragon Cargois a “flying and rolling robot with an integrated flight controller”, a showcase for its Snapdragon processor in the same way that its Snapdragon Rover and Micro Rover robots were.Talking point: how soon will Cargo’s tech be available in affordable consumer drones?New Mophie Juice PacksThere’s nothing wildly new aboutMophie’s new battery packsfor the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones, but for many owners of those devices, they’ll be a big deal: promising up to 120% extra juice per charge for the 6 and 60% for the 6 Plus. While the latter handset in particular has a beefier battery than previous iPhones, the balance between battery life and performance means companies like Mophie have become an important part of many people’s smartphone lives.Talking point: seriously though, when is the next big leap in battery tech?HP Stream mini PCHP thinks there’s legs in teeny-tiny PCs, judging by its two-inchStream mini, which will be accompanied by a more expensive Pavilion mini with a similar shape and size. The company is promising quiet running thanks to the devices using 45 watts of power, with an emphasis on cloud storage (with just 32GB of local storage, you’ll likely be needing it).Talking point: would people rather have tiny PCs or decent-sized tablets?Samsung’s new SUHD TVs.Samsung SUHD TVsAnother year, another acronym in the world of high-end televisions:Samsung’s SUHD setsare even more super (presumably) than existing UHD (ultra high-definition) sets that people have been buying since the last CES. Cue boasts of “eco-friendly nano-crystal technology and intelligent SUHD re-mastering picture quality engine” from Samsung, and cries of “oh, they’re curvy” from punters.Talking point: how is the picture really better, in plain English?Sony SmartEyeglass Attach!Google Glass is far from a mainstream success, but there are a smattering of other companies hoping to bring smart eyewear to the masses. Or at least to a few more people who aren’t rich white men in Silicon Valley. Sony actually has two products on the go, but itsSmartEyeglass Attach!is the most interesting, since it clips on to normal glasses with its miniature screen.Talking point: how small does it need to get before it’s ready for the mainstream?Panasonic UHD Blu-ray playerAnother prototype with an unclear on-sale date, but Panasonic is the first company to break cover witha Blu-ray player capable of pumping out 4K-quality video, rather than just 1080p content. It’s expected to be one of several models by the end of this year, although nobody tell Panasonic about Sharp’s “virtual 8K” plans...Talking point: will you watch 4K films from physical discs or streamed from Netflix?Withings Activité PopThis new fitness-tracking watch isn’t just one of the cheapest in its category – it’ll sell for $150 – but also one of the nicest looking thanks to its neat, traditional design. TheActivité Popis a third of the price of its predecessor, the Withings Activité, counting steps and sleep quality alike. And it promises to run for eight months at a time from a standard watch battery.Talking point: are watches ultimately going to be the best fitness-tracking devices?Samsung SSD T1 storage deviceThat 16GB USB drive you carry around for work? Pfft.Samsung’s latest tiny storage deviceis – TECH CLICHÉ ALERT – the size of a business card, yet can hold up to a terabyte of content in its most expensive version. For anyone who needs to transfer files quickly between devices, this and similar devices are likely to be common, with the price coming down relatively quickly too.Talking point: would this appeal over cloud storage for you?Toshiba ChihiraAico robotShe looks very realistic. She talks... slightly less so. But ChihiraAico is a “communication Android” – an early glimpse at the kind of robots thatmightbe working in “tomorrow’s service industry and homes”. Translation: you can be as rude as you like about her now, but when you’re old and ChihiraAico version 4.0 is making your lunch, you may regret it.Talking point: are robots more or less creepy if they’re humanoid?Narrative Clip 2Narrative is one of the prime movers in the “lifelogging” area: making small camera designed to be worn on your clothes, which snap regular photographs as you go about your daily business. Itssecond-generation modelwas unveiled at CES: easier to clip on, with a better eight-megapixel camera and the ability to wirelessly sync photos with the cloud and/or your smartphone.Talking point: what’s the social cost of having a camera pointing at everyone you meet?3Doodler 2.0The first 3Doodler was a pen device which did well on Kickstarter, then became one of the most accessible ways to explore 3D printing. Now it’s back,launching a Kickstarter for version 2.0as it was shown off at CES – it’s already exceeded its $30,000 goal by a great distance. The update is slimmer, lighter and quieter to use, with a new nozzle promising “crisper Doodles”.Talking point: what would you doodle, and would the novelty wear off?Mercedes-Benz F015 Luxury in MotionGoogle certainly doesn’t have the self-driving car space to itself these days:Mercedes-Benz revealed its concept carat CES, complete with Leap Motion gestural controls and seats facing one another, corporate meeting-style. Also interesting: the slightly Knight Rider-ish LED displays at the front and back, to communicate with pedestrians and other drivers.Talking point: even if we’re not driving, is it good to be more unaware of the outside world?Sleep Number SleepIQ Kids BedNot just a smart bed, buta smart bed for children: this monitors their sleeping patterns, can alert parents if they get out of bed during the night, can have its lights turned on and off remotely, and even includes a “monster detector” to ease young minds’ night-time fears.Talking point: should we really be quantifying our children’s selves?
UNIRALLYUNICYCLINGReleased late in 1994 in the US asUniracers, before rolling twitchily on to European shelves several months later asUnirally, this 2D unicyling racer from DMA design is a sporting gem that could have been huge. Unfortunately for DMA, Pixar feltUnirally’s protagonist one-wheelers were a little too similar to the star of its 1987 shortRed’s Dream. A lawsuit ensued and DMA lost. As a result, Nintendo apparently halted production ofUnirallycartridges, meaning only 300,000 made the shops. And so it was that the brilliant, strange little racer was doomed to be a cult classic, when it could have thrived in the mainstream. The SNES game is certainly simple and shallow, but it is tremendous fun; especially in eight-player league mode.WORLD GAMESGERMAN BARREL JUMPINGGerman barrel jumping.Photograph: ObserverDeveloper Epyx had enjoyed considerable success with its Summer Games and Winter Games releases in 1984. Both collected together conventional sports commonly seen in the summer and Winter Olympics – albeit without officially standing as Olympics titles – and attracted enough sales for the developer to want more from the series. Which led toWorld Games in 1986, which compiled an unlikely collection of national pastime sports, including Scottish caber toss, Canadian log rolling and the time-honoured, slightly mysterious German tradition of barrel jumping. The challenges included makeWorld Gamesthe undisputed champion of obscure sports video games and ultimately inspired a sequel with a little more mainstream appeal. That follow-up was the belovedCalifornia Games, featuring a sublime musical score often fused wonderfully with the gameplay and plenty of jumping, even if it wasn’t over German barrels.TIGER WOODS PGA TOUR 10DISC GOLFTiger Woods PGA Tour 1o. Fair play on the fairway.Photograph: ObserverDisc golf has enjoyed burgeoning popularity in some parts of the world, particularly the US. Here in the UK, however, while there are a scattering of commercial courses, the sport remains in its infancy. Based around the rules of conventional golf, but played with Frisbee-like plastic discus, disc golf is sometimes pitched as ‘hippy golf’. It’s considered by many to stand as a diametric cultural opposite to the elitist values associated with the traditional game. And yet golf’s biggest star at the time, Tiger Woods, made disc golf available as a playable mode in his 2010 game, exposing the sport to many outside the United States.MORPHEUS STREET LUGE STREET LUGEA luge perspective on life.Photograph: ObserverAsk people to name a VR headset and most are likely to pick Oculus Rift. But the Rift isn’t the only in-development headset. Sony’s own Project Morpheus has been meeting a lot of gamers at events across the globe and the sport of street luge – or hurtling down a steep road on a skateboard-like contraption – is being used to demonstrate the hardware’s potential. The sport and the VR experience are a fine complement for one another: lying on a PlayStation-branded beanbag at an expo, chin on chest, allows for a simple union of real world and in-game posture, with none of the visual and physical disconnects often apparent when strolling through a virtual world. With your perspective scraping the tarmac, leaning the body to turn, it’s a remarkably intense, immediate experience. And for anybody who eschewed standing on a skateboard as a child, opting instead to lie on the board, it’s nostalgic.HUSKYEXPRESSDOG-SLED RACINGRacing dogs in the snow.Photograph: ObserverDog sled racing still isn’t a Winter Olympics sport, despite a brief appearance at the games in 1932 when two teams in total competed for gold and silver as a “demonstration”. It has, however, turned up in a far less likely place: it became the subject of a Korean multiplayer online game by Korean developer DevCat. Released in 2009 – and closed by 2011 –Husky Expressmixed racing and adventure elements and at least serves to demonstrate the size of the MMO genre in Korea. It is a crowded space indeed that inspires studios to pick such unlikely subject matter in the battle for finding a new USP.BILL LAIMBEER’S COMBAT BASKETBALLCOMBAT BASKETBALLBill Laimbeer’s Combat Basketball.Photograph: ObserverAll right. You’ve got us. Combat basketball isn’t a real sport. But Bill Laimbeer was a real player – a long-standing Detroit Pistons team member famed for his aggressive style of play in the 80s and 90s. And his absurd spin on the hoop-shooting video game came years before Shaquille O’Neal lent his name to Shaq Fu, or Michael Jordan starred in the peculiar basketball-themed platform gameChaos in the Windy City. Many who know of it will tell youCombat Basketballis an awful game and fans of the Pistons’ rival teams may balk at a game celebrating Laimbeer’s knack for hard fouls. But Laimbeer was arguably a trendsetter who showed his contemporaries that you didn’t have to limit your vision of basketball to the rules, on or off the court.
My dog, Meg, is not one of those neat handbag-sized pooches. She doesn’t have a wardrobe of canine ready-to-wear. And although she lives in London, rather than the Welsh hills where she was born, her idea of a good time does not involve, say, an expensive grooming session followed by a hug.It involves an extended session racing through, or rolling around, mud, water or, if she’s particularly lucky, fox shit.So, while the idea of attaching an expensive electronic tracking device to a dog to see where it goes and how far it runs, and how fast, is all very well in principle, I have doubts how this will work out in practice. And then theDog Tracker Plusarrives in the post. It is, it turns out, not a slick, shiny, iPhone-style device for dogs; it’s a massive blue rubber collar with two large lumps of gadgetry embedded into it, big enough to fit a leopard. Meg, not without good reason, eyes it with suspicion.Then the mishaps begin. I download the app, but the first time I go out and press “track a walk”, nothing is recorded, though we’ve gone 7.2km according to the Runmeter app I use on my phone.The second time I turn it on, a friend takes Meg on a jaunt and I enjoy watching her progress on the phone. I can see from the satellite map that she seems to be hanging out in a cafe a couple of miles away and returns by a suspiciously fast and straight route. Did you catch the bus? I ask the friend. “I may have,” he says looking only slightly guilty. Later, I test the “find my dog” function and it locates her squarely in the local hospital. I double check but no, she’s definitely still under the kitchen table.I finally get it working for me on a Christmas Day run back in the Welsh hills. Runmeter says I’ve gone 4.98km, “Track a walk” says Meg’s gone 5.5km. Having watched her marauding across fields and woodland while I’ve slowly plodded behind, I find this unlikely.In summary: if your dog is a bolter, or you suspect your husband is using “walking the dog” as a synonym for “visiting his mistress”, then it’s possibly worth the money. For all other purposes, I’d stick to a running app.
