A barometer of world events to some, an internet "parasite" to others – today Google Newsturns eight years old. Its biggest story? The November 2008 US election of President Barack Obama.Eight years since the launch of Google News – 11 days after September 11, one of the standout dates of the decade – the information directory continues to grow as one of the California-based company's most important products and the internet's most influential news portal. Google today indexes news from more than 50,000 sources in 30 languages.Krishna Bharat, the founder and lead engineer behind Google News,told CNethow the service was borne out of the events of September 11 2001. Stuck in a New Orleans conference, Bharat said, there was no way to find information about what was unfolding in New York. "[There was] a lot of time to think about current events and news and trying to get out of there," he said. "I came back here and said, 'I know how to extract content from news sites, how can I make this process of understanding much more improved?'"More and more people get their news online, but they spend far less time reading storiesIn July this year Google News had its biggest redesign yet, adding more social features to the site and aligning the homepage further with the company's new drive into personalised products.But its effect on an industry in flux has left it open to accusations – from public reports as well as media moguls – that it doesn't do enough to compensate publishers for pointing in the direction of their free-to-view content. Hard to believe, maybe, but a commission report published earlier this year saidGoogle should be taxed for indexing local newspaper content. In the meantime, Google insists it maintains an open dialogue with online publishers looking to tap into new digital revenue streams.Based on the number of articles written and indexed on Google News, the most newsworthy stories from the past eight years – to use the crude journalese – were (in no order):•2003: Iraq war begins as US and allied forces invade the country•2004: George W Bush defeats Senator John Kerry in US Presidential election•2005: Hurricane Katrina strikes US Gulf Coast•2006: Democrats take Congress and Nancy Pelosi becomes first female speaker of the House•2007: Former Pakistani prime minister Benazir Bhutto assassinated•2008: Barack Obama elected 44th president of the United States•2009: Death of Michael Jackson•2010 (to date): 7.0-magnitude earthquake occurs in Haiti
For the last decade the world of football simulation has been defined by one battle: Fifa vs PES. These two console titans have battled it out over successive hardware generations, the balance of power shifting one way then the other. But this struggle is not the only show in town. EA's Fifa is also warring on another front, against a veteran mobile series,Real Football.Somehow French publisher Gameloft has been making these games for six years. That might not seem like a long time, but when the first Real Football title arrived in 2004, there was no such thing as the iPhone, or the Android, and the smartphone market was still the preserve of businessmen and uber geeks.This was the era of Java handsets, with tiny screens, limited colours, and weedy processors that asthmatically huffed and puffed their way through even the most modest gaming applications. In those days, phones often wouldn't allow multiple simultaneous button presses - so, for football sims, you could forget about building your shot power while running.But despite all this Real Football somehow conspired to be playable. It has also been hugely successful, despite the arrival of EA's all-conquering Fifa franchise in the mobile space. Real Football 2010, the first in the series to land on iPad, has shifted 15 million downloads since its release last autumn.Now, Gameloft is showing off the latest edition in the series, and as a statement of intent the company has signed up flavour-of-the-month Spain and Barcelona striker, David Villa as the game's 'ambassador'. The company brought him along to its demo event last week, and it turns out that, like many professional footballers, he's a keen gamer. He told us that he plays footie games with his Barcelona team mates, much as premiership players do: "We have a lot of spare time, and one way to spend it is playing video games especially on our travels." When I ask him who's the best gamer at Barca, he shrugs, "It depends on the game. But I will be the best at Real Football 2011."Real Football 2011 bears little resemblance to its hobbling ancestors. This is the first in the series to use motion-captured animation, which on the glossy iPad and iPhone 4.0 screens, looks impressively smooth and lifelike. It's an effect accentuated by the more detailed player models, which have apparently been constructed using twice the number of polygons than in RF 2010."Each player has specific dribble and moving speeds," says Nicolas Rodeghiero from Gaemloft's production team. "When you take control of Lionel Messi for instance, you will quickly see the difference with other players."The players all have unique behaviors with the ball, including passes, control and trapping. And they have dedicated mocap animation with different inertia constraints."The pitch textures too have been re-worked to make the most of Apple's Retina displays, providing a surface that looks organic, rather than resembling a flat, feature-less gym floor, as we've often seen in mobile footie titles.The controls will be familiar to fans of the series. A virtual d-pad in the left corner controls movement, while in the right, there are shoot, pass and sprint buttons. As ever, the set-up takes a while to get used to, especially the direction controls, which suffer massively due to the lack of tactile feedback. Rolling your thumb over a flat screen is never going to feel as precise and intuitive as using an analogue stick, and your directional commands seem restricted to eight-way movement. Yet it does the job, and after a few matches, you're flicking the ball around with ease.More interesting perhaps, are the gestures to familiar iPhone touch controls. Players can perform step-overs by simply tapping an empty area of the screen, while double tapping accesses a range of more showy tricks, like a Ronaldinho-style flip-flap. Rotating your finger on the display pulls off a Zidane-inspired Marseilles turn. Better than these however, is the throw-in mechanic, which uses the in-built accelerometer, so you flick the handset forward to lob the ball.The game also has a few basic interconnectivity features. There's an RSS feed that runs the latest football scores from all over the world across the base of the options screens. Gamers can also save and edit replays of their favourite game moments (using touch screen pinch controls to zoom in on the action) and then post these straight to YouTube. There's also Wi-Fi and local multiplayer. I was hoping for something a little more in-depth, perhaps a live score ticker showing the matches your friends are playing, maybe with an option to drop in to their game, as well as the opportunity to set-up multiplayer leagues and tournaments. Perhaps next year.It plays a nice, slick game, though, the fast ball movement and uncomplicated passing dynamics resembling the PS2-era Pro Evolution Soccer titles. I found it difficult to get space for decent crosses, and of course, there's no through ball function to cut through a back four, but you only need so much complexity in a mobile title. With 350 teams to choose from and 14 domestic leagues, there are plenty of options for fans who want to play as their favourite clubs. Gameloft has also introduced a Fifa-style Story mode which lets you take over historic football matches at key moments: the likes of Liverpool's Champions League comeback against AC Milan, and the Italy vs France World Cup final are available (I asked the game's producer if there's a head butt move. He wasn't amused.)At the end of the demo, I get a few brief moments to talk to Villa again. He's very reserved, very contained, but when I ask what element of football has never really been simulated in a video game, he brightens up. "Improvisation," is his immediately reply. "In football there are rules and guidelines but there is always improvisation. It's difficult to replicate that in a video game."
Yesterday's Twitter-worm fest was kicked off by a 17-year-old Australian called Pearce Delphin, according toAFP.The teenager had identified the flaw of allowing javascript code to appear in tweets. He posted some code, which was then picked up by hackers and diverted into more malicious ends, including various garbled window messages and a diversion to a Japanese porn site. The virus spread easily because rather than activating by clicking, users only needed to hover over a link to trigger an action.Photo bydigipamon Flickr.Some rights reserved"I did it merely to see if it could be done … that JavaScript really could be executed within a tweet," Delphin told AFP. "At the time of posting the tweet, I had no idea it was going to take off how it did. I just hadn't even considered it."Twitter was in chaos for about five hours before the bug was fixed. TheNew York Timesreported Twitter had known about the problem in August and had fixed it, though an update not related to last week's redesign had revived the problem.Twitterexplained: "Early this morning, a user noticed the security hole and took advantage of it on Twitter.com. First, someone created an account that exploited the issue by turning tweets different colors and causing a pop-up box with text to appear when someone hovered over the link in the Tweet. This is why folks are referring to this an 'onMouseOver' flaw – the exploit occurred when someone moused over a link."Other users took this one step further and added code that caused people to retweet the original Tweet without their knowledge."White House press secretary Robert Gibbs and Sarah Brown, wife of former PM Gordon, were among those affected. Delphin also pointed out that, if they could meet the 140-character challenge, hackers could have used the flaw to extract password information."I discovered a vulnerability, I didn't create a self-replicating worm. As far as I know, that isn't technically illegal," he said. "Hopefully I won't get in trouble!"I think he's safe. Though he might just have helped his future employment prospects.Update:The worm plot thickens. Given the chain of developments, how much did Delphin really discover?Masato Kinugawa used his original discovery to create rainbow tweets, but also notified Twitter. Delphin used the same flaw to generate popup windows. But it was Magnus Holm who tweaked the Javascript to update and automatically tweet from users' accounts, and the more malevolent hacks degenerated from there. Delphin may have spread the word about the flaw, but it's questionable whether he was the first to discover it.
As part of this week'sannouncementsabout enhanced login security for Apps and Google Docs soon to be working on iPad and Android devices, Google also revealed some insights into take up of its Apps service.Google Apps, which offers  email, calendar, word processing and spreadsheet tools and website builder, is now used by 3m businesses globally with 30 million users.Photo byKai Hendryon Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle chief executive Eric Schmidt gave a little more detail on Apps use atZeitgeistback in May, saying that 1,000 companies a day are switching to Google Apps, using Google Docs as a convenient, cloud-powered, web-based replacement for Word."Almost all come in through email and Google Calendar and start using Google Sites," he said, adding that many of those businesses are very small but that they make a large amount of Google's business. He acknowledged that Google Docs was not adequate for power users of Excel and those "in love with Excel macros" which he described as a "not large but important market that Google won't be in anytime soon".Meanwhile, editable Google Docs will appear for iPad and Android users in the "next few weeks", theposthelpfully points out. Not before time.&nbsp;
BlackBerry-manufacturer Research In Motion will take headlines away from its ongoing security saga in the Middle East by launching a tablet device "as early as next week", if the Wall Street Journal is anything to go by.Citing "people familiar with RIM's plans",the WSJ saysRIM's tablet will run on a newly-built operating system (rather than BlackBerry 6), it will feature a 7in touchscreen (same as the new Samsung Galaxy Tab) and have "one or two" cameras on board (the Galaxy Tab also has two). And – drumroll – it will be called BlackPad, not "SurfBook", the RIM-registered trademark of which wasfiled in August.Rumour had it that RIM –embattled with several Middle East governmentsover its data encryption since late July – would throw its hat into the tablet-shaped ring in August, pipping the Samsung announcement to the post. As it happens, the Canadian manufacturer has held off, letting a slew of new devices running Android take the limelight – while the Galaxy Tab has prompted more questions than it has answers, with the nearest steer on price coming courtesy of Amazon UK:Amazon UK originally lists Samsung Galaxy Tab as £799.99 then reduces by £200. Oops.But RIM has an annual developer conference next week, ideal footing for a new product launch; one that pits it toe-to-toe with Samsung and lends some credence to the idea that 7in isthe sweet spot for tablet computers.Last month weput it to the people: what can we expect from an RIM tablet computer? Here's what you told us:How much will it weigh?Given that the iPad weighs in at between 0.68-0.73kg, the majority of readers (43%) said the "BlackPad" (hold on to your hats, you'll see why we're calling it that in a minute) would weigh around 0.7kg – so roughly the same as an iPad. Almost 90% of readers said the BlackPad would weigh between 0.5kg and 0.9kg.How many models will there be?Just the one model, according to 55.9% of readers. A not insubstantial 44.1% said there would be more than one model. One for enterprise and one for regular users?What will be the basic model's screen size?Bit of an open one this. With the iPad's 9.7in screen and the new Kindle's tinchy six incher, the majority of readers (39%) said the BlackPad screen would be no bigger than 10.3in.Will the basic model have mobile network connectivity?It'd be a surprise if it didn't, put it that way – 84.9% of you saying it will.If there is a model with mobile network connectivity, who will be the US carrier(s)?The trio of big players – AT&amp;T, Verizon and Sprint – will all carry network on the BlackPad, so says the majority (38.7%) of readers. The rest were split almost equally between only AT&amp;T, only Verizon, or only AT&amp;T and Verizon.If there is a model with mobile network connectivity for a UK version, who will be the carrier(s)?Again, a trio of big players will all be providing network on RIM's tablet device, according to most (44.4%). Interestingly, readers don't seem to rate Orange's chances of being a sole carrier (4.8%), much less so than O2 and Vodafone.What sort of finish and colour will it have?It'll be a shiny black, say the hulking great mass (84.7%) of polled readers. Let's hope, for creativity's sake, we get a bright aluminium model as well. We're not holding our breath though.What connectivity/ports will it have?The BlackPad will definitively not have Ethernet connectivity (3.4%), say readers. Nor will it have Universal WideBand (2.8%) connectivity. What will set the device apart from rivals is a USB port (16.7%) and SD/CompactFlash card capability (13.3%).Will it support Flash?RIM has said Flash playback is coming to its BlackBerry smartphones, with an announcement in due course. There's no reason, then, we shouldn't expect Flash to be supported on its upcoming tablet device, as 86.3% of readers said. Will that prove a big enough draw away from the iPad?Will it introduce a new DRM format for electronic books, magazines and newspapers?No, say the majority (61.6%).How much will it cost in the UK, without network subsidy?The majority of readers (roughly 66%) expect the BlackPad to cost roughly the same as Apple's iPad – between £400 and £600. Almost 2% said the device will cost more than £1,201.Drumroll … what will it be called?This is the biggie, though largely spoilt by the rumbling of RIM's indiscrete purchase of a domain name. Just under half (43.5%) of polled readers think RIM's tablet device will be called BlackPad, 33.1% imagine it as BlackBerry Slate. A disappointing 1.9% said the device will be called BlackBored (the same 1.9% that imagine it will cost more than £1,201?).Has anything changed since then?
What impact will digital books have on the experience of the written word – apart from the form factor, and the ability to store hundreds of works on a single ebook reader? Will the rise of gadgets like Kindle and tablet computers like iPad actually contribute to the medium in a creative way?This is a question that design consultancyIDEOhas grappled with, producing a Vimeo clip to show three possible book-reading applications for tablet computers and ebook readers: Nelson, Coupland and Alice. It's the third (from 3:03 onwards) that interests us. Alice, the narrative informs us, is "an interactive reading experience that invites the reader to engage with the story-telling process [...] Stories unfold and develop through the reader's active participation."For example, clues could be unlocked by shaking the screen so that most of the words 'fall off' revealing hidden codes. Other narrative elements could be unveiled by opening the book while in a specific geographic location. The video also mentions the possibility of receiving text messages and emails from characters in the book. I guess Silence of the Lambswouldbe a bit more scary if you started getting texts from Buffalo Bill asking what your dress size is.But these are more like reading enhancements than truly interactive narrative features. Later, the narrator talks about the reader adding to the narrative, co-developing the story, thereby gaining access to secret events, character backstories and new chapters. "In time a non-linear narrative emerges, allowing the reader to immerse themselves in the story from multiple angles."Of course, interactive fiction is far from a new idea. 'Choose your own adventure books' were massive in the eighties, and the adventure gaming genre has been a mainstay of the computer games industry since the likes of The Hobbit and Zork. There's also been a thriving interactive fiction scene on the web for a decade, with independent developers creating interesting experimental examples to download.But can 'traditional' novels really be enhanced in this way? I can sort of see the value in an ebook app that will hyperlink from any real-life location, item or person mentioned in a story, to further information online. I spent much of my time while reading James Ellroy's American Tabloid, looking up information on the Kennedy presidency, Cuba and the Bay of Pigs. But then, this is something of a distraction while you're trying to become engrossed in a novel, and could easily be commercially exploited  – the last thing most readers will want is an electronic novel stuffed with contextual advertising so that every place name or brand comes with a link to the relevant manufacturer or tourist board.There's also the question of longevity. It's all very well setting up lots of nice little augmented reality stunts for a book's launch, but how long will the publisher support geo-tagging and 'secret events' for a single work? We don't all read the same books at the same time. And also this concept of a non-linear, multi-perspective narrative – well, that might be fine for, say, Bret Easton Ellis, but the core of most novels is their very subjectivity.I think there are definite possibilities, though, for a new breed of novels, and a coming generation of writers, to play with the ebook format and develop lots of new interactive ideas. There's already a growing mass of writers who are simultaneously contributing to games, films, comics and novels, combining narrative methods as entertainment evolves. Readers of crime fiction enjoy sorting the clues from the red herrings, so why not make that process more visual and haptic?I'm not sure this concept should be applied to the canon of printed literature already available. I don't want to have to hang around in Clerkenwell to unlock some extra info on Bill Sykes, or play a balloon piloting game to ruin the beginning of Enduring Love. We all know that imagination is the ultimate form of narrative interactivity. But I quite like the idea of fresh novels that allow us to use the functionality of the technology to open up new elements. It's not sacrilege, is it? It's just... new.
Fans of Sid Meir's seminal strategy game tend to be purists – one reason why 2008's Civilization Revolution was so panned by some for slimming down the formula in just about every respect.Yet for all its limitations, the console version addressed many of the problems that the old PC franchise had ignored for too long, and the proof is here for all to see. Civilization V returns to Civ IV's epic scale but combines it with CivRev's emphasis on simplicity and clarity. As a result, this is probably the best (or at least the most user friendly) version of the game since the original and certainly the best-equipped for the now-obligatory multiplayer mode.The first thing PC owners will notice is the interface. Heavily influenced by CivRev, it's a thing of minimalist beauty designed to display information clearly and succinctly. This also has the effect of allowing pride of place to the new-look World Map, which is now a thing of shimmering beauty as your empire develops into a tableau of fields, factories and road networks. Zooming in and out is smoother than before and it makes the game annoyingly easy to keep playing.If you get lost, the city advisers' advice seems more timely and pertinent than before. Not that you need it – as hovering your mouse over, say, your happiness rating  quickly reveals exactly why your population is either cheering your success or about to start rioting. It's not all cosmetic either. Civ V has been rebalanced and structured in all the four main areas on which victory depends. Diplomacy, as ever, is the weakest of the bunch, but even this has been improved thanks to the newly evolved City States which now cherish their independence. As they outnumber other nations but have no territorial ambitions of their own, they are well worth allying with – not least as they will attack your enemies with blind loyalty whenever called upon.However, the biggest change is to the military side of things, thanks to replacing the old square-based geometry with a hexagonal one. This means you can now attack enemies from two extra angles, even firing from two or three squares behind with some ranged or progressed units. However, to compensate you can no longer stack units in the same place, leading to a more strategic if cumbersome form of combat that Civ fans will either hate to bits or find to be a revelation. How it all plays out online remains to be seen but, for me, Civ V is a hugely accomplished reinvention of a franchise that was showing signs of dotage.• Game reviewed on PC
What prevented the Twitter worm from taking over the entire service? After all, at one stage some of the pranks being used meant that simply by looking at a twitter.com page which had an infected tweet, you'd be infected and would reweet that to all your followers. (Ask Sarah Brown, who has a 1.1m followers and had one of them.)The answer turns out to be simple: what saved Twitter, and its users, was the fact that the majority of its traffic comes via its API (applications programming interface, which hooks into the back-end systems), rather than from visits to the website itself.That is the distinction between the worms of the past and this one - and it's one way in which Web 2.0 companies, and their users, are potentially safer than they used to be. And offering APIs is also very Web 2.0: it lets people access the service by other means than the service's site itself.The Twitter worm spread through the website like wildfire - as the above search onTrendisticshows, it peaked at about 2pm BST on Tuesday, when more than 1% of the population had a tweet saying "mouseover=" (the key element of the worm).But because far more people -roughly 80%- access Twitter via its API, which was alreadycorrectly escaping the HTML in tweets, they were safe, and simply wondered why they were seeing this strange jargon in their feeds.Contrast that withpast worms- such as the ILOVEYOU worm, where the landscape was, essentially, flat: anyone with a Windows computer who opened the email with that title would get infected, because it used Visual Basic script, which was (almost) always enabled.At the time it was estimatedthat one-tenth of the world's mail servers failed, and that between 10% and 30% of UK businesses were affected.You might say that the Twitter worm started happening when the US was asleep, and that the effects would have been far worse if it had been generated while those users were awake. But actually the parallels with ILOVEYOU are close: both originated in the Far East (Japan for the Twitter worm, the Philippines for ILOVEYOU) and tore across the world as users woke up. Though the fix for Twitter - turning " into &amp;quot; on webpages - was rather simpler.It's interesting to consider that if you had someone trying to spread ILOVEYOU now, it wouldn't have anything like the same impact: many more businesses and people use webmail, there's scanning of attachments, and there's more variety of client computers and mail-reading programs (compared to the Outlook/Outlook Express near-monopoly of that time, though you could be affected if you used Lotus Notes too).So while there's a lesson for Twitter in its failure to guard against that cross-site scripting (XSS) attack, there's also a lesson: Web 2.0 is good for you, at least as long as it gives you an API to access the site. XSS is hard to make work via a text API.
Two things struck me about Halo recently. One is that Reach may actually be the "best" one yet - at least the multiplayer element. The second was that next year will be the tenth anniversary of the original Halo. Ouch. A lot of the players shooting me in the head in Reach were probably still in primary school then - bless 'em. Since the original we have seen the main trilogy plus 3 spin offs, the later being the recently released Reach. So there have only been six Halo games in 10 years and that includes the headshot-unfriendly RTS game Halo Wars. Compare this to the amount of Call of Duties or Medal of Honors we have had since 2001. However, with Halo 3: ODST and now Reach out in consecutive years we could start seeing more regular Halo "product". Certainly Microsoft are hoping so. Their Game Studios boss Phil Spencertold IGNthat the old release schedule was not frequent enough.There's no explicit strategy that says we're to ship a Halo game every year. I will say I think one Halo game every three years -- which was kind of our old cadence – is probably not frequent enough.We're coming up on, what, next year is the 10th anniversary. You watch the change in gamers in 10 years. The percentage of players who are playing Reach that were I'll say not old enough to play Halo 1 at the time, 10 years is a long time between launches. We definitely think about a more persistent Halo engagement for customers and not going dark for two years, and Live helps obviously with multiplayer to keep people engaged.Spencer also mentions the new developers - 343 Industries - who have taken over from long-time developers Bungie.343 Industries is thinking a lot about how to take this franchise and turn it into something that people feel like they have an ongoing relationship with and they can entertain themselves more often. But it's not, hey every November 6 or whatever we have to ship a game and build a production plan around that. We want to do things that make sense as a first party.Spencer also uses Call of Duty as an example of a franchise that maintains release frequency and high quality.I'll just, again, be honest as a gamer. I used to look at annual releases of non-sports games as people just trying to milk me. I figured nobody had enough time to do a good job, and all of the negatives that we would associate with those kinds of scenarios. Kudos to Activision because they've done a good job building a good game, continuing to release each year and I think the fans feel like it's a good thing that they do that. I think there are some things to learn, some positives and some opportunities, in what they do with that. Obviously they've kept the quality extremely high, which I think is important.We have some unique challenges and opportunities with Halo because it is a story based game built around a certain set of characters, which is a bit different than what they do with Call of Duty. Not better or worse, it's just different. But watching them and seeing what they do -- we take inspiration from a lot of places -- but obviously they're a big success.What do you think then? Would you rather have a new Halo game every 12 months? Or - like me - do you prefer the more "event" feel of a new Halo game every 2-3 years?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Worms! Photo byAllan Hendersonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Man Who Makes Your iPhone &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekFascinating interview with the head of the giant Chinese manufacturer Foxconn. This is the print link - the paginated version goes to 9 pages, but misses out the amazing photos you'll find in the printed edition.Facebook Has Quietly Implemented A De-Facto Follow Feature &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Previously, you could either Confirm or Ignore (deny) a request. Now, Ignore has been replaced by "Not Now". This new option takes some of the pressure off you having to reject people as it instead moves them into a state of limbo, where they're neither accepted nor rejected. But it actually does a lot more as well. You see, when someone requests to be your friend on Facebook, this automatically subscribes them to all of your public ("Everyone") posts in their News Feed." Facebook's feature creep creeps up on your again. A stalker's paradise.Fibre pioneers run into backhaul problems &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyLaying your own optical fibre: cost of fibre: £1/metre. Cost of digging: 75p per metre (inc labour). Rateable value, according to the Valuation Office Agency: £2 per metre, plus £20pa per home attached to the fibre. Meaning you have to recoup £87 per month from every home attached to the fibre.The Tories promised to review the VOA in their manifesto. Then they reneged on that promise.All about the "onMouseOver" incident &gt;&gt; Twitter blogIt was 2.54am Pacific time when it all started to go off. Apparently they had fixed it.. but then broke it again. "There is no need to change passwords because user account information was not compromised through this exploit.... This issue is now resolved."Password Reuse &gt;&gt; xkcd"It'll be hilarious the first few times this happens."ComScore: Google's Android surpasses Microsoft in US smartphone market share &gt;&gt; Engadget"Considering that Steve Ballmer himself said that Microsoft "missed a cycle" in the smartphone sales universe, we guess it's not too shocking to see Android leap past Windows Mobile and Friends in ComScore's latest US smartphone report."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Sarah Brown and Lord Sugar were among thousands of Twitter users who yesterday found themselves directing people to third-party sites, including hardcore pornography, as the messaging website fell prey to an "embarrassing" hacking attack discovered by a Japanese programmer and then exploited by a number of others.At one point more than 100,000 people on the service were estimated to have been affected, while the owners – who are based on the US west coast – were asleep.Graham Cluley, a consultant with the online security company Sophos, said a rogue code or worm spread throughout the service "like someone had just thrown petrol on a fire".The problem brought a renewed focus on the importance of Twitter, which restricts users to 140-character tweets, and has more than 100 million users around the world.With more and more organisations  relying on the service to deliver information and keep people in touch, the potential for a worm to render it useless – or, worse, dangerous to use – echoed the problems suffered by users of Microsoft's Windows operating system when theILOVEYOU wormspread through email and infected millions of computers a decade ago.The worm began spreading at 10.30am, but abruptly peaked at around 1.30pm, just as Sarah Brown, wife of the former prime minister Gordon Brown, who has 1.1 million followers on the service, was hit by a version which redirected anyone who hovered their mouse over the infected tweet to a Japanese hardcore pornography site.Because the worm worked on the web browser, any sort of computer could be affected. Only users of Twitter's mobile site, and those who read it through third-party applications such as Tweetdeck, Twhirl or Twitter's own iPhone and Android apps, were unaffected because those rendered the code ineffective.The original discoverer of the weakness appears to have been a Japanese developer called Masato Kinugawa, who says on his Twitter feed that he reported it to Twitter on 14 August – and thenfound that the new version of Twitter, launched on Tuesday last week, was also vulnerable. Others soon picked the idea up and realised they could use it to send messages, andremove people from Twitter entirely.As developers and malicious hackers played with the weakness they also discovered that they could make it activate as soon as someone logged in to Twitter received an infected tweet on their page.Richard Gaywood, a programmer and developer, watched the variants spread: "Other versions were hacked around by users to have all sorts of other effects, such as porn site redirects, rainbow text in their tweets, and so forth. Some of them popped up dialogue boxes designed to alarm the users, talking about accounts being disabled or passwords stolen (they weren't, in either case)." He added: "It's not that complex an attack at all either – rather embarrassing for Twitter that they were caught out by this."Once alerted to the problem, Twitter fixed it within 25 minutes – but the reputational damage may take some time to repair.That came as some relief to Lord Sugar. "Seems loads of people effected [sic] by hack bug thought it was me who caused it phew !" hewroteas the attack spread.
An internet worm, as defined in theWebopediaof IT terminology, is a program or algorithm that replicates itself over a computer network and invariably performs malicious actions such as shutting a machine down or using up its resources. No network of computers is impenetrable or immune to attacks of this kind, as is shown in the cases below.The Morris wormCreated by US university student Robert Morris, this entered the history books as one of the world's first internet worms. Affecting approximately 10% of the world's estimated 60,000 internet-connected computers in November 1988, it was written with the harmless aim of gauging the size of the internet. However Morris, aged 23, made the program too aggressive, and it swamped the nascent network. He was convicted of violating the 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act; the economic damage caused was estimated by a Harvard spokesman to be between $100,000 and $10,000,000.The ILOVEYOU wormThis malicious internet worm, written by a student in the Philippines, hit tens of millions of Windows computer users in May 2000. It arrived as an attachment to an email headed simply ILOVEYOU which came from a contact of the recipient. Once opened, the worm automatically sent itself on to everyone in the user's electronic address book, and altered settings on the machine. Parliament shut down its email to prevent damage from the propositional worm; it left approximately £4bn worth of damage in its wake worldwide.The Code Red wormCredited with being the first worm aimed directly at government computers running Windows, Code Red threatened to bring down US state websites in July 2001. The FBI was prompted to issue a rare warning about the computer threat over fears it could bring the internet to a grinding halt. That never materialised, but the threat posed by the worm was keenly felt, largely because its attacks were time-dependent, launching different actions throughout the month.The Conficker wormIn March 2009 the House of Commons and the French Navy were among the owners of an estimated 10m Windows computers worldwide infected by a worm known as "Conficker". For a time, experts predicted it could deliver a devastating attack on the internet, timed to coincide with April Fool's Day, and Microsoft offered a bounty of $250,000 (£176,000) for the identification of its creator. The threat of Conficker has not entirely subsided; Greater Manchester Police was temporarily cut off from the national crime database in January this year after finding the bug in its system.The Twitter wormReckoned to have affected up to 100,000 Twitter accounts, this attack on Twitter took hold while many of the company's US-based security team slept. Although users of third-party applications were unaffected by the hack, thought to be the brainchild of Japanese developer Masato Kinugawa, Twitter users flooded the site with panicked messages until the problem was solved. Kinugawa said he reported the vulnerability to Twitter last month before discovering that the redesigned site – launched on 14 September – had the same problem.
India is in talks with Research In Motion for access to the BlackBerry corporate email service, an Indian government source told Reuters news agency today. The Canadian manufacturer has already allowed Indian authorities access to the Messenger service since 1 September, the source confirmed.In August the Indian interior ministry lifted a threat to block BlackBerry services for RIM's 800,000-odd customers in India; it had said that the encryption of BlackBerry messages could help terrorists. The Canadian smartphone manufacturer appeared toaccede to the government's demandsby offering unspecified "technical concessions" and an offer to lead an industry-wide forum on security. The government had said it would check their feasibility of these concessions – the details of which remained unclear until now – over the next 60 days.Now the Delhi government has also issued a fresh ultimatum to mobile operators, according to a newspaper in the country, as it strengthens its demands for access to communication passed between devices in what is now the second-largest mobile phone market in the world, after China."They have started giving us access to the Messenger service from 1 September," the government source said on Tuesday. "Discussions are under way so that we get access to the other service, which is corporate email so that we can read it in readable format."India has been pressing communications companies – including mobile manufacturers, network operators and some internet companies such as Skype and Google – for localised access to data for weeks, citing fears that some services could be used to formulate terrorist attacks. According to the Indian Economic Times, security authorities have ordered mobile operators to host servers inside the country by 22 September, enabling greater access to customer communication. "[Mobile] service providers will have to upgrade so that access to BlackBerry services are smooth," a government source with knowledge of the developments told Reuters on Monday.RIM is working towards a solution that will satisfy security authorities without compromising the needs of private companies. If governments can access content on enterprise solutions afforded to customers, it would damage RIM's reputation for security with its most high-profile customers, including world leaders and financial institutions. BlackBerry's Messenger instant-messaging service and its email service have different levels of security, and email security depends on the server being used.Authorities in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Lebanon area also reviewing the future of BlackBerry services in their countries, all citing security fears over the level of encryption employed by RIM.RIM had not returned a request for comment by time of publication. The Canadian phone maker has previously said its negotiations with governments over increased access to data transmitted between BlackBerry devices would abide to four principles: that it was legal, that there would be "no greater access" to BlackBerry services than other services, that there would be no changes in the security for Enterprise customers, and that it would not make "specific deals for specific customers".
When Steve Webb, the Lib Dems pensions minister, breaks from his party's conference in Liverpool today he will be greeted with a digital manifesto aimed at making it easier for 6.4 million Brits aged 65 and over to get online.Sixty per cent of UK citizens aged 65 and over have never used the internet, according to2010 figures from the Office for National Statistics[PDF]. Naturally, more of this age group have connected to the internet over time as more essential public services migrate to the web. But there remains a fear that insufficient support is available for those most at risk of being left standing in the "Race Online".Today, theFoundation for Art and Creative Technology(FACT) andAge UKwill release their digital manifesto which sets a date to end "digital illiteracy" and calls for "online freedom passes" for over 65s. Here's the five point manifesto:• The government shouldset a target for eliminating digital illiteracy– described as "lacking basic digital skills" – by 2020. A national helpline for accessing the internet should be established and young people should be required to "buddy-up" with the older generation online as part of the government's national youth service.• "Online freedom passes". The government and internet service providers should provide over-65s with subsidised internet access and make access to super-fast broadband a priority.• Older folk should have"greater access" (extent of the detail, as far as I've seen) to tools needed to participatein online neighbourhoods.•Residential care homes, sheltered accommodation, clubs and care centres should provide more opportunity for residents to get connectedand learn how to use technology.• Social networking sites shouldactively promote online socialising between young and old; webinars should be used to help bring older people into the classroom.Mike Stubbs, director of FACT, told the Guardian:"As information moves increasingly online, it's essential that we look at how older people access it - whether that's paying a bill, talking to their grandchildren on Skype or simply getting a recipe off the web."But let's face it – the majority of over 65s are on a fixed income and the costs for internet services can be crippling. We'd like to see ISPs offering flexible packages for society's most vulnerable, so that organisations like FACT have the infrastructure to work with older people and offer creative options to tackling the digital divide. "Laudible goals, and let's hopeSteve Webbtakes the concers back to the Department for Work and Pensions with him.But with ISPs increasingly concocting their broadband packages under the hawkish gaze of the Advertising Standards Authority and Ofcom, would it be safe to hold our breath for a slew of straightforward offerings from BT, O2 and the like? Speaking to one ISP – O2 – earlier today, there was no mention of subsidised offerings, but there was an acknowledgement that packages should be designed (if not priced) around customer needs, young or old.
On this week's programme we discuss the waning influence of email, as users turn to different tools to communicate more effectively with one another. Are priority inboxes the answer? Or is a whole new method of communication in order? We speak with Jeff Bonfiorte fromXobni(it's inbox, spelt backwards) who explains why email isn't dead, just misunderstood. He offers his insight on how to reach the fabled Inbox Zero.Charles followsthe collapse of Haystack, the US State Department's-sponsored anti-censorship software, celebrated for its role in opening up the Iranian web during the violence in the aftermath of Iran's 2009 elections. It has been found to make its users vulnerable to the authoritarian government, rather than anonymous; the team dissects the hype.We look at the latest hacker actions taken against the RIAA and the MPAA, causing their services to go down. Charles argues that there's nothing to be done to stop attacks like this in the future; it's simply part of the weather of the Internet, and we should just bring our umbrellas.And Jemima weighs in on the open-source social networkDiaspora, which has released its first code. The project promotes personal data ownership, a criticism levied against Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook.Plus - we want your questions for the next in our installment of the Startup Surgery. Next week corporate finance specialist Simon Carmichael of Torch Partners will be answering your questions on refining your proposition to take your business to the next level.Questions to him on the PDA blog.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The original discovery of the weakness, known as a "cross-site scripting" (XSS) hack, seems to have been made by aJapanese developer called Masato Kinugawa. He says that he reported an XSS vulnerability to Twitter on August 14 - and then discovered that the "new" Twitter, launched on Tuesday 14 September, had the same problem.At about 10am BST (the afternoon in Japan, where he is based) heset up a Twitter account called "Rainbow Twtr", which showed how the XSS weakness could be used to make tweets turn into different colours.Timing was key: on the west coast of the US, where Twitter is sited, it was the middle of the night, so nobody would have been watching for security flaws.Kinugawa's idea was spotted by others. It's not clear whether some people had had the same idea, or realised the weakness, but next to spot the possibilty was a Scandinavian developer,Magnus Holm.He spotted the idea and began playing with the idea - and then had the idea of extending the code so that it would retweet itself using the account of anyone signed in to Twitter.com when they moused over the link.At first he thought the worm wouldn't really do anything:meh, this worm doesn't really scale. the users can just delete the tweet :(he wrote.Then within a few minutes he saw that it had started spreading virally. "holy shit. I think this is exponential: "3381 more results since you started searching," hesaid- adding, a few minutes later "This is scary."Others picked the idea up and mutations began to appear. Some were used by a Russian site; others by a Japanese hard-core pornography site. A fresh mutation didn't wait for you to put your mouse over the link (as the warnings about that began appearing within minutes): a revised version turned the whole of the Twitter.com page into a "link", so that any Twitter user who was signed in would automatically retweet the infected link to their followers.Only users of Twitter.com itself were affected; nobody using third-party software clients, which represent the majority of users, were infected because those programs correctly escaped the URL (see below, How the hack works).While all this was going on, Twitter was only just waking up. At 2.35pm BST - or 6.35am at Twitter HQ - it put out its first warnings. 25 minutes later, it had solved the problem: "The XSS attack should now be fully patched and no longer exploitable. Thanks, those reporting it."said.How the hack worksRichard Gaywood, a British developer and blogger, explains:The exploit was a classic piece of Javascript injection. Suppose you write a tweet with the following text:"http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology is the best!"When you view the Twitter web page, that becomes a link, like so:&lt;a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology" class="tweet-url web" rel="nofollow"&gt;http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology&lt;/a&gt; is the best!The exploit attacked that link-making function. The raw text of the exploit tweet would read something like this:http://a.no/@";onmouseover=";$('textarea:first').val(this.innerHTML);$('.status-update-form').submit();"class="modal-overlay"/Which Twitter didn't protect properly, probably because the @" character combination broke their [HTML] parser. That link would generate the following page source:&lt;a href="http://a.no/@";onmouseover=";$('textarea:first').val(this.innerHTML);$('.status-update-form').submit();"class="modal-overlay"/ class="tweet-url web" rel="nofollow"&gt;This means that executable content (the onMouseOver="stuff" bit) has ended up in the page source code. Not knowing any better, the browser runs this code. Because it's running in the user's browser, it can do anything the user does; most variations used this power to re-post the content, which is why it spread like a virus. To encourage the user to activate the code by mousing over, they also formatted the block as black-on-black using CSS [Cascading Style Sheets, which determines the page layout]. Other versions were hacked around by users to have all sorts of other effects, such as porn site redirects, rainbow text in their tweets, and so forth. Some of them popped up dialog boxes designed to alarm the users, talking about accounts being disabled or passwords stolen (they weren't, in either case).Twitter fixed this not by blocking the string onMouseOver (which some dim-witted blogs were calling for) but by properly sanitising the input. The " marks in these tweets are now turned into &amp;quot; – the HTML-escaped form.Technically this is a second-order injection attack; the attack string is inserted into the database and handled correctly, but then the attack takes place as the string is read back out instead. It's not that complex an attack at all either - rather embarrassing for Twitter that they were caught out by this.[Updated explanation to turn " into &amp;quot; so it would make sense - CA]
Chatterbox has gotten big. Unless you're a regular visitor to Gamesblog's comments-based forum, you possibly don't realise that it's a thriving community, in which intellectual banter and heavyweight video game discussions are... not beyond the realms of possibility. Until recently, one member of said community would edit all the chat from the last week into a single digestible post and we'd put that on the blog. But now there are over 800 comments a day, it's becoming something of a Herculean test – especially as many of our 'Best of' contributors have actual jobs, a fraction of which are responsible.So from now on we're running a new format in which a larger pool of writers is handling a day each, considerably reducing the time spent reading about Demon's Souls tactics. The end product won't look that much different, apart for some radical lurches in style from day to day – but that'll be part of the fun from now on.So anyway, here's the first instalment of the new 'Best of' regime. Enjoy, and thanks for listening...The Best of Chatterbox: September 13-17MondayI cried at Company of Heroes the other night, the digital paratroopers dropping down through gun fire, the men fighting other men, all the death. Why some nations might drop a nuclear weapon on other people. Nothing is sacred.HenryPootle, the Victorian vampire, somehow manages to brave the sunlight and make his mark, first, on the soil of this day. Praise be, factor fifty thousand.TVs, mortgage advice and phone contracts.HereComesTreble, ex-SAS and now prominent chicken egg critic, demonstrates the relationship between a subject matter and the research funds available: "I've been arguing for years that this was a tragedy waiting to happen, that it was inevitable. Certain elements within government have consistently blocked my research at every opportunity."At the same time the relationship between research methods, funding and eggs was voiced, the long-running affection for time and how it is mediated by alcohol resurfaced. Weekends seem to pass bloggers by, and yet the week being the time they are most alive to themselves, is nothing other than work.[Well, you've lost me already guys, but let's keep going – Keef]Also, the relationship to facial hair and its growth, and how this is consciously remarked upon as an indication of time and of one's masculinity does not go unremarked upon. To have facial hair or not is important. What this means to SerenVikity, cLette, Marie and other female bloggers I would love to know.Sheep2's comment on Fernando Torres' range of movement in his knee jumped out. This is a particularly nuanced observation of a body part that suggests a career in physiotherapy or torture. I struggle to find the words for seeing old names back on the list - GettingNervous and Smike.  It is good to see them but what their return means is another matter.  I hope both of you are well.Bloggers best wishes went to Sorbicol for his interview and Simian for his sick hands.Quote of the day comes from ToMadeira, himself quoting the Guardian's headline: "Cutbacks will make the UK a darker, more brutish place".  Has someone in government been playing Pro Evo?TuesdayWe soared the heights, as sure as we dredged the depths. Like every other day, we spanned the genres, running the full gamut of human emotion. We talked games (Bad Company 2 still burning brightly, Company of Heroes getting some love, Assassin's Creed 2 hinting at something of a renaissance), we talked television (The Inbetweeners garnering mixed reviews from a typically receptive audience), we talked nonsense (pretty much everything else), but by no means least, we battled threats, both real and perceived, to our very existence.We offered shelter to new friends (Zuckercorn, WeeCooper), just as warmly as we embraced those returning to the buxom office-hours bosom of the 'box (at once comforting and familiar, yet vaguely unsettling). Whether it was Be4ch, stickin' it to The Man, SageSmith6079 just back off another self-indulgent trip to the continent, or DrStatham, finally surfacing from yet another of his regular illegal 72-hour underground rave parties, come close of business Tuesday, we were collectively stronger for it, a brave few souls even venturing to confirm personal itineraries for the Awards (05/02/11 - London, England).Double posts, triple posts, posts forever lost in the ether? What stood in our path here? What was this beast? Why had it chosen today, of all days, to toy with us? Dare it not show itself?Alas, it was a test, a wake-up call of sorts, another round in this depraved game of cat-and-mouse we find ourselves wrapped up in. CrispyCrumb promptly brought some much needed reality to bear, a chilling reminder of the challenge then before us - "I faced him down a few months ago, put him back in his box - it's why some of the more excitable bloggers worshipped me as their king for a while. As you can see he's still up to his old tricks. You cannot kill that which does not die".With the blog still reeling, talk quickly turned to the pressing issues of the day - football fans, browser-based multiplayer strategy games, the cost of gaming, and beer, with some plucky types going so far as to sully the good name of the black stuff (when will they learn?).ToMadeira's newsflash (a discount code for Argos) expedited many a Pro Evo pre-order. This is more like it. Who said procrastination and fiscal responsibility were poor bedfellows? Well, no one really, but we were all thinking it.WednesdayTo Wednesday then, the hump, the meat in the week sandwich. Still with us?  Let us continue...The big gaming news today was the confirmation of Ico and Shadow of the Colossus getting HD releases - it's fair to say there's some blog excitement about this. The usual midweek Champions League chat revolved around what must be referred to as "that horror break".Various bloggers received congratulations on recent nuptials, impending babies and new jobs, and this lead on to some discussions regarding the benefits of marriage.  McBegbie summed this up in truly romantic fashion: "I like the idea of being married but it was more for Mrs McB and it hasn't made a blind bit of difference to day to day life having been together for five years prior to the big day. Just the hassle of Mrs McB having to change her name and making separating (god forbid) more complicated and expensive."BigWorv then kicked off some trash talking and labelled most of the blog's MW2 players as dirty cheating campers. This lead to wild accusations, handbags and noses being put out of joint before calm was restored.CatZilla related an unfortunate episode where he'd ended up with too much mayonnaise on his chips and had to leave them.  A couple of bloggers were amazed at this concept, to which CatZilla replied: "Normally I would agree with this, but the mayo tasted funny (one of the packets was past its sell by date) and the chips were completely caked in mayo. Hence I was unable to consume a chip not coated in the off-tasting condiment. A waste of chips and a waste of once good tasting mayo, but a lesson learned." Indeed.Debate then began between the merits of salad cream and mayonnaise (NOT mayo) as chip accompaniments. This lead to the inevitable return of old favourite Condiments Blog, with brown, red and chilli sauce, Henderson's relish and mustard all making an appearance. Personally, I like to mix a bit of mustard and mayonnaise together. Mmm.Quotes of the day"I banged my head against a bench pretending to be a mouse last night."ElQuesoDiablo pretends he went to an improv class."Eating lunch at my desk is not what I had in mind when I was 10 years old, dreaming about what I'd be when I grew up. Do magicians even have desks?"The best of Treble's many today.ThursdaySlim pickings for Best Of today, SuperSmashIn started things off with a tale of neutrality and nature: "Walking into work this morning I spotted a cat ahead, staring at a bush. It was only as I got closer I realised the cat was terrorising a squirrel. The poor squirrel was crying out to me to help it, the tiny snuffling noises were heart-breaking. It realised the cat was bigger, it was faster and it was in no mood to play. What did I do? I just walked away. I feel like I should have helped that poor little fella but I didn't want to stand in the way of nature. I regret my decision."The blog was quick to express its encouragement and support, however, the consensus was that as long as it was an interloping grey squirrel then leaving it to the cat's ministrations was for the best. If it had been red however, his decision was at best ill-advised, at worst downright unpatriotic. The cat has been brought in for questioning and if the police find there is a case, SuperSmashIn may want to make a deal to try and avoid being prosecuted for aiding and abetting a non-indigenous species.Unfortunately, this moral maze proved to be the high point of the day and the blog slumped into mediocrity soon after. At one point, FoolsGold tried to lift the blog back up to better things, but unfortunately his question about everyone's top five Hip Hop albums went largely unnoticed.[Just in case anyone is interested: It Takes a Nation of Millions To Hold Us Back, Only Built 4 Cuban Lynx, By Any Means Necessary, Paul's Boutique, Dr. Octagonecologyst - Old Skool Keef]The usual planning for the evening's NaN escapades was discussed, although anyone well versed in NaN Killzone 2 will know that when it comes to planning, Burns' famous quote is a vast underestimation. The end of the day saw an in-depth discussion about lanyards which was as interesting as it sounds.FridayAs usual the chat on Friday focused on Thursday night's online multiplayer action. Halo Reach appears to be where all the cool Xbox kids are at these days, while the PS3 crowd have decided to practice rage-quitting and exterminating their own team members in anticipation of the next iteration of  Killzone. As ever, drunkenness and swearing ability seem to be more highly prized assets then any kind of gaming skill.Despite the Pope making an appearance 'Religion Blog' failed to rear its ugly head to the relief of many. This was probably due to the (unsubstantiated) rumours that him and his buddies were in town to beta test Molyneux's latest offering. No-one even mentioned his silly little car. A new dawn of tolerance and understanding or the calm before the storm when he hits London?Resident pervert timthemonkey enquired whether it was OK for him to visit strip clubs by himself. The answer was a resounding "No". Attitudes on these establishments varied; some feigned disinterest others couldn't get enough of the action. Pdmalcom ruined the dream for many when he mentioned the living arrangements of a friend – apparently he has "a mate who house shares with two lap dancers, however. He says it's not as good as you'd think"[This sounds like something out of Inbetweeners – Keef]. I feel duty bound to call attention to Burke and Hare's a strip club named after a couple of grave robbers, located in Edinburgh's "Pubic Triangle". This place actually exists as I, to the chagrin of my internet monitoring team at work, found out.Undercover Sony PR executive and Home obsessive Chubster2010 shunned the seedy glamour of naked, gyrating ladies to focus on his burgeoning relationship with Sony's latest high-tech gadget. In his own words he, "spent some quality time with the PlayStation Move last night". Is this the start of a new romance? I'm reminded of the David Cronenberg masterpiece Videodrome. He seemed to enjoy himself though and made some positive, if not slightly worrying noises.Towards the end of the day everyone started showing their age by comparing grey hairs and then arguing pedantically over the naming of bingo pens. The most positive spin we can put on that sorry episode is that "'The Media" have a very inaccurate view of the average gamer.A warm welcome to Clippedseagull, who appeared not to have played a game since Tetris. A special 'shout out' for post-apocalyptic US TV drama Jericho and comedy It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia, neither of which I have personally seen, but come highly recommended by some geeks on the internet.This week, Best Of was written by Mollocate, HereComesTreble, CrispyCrumb, CunningStunt, RustyJames and Limni
A new online multiplayer game based around the life and works of Michael Jackson is set to be launched next winter. NamedPlanet Michael, the project is described as 'a massive social experience' that will allow users to explore Jackson's music and biography, while making contact with other fans. PublisherSEE Virtual Worldssays it will be employing a micro-transaction model – there will be no charge for downloading the game and no subscriptions, but players will be able to buy access to special equipment and customisation options for their avatars.The details of the gameplay have not yet been fully revealed, but it seems there will be a standard MMORPG structure, with players able to go on quests within the MJ environment. "We're still in the early stages of development, we're in the script-writing phase," says Josh Gordon, vice-president of product development. "But the themes we're trying to get across are things that were near and dear to Michael. We're endeavouring to make a game that Michael would have liked to play himself, with his friends and obviously his fans. The game's going to have a very strong nurturing and adventuring environment, as opposed to violence and killing."But some people may pause at the news that it will be built using the Entropia Universe MMORPG platform, where much-used objects are subject to "wear and tear" and so have to be replaced as part of a heavily monetised structure.Apparently, the planet will be separated into continents, each based around a different era of Michael's career. "There will be a Bad land, a Thriller land, a Neverland, a Billy Jean city," explains Gordon. "We've looked to his music to inform us about how the different regions of the world will play. We've done a lot association, so songs like Man in the Mirror, Heal the World and Earthsong might be in a more natural Neverland-style environment; then you have more futuristic landscapes for Moonwalker or the song Scream."As for the implementation of Jackson's music, it seems this vital element is still being planned. "Right now we're working very closely with the Michael Jackson estate to obtain all the rights," says SEE's CEO Martin Biallis. "But as you know, some of the rights are not with the estate, so we're working with all the publishers. And that will certainly be a material part of the planet." When asked if the game could become a digital distribution platform for Jackson's discography, Biallis' response is positive: "absolutely. This is everything Michael, it's a social network, a merchandising platform – it's a chance to make products available to a global market." It also seems that forthcoming compilations of unreleased material may also be made available through the game.Player customisation of avatars will be one of the key elements. "Our goal is to provide users with a toolbox of MJ-themed outfits and the ability to modify that attire," says Gordon. "Michael had such a wide variety of styles, we wanted to make sure players had the ability to make cool outfits."SEE Virtual Worlds has not announced the developer of the title, but says it will reveal all shortly. The company has, however, stated that Planet Michael will be built using the controversialEntropia Universe, a massively multiplayer gaming platform launched by Swedish developer MindArk in 2003. The title is set on a dedicated Michael Jackson world, though players will also have access to other planets in the Entropia system, including the sci-fi MMORPG, Planet Calypso. That title's real-life economy, which allows players to buy and sell in-game goods and skills for genuine currency, has been attacked by some gamers as gambling, and by others as something akin to a Ponzi scheme. Ina withering indictment of the titleon Rock, Paper Shotgun, Quintin Smith wrote:"Taking a trip to the forums, there are some honestly worrying descriptions of how much veteran players are spending. People talk about dropping hundreds of dollars in a day, and I read one weirdly resigned user mentioning he'd spent upwards of $14,000 in total. In the same thread other players were complaining about the hourly cost of playing Planet Calypso. I say again: Not monthly, or even weekly, but hourly."This is something of a concern, especially as Calypso's 'wear and tear' model, in which purchasers of game goods have to pay to repair extensively used items, is apparently being employed in SEE's Michael Jackson title. It will be interesting to see how the heavily monetised infrastructure is applied to a potentially more mass-market proposition, especially in view of the eagerness with which Michael Jackson fans treat anything bearing his name.One restriction on that takeup for younger fans though is that payments require a credit or debit card, which means that under-16s might find their expenditure limited.It will also be intriguing to see how Special Entertainment Events, a company previously best known for arranging tours based around Hollywood properties such as Titanic and Star Trek, will make the transition into the games industry. Certainly, its claims for the game are wide-ranging and ambitious – but the authenticity of these claims will rest on the credentials of the mystery developer. Yet, SEE will also have the benefit of following Ubisoft's warmly anticipated Michael Jackson dance game, revealed at E3 in June and out this autumn.And let's face it, if you're going to get into the MMOG market, there are few bigger entertainment brands to do it with.
Here's a modest proposal: what if the government took it on board to promote a reasonable, sane grasp of risk, security, and probability? Or, if you're a "Big Society/Small Government" LibCon, how about a more modest mandate still: we could ask the state to leave offpromotingstatistical innumeracy and the inability to understand risk and reward.Start with the lottery: in the US, its slogan is "Lotto: You've Got to Be In It to Win It". A more numerate slogan would be "Lotto: Your Chance of Finding the Winning Ticket in the Road is Approximately the Same as Your Chance of Buying it". The more we tell people that there is a meaning gap between the one-in-a-squillion chance of finding the winning ticket and the one-in-several-million chance of buying it, the more we encourage the statistical fallacy that events are inherently more likely if they're very splashy and interesting to consider.This is the same reasoning that causes parents to run in circles squawking in terror at the thought of paedophiles stalking their kiddies, even as they let Junior ride in the car without his seatbelt – auto fatalities being orders of magnitude more common than random paedophile attacks. (Of course, the most likely paeodophile in your child's life is you or your spouse, or a close friend, relative, or authority figure.) Preparing for the unlikely while neglecting the (relatively) common is a terrible way to make the world safer for you and yours.Banish the lotto? Wouldn't that mean losing all the lovely money extracted by way of a voluntary tax on innumeracy? Perhaps, but if getting rid of the lottery could give rise to a modest increase in common sense about risk and security, think of the society-wide savings in money not spent on alarmist newspapers, quack child-protection schemes, MMR scares and the like!Once we get rid of the lottery, let's attack the banks. It's not bad enough that they collect enormous bonuses at public expense while destroying the economy; they also systematically disorder our capacity to understand risk and security through an ever-more-farcical stream of "compliance" hoops and bizarro-world "security" measures!For example, my own bank, the Co-op, recently updated its business banking site (the old one was "best viewed with Windows 2000!"), "modernising" it with a new two-factor authentication scheme in the form of a little numeric keypad gadget you carry around with you. When you want to see your balance, you key a Pin into the gadget, and it returns a10-digitnumber, which you then have to key into a browser-field that helpfully masks your keystrokes as you enter this gigantic one-time password.Don't get me wrong: two-factor authentication makes perfect sense, and there's nothing wrong with using it to keep users' passwords out of the hands of keyloggers and other surveillance creeps. But a system that locks users out after three bad tries does not need to generate a 10-digit one-time password: the likelihood of guessing a modest four- or five-digit password in three tries is small enough that no appreciable benefit comes out of the other digits (but the hassle to the Co-op's many customers of these extra numbers, multiplied by every login attempt for years and years to come, is indeed appreciable).As if to underscore the Co-op's security illiteracy, we have this business of masking the one-time Pin as you type it. The wholepointof a one-time password is that itdoesn't matterif it leaks, since it only worksonce. That's why we call it a "one-time Pin." Asking customers to key in a meaningless 10-digit code perfectly, every time, without visual feedback, isn't security. It's sadism.It gets worse: the Pin you use with the gadget is your basic four-digit Pin, but numbers can't be sequential. This has the effect of reducing the keyspace by an enormous factor – a bizarrely contrarian move from a bank that "improves" its security by turning this constrained four-digit number into a whopping 10-digit one. Does the Co-op love or loathe large keyspaces? Both, it seems.It's not just the Co-op, of course – this is endemic to the whole industry. For example, Citibank UK requires you to input your password by chasing a tiny, on-screen, all-caps password with your mouse-pointer, in the name of preventing a keylogger from capturing your password as you type it. This has the neat triple-play effect of slicing the keyspace in half (and more) by eliminating special characters and lower-case letters; incentivising customers to use shorter, less secure passwords because of the hassle of inputting them;andleaving the whole thing vulnerable to screen-loggers that simply make movies of which keys you mouse over.But I quit Citibank, and I still use the Co-op for my commercial banking out of some bloody-minded, bolshy commitment to "good" banking, even though they require that foreign drafts be requested by means of faxes on headed paper (neither faxes nor headed paper being any sort of security system) and so on. Possibly it's because they occasionally see reason, as when I opened an account with my wife and discovered that I could either bring certified copies of both our passports to a branch; or I could bring my wife and her passport to a branch. The fact that my wife didn't have to be present in order to get a certified copy was a difficult concept for the Co-op to master, but once it did, a compliance officer agreed that this meant I should be able to simply show up at a branch with both passports without throwing money at some rich solicitor for the privilege of getting his stamp at the bottom of a photocopy.It wasn't easy – the branch staff couldn't believe that I had won an exception to this weird policy – but in the end, they opened the account for me. Now, like a mouse that's found an experimental lever that onlysometimesgives up a pellet, I find myself repeatedly pressing it, hoping to hit on the magical combination that will get my bank to behave as though security was something that a reasonable, sane person could understand, as opposed to a magic property that arises spontaneously in the presence of sufficient obfuscation and bureaucracy.The great irony, of course, is that all the banks will tell you that they're only putting you through the Hell of Nonsensical Security because the FSA or some other authority have put them up to it. The regulators strenuously deny this, saying that they only specify principles – "thou shalt know thy customer" – not specific practices.Which brings me back to my modest proposal: let's empower our regulators to fine banks that create nonsensical, incoherent security practices involving idolatrous worship of easy-to-forge utility bills and headed paper, in the name of preserving our national capacity to think critically about security.Even if it doesn't kill the power of the tabloids to sell with screaming headlines about paedos, terrorists and vaccinations, it would, at least, be incredibly satisfying to keep your money in an institution that appears to have the most rudimentary grasp of what security is and where it comes from.
Update:the flaw has been fixed, and Twitter now says it is safe to use twitter.com again.Sarah Brown is among thousands of Twitter users who have been hit by malicious use of a security flaw in the redesigned Twitter site.The wife of the former prime minister Gordon Brown, who has more than a million followers on Twitter, unknowingly sent a link which contained malicious code that would redirect anyone who moved their mouse over it - but didn't click it - to a Japanese hard-core pornography site.The problem only occurs for people who are viewing links on the Twitter website itself. People who use third-party clients, which access the back-end database to the site, are not affected, because the code is disabled by the programs.Graham Cluley, security expert at Sophos,warnsthat "The Twitter website is being widely exploited by users who have stumbled across a flaw which allows messages to pop-up and third-party websites to open in your browser just by moving your mouse over a link."Thousands of Twitter accounts have posted messages exploiting the flaw."The problem arises because users are able to post chunks of Javascript program code inside tweets - and because Twitter has not taking precautions to disable the code by "escaping" the relevant characters, the Javascript becomes active.The specific code being used is onMouseOver, which carries out a function when you move the mouse over the link. Users don't have to click the link to be redirected.Some users are using the code to create "rainbow" tweets with blocks of colour.The exploit, using a method known as "cross-site scripting" (XSS), will be an embarrassment for Twitter, whichlaunched its new-look website a week ago, including links to third-party sites for pictures and video.Cluley commented: "It looks like many users are currently using the flaw for fun and games, but there is obviously the potential for cybercriminals to redirect users to third-party websites containing malicious code, or for spam advertising pop-ups to be displayed."Hopefully Twitter will shut down this loophole as soon as possible - disallowing users to post the onMouseOver JavaScript code, and protecting users whose browsing may be at risk."
I've played on Kinect and was mightily impressed. Responsive and intuitive, Microsoft's upcoming hands-free motion controller will eventually host some unique gaming experiences as well as being a brilliant party starter. I exepct it to be huge. This doesn't mean though that I want to play "core" games on it. First person shooters? Most sports games? RPGs? The pad will do very nicely thanks. Kinect creator Kudo Tsunoda - unsurprisingly - thinks I am wrong. In aninterview with gaminformerKudo suggests that "core" games can use the Kinect if it is done correctly.I think that the stuff we have learned about Kinect is that you don't want to take it and port a experience over to Kinect or force it into things. You see a lot of motion control games that put the motion technology into a random game and that isn't the way to make an awesome experience.So far so good. Fingers crossed for Fable III then. But then Kudo lets his argument slip by using the example of first person shooters.If you think about the way that first person shooters evolved, they started on the PC. People for the longest time tried to port shooters from the PC onto the console. And people said the same things that they are saying now about Kinect – "It's never going to be responsive enough to do this," or "You're never going to get a fun first person shooter on the console – it's only made for a keyboard and mouse and that is the way it is supposed to be played." And as long as everyone was just porting the existing shooters over to console, they weren't as fun as the PC ones. Of course, they were built for the PC.  Halo did an awesome job of building a first-person shooter exclusively for the console, and now hardly anyone plays first person shooters on the PC anymore. It's all about the console. And I feel it is the same with Kinect stuff. If you are constantly trying to take something that is made for a controller and port it over to Kinect, it's not going to be a good experience because it is made for a controller. If you take the time to build it for Kinect from the ground up, however, you can make something that is a very new experience, but lots of times even more fun than it was before.Ok, he has a point. Halo did revolutionise the FPS on the consoles. No one would really dispute that. You could argue that Goldeneye on the N64 was the real trendsetter but Halo was the first to incorporate the range of control play options that characterises the genre on the PC. But is he really suggesting that, "hardly anyone plays first person shooters on the PC"?Veteran shooter developer id have alreadyvoiced their opinion. Creative Director Tim Willits said:The FPS genre is still great on the PC, the input controllers are very responsive, the keyboard allows many more choices and options, and the social networking of the PC allows you to reach out and play with your friends much easier than any of the consoles. Plus, as any hardcore FPS gamer will tell you, the mouse is still the best device for aiming.I rarely play FPS on a PC these days. I'm lazy and it's just so much easier to stick on Halo or Modern Warfare 2 on a console. Plus after a day in front of a PC I don't necessarily want to spend an evening in front of one. Having said that if I was deadly serious about my shooters then the PC would be the natural home. As Willits says, the mouse is still the best device for aiming.What about you? Is the PC the natural home for the FPS? Or have the consoles taken over?
I was on holiday last week when news of this  joyous project seeped out from ad agencyDentsuLondon and collaboratorsBerg, the ever reliable design agency. Some things are too good to pass by.In short, the two teams used iPads to paint with light. They created 3D models of words, played a film of the cross section of those three dimensional words and then captured the results on a camera set to a slow shutter speed. The results, as they hoped, are magical.The hologramatic effect was developed by Berg, who also have a fascinating bundle of documentation onFlickrdetailing the team's experiments with light painting. They've also made abookof the best.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It was around this time last year when singer-songwriter Sufjan Stevens suffered a self-diagnosed "existential crisis", imploring ina magazine interview:"I definitely feel like 'What is the point? What's the point of making music anymore?' I feel that the album no longer has a stronghold or has any real bearing anymore. The physical format itself is obsolete; the CD is obsolete and the LP is kinda nostalgic."So, I think the album is suffering and that's how I've always created — I work with these conceptual albums in the long-form. And I'm wondering, what's the value of my work once these forms are obsolete and everyone's just downloading music?"Twelve months, one album and one EP later, Stevens returns with a new 11-track record and it appears the period of discontent has not passed. In a lengthy email sent to fans, Stevens's independent record labelAsthmatic Kitty Recordssuggests that Amazon is devaluing the work of artists with its bulk discount scheme.Says the email:"So. We have it on good authority that Amazon will be selling The Age of Adz for a very low price on release date, not unlike they did with Arcade Fire's recent (and really terrific) The Suburbs. We're not 100% sure Amazon will do this, but mostly sure."We have mixed feelings about discounted pricing. Like we said, we love getting good music into the hands of good people, and when a price is low, more people buy. A low price will introduce a lot of people to Sufjan's music and to this wonderful album. For that, we're grateful."But we also feel like the work that our artists produce is worth more than a cost of a latte. We value the skill, love, and time they've put into making their records. And we feel that our work too, in promotion and distribution, is also valuable and worthwhile."That's why we personally feel that physical products like EPs should sell for around $7 and full-length CDs for around $10-12 We think digital EPs should sell for around $5 and full-length digital albums for something like $8."So you might wonder why we'd 'allow' Amazon to sell it for lower than that."There are several reasons why, but mostly? It's because we believe in you. We trust you and in your ability to make your own choice."A quick Amazon search shows the sprawling marketplace retailing Stevens'slatest CD, The Age Of Adz, at $13.99or£6.99 from the UK store. Digital downloads of the albums weren't live on the site at the time of publication.Stevens's record label goes on to point to alternative retailers and distributors of his album –SC Distribution, the exclusive distributor for Asthmatic Kitty Records and other smaller labels, andBandcamp, a platform allowing artists to become the retailer and sell directly to fans – both apparently valuing his work at "more than the cost of a latte", to steal the phrase.It will be interesting to see the effect of this on sales, we'll be keeping an eye on it. In the meantime, Stevens might want considergoing the way of Peter Gabriel.Thanks to the Sufjan Stevens fan who forwarded the email on.
This is you, on Facebook. Photo byspaltion Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhishing Proliferating via Facebook Chat &gt;&gt; Trend MicroA very roundabout route from Facebook via Blogspot and some Javascript can yield you up to the phishers.Mighty stupid media &gt;&gt; Nick Carr's Rough TypeNick Carr gets interviewed, sensibly, by the BBC. Then it gets picked up by Another Publication...Has the Pirate Party boat sunk? IP-skeptical platform decimated in Swedish election &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsAn interesting rumination on the situation the Pirate Party finds itself in.National Public Transport Data Repository (NPTDR) &gt;&gt; data.gov.uk"The NPTDR Database contains a snapshot of every public transport journey in Great Britain for a selected week in October each year. The dataset is compiled with information from many sources, including local public transport information from each of the traveline regions, also coach services from the national coach services database and rail information from the Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC). NPTDR is mainly used by local authorities and other organisations in the production of accessibility indicators via software tools such as Accession." So it's nearly a year old - but even so.Flash Outperforms HTML5 on Mobile Devices &gt;&gt; Chris Black"Canvas performance on the new iPod Touch and iPhone 4G is laughable at 22FPS rendering simple animation. At least the Nexus One can muster up a decent 40FPS for basic canvas rendering. Flash Player 10.1 on the other hand, blows HTML5 out of the water running at 57FPS on the Nexus One! Let's not forget to mention that HTML5 consumed TWICE the battery life as Flash for these tests on the Android."Optimised HTML5 runs twice as fast as before &gt;&gt; Ryan Gibson on Twitter...or does it? Depends how it's coded. A (twice as) faster HTML5 version:http://fatgr.in/jstest.html. Try it.VLC Media Player for iPad &gt;&gt; iTunesThe link opens in iTunes; VLC is a free open source video player which can play pretty much anything -possibly including Flash (.flv) video, though it would be nice to have confirmation.Another CEO head rolls while the smartphone market booms &gt;&gt; AsymcoMobile phone makers LG, Sony Ericsson, Motorola, Palm and Nokia have replaced their chief executives in the past year. And Microsoft said goodbye to Robbie Bach, head of the mobile division; he hasn't been replaced.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Microsoft is to launch an online music and video store and music subscription service to compete with the likes of Apple and Spotify.The store and service will be offered under the Zune brand, initially the name of Microsoft's digital music player launched in 2006 as a would-be iPod killer. It failed to make a substantial impact on the US market and the player has never been available outside north America.However, last November Microsoft launched a film-streaming service under the Zune brand for the Xbox 360 in 18 countries, including the UK and 14 European and Scandinavian countries. The store and subscription service for Windows PCs, its new Windows Phone 7 phones and the Xbox 360 games console will be launched within weeks.The Marketplace service will offer 8m songs at prices the company described as "competitive" with rivals such as Apple's iTunes Store, which dominates the downloaded music sector, and Amazon. The songs will be in MP3 format, and be encoded at high quality – between 256kbps and 320kbps. They can be bought via PC, Windows Phone 7 phone or Xbox 360.The Zune Pass service, which will cost £8.99 per month (or €9.99 in Europe), has been available in the US since November 2008. It allows unlimited downloads and streaming of music from Zune Marketplace, but only while the subscription is paid; once stopped, the songs are deleted. It is positioned as a challenge to Napster, the music streaming service, and to Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming service which offers an ad-funded service for computers, and "premium" ad-free service for iPhones as well; in March it wasreckoned to have more than 320,000 subscribers.  Music downloaded through Zune Pass will only play on PCs, Xbox 360s or Windows Phone 7 devices –  not other digital music players or Apple devices.Microsoft's principal target may well be its Xbox 360 Live subscribers, who number 46m worldwide.Alex Reeve, the Microsoft UK director of mobile business, acknowledged that subscription services such as Napster have struggled to make money. "In many markets, buying music is the dominant method," he said. "But subscriptions offer flexibility. It will be fascinating to see what the uptake is, but we don't know at present."But Reeve added that Microsoft is not trying to mimic the ad-funded music streaming and download service offered by Spotify and we7, a British company. "We don't think that's the right way to go," he said.It is likely that the music streaming function on Windows Phone 7 will be limited by mobile operators' data caps, although the service allows unlimited downloads of music onto the phone for later listening.The Zune Pass service will be on offer with one-, three- or 12-month rolling subscriptions, including a 14-day free trial. However it will require a credit or debit card to sign up for the service, which may put it out of reach of Xbox users aged under 16; they cannot use Microsoft's Points system, used to pay for chargeable content on Xbox Live, as a proxy.Xbox 360 users will see the Zune and Zune Marketplace services appear as a new tile on the home screen when they are launched. It will be controllable by the standard Xbox controllers, or the forthcoming Kinect hands-free service which is coming to the console from 10 November.
Remember the Pirate Party in Sweden? Despite Sunday being international Talk Like A Pirate Day, it seems that in Sweden very few people chose to vote like a pirate in that country's just-concluded national elections.In fact - as Florian Mueller points out - it got just 0.7% of the vote (according to anexit poll), which is one-tenth what it got in the 2009 European vote there."Has the PirateParty boat sunk?" asks Mueller, who hasdevoted a blogpost to the question.The truth is that the Pirate Party hasn't done very well in the field of grown-up politics in Sweden, where many of its ideas might not sound that dramatic; after all, Sweden is a country where everyone's tax returns are public by law.Despite (or because of?) promising to host Wikileaks and The Pirate Bay inside the Swedish Parliament if they won, the Pirate Party did badly, as their chief Rick Falkvinge accepted in aninterview with Torrentfreak:"The Swedish Pirate Party did its best election campaign ever. We had more media, more articles, more debates, more handed-out flyers than ever. Unfortunately, the wind was not in our sails this time, as it was with the European elections," Falkvinge told the site. "The other parties had put a collective blanket over the privacy, culture and knowledge issues, as they had absolutely nothing to gain by even mentioning the issues."He concluded: "If the wind is not in your sails, the sweat on your brow will still not steer the ship. I guess the most obvious example is how the appellate trial of The Pirate Bay will begin just nine days after the election."Mueller comments: "To a lot of grown-ups, [the Pirate Party] symbolized an unbelievable generational divide: on one side, the law-abiding establishment; on the other, a movement of the Internet generation that appeared to advocate lawlessness by the terabyte."Not only was the name shocking. It was also cool to be a pirate. It was like a great theme for a costume party. Calling oneself a pirate looked like the ultimate expression of anti-establishment protest, and that resulted in a lot of activism in Sweden and the creation of smaller sister parties in many other countries."But, he adds, while that sort of positioning is great for getting one-off headlines, it also tends to make you a one-hit wonder - "Unlike the Greens, whose initial environmentalist focus emphasized a positive notion."Mueller thinks the Pirate Party doesn't have much of a future: "I'm afraid for them that they will remain a fringe party forever. At some point they may realize that they're an activist group, a non-governmental organization, even though they will probably continue to call themselves a party and pursue parliamentary ambitions for some more time (until possibly being absorbed by the Greens, with whom the Pirates already caucus in the European Parliament)."Those pirates who really want to shape intellectual property policy will be better advised to join the more established parties and try to leave a mark on their positions. But that will require them to fully appreciate the legitimate interest of the knowledge economy in strong intellectual property rights."Certainly it will be interesting to see how the Pirate Party fares in the European Parliament. But there's an object lesson there: you can't build a political party with longevity on a single issue, or variations on that single issue's theme. You need a cohesive platform. Stunts are one thing - but policies are trickier to pull off.
Photo byrickon Flickr.Some rights reservedAfter CEOOlli-Pekka Kallasvuo, EVPAnssi Vanjokiandchairman Jorma Olila, now Nokia UK and Ireland managing director Mark Loughran is the latest leaving the handset maker.He is joining TV set-top box maker Pace as president of a new business division, Pace Enterprise.The new unit will exploit Pace's intellectual property, gateway and networks businesses, the box maker says.Pace is amongst the world's leading STB makers, supplying boxes for BSkyB, Sky Italia, BT Vision, Comcast, Time Warner Cable and more.If Nokia's fightback starts here, as Vanjokisaid in July, then it's starting without some of its leading old-guard execs.In a statement, Loughran said:"I have thoroughly enjoyed my time at Nokia and making the decision to leave such a great company has not been easy. I'm immensely proud of what we've achieved since I joined in 2007 and I leave behind an amazing group of highly talented and dedicated people. I personally feel very fortunate to have led Nokia UK and I wish Sami and all the team the very best for the future. Nokia is well-positioned for success in the years ahead and leave Nokia UK and Ireland in great shape for the second half of 2010 with Nokia N8 and C7 [smartphones] hitting the streets over the next few weeks and the ongoing rollout of Ovi services and apps."
The latest guest in our Startup Surgery series is corporate finance specialistSimon Carmichael, head of private placements and venture sellsides and director atTorch Partners.Specialising in helping more established tech companies make that next big funding round, Carmichael recently helped London'sHuddle scoop that $10.2m fundingdeal in May,Borro.com's £10mfunding deal in May andJust-Eat's £10.5min Series A funding last October.Whether you're a startup who has already raised that crucial first round, has a recognised VC on board and dreams of being the next Facebook - or a grand idea that just needs the right connections, Carmichael has a wealth of experience in refining your proposition to take your business to the next level.And that expertise can be yours in Tuesday's Guardian Tech Weekly podcast. You've got to be in it to win it, sopost your question or problem belowand we'll put them to Simon during the programme. You can also tweet questions to@jemimakissif you prefer.Deadline is the end of Thursday, 23 September.Photo byCushing Memorial Library and Archives, Texas A&amp;Mon Flickr.Some rights reservedPrevious Startup Surgeries:•Peter Finnie of Gill Jennings and Every on intellectual property•Mike Reid of Frog Capital on venture capital funding•Chris Grew from Orrick on specialist legal advice
On Friday, I posted a quick update on the London Games Festival, but missed out some other interesting stuff happening during the next couple of months. If you're within commuting distance, here are three other events worth checking out:Enslaved: Odyssey to the WestSeptember 27BAFTA has announced an evening event based around this much-touted apocalyptic adventure. It's a demo and Q&amp;A session, hosted by Guy Cocker from Gamespot and Tameem Antoniades, founder of Ninja Theory, the Cambridge-based developer behind the title. Enslaved is an intriguing game, featuring a script by Beach author Alex Garland and advanced motion capture work, performed and directed by Andy Serkis. The event is being held at BAFTA's Princess Anne Theatre. Tickets can be bookedhere.Playful 2010September 24Taking place this Friday, Playful is our kind of games event, a day-long conference with cross-disciplinary talks by game artists, designers, developers and thinkers. On the roster are Gamesmaster and XFM Scotland presenter Dominik Diamond, and Pat Kane, musician, journalist, and author of The Play Ethic. They've also got a nine-year-old gamer, Beatrice Davy-Sutherland, presenting her video interviews with the creators of Moshi Monsters and Club Penguin. You wouldn't getthatat E3. Playful is taking place at Conway Hall, 25 Red Lion Square, and you can get info about tickets (£50 each)here.Citizen Game ReviewOctober 9This sounds great too... organised by British online games community Citizen Game, it's a free event allowing footie fanatics the chance to come along, play FIFA 11 and Pro Evolution 2011 on Xbox 360 and PS3, and then write reviews of them. Or you can just sit and eat pizza and enjoy getting your hands on these warring football titans before your pals do. It's taking place at The Star on Bethnal Green and there'sa Facebook groupwith more info.And if you're beginning to feel we're being a bit London-centric, please remember that Gamesblog will be appearingliveat theGamecity festivalin Nottingham. Every morning, from October 27-30th, I'll be presenting a debate show, discussing the key gaming news and issues with special guests and a lively, informed audience – that's where you come in. And everyone gets a full English breakfast (apart from me, as I'll be far too wound up and nervous to eat).
The BBC has announced it will be launching a new set of downloadable Doctor Who games next year. ItsDoctor Who: The Adventure Gamesseries, available for free to PC and Mac users, has proved hugely popular, with the first three episodes attracting more than 1.6 million downloads.A fourth title in the first series is due to be released towards the end of the year. The games are penned by Doctor Who scriptwriters and developed by Sheffield-based studio, Sumo Digital. So far the adventures have seen the Doctor and Amy Pond (voiced by the show's actors Matt Smith and Karen Gillan) fighting the Daleks and the Cybermen. The two actors will be reprising their voiceover roles in next year's titles.Naturally, the production team is promising a more spectacular set of adventures this time round. "Given the success of the first series, we'd be daft not to recomission," said Simon Nelson, BBC vision's head of multiplatform. "But it's not just about the numbers; the feedback we've had has been overwhelmingly positive. Our audience has been introduced to a new form of drama – and, for many, these have been the first computer games they have downloaded. We've set new standards in audience participation – and we think we've really helped push the concept of families actively playing together."Today's press release reveals that, in the forthcoming titles, the Doctor is set to face, "one of executive producer and show-runner Steven Moffat's most original creations". The smart money will be on the Weeping Angels or the Vashta Nerada, with the Clockwork Droids as possible dark horses. We shall see.So, which ofyourfavourite Doctor Who baddies should make it into the second series of games?
Hacking of Facebook accounts to scam people out of money has become a "major issue" for the social networking site, its head of European public policy, Lord Richard Allan, has told the Guardian.As a result the site is implementing new ways of detecting when its users' accounts have been hacked, and is adding warnings if it is accessed from unusual locations or by different methods than usual.Allan said that hacking was a problem that would be countered by sophisticated methods of tracking unusual user behaviour."The latest thing you'll see that is a major issue is people hacking into accounts. Now, if you're logging in from an unusual location you'll get extra security questions and if you want to login by a new device [Facebook] notifies you by SMS or email," Allan said, adding that the company's "site integrity" project – which aims to track suspicious activity – is developing new ways to protect its 500 million users.Ronald K Noble, secretary general of law enforcement agency Interpol, last week revealed that his Facebook identity was recently targeted by individuals seeking access to highly sensitive information on wanted criminals. On the most high-profile case of Facebook identity hacking to date, Noble said: "Just recently Interpol's information security incident response team discovered two Facebook profiles attempting to assume my identity as Interpol's secretary general. One of the impersonators was using this profile to obtain information on fugitives targeted during our recent Operation Infra Red."Among the new security methods being employed by Facebook are "name verification" – where someone logging on from a new location is shown a number of photos of their friends andis asked to verify their names. Though that is simple for the real user, it is almost impossible for anyone else.Malicious hacking continues to generate headlines for Facebook, which has 26 million monthly unique users in the UK, despite the company putting in place numerousmethods of prevention. In a case recently noted inby the Sunday Times, Abigail Pickett, a British student travelling in Columbia, found that her account had been hacked and was being used to send requests for money to friends on the pretext that she was "stranded" in another country. Facebook told her that the account was in fact being accessed from Nigeria.A Facebook spokeswoman told the Guardian that the site has "complex automated systems that work behind the scenes to detect and flag Facebook accounts that are likely to be compromised", adding that once "phony" messages are detected then all instances of that message are deleted.Fraudsters have been hacking into the accounts of Facebook users and duping their friends out of relatively large sums of money, a trick about which the FBI and other authorities had previously raised concerns. The site's international law enforcement efforts are overseen by a former FBI agent who worked on cyber-crime before joining Facebook in 2005."It is unfortunate that some people use the internet to maliciously target people either via scams or by compromising accounts on Facebook, over email or on fake websites," the spokeswoman said. "However, unlike other websites, or email, or even the phone, we provide our users with robust reporting tools to report any content they are unsure of and anything which violates our terms, will be removed quickly."• Facebook has declined to say when its location-sharing service Places will be rolled out to the rest of Europe. Although it was announced in the US last month andlaunched in the UKlast week, Michael Sharon, product manager for Places, would only say: "We are taking it slow to make sure we have a high-quality experience [in all localities]."The impact of technology on privacy is currently at the fore of public debate in Germany, with calls for regulation intensifying around Google's planned Street View rollout in the country. Despite this, Allan told the Guardian that the privacy settings on Facebook Places will "stay the same across all of our major markets", adding: "We follow all developments on privacy across Europe and we're confident that [Places] suits the requirements of all the major markets we operate in."Places is comparable to being able to mention people in status updates. The critical thing to note is that Places is about individual users. Everything is done by the users, nothing is done without the user's knowledge. So while we're sensitive to the privacy debate around Europe we believe our products fit the requirements of the countries we operate in."Facebook has an ongoing relationship with child safety organisations and NGOs, as well as having a safety advisory board to compose its privacy settings which at one point ran into the hundreds for individual users. Allan said: "We're trusting the common sense of our users and finding [Facebook products] are valuable and useful in everyday lives."
My favourite racing game of all time is Star Wars Episode 1: Podracer on the Nintendo 64. I liked it because it could boast the most astonishing sensation of speed; it really felt like you were doing hundreds upon hundreds of miles an hour, hanging on for dear life on the back of these unimaginably powerful vehicles, almost afraid of releasing the full fury of their vast engines.F1 2010, the new racing release from Codemasters, is the first game since Podracer to give me the same sense of blunt velocity. In fact, it feels much, much faster. However, while Podracer had an easy-going ,pick-up-and-play accessibility – as do Codemasters' other racers, such as Colin McRae: DiRT2 – F1 2010 clearly has aspirations of being a proper, grown-up simulator.Even with all the driver aids turned on, the cars are a serious handful. With the mollycoddling auto-brake feature where the car practically does everything for you but steer, it is still very easy to spin out, flip the car like a pancake, or otherwise make a pig's breakfast of everything. The driving rules are unnecessarily draconian, and there is an uncomfortable feeling that the game is judging you for your slapdash driving skills. Cut a corner, or depart in almost any way from the track, and you get a snotty little "lap disqualified" message, even in the supposedly plug-and-play Time Trial Party mode.Inevitably for a realism-chasing sim, there are areas of the car set-up which an automotive engineering PhD, or a career as an F1 pit boss, are needed to understand fully: detailed tyre physics, dirty air mechanics, downforce generation and so on. This is not uncommon in games like this, but here they spill over a little more than I'd like into the actual driving experience. I don't like when a loading tip informs me that I need to think more carefully about slipstreams. I have never thought about slipstreams in my life, and I don't intend to start now.But while F1 2010 dances this risky jig along the brink of the opaque simulation abyss, in the end it manages to avoid falling into this chasm by adding features like the "flashback", which allows you to go back a few seconds and re-attempt a corner if a silly mistake has cost you a hard-fought race.The result is a supremely challenging driving experience that, in terms of sophistication, makes Podracer look like Mario Kart. Sure, this is not the easiest game in the world to pick up and play absent-mindedly, but every successfully navigated corner makes you want to spray a magnum of champagne all over your living room, and it is a genuinely great feeling when you begin to know a track intimately and improve your time. Rainy weather racing, too, has got to be experienced; not just for the utterly gorgeous spray physics and clever active weather system, but for the exquisite difficulty of maintaining control and building up your speed in the wet.Switching off each driver aid is a real victory, and improving your car control is very satisfying – even if, as in real Formula 1 I suppose, the final few iota of performance are closed off to those without the razor-sharp reflexes of an athlete. The Xbox controller feels a little inadequate to the handling, in fact; the game makes much more sense if you play it with the full race seat, steering wheel, pedals and gearbox set-up, as Codemasters were demonstrating at the game's launch. There are several new multiplayer options, including Time Trial Party mode, though – as is becoming more and more the norm – no split-screen playability (come on, developers, how hard can it be to add a split-screen mode? If Podracer could do it on the 64, there's surely no reason to leave it out on the Xbox or PS3). The single-player career mode is also good, though the tedious press conferences and interviews could easily have been dropped.F1 2010 is an extremely accomplished game, which blends enthusiast-level nerdiness seamlessly with an admirable playability, and even if it is a little on the brutal side, it deserves its place on the podium of great driving simulators.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
YouTube'scollaborationwith the Guggenheim Museum to surface new video talent has attracted 23,000 entries since it launched in June,Google has said.Guggenheim chief curator Nancy Spector hadtold usthe idea was to use YouTube to reach a new demographic and a broader public, and so far the YouTube Play project has shortlisted just 125 of those 23,000. Twenty will make it to the final selection to be announced at the Guggenheim Museum on 21 October and on display from 22-24 October at Guggenheim New York, Bilbao, Berlin and Venice.Artist andYouTube PlayjurorTakashi Murakamiexplains here why YouTube needs to be scrutinised as a cultural resource, and there's an introduction to thebiennal's shortlist. Broswe the YouTube Play channel for a taste of thequirky animation,drawing with lightsand ameme remix mix tape, below.
Attracting record attendances of over 200,000, this year's Tokyo Game Show seemed a joyous riposte to those doom-mongers who insist that the games industry is dying in Japan. It's not. But it is having to evolve in order to serve the contemporary global audience – an audience that hasn't been brought up in arcades playing the giant Sega, Namco, Capcom and Konami coin-ops.However, evolution doesn't necessarily mean abandoning the inherent game design principles, or the long-running series', we know and love. TGS 2010 revelled in classic names, as well as introducing some interesting new 'IP'.So, in case you missed them, here are the five big revelations, as well as ten notable gaming announcements…The return of Radiant SilvergunIn 1998, Japanese shoot-'em-up specialist Treasure releasedthis awesome vertical scrollerinto the arcades, employing the Sega Titan coin-op technology, effectively a souped-up Sega Saturn console. The later Saturn conversion was heralded as one of the finest games on the system, but it never received an official western release – we had to wait for its successor, Ikaruga. But during Microsoft's TGC conference, it was announced that Radiant will be coming to Xbox Live next year, complete with enhanced visuals and online co-op.Xbox 360 is certainly turning into the platform of choice for fans of Japanese shmups. Ikaurga is already on Live, and Treasure's Bangai-O HD is arriving in November. Meanwhile, maker of insane 'bullet hell' epicsCave, is bringing several fresh titles and arcade conversions over to the format for both retail and digital release. Deathsmiles and Espgaluda II are out (though not in the UK at present) with Guwange coming to Xbox Live worldwide soon.Mikami + Suda 51 = Shadows of the DamnedIt's long been known that Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami has been collaborating with Grasshopper Manufacture, the crazed developer behind Killer 7 and No more Heroes; and at TGS we discovered the project. Due to be published by EA next year, Shadows of the Damned is described as a psychological action thriller, follow hard-bitten, motorbike-riding demon hunter Garcia as he rides into Hell to save his lover.Okay, so it sounds a little like Devil May Cry meets Ghost Rider, but with Mikami and Suda 51 at the helm, we can at least expect stylised visuals, weird ideas and gore aplenty. Plus, revered Silent Hill scorer Akira Yamaoka is providing the soundtrack. There's a trailer here.The Japanese Kinect exclusivesMicrosoft hit TGS with some style and purpose this year, announcing a string of fresh Kinect titles. At the top of the list for many will be Codename D, another dark, offbeat project from Suda 51, set in an evil amusement park. Judging by the brief trailer – it couldn't be more unlike the family-friendly daytime fun we're getting from most Kinect developers.Also sounding promising is Haunt, due out next year from NanaOn-Sha, the studio run by Pa Rappa creator, Masaya Matsuura. From the trailer, it looks to be a haunted house adventure, with the player challenging cartoon ghosts with a torch. Project Zero meets Luigi's Mansion? Stranger things have happened. It's out next year.Then we have Project Draco, a new dragon-riding game from Yukio Futatsugi, who previously worked on the legendary Panzer Dragoon series of on-rails, erm, dragon-riding shooters. It's out next year. And finally, Body and Brain Connection is a motion controlled brain training game from Namco, which combines physical and mental exercises – so if solving logic, memory and maths problems wasn't always fun enough, next year you'll be able do it by waving your arms about and jumping up and down. Is anyone else thinking of Dr Magnus Pyke or are you all too young?The Ico and Shadow of the Colossus collectionGreg covered this last week, but just to  re-cap, Team Ico announced that it would be releasing the catchily titled 'Ico and Shadow of the Colossus Collection', containing the developer's two wondrous adventures, now re-mastered in HD. You do know that drool will eventually damage your keyboard don't you?The thing about Yakuza and zombiesFans of Sega's Yakuza series didn't know what to do with themselves when the publisher announced the latest iteration in the series, subtitled 'Of The End'. Instead of a contemporary drama of gangland strife, it'll be set in a post-apocalyptic Tokyo, infested with zombies. The game still stars orphanage-owning hard nut Kazuma and will feature the trademark mini-games… but now they're mini-games with zombies. Incredible.Ten more TGS announcementsA glance at the other new stuff shown off on the show floor.Ninja Gaiden 3There are no details yet on the latest title in Team Ninja's hardcore action adventure series, save that it'll be darker and more violent than ever. Oooh.Dead or Alive: DimensionsIt's a new Nintendo 3DS instalment in the girl-obsessed fighting game series. And if we know Team Ninja, the Dimensions will be in the region of 40-24-36.Official websiteSteel Battalion: Heavy ArmourCapcom's mech shooter returns, but this time as a Kinect title.TGS trailerDead Rising 2: Code WestAn Xbox Live exclusive epilogue to Dead Rising 2, starring the hero of the first game, Frank West. Apparently, he'll co-op with Chuck Greene from DR2.Devil May Cry (DmC)Demon hunter Dante is getting a new look for this reboot of the series, titled 'DmC'. It's being co-developed by Capcom USA and Ninja Theory, the Cambridge-based developer behind Heavenly Sword and Enslaved.TGS trailerAsura's WrathAnother one from Capcom, this time a brand new third-person action adventure in which players take control of an angry and aggressive god. It's something we've all fantasised about, right?TGS trailerTekken Tag Tournament 2Namco Bandai said during TGS that this is coming to arcades next year. No word on home conversions just yet.TGS trailerDisgaea 4Nippon Ichi Software revealed that its charming strategy RPG series is getting a fourth title. It's out next February in Japan, with a worldwide release to follow.TGS trailerFire Pro WrestlingThe latest wrestle-'em-up from genre veteran Spike. It's coming out on Xbox Live, and the cool bit is, you and your chums will be able to wrestle each other using your Xbox avatars.Valkyria Chronicles 3UK gamers are only just getting to grips with the excellent second title, but number three is coming out in Japan next January.Official Website
UK top 10 games chart, week ending 18 September 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Halo: Reach(16+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (–)Sports Champions (12+)PS3 (100)13 (1)Mafia II(18+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (49)44 (4)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (46)Wii (21)Xbox 360 (16)PS3 (13)105 (9)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (32)Wii (4)PSP (2)186 (2)Tom Clancy's H.A.W.X. 2(12+)PS3 (69)Xbox 360 (31)37 (3)Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (48)PC (2)58 (11)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)419 (17)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11(3+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (28)Wii (15)1010 (10)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)18Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
A couple of weeks ago I got the chance to have a sit-down with Treyarch community manager Josh Olin and talk about their forthcoming Call of Duty release, Black Ops. Despite suffering from some London-induced allergies, he revealed a few things gamers can look forward to from the single-player campaign, and told me how the studio have handled the pressure of following "the biggest entertainment release of all time".For the uninitiated, could you introduce the basic premise behind Black Ops?Black Ops takes place during the cold war, though it's not about the cold war but about our own fictional story. The Vietnam sequences aren't about the Vietnam war; you aren't a regular soldier fighting in the Vietnam war, you're in those regions specifically for an objective that has to do with our story. We've put a lot of focus into story; great storytelling and narrative, deep character development, complex story arcs so, rest assured, not wanting to spoil it by revealing plot details but it was a major focus for our studio with this project.Why the cold war?We wanted to stick to the philosophy of providing a variety of fresh new experiences to the player, so this era was perfect for that. It was a worldwide conflict so we could go anywhere we wanted to around the globe, it was a long era, so we had a variety of different weaponry at our disposal. These 'deniable operations', these Black Ops missions, these are the things that you haven't heard about, that history hasn't taught us, so it really allowed us a lot of creative freedom.How did you research the period?We talked to advisers like Major John Plaster, he was actually from SOG, the study and observations group, he's a veteran of that group in Vietnam, and he was able to tell us stories that inspired a lot of our gameplay. We also talked to Sonny Puzikas, a former Russian Spetsnaz operative, so he was able to tell us about the Russian Black Ops and how that differed from ours.How has your studio changed since the last time you worked on a Call of Duty game?Two years ago we made Call of Duty World at War, which was a great title I think, popular in the community. That year we shipped three titles though, World at War, James Bond Quantum of Solace and Spider-man Web of Shadows. Working on three titles as a small studio hadn't allowed us the resources and focus we always wanted to give the Call of Duty brand.After those three games shipped, we refocused all of our studio efforts to work exclusively on Call of Duty. We had a core team that stuck around to do DLC for World at War, but the bulk of the team moved on to work on Black Ops. Now it's been all hands on deck since the DLC wrapped in 2009, we're all focused on Black Ops. That's allowed us the resources we've never had before.We have over 250 employees working at Treyarch, and they're all working on this one game. It's allowed us to have a dedicated single player team for the campaign, a dedicated multiplayer team for online, and a dedicated co-op team, all working in parallel with each other.With World at War our multiplayer was developed after single-player was finished, so the process now is completely different. Each core element has had an entire development team-sized worth of staff working on it; they've been able to put a lot more focus and attention without having to be distracted by the other components of the game. It's like three games in one with Black Ops.What are the main differences gamers will notice between Black Ops and last year's Call of Duty release?The first thing they're going to notice is the different era, the cold war era, but I think the biggest difference is that with Black Ops you have the cinematic intensity that the players have come to expect from a COD game, but what you're also getting in telling a great story and having a great game is that the game is paced properly. We've put a tremendous amount of focus into the pacing of Call of Duty: Black Ops. So it's not just white-knuckle edge-of-your-seat action the entire way through; you'd feel exhausted and it would get monotonous.Black Ops offers stealth sections, survival horror-like sections. These build  tension – making your next action sequence all the more satisfying.  There's also storytelling going on in these sections too, they help you get an idea of how lethal and exacting and precise these SOG members are, these guys are the best of the best, the most lethal special ops force in the world at the time. Those were the two purposes of the quieter sequences.What was the most satisfying thing you could do with Black Ops that you couldn't do with World at War?That's like choosing which one of your children is your favourite. It would depend which team-member you spoke to. Single-player guys would probably mention the performance capture we were able to use which James Cameron used in the creation of Avatar. We used a very similar technique as him and actually went to the same motion-capture studio in Los Angeles where parts of that movie were filmed; the 'House of Dreams' it was called.Full-motion capture is a new technology that allows us to record the motions, the acting, the body movements and facial animations all in one take. It allows the actor to put himself into the character – you can see the character breathe on screen for example – and rather than piece all those parts together where it may be out of sync, everything is perfectly synchronised making the characters seem more natural and you feel a real connection with them on screen.The multiplayer and co-op guys have been able to develop some great new modes and features with the extra resources they didn't have before [you may want to seeKeith's postsfor more info on the multiplayer mode].Infinity Ward's Call of Duty releases were obviously very successful. What did you think were the strengths and weaknesses of the Modern Warfares?We looked at all the games in the franchise when we were pulling in our inspiration; we looked at feedback from the community, seeing what people are saying on the forums. For us though, storytelling is very important. We've believed in good storytelling since World at War.We didn't necessarily have the time and resources during World at War to develop the story as much as we'd have liked to, but this time with Black Ops the gloves are off – we're all-in with this one – so it's going to be a very complex narrative, lots of highs and lows, twists and turns.We walk that fine line between complex and confusing, we don't want to make a confusing game as we never want a player to not know what's going on. We firmly come down on the complex side of it; players that do want a good story, that don't just want a simple "good guy, bad guy, kill him" story, they will be satisfied.You've spoken a lot about storytelling and one thing many people found disorientating about Modern Warfare 2 was the constant jumping between characters. Does something similar happen in Black Ops?You'll control multiple characters. You'll have a voice for the first time, and every character in our game has a distinct voice and a distinct visual appearance. A ton of effort's gone into character development, that's going to help the immersion and storytelling we're trying to achieve with Black Ops.Because you'll be playing as different characters it seemed natural to give the player his own voice for the first time – you'll be able to hear yourself speaking lines. That's something that's new to the franchise, it's important to us that if you're playing a badass character you know what he sounds like.The controversial No Russian garnered Modern Warfare 2 a great deal of media coverage and attention. Are there any moments you think people could react as strongly to in Black Ops?There may be some controversial moments, but nothing is done gratuitously. Anything we put in our games is meant to further the immersion, further the plot in some way, plucking an emotional string of the player. We've always believed in free speech, we are making a mature game for mature audiences.Was it a conscious decision to ramp up the gore in Black Ops?We've always had that kind of gore, it was in World at War, limbs would be blown off, that's something Treyarch's always been keen on and we're continuing with Black Ops.Aside from previous Call of Duty games, what influences did you draw upon?Too many to list but any shooter we've looked at. We're big gamers at Treyarch and we play all kinds of games. We're not just influenced by games but movies, books, the military advisers we bring in - there are all sorts of contributing factors.What's it like having to follow such a hugely successful release?The biggest entertainment release of all time - it's definitely a huge act to follow. But that's been the goal of every Call of Duty game frankly, to ratchet the bar up across the board, Black Ops is no different.Refocusing our studio efforts on Black Ops almost two years ago was a big commitment, putting our money where our mouth was, saying the franchise was important to us and saying this is what it takes to take Call of Duty to the next level.Call of Duty: Black Ops will be released on DS, PC, PlayStation 3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 9 November
Rumour of choice over the weekend was the report that Facebook is developing software for a branded Facebook mobile phone.According toTechCrunch, the project is a secretive, high-level project at Facebook who will be working with an external manufacturer - possibly another deal with smartphone manufacturerINQ, who share an investor with Facebook in Li Ka-Shing.Photo bydullhunkon Flickr.Some rights reservedJoe Hewitt and Matthew Papakipos, two senior Facebookers with operating system experience, are said to be working on the project. An additional report byBusinessInsiderclaimed the phone would be based on Google's Android operating system - a bizarre setup considering a more mobile-powerful facebook would help the company compete with Google and Apple for Silicon Valley dominance.Astatement from Facebook PRsaid the reports have not been accurate, which isn't the same as a denial, and while it states 'Facebook is not building a phone' it doesn't say anything about software."Facebook is not building a phone. Our approach has always been to make phones and apps more social. Current projects include include everything from an HTML5 version of the site to apps on major platforms to full Connect support with SDKs to deeper integrations with some manufacturers.  Our view is that almost all experiences would be better if they were social, so integrating deeply into existing platforms and operating systems is a good way to enable this. For an example, check out Connect for iPhone and the integration we have with contact syncing through our iPhone app.  Another example is the INQ1 phone with Facebook integration (the first so-called 'Facebook Phone')."Hewitt and Papakipos and working on those projects, the PR claimed. As for Android, Facebook contacts already sync impressively easily with Android phones but no doubt Facebook thinks that integration could go deeper. Around one third of Facebook's use - 150 million of those 500 million active monthly users are already generated by mobile. GigaOm's Liz Gannes writes that extended features could include displaying contact availability, a dynamically updated address book and more third-party integration with location, for example.Despite those carefully worded 'denials',CNetfollowed up the story further confirming from its own sources that Facebook had talked to both hardware manufacturers and operators about a Facebook-branded phone. The most likely scenario is a phone made by INQ or HTC with heavily-enhanced Facebook features on Android software and offered exclusively on one operator.Though Google's phones didn't exactly take the mainstream market by storm, Facebook's dependent users could create a different story. It's a risk, but one that vast userbase should compel Facebook to take.
Computer Weeklymagazine has donated five decades' worth of its back issues to the National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park.The 44-year archives of the world's first weekly computer magazine are now available on request to researchers at the Buckinghamshire-based charity (which relies on financial goodwill to keep running sofeel free to dig deep). The 104 volumes of Computer Weekly will be featured onthe National Museum of Computing websitein time.Kevin Murrell, a trustee and director at the museum, said the donation was a "fascinating resource" for those looking to trace back history of the UK IT industry as it was reported at the time. He said:I'm sure these records of the IT industry will help stimulate research and interest in our computing heritage which has come so far so quickly. The early issues of Computer Weekly reflect a rather different world as computing was beginning to find its feet in business. I noticed a job advert in the first issue for '23 to 28-year-old male programmers' – the annual salary was £735!The National Museum of Computing got a cash injection of £100,000 earlier this month courtesy of Bletchley Park Capital Partners. But the  site, based at the second world war codebreaking centre Bletchley Park,continues to relyon grants and donations to secure its future.Researchers wanting to dig into the Computer Weekly archive – possibly to examine the prose of its former scribbler and now Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur – are advised to email info@tnmoc.org explaining the nature and purpose of their work.
Lots of journalists know the experience of contacting Apple to ask about a story and getting no response. But now a journalism student has discovered the experience too. Chelsea Isaacs, who is doing a journalism degree at Long Island University, was asked by her professor to write an article about the implementation of an iPad program at the campus.So, obviously, being a wannabe journalist, since the story was about Apple, she contacted its press office. Not once, but six times, getting increasingly wound up. And then finally, in the way of a journalistright on deadline, she dug out an email address that is all over the web which is believed to belong to Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple. Perhaps he could help?We've seen the headers on the emails from Jobs, and they match IP addresses that could only come from within Apple. We sent the emails - with headers - to Apple on Friday afternoon (morning, their time) and asked for an urgent response by Sunday evening.And guess what they said? Oh, we'll tell you at the end. First, the emails. We take up the story at 3.22pm (EDT) on Thursday 16 September with Isaacs's first email to Jobs.Subject: Re: Mr. Jobs - Student Journalist Concerned about Apple's MediaRelations Dept.Dear Mr. Jobs,"As a college student, I can honestly say that Apple has treated me very well; my iPod is basically the lifeline that gets me through the day, and thanks to Apple's Final Cut Pro, I aced last semester's video editing project. I was planning to buy a new Apple computer to add to my list of Apple favorites. Because I have had such good experiences as a college student using Apple products, I was incredibly surprised to find Apple's Media Relations Department to be absolutely unresponsive to my questions, which (as I had repeatedly told them in voicemail after voicemail) are vital to my academic grade as a student journalist.For my journalism course, I am  writing an article about the implementation of an iPad program at my school, the CW Post Campus of Long Island University.The completion of this article is crucial to my grade in the class, and it may potentially get published in our university's newspaper. I had 3 quick questions regarding iPads, and wanted to obtain answers from the most credible source: Apple's Media Relations Department. I have called countless times throughout the week, leaving short, but detailed, messages which included my contact information and the date of my deadline. Today, I left my 6th message, which stressed the increasingly more urgent nature of the situation. It is now the end of the business day, and I have not received a call back. My deadline is tomorrow.Mr. Jobs, I humbly ask why Apple is so wonderfully attentive to the needs of students, whether it be with the latest, greatest invention or the company's helpful customer service line, and yet, ironically,  the Media Relations Department fails to answer any of my questions which are, as I have repeatedly told them, essential to my academic performance.For colleges nationwide, Apple is at the forefront of improving the way we function in the academic environment, increasing the efficiency of conducting academic research, as well as sharing and communicating with our college communities. With such an emphasis on advancing our education system, why, then, has Apple's Media Relations team ignored my needs as a student journalist who is just trying to get a good grade?In addition to the hypocrisy of ignoring student needs when they represent a company that does so much for our schools, the Media Relations reps are apparently, also failing to responsibly handle the inquiries of professional journalists on deadlines. Unfortunately, for a journalist in the professional world, lacking the answers they need on deadline day won't just cost them a grade; it could cost them their job.Thank you very much for your time and consideration.Sincerely,Chelsea Kate Isaacs, Senior, CW Post - Long Island UniversitySent via BlackBerry from T-MobileThe answer pings back at 16:19 (57 minutes later):From:Steve Jobs [address and header confirmed - CA]To:Chelsea IsaacsSubject:Re: Mr. Jobs - Student Journalist Concerned about Apple's Media Relations Dept.Our goals do not include helping you get a good grade. Sorry.Sent from my iPhoneGathering herself, Chelsea emails back at 4.37 (she's taken 18 minutes over this):Thank you for your reply. I never said that your goal should be to "help me get a good grade." Rather, I politely asked why your media relations team does not respond to emails, which consequently, decreases my chances of getting a good grade. But, forget about my individual situation; what about common courtesy, in general --- if you get a message from a client or customer, as an employee, isn't it your job to return the call? That's what I always thought. But I guess that's not one of your goals. Yes, you do have a creative approach, indeed.Sent via BlackBerry from T-MobileIs she slightly annoyed? Yes, I think that might be the case.Back comes the response at 17.10 (33 minutes, if you're counting)From:Steve JobsTo:Chelsea IsaacsSubject: Re: Mr. Jobs - Student Journalist Concerned about Apple's Media Relations Dept.Nope. We have over 300 million users and we can't respond to their requests unless they involve a problem of some kind. Sorry.Sent from my iPhoneAnd at 5.32 (22 minutes later) Chelsea has her answer:You're absolutely right, and I do meet your criteria for being a customer who deserves a response:1. I AM one of your 300 million users.2. I DO have a problem; I need answers that only Apple Media Relations can answer.Now, can they kindly respond to my request (my polite and friendly voice can be heard in the first 5 or 10 messages in their inbox). Please, I am on deadline.I appreciate your help.Sent via BlackBerry from T-MobileLong pause. Perhaps he's contacting the PR people, having realised that Isaacs only has three questions, that they're about iPads, and that the media relations people might be able to sort it out.Ya think?At 18.27, just under an hour since Isaacs's last email, comes the final reply:From: Steve JobsTo: Chelsea IsaacsSubject: Re: Mr. Jobs - Student Journalist Concerned about Apple's MediaRelations Dept.Please leave us alone.Sent from my iPhoneWe have had no response from Apple on whether the emails are legit. We're quite confident that they come from within Apple (they come from the 17.x.x.x IP range, which isassigned to Apple)- but there seem to be three possibilities for who's writing them:1) Steve Jobs. This is the most likely answer, though there has been an instance where Apple's PR people have - shockingly - roused themselves to say thatone such conversation is a fake, though in that case the person having the conversation had been hawking it around for money. Isaacs hasn't asked for money, and has answered our questions.2) Someone inside Apple who has been given the job of answering as though they're Steve Jobs to random emails from outside. If that's the case, they're not covering themselves in glory.3) Someone inside Apple who has been assigned this email address, and is responding as best they can, but can't really handle it.Whichever it is, Apple would probably do well to stop that person sending responses to people outside Apple. Honestly, it doesn't look good.And it might also make sense for Apple's PR department to recruit a couple more people.Chelsea Isaacs, meanwhile, joins the vast ranks of journalists who've put media queries into Apple and never heard back. Unfortunately, it's not what you'd call an exclusive club. And as far as we know, she didn't get the answers about the iPad either.
Like last weekend my gaming time was dominated by Halo: Reach - not a classic but typically addictive in multiplayer - and the ever improving Dead Rising 2. Madden 11 also got a look in too. But what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
London will host Europe's first week-long internet festival in November this year, following in the footsteps of New York where the annual Internet Week was established three years ago.Some of the biggest digital brands in the world will take part in more than 100 events across the capital in the seven-dayInternet Week Europe. But it will not just be for the internet monoliths like Google, as organisers are inviting digital companies from across the continent to host their own event at no cost.Sponsored by Yahoo, the festival is aiming to follow in the footsteps of Internet Week New York which took place for the third time in June this year. The annual US jamboree hosted more than 150 events and saw participation from organisations including AOL, Mashable and Time Warner. Internet players such as the Guardian, BBC, Moo.com and WPP Digital will all make an appearance at the event.David-Michel Davies, chairman of Internet Week New York, will head the London festival along with Nicolas Roope and Nick Farnhill, founders ofPokelondon.com. Davies, also executive director of the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, told the Guardian it was high time the European internet industry was brought together for an event like this."We started in New York because we really just wanted to bring the industry to life and found – because it's New York – that we got national interest, people coming from all over the country and having events in the city," he said. "Now we want to bring people to London."We felt we wanted to engage the entire European industry and London is a similar city to New York in that every internet company has an outpost there or travels through there. It's a big, big benefit to the city here in New York. The community comes together to help programme everything and it really is part of the story of the resurgence of the tech industy here in New York."Although there are numerous industry events based around technology around Europe, Internet Week Europe is a different beast altogether. "We knew it had to work as the internet works," said Davies. "So we decided to make it an open source festival, allowing companies to add their own events rather than a few people in a room figure out who gets to appear. It's really organic and more relevant that way."Nick Farnhill, co-chair of Internet Week Europe, said: "My interest for London in terms of relevancy is that it has an appeal outside of the industry events we see. There's a lot of events that are silos – for broadcast, radio, the web – but this appeal goes much wider. It's basically for anyone who feels the web is at the centre of their business."Internet Week Europe will run from 8-12 November; a preliminary schedule will be announced in early October. The festival's executive council includes many of Europe's most incisive internet presences, including Tom Uglow, manager of Google's Creative Lab team; Brent Hoberman, co-founder of Lastminute.com and mydeco.com; Aleks Krotoski, journalist at the Guardian; Richard Moross, founder and chief executive of Moo.com; Mike Butcher, editor of TechCrunch Europe; and Iain Dodsworth, founder and chief executive of TweetDeck.
Haystack. Photo bytee.kayon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWere Haystack's Iranian testers at risk? &gt;&gt; Net EffectEvgeny Morozov digs deeper: "At the risk of dragging this discussion into the darkest theoretical alleys in the philosophy of technology and science and technology studies, let me just say that the main problem with Haystack was not how it was designed but how it was socially constructed and subsequently interprepted, not least by the Iranian government."Nokia Says Preorders for N8 Smartphone Are Strongest Ever Seen &gt;&gt; BloombergBut operating margins are falling. Could be interesting.Facebook Is Not Working On A Phone Just Like Google Was Not Working On A Phone &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWhat's not explained is why the hell Facebook would want to market its own phone (even a branded version of Android). Single-purpose phones tend to flounder.Exchange "remote wipe" is a terrible, terrible bug &gt;&gt; Coderspiel"There's no shortage of trivial and irrelevant "I Agree" buttons we have to click to use ordinary software, but mobile OSes presume to open a software self-destruct backdoor without any notification."No, Exchange Remote Wipe is not for tin-pot dictators &gt;&gt; John C. WelchNot the original headline. Doesn't quite answer the point about Exchange Remote Wipe wiping the *entire* device though.Most common words unique to 1-star and 5-star App Store reviews &gt;&gt; Marco.org"Simple" and "perfect" appear most often in the five-stars; the one-star words are worth considering too for app developers.Statement: Reports of notebook, netbook sales declines grossly exaggerated &gt;&gt; BBY.comThough if you read the statement closely, you realise that Best Buy's chief executive isn't denying he said what he was quoted as saying. But that Best Buy does expect to sell a stack of computers over Christmas.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Real Heroes: Firefighteris a strange beast. Not without shortcomings, it does however prove that an original concept can offer much more to the player than big budget gloss or a movie licence.In essence, it takes the familiar form of a first-person shooter, where players typically assume the perspective of a soldier transfixed by his weapon's sight, only it replaces the death-bringing gun with a life-saving fire hose.The gameplay –which focuses on dousing flames, breaking through doors with axes and otherwise entering buildings by force – defies genre conventions; often the mark of a quality game. There's plenty of action, but it is the puzzle elements of Real Heroes that are most engaging. Managing smoke movement by breaking windows while crafting civilian escape routes is brilliantly challenging.For fans of corny action films, Real Heroes's low-fidelity charm will be hugely endearing, but it does lack the certain polish many technophiles long for. At worst it is slightly graceless, but this almost completely unique game has too much going for it for its weaknesses to be off-putting.It may be strange and unconventional, but those two qualities are to be praised, and make Real Heroes a surprisingly entertaining release.
Software updates aren't the most glamorous things. Generally, they'll fix a few security glitches, neaten up the presentation perhaps. Only on rare occasions will they provide your beloved gadget with anything truly exciting.However, with iOS 4.1, Apple has added a some very nifty features for the iPhone, and the newly updated iPod Touch (from £189, apple.com). With a camera added to the front of the new Touch, Apple's Skype equivalent,FaceTime, is now available, so owners can communicate face to face with iPhone 4-owning friends over Wi-Fi.But the most exciting new feature isGame Center. It appears as an app and allows you to register for online play and connect with friends, like Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network. Old classics like the fiendishly addictive air traffic control sim Flight Control (App Store, Firemint, 59p) have already been updated for newly simplified multiplayer fun and achievement points.Taking control of an airfield, you direct planes and helicopters into land with a swipe of a finger, but as the numbers begin to mount up on screen, timing the flight paths becomes increasingly tricky, with just one midair collision enough for game over. With Game Center, teamwork becomes imperative, sharing the burden and pushing aircraft over to a friend's landing strip.Updates will come for a host of favourites to integrate the service, and new games will come with it built in, so this bit of free software is sure to lead to a huge boost in mobile multiplayer fun.
Halo, the Xbox's most famous franchise, returns with this prequel offering a beginning to the battle finished inHalo 3. With Covenant forces laying siege to Planet Reach, it's up to you, as one of a group of six Spartan super-soldiers, to help stem the tide, escort survivors to safety and deliver an important device it's hoped will become a game-changer against this ruthless, extraterrestrial foe."Remember Reach," the marketing tells us and indeed it's a difficult place to forget. Developer Bungie paints a vivid picture of a world in peril; a grand canvas of war which, at times, makes the player feel very small indeed. Expansive vistas provoke genuine awe and a handful of images linger long after the credits have rolled, particularly a sequence aboard a rescue chopper, drifting between burning skyscrapers in teeming rain as the battle continues to rage in the background.It's a pity, then, thatReachstruggles to convey the human tragedy as effectively. Characters are ciphers, with your fellow Spartans an unconvincing mass of clichés,while there's barely a memorable line in the entire script. The bleak storyline evokes a rare feeling of helplessness in a genre where the player commonly saves the world, but the mournful strings on the slightly overbearing soundtrack feel like the game is desperately urging you to care.Perhaps it doesn't matter. After all,Halo's best stories have always been created by the player's actions on the battlefield andReachis no different. The perfectly balanced combat is classicHalofor the first five chapters, while the second half introduces new elements, including a remarkably accomplished space battle followed by a superbly realised low gravity. New armour modifications allow players to sprint, instantly activate a protective shield or create a holographic facsimile to draw fire. A jetpack, meanwhile, is put to splendid use in one level which sees soldiers gleefully bunny-hopping between floors of a Covenant-occupied building.The series's extraordinary online component is even more tightly packed with features. The creative tool that is Forge mode is more flexible than ever, whileHalo 3: ODST's Firefight returns with a wealth of options, letting players select which enemies to include among the waves of incoming Covenant forces.Halo: Reachprobably won't convert non-believers, but Bungie's last game in the franchise it created has delivered one hell of a farewell to fans.
Price£23,295MPG53.3mpgTop speed137mphWhen Jimmy (played with timeless nonchalance by James Dean) agreed to settle a dispute with gang leader Buzz in a game of chicken – or a "chickie run" – he little realised he was setting the benchmark by which all future games of chicken would be judged. Dozens of subsequent films have pitted disaffected young men against each other by having them drive pumped-up cars at each other, towards cliffs, across railway lines, even directly at pedestrians. The premise is always the same. Do you want to win so much that you're prepared to lose your life? No wonder it's such a staple of movie stand-offs.However, if Volvo has anything to  do with it, the chicken run will soon  be a practical impossibility, and greasy-quiffed males will have to find other ways to resolve their turf wars.The Swedish-built, Chinese-owned car company (previous owners Ford sold the Swedish marque to Chinese car maker Geely for £1.2bn in March) has always been a world leader in safety, but the new S60 comes with two award-winning innovations: the Pedestrian Detection with Full Auto Brake and City Safety.Both use a radar unit hidden in the grille and  a camera fitted in front  of the rear-view mirror to feed information to  a central control unit. The first system detects pedestrians in front of the car using the same target acquisition software perfected by the military (only this time to save lives). If a jaywalker strays into your Volvo's path an audible warning alerts the driver and the brakes are pre-charged. If you then fail to respond quickly enough, the system takes over and automatically activates the car's full braking power. The programme has been evolved especially to guard against that worst case of all scenarios: a child dashing out in front of you. However it won't pick them up if they are under 80cm tall – so dogs (and chickens) will still have to take their chances when crossing the road.The City Safety system does much the same, but prevents those tedious start/stop collisions that are so common in urban traffic queues.Both of these technologies are merely the cherries in a fruit salad of safety and driver-assist options offered with the S60. There's the Adaptive Cruise Control with Distance Alert, Queue Assist, Collision Warning with Full Auto Brake, Lane Departure Warning with Driver Alert Control and Blind Spot Information System… It reads like a tasting menu for the ravenous health and safety executive.So the S60 is another super-safe Volvo... That's hardly news. Can you keep on selling a car merely on its safety record? Clearly not, because the ad men and women have billed the new S60 the "naughty Volvo". A rebel with a cause, if you like, and a car very much built to offer a sporty, exciting drive.It's certainly a handsome beast with its tapering roofline, abrupt tail and sculpted nose. It's roomy, comfortable and luxurious. The suspension is firm, the steering precise. More than 70% of sales are expected to be diesel, so the car I tested was the zesty two-litre variant, which gives 0-60mph in 8.7 seconds and a top speed of 137mph – naughty! But before you worry that this Volvo's going to fall into a lifetime of petty delinquency and jail time,  be aware that this same engine does  a mighty 53.3mpg at a climate-soothing 139g CO²/km – nice!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
BetweenPac-Man, the first video game superstar, who zipped into life in the US 30 years ago this month, and a game such as this year'sRed Dead Redemptionseems to lie an eternity in the medium's evolution. Designer Toru Iwatani said he wantedPac-Manto be "the simplest character possible, without any features"; whereas the team of several hundred responsible for fashioning the sprawling Western epic have a life-like protagonist in reformed outlaw John Marston. But in certain fundamental aspects, such games have barely changed at all – because the action still takes place on a 2D screen, using a controller like a joystick.That is now changing, and within the next five years any firm concepts of what constitutes a computer game will require radical revision. In fact, in time for this Christmas, there is the launch ofnew motion control systems for Sony's PlayStation 3and Microsoft's Xbox 360 consoles. Although the Nintendo Wii has used motion tracking for four years, the new devices are noticeably more sophisticated: PlayStation Move still involves a hand-held controller, but a player's movements can now be tracked in 3D space with incredible precision using its own "Eye" camera placed near the screen. TheXbox Kinectis a wholly hands-free device that employs a camera and infrared depth sensors, translating any movement into game action. Both systems also feature microphones that allow voice input.Created by British design pioneer Peter Molyneux at Lionhead Studios in Surrey, a demo for Kinect calledMilo and Katesuggests what the future holds. Milo is a virtual boy with whom players interact using voice, gesture and facial expressions. A sophisticated artificial intelligence system lets the character learn words and actions from the player as well as interpret emotions in the user's voice. Milo can apparently even recognise different people, introducing himself to anyone he hasn't met before.You can teach him about art by drawing a picture and holding it up to the Kinect camera and he will then copy your masterpiece. In one scene, Milo is in a garden and asks whether he should stamp on a snail; his moral future is in the hands of the player."What Kinect gives you is a computer that can see and hear you, and that's pretty fundamental," says Andrew Oliver, chief technology officer of UK developer Blitz Games Studios and an expert in 3D and motion technologies. "It's really good as a natural user interface but it's up to designers to work out how we can interpret that."In this future, there will be detective games in which players verbally interrogate computer-controlled characters – who themselves respond differently to an aggressive tone or placating physical gestures. Realistic relationships in games will emerge, with players having to charm intelligent artificial beings. "Your reactions will be directly perceived by the system, expanding your input capabilities," says Richard Marks, who leads PlayStation's research and development department. "What you're doing with your body and your face will actually matter. You'll be able to have a very rich communication with the game and with other players."Bringing the likes of Milo to life will also be 3D technology. Sony has already launched a range of 3D titles for the PlayStation&nbsp;3 that are compatible with its latest Bravia 3D TV sets, while companies such as NVIDIA are creating graphics cards for PC users that allow players to experience a huge range of titles in three dimensions.While 3D at the cinema still feels like something of a gimmick, 3D technology brings with it tangible benefits in gaming. Andrew Oliver cites the example of a demo of a game calledCrysis 2, a first-person shooter due for release next year that will be entirely playable in 3D. "The developers showed a screenshot of a forest and said, 'spot the sniper', and in 2D you couldn't see anything," he says. "But with the same shot in 3D, you could instantly see him lurking in the foliage. And, that's important – that's sort of the difference between life and death!"Such systems require viewers to wear "active shutter" glasses to generate a 3D image. These are typically controlled by an infrared or Bluetooth transmitter that sends a signal that allows the glasses to alternately darken over one eye, and then the other, in synchronization with a TV display that runs an image from two different perspectives – creating a 3D stereoscopic effect. But Nintendo recently announced its 3DS console, due next year, that dispenses with glasses altogether through a process known as autostereoscopy, while Sony has demonstrated a prototype that creates a totally three-dimensional holographic image that viewers can walk around and see from any angle. The device can be plugged into a PC – allowing it run holographic 3D games. During a demonstration at the recentSIGGRAPH exhibition in Los Angeles, Sony showed off an image of awoman's head that reacted to the viewer's hand movements, orientating itself accordingly.Researchers at Tokyo University, meanwhile, are developing touchable holograms. Using ultrasonic waves to give the sensation of pressure, users are able to feel 3D holographic characters running about on their hands, or touchholographic rain drops as they fall. This still feels like the stuff of science fiction, but such technology will surely soon filter into the market.Before that point is reached, though, through a combination of motion controls and 3D display technology, games will appear in which, for example, a virtual sword can be projected into the player's room to "grab" and wield. "We're applying this technology to games like shooters," says Marks. "In our research we've looked into head tracking, so players can actually move their heads to peek around corners. And with a 3D display, the viewpoint can also be modified and tilted as you move your position, so you get a really strong motion parallax – there's a very convincing feeling of 3D from lots of different cues."Using our bodies to control games may in fact be only the beginning of our transmogrification into walking joypads. The next step involves mind control. Already there are several consumer headsets that useelectroencephalography, or EEG, to monitor brainwave patterns and which allow gamers to control elements of the action through the power of their thoughts. Priced at $199 (£129), the Mindset – from the futuristically namedNeuroSky– is an EEG headset that comes bundled with its own game demo,NeuroBoy. "You play a boy with telekinetic powers," says the company's Tansy Brook. "You still use traditional mouse and keyboard controls to move and select objects, but there are a number of features that you have to use your mind for: you can relax to levitate an object, or concentrate to set it on fire – which is very popular."A key problem with brain-computer interfaces in the past was that it took a long time to calibrate the sensors to pick up on each user's neural activity, but companies such as NeuroSky and its rivalEmotivhave solved this with proprietary algorithms that spot patterns of activity.NeuroSky has a new headset due later this year at $99, and is already working with game makers including Sega and Square Enix. The latter has produced a demo of a shooting game,Judecca, in which players have to focus their thoughts to see invisible demons. This is likely to be how mind control slips into the marketplace – as an added feature for conventional games.Peripherals that can read our physical states are also being introduced. A forthcoming game titledInnergyfrom French publisher Ubisoft involves a biofeedback sensor that clips on to the player's finger and checks their stress levels. Meanwhile, Valve, the US developer behind the massively successfulHalf-Lifeseries of shooters, is experimenting with biometrics and ways of analysing player pulse rates to redevelop the gaming experience."The last 20 years have all been graphics, graphics, graphics," says Nam Do, the co-founder of Emotiv. "The next five years will be about new interfaces – and brain-computer interfaces will play a major role in giving users new experiences. Harry Potter will perform true magic in a game, it won't be about pushing buttons. Headsets can also read the player's emotions, bringing in a totally new dimension. Games will be able to constantly measure your level of excitement, boredom or fear, and tailor the action to make it challenging and exciting all the time."Soon the distinction between the virtual and real may disappear, too. Developers working with consoles like Kinect as well as with camera-equipped smartphones are creating augmented reality games that merge computer graphics with real-life footage. InTagDis, for example, you can leave virtual graffiti on real walls. "As you leave more 'tags' you become the king of an area and earn points as others view your work," says Lester Madden, an alternate reality game (ARG) researcher. It is his belief that a technology called "natural feature tracking" will be a huge element of ARGs in the future. "Developers could use it to have hordes of zombies walking up your stairs and though your doors or climbing through your windows," he enthuses.Beyond even this lies an era of what is known as pervasive digital entertainment – in which, once we've signed up to a gaming experience, we'll never truly leave it. The action will take place in our living rooms, on the street and on social network sites. And, via the omniscient interconnectivity of the web, all our friends will be there too.This is the future that many game pundits are expecting. But it won't just be about what we now consider to be games, and it's not all about cool technologies such as 3D displays. What is emerging in all areas of consumer technology is a process known as gamification – from global-positioning software to financial services websites, everything is becoming more game-like, because we as a species like to play.Last month, mobile entertainment company Booyah launchedInCrowd, a location-based social game for the iPhone that asks users to "check in" when they visit real-world places, and hands out points for sharing experiences. Employing the new Facebook feature Place, which lets you see where your friends are, it speaks of a future in which shopping becomes a multiplayer "deathmatch" against rival players. Together with services such as FourSquare and Gowalla, this is just the beginning."With gamification, we'll find boring things fun – like paying our taxes, getting regular checkups, buying groceries or checking the weather," says gamification expert Gabe Zicherman."When fun becomes a principal design requirement or objective of all kinds of industries – from healthcare and government to finance and transportation – the effect on our happiness will be unprecedented."This is a utopian vision – a vision of all-encompassing, multi-sensorial gaming – that to some will sound more terrifying than fun. It's certainly a long way fromPac-Man.
