While attention has been distracted bylawmakers' financial interests in computer games, two state governments in Germany have decided to return to the battle against the content of violent computer games, proposing that creators and players who partake in virtual fisticuffs should face lengthy jail termsFrom today's paper:Politicians in Bavaria and Lower Saxony have proposed a new offence that will punish "cruel violence on humans or human-looking characters" inside games. Early drafts suggest that infringers should face fines or up to 12 months' jail for promoting or enacting in-game violence.This is takinggreen bloodto a whole new level. I wonder how they'd respond to strategy games likeTotal Annihilationin which entire armies are wiped out from a bird's eye perspective. Or what about the negative feedback inGod gameslikeBlack and White, where smacking your little computer people into line is one tactic for keeping them on your side?Obviously this proposed legislation in its early stages and a reaction to a terrible tragedy, but at this point it raises more questions about the content of computer games than the politicians even realise. What is the boundary between violence and action? Between human, human-like and not-human? Between representation and fantasy? How will they operationalise this? Will ownership result in a fine? (It was just resting in my account!)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The New York Times has reported briefly on some Forrester Research research from Josh Bernoff, saying:Sales of iPods and iTunes Not Much in Sync. The research has been duly rubbished by Wired's Cult of Mac, inCommentary: Tech Analysts Still Don't Get iTunes Store, which begins: "Well-meaning but totally misguided technology analyst Forrester Research brought out a new study today that provides evidence that only 22 songs have been sold on iTunes for every one iPod Apple has sold."Our almost forgotten friend Andrew Orlowski takes a different tack iniTunes sales 'collapsing', which should have the desired effect (ie get El Reg's hit count up).In Toronto, The Globe and Mail makes the essential points inMusic downloads in downward trend:Mr. Bernoff questions whether consumers are reaching their saturation level for music downloads. He found that iTunes' rapid expansion rate has slowed. The service grew sevenfold between April, 2004, and January, 2006, but since then the number of transactions has dropped by 58 per cent.The downward trend is not limited to iTunes, which, according to Apple, accounts for 88 per cent of music purchased off the Web in the United States. Sales of all music downloads in the U.S. have stalled in the second half of the year, falling from 144 million tracks in the first quarter to 137 million in each of the second and third quarters, according to Nielsen SoundScan, which tracks industry figures.Discuss....
Yahoo's Jeremy Zawodny posted some screen shots that show pretty clearly thatGoogle Blatantly Copies Yahoo!, at least in terms of one minor IE7 update page. To which Google's Matt Cutts makes adevastating response.Cue old saying: people who live in glass houses.....
Two years ago we published ourCream of the crop(which still draws a good readership even now), suggesting the sites we thought best in a variety of categories - Activism, Art, Blogs, Buying &amp; Selling, Community, Education, Email, Gaming, Health, News, Offbeat, Phones, Politics, Radio, Reference, Science, Search, Sport, and Travel.Now it's time to update. After all, two years is a whole .0 release in web years. So are thereother categorieswe should add? Andwhich siteswould you nominate now that weren't around then?(OK, online video, including YouTube and Revver. And what else?)
I'm sure most of you, if not all, have heard of or useddel.icio.us, the social bookmarking service that lets you keep track of sites you like and recommend them to friends (it was bought by Yahoo a year ago).We currently use it for a number of things - one of which is tohere.The idea is - hopefully - that readers can log in and post links directly to the Guardianista bookmarks stream (sticking a bookmarklet on your browser toolbar is very, very easy). If you want to use the account like this, email me at bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk and I'll pass on the login details.The other way to use the service, if you're already a delicious user, is to add Guardianista to your network so that you can send us interesting bookmarks or see what we've got listed.Obviously, there's a lot of trust in this little experiment: if it doesn't work, or if access to the account is abused, I'll be quite happy to close it down. But let's give it some time and see what happens...
This year's crop of notable independent games have been announced by the Independent Games Festival, and once again the bounty proves that non-corporate publication generates some superb innovation. I'm very pleased to see the return of Samorost, an extrordinary and stunning interactive thingy.Samorost 2has been nominated in the excellence in visual arts and best web browser game categories. Gongs will be distributed at a ceremony at next year's Game Developers Conference.Big ups for the homegrown talent:Peter StockandSlitherine Software(and any other from here who don't have their location listed on their webpages).More information is over atGamasutra, and theIGF sitehas links to all of the finalists, plus the other 130-or-soentrants.
This week it'sLe Web 3, the latest in the Parisien series ofLes Blogsevents that's one of Europe's biggest "let's talk about blogging" conferences.Over on our sister siteComment is Free, Graham Holliday islivebloggingthe event but seems underwhelmed.But there are plenty of big names there; Skype's Niklas Zennstrom, TechCrunch's Michael Arrington, Six Apart's Mena Trott, Technorati's Dave Sifry. Despite that thegeneral buzz- at least from the cosy of my living room - seems to be meh.Is it the same old faces? Is it too suity? Who knows, but Robin Hamman from the BBCpoints outthat:Lo誰c Le Meur, the organiser of Le Web, explained earlier today that one of the interesting things about the conference is the way it was marketed.That sounds like damning with faint praise to me. I wonder if things will pick up tomorrow, or if it's just become too business-oriented?
Gamasutra has a fascinatinginterview with Elan Lee, "the vice president of alternate reality game powerhouse 42 Entertainment" and the man beind The Beast, I Love Bees, and Cathy's Book. It begins:Gamasutra: The Beast is widely considered the very first ARG. Would you agree?Elan Lee: No, I consider the first ARG The Beatles' "Sergeant Pepper" album. Of course, it depends how you define an ARG. My definition is very loose. An alternate reality game is anything that takes your life and converts it into an entertainment space. If you look at a typical video game, it's really about turning you into a hero; a super hero, a secret agent. It's your ability to step outside your life and be someone else. An ARG takes those same sensibilities and applies them to your actual life. It says, what if you actually were a super hero, what if you actually were a secret agent? Instead of living in the box that's your television or your computer, why not use your actual life as a storytelling delivery platform?There's another interesting remark on page 3 in an answer about Lee's background at Microsoft.EL: When I was at Microsoft, I was terribly miscast as a producer. I thought, hey, this is what I should be doing. Then I met Jordan Weisman, who was the creative director of the games group there. Jordan is my mentor. Jordan is the most creative, amazing person I've ever met. We sort of hit it off, and we had this discussion about the future of games one day. I remember we were sitting at this restaurant, eating sushi, and at that moment his phone rang. He looked at me and said, wouldn't it be cool if that was a game calling me right now? And that's kind of where it all started.
UPDATE 14/12/06: Sony of America have admitted that the ploy was indeed their idea and have released this statement:Busted. Nailed. Snagged. As many of you have figured out (maybe our speech was a little too funky fresh???), Peter isn't a real hip-hop maven and this site was actually developed by Sony. Guess we were trying to be just a little too clever. From this point forward, we will just stick to making cool products, and use this site to give you nothing but the facts on the PSP.Sony Computer Entertainment AmericaThey've also removed comments from the site. And the video from YouTube. The least they could do is leave it up there so others could learn from their mistakes.Gamers across Web 2.0 are shaking angry fists at the latestalleged viral marketing campaignorchestrated by Sony. Piggybacking the YouTube bonanza, the company has hired "consumer activation" firmZipatonito create a false video-and-blogging approach to generate interest in their flagging PlayStation Portable handheld machine. Thevideo/blog/ads featured people portending to be authentic PSP fans creating messages of love/want for the console, but were quickly uncovered bySomethingAwful.com'sdedicated base as superficial facades shielding mouthpieces for the corporation.In the past, Sony's award-winning PlayStation brand ads were celebrated for their creativity and innovation. Their recent campaigns, including anill-advised series of graffiti art, suggests that they are having difficulty getting a handle on the bottom-up, community driven opportunities made possible with social software.As I (andothersmore qualifiedthan I) havecommented before(under a different guise), big business must tread carefully if it wishes to employ "yoof" tactics to generate interest in its brands. Blogs and other social software rely upon the trust of the reader, which is why links, references and disclaimers feature on many (not all) posts. Transparency is key in the modern advertising-savvy marketplace. Bad fakes can be spotted a mile away, and good fakes often get found out with a fanfare of negativity. As an aside, I'm very curious how the YouTube-viewing public will respond tolonelygirl_15when she makes her first above-the-board debut.Unfortunately this latest attempt to integrate with the MySpace generation on their own terms marks another instance in Sony's recent PSP campaigns which consumers claim is undermining their trust.Themost important currency online is trust. rhino86, a SomethingAwful commenter, sums it up succinctly:and today class we are going to learn about how viral marketing can fail miserably and create distrust and hatred in our user base.Interactive advertising isso much morethan throwing a few irritating pop us in front of content or putting placeholders in the latest software du jour. It needs to start from the community, perhaps - if needs must - sparked by a few good ideas.Why can't they stick tobus stops covered in bubble wrap?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
As Christmas rolls around once again - isn't it strange how it happens every year? - blogger Kenneth Newquist is preparing to decorate "the Geek Tree", a winterval paean to SF. In his own words:It's a Christmas tree with a speculative fiction theme. And what's sepculative fiction? Speaking broadly, it's a uber-genre comprised of science fiction, fantasy and horror, though in the case of the Geek Tree, it's primarily sci-fi.This year, he's planning to add the Hogwort's Express, Starship Enterprise 1701 and possibly the ship from Firefly/Serenity. Good lord.Our tree at home, which isn't up yet, is usually adorned with all manner of bizarre crap (last year it heavily featured elephants and was topped by a toy flamingo) and I bought some particularly satanic looking Santas from a shop in Kenya last week. But nothing as stupendous as Ken's efforts, though unfortunately he doesn't include pictures... you'll just have to use your imagination.[viaWonderland]
Been busy on Wii Sports this weekend? Yup me too. But what is your favourite event? Initially it was all about the tennis for me, but I've warmed to golf mainly becasue - fiddly putting aside - it offers a bit more a of long term challenge. Bowling is fun too, though for how long I'm not sure. The weakest events are baseball - as tedious as the real sport - and boxing. Although to give boxing credit it is the only one that makes you sweat a little. I can't see myself playing Wii Sports in a year's time but for now the golf and tennis will do fine.
Usability expertDon Normanwonders why we build things that confuse the people who use them:Answer: Because the people want the features. Because simplicity is a myth whose time has past (sic), if it ever existed.Make it simple and people won't buy. Given a choice, they will take the item that does more. Features win over simplicity, even when people realize that it is accompanied by more complexity. You do it too, I bet. Haven't you ever compared two products side by side, comparing the features of each, preferring the one that did more? Why shame on you, you are behaving, well, behaving like a normal person.Norman focuses on toasters and fridges etc, butJoel Spolskytakes up the baton for software. applications:With six years of experience running my own software company I can tell you that nothing we have ever done at Fog Creek has increased our revenue more than releasing a new version with more features. Nothing. The flow to our bottom line from new versions with new features is absolutely undeniable. It's like gravity. When we tried Google ads, when we implemented various affiliate schemes, or when an article about FogBugz appears in the press, we could barely see the effect on the bottom line. When a new version comes out with new features, we see a sudden, undeniable, substantial, and permanent increase in revenue.
Land Rover Freelander 2From&pound;20,935Miles per gallon:37.7Seats:5Good for:High jinksBad for:Dastardly tricksDennis the Menace would have been impressed. The two boys crouching in the dust were holding their sides with glee. By turning a flimsy wooden arrow, the ragamuffins had sent a troop of 16 factory-fresh Freelanders down a precarious rock-strewn track and through patches of thorny scrub which left your paintwork looking like it had been polished with grit. After a mile of tortuous progress, our convoy came to a halt. We'd been had. The wry smile soon disappeared as it dawned on us we now had to reverse down a hill suitable only for lizards with a taste for adrenalin sports.The good people at Land Rover had told us their new Freelander could go anywhere, and who were we to doubt them? To prove their point they'd flown a group of journalists to Morocco, where a carefully plotted route ensured the cars were brutalised like new recruits on a boot camp. It's one of the more frustrating aspects of developing a vehicle with the Freelander's prodigious talents to know most owners will never encounter 45-degree inclines, 20ft sand drifts and tyre-splitting rocks. It seems only the cunning of two 10-year-olds can stop a Land Rover.The first Freelander was released in 1997 and was seen by many as creating a new class of vehicle: the compact premium 4x4. And clearly there were many who either had a tough route to Sainsbury's or who appreciated its upper-class credentials, because it was the top-selling 4x4 in Europe for five years. Unlike most sequels, Freelander 2 improves on the original in every way. It took Land Rover two million man hours to develop, and it now offers better performance (the 3.2-litre petrol engine is 30 per cent more powerful than the outgoing V6) and better economy (the 2.2-litre TD4 diesel churns out an environment-soothing 37.7mpg). It is also bigger (38 per cent more boot space), more refined (60 pages of impenetrable technical guff is hard to argue with) and posher (the 'command' driving position gives a pleasantly elevated view of the mundane tribulations of the highway hoi polloi). To handle, it is a pussy cat on the road and a tiger in the wild. It's also a true Brit. It was designed in Gaydon (hardly the most fitting name for its ruggedly macho offspring) and built in Halewood near Liverpool (that's more like it).No review of a 4x4 would be complete without a reference to its planet-destroying capabilities. But in this area the Freelander fares miserably. Land Rover has initiated a programme which works in the developing world to help off-set the excesses of the manufacturing process and even the first 45,000 miles you drive. This isn't an optional extra, it's built into the price.Towards the end of our day we stopped in the shade of some dusty trees. Hearing a rustle high above us, we looked up to see the tree was full of goats in search of a leafy snack. Poise, precision and a go-anywhere mentality... an inspiration for the Freelander? Or maybe those boys had tricked them, too.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
Viva Pi単ataXbox 360Up to now, Xbox 360 games have tended towards the fighting/driving/shooting-people action that gets twenty- and thirtysomething men (who non-coincidentally buy the vast majority of videogames) pleasantly hot under the collar. Viva Pi&ntilde;ata involves none of these pursuits, and is instead a breed-'em-up, taking place in a lush garden populated by various species of pi&ntilde;ata. All can be smashed to release their candy innards, but far more rewarding is to create environments they like until they settle and eventually get busy making baby pi&ntilde;atas. Playfully named species including the Bunnyscotch, Sparrowmint and Quackberry visit, stay, have babies, fight and get eaten by pi&ntilde;atas higher up the food chain in the confectionary-based circle of life, that is at no time less than family-friendly. Exceptionally mellow to play with its Pixar looks and Dolby 5.1 birdsong, Rare's trademark polish gleams from every surface.&#183;Rare, &pound;45Superman ReturnsNintendo DS, PS2, Xbox, Xbox 360Superman can fly, punch holes through buildings and freeze enemies by breathing on them. For these reasons alone his franchise is an obvious one for conversion to a videogame. Add what the marketing department call a "major motion picture", and you'd be forgiven for thinking nothing could go wrong. What emerges, six months after the lukewarm film, is a horrible mess of a game that sees the Man of Steel fighting a never-ending onslaught of anonymous robots strung around no discernible plot and taking place in a suspiciously bland- looking Metropolis. The leadenly prescriptive gameplay either has you punching enemies to death or matching ice breath with hot targets and eye-lasers with cold ones until you feel as though you've regressed to nursery and spent the evening slotting coloured shapes through the appropriate holes in a plastic post box. Utterly empty and devoid of any sort of entertainment value, this is the worst variety of lame, soulless movie-license cash-in.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;30Games news: Wii launchIt's got a silly name, you control it by waving a wand-style remote control around and it's designed to be fun, even if you've never played a game in your life; the relentless pre-publicity for Wii has effectively imprinted its universal appeal and quirky control mechanics on anyone not living in a sensory deprivation tank. Arriving with Wii Sports, a collection of mini-games including tennis, bowling and boxing, gamers will discover to their horror that resolute game-phobics can now comfortably win the odd round. While long-term play of some games proves exhausting to under-utilised wrist and shoulder muscles, others get easier through small movements of the Wiimote. But it's the spontaneous, tactile sense of play the games inspire that sets Wii apart. Neat, modestly priced and genuinely fresh, the Wii is an exceptionally promising new piece of hardware.
To be a teenager in the 1990s was to grow up with glazed eyes and extremely sore wrists. Drag your mind from the gutter, Guide readers, for we're merely talking about the ligament-damaging delights of trying to gain infinite lives by hammering up, right, left, up, right, down, A, B, left, right, start. With Sonic The Hedgehog, Mario and some gigantic psychedelic mushrooms taking leading roles, the original console-game characters were stars of their time, pixelated pop culture icons who clawed their way deeper into a generation's psyche than Noel Gallagher, New Labour and the nympho lawyers in This Life ever could.This week Nintendo launch their Wii console, a state of the art piece of kit guaranteed to make the retro games of yore look like relics thanks to titles such as, ummm, Super Mario Galaxy and Sonic &amp; The Secret Rings. They're also launching Virtual Console, a video game download service that allows you to get your thumbs on a whole host of retro classics from Altered Beast to Zelda.So just what's going on? Have Nintendo fried their brains from so much gaming that they've finally ran out of ideas? Have the stoners who used to slob out on your student sofa keeping Sega (and Cheesy Wotsits) in business all gone and got staff jobs at Kyoto HQ? Or are the boffins behind this scheme actually a bunch of smart little bastards who've spotted the booming scene of musicians, artists and movie-makers currently hard at work twisting the 8-bit bleeps'n'blobs of retro games into thrilling new shapes and sounds?Take Hadouken!, a punk grime outfit from Leeds who, after just a handful of gigs, are causing dancefloor riots on the indie party circuit. Named after a special fireball move on Capcom's Street Fighter II, their music takes in everything from east London grime to skinny-boy indie and is partly-constructed from spliced samples nicked from GameBoy circuitry."Movie samples were pillaged
by the dance music community
throughout the last decade,"
says band mastermind James. "I
think you would be more likely
to hear a reference to videogames
nowadays. Games are fun,
they're what resonate with our
generation."Their manifesto of "young,
smart and full of art" translates,
on the surface, to Day-Glo clothes
and disco hedonism, something
that ties them in with the current
wave of new rave bands like Trash
Fashion and Klaxons. Although
James reckons it's less a rave
revival thing and more about
rejecting the "drab ideals which are
becoming more and more tedious
as the next Feeling or Kooks clone
dominates the mainstream", it's
obvious that retro gaming and rave
music share an aesthetic bond.No surprises, then, that one of the
scene's figureheads is London's
Carri Mundane (aka Cassette
Playa), a unisex designer who
based her entire last collection on
Green Hill, the first level of Sonic
The Hedgehog. Excuse us one
moment while we ask WTF?"Sonic The Hedgehog is a
fucking dude!" beams Carri, who
sees an unlikely fashion icon in the
blue lycra-clad garden mammal.
"Bad boy looks and speed! Unlike
Mario or most other characters,
Sonic still looks like the future.
Also, Lemmings was amazing. It's
mad how much character you can
get into a few purple and green
pixels. And Earthworm Jim!
What a weirdo! He could slip out of his space suit and whip
enemies with his own wormy
body! Sweet skill!"It's fashion fact that her fullbody
blue hedgehog suits are set
to be the must-have accessory on
Bolton high street next season
(relax, we're kidding - it's more
likely to break in 2008). But
before this all gets a bit Nathan
Barley, let us point out that less
extreme versions of her Day-Glo
threads are currently splattered
everywhere, from festival sites to
underage club nights.Delve further underground and
there's an army of creative oddballs
making music out of console
noises, hoping that Sonic's "boing"
makes a neat bassline or that their
snaredrum needs will be catered
for by the thwack noises on John
Madden's Football. DJ Scotch Egg,
Germlin and David E Sugar are just
three artists making music from
console sound chips, and if you're
the sort of person who's always
been frustrated that HMV lacks
a Prog-Metal Bands Who Cover
The Zelda Tune section then you
should check out the weirdness
that is ARMCANNON, whose timesignature
trashing covers of the
Mario World Castle Theme need to
be heard to be believed.
Elsewhere MCs like 8 Bit have
found themselves working with the
likes of Beck, remixing tracks on his
Guerolito LP, whereas retro-futurist
bands like To My Boy and Crystal
Castles are prompting much critical
saliva thanks to their dizzy, toytown
music guaranteed to get you
jumping around like Dean Gaffney with a cockroach up his arse.With modern gaming
promoting a geekoid, lock-yourself-
in-yer-bedroom way
of life (yeah, that's you, Second
Life and World Of Warcraft), this
Crayola-coloured revolution is all
about youthful energy, ideas and
excitement. Which is why it's cool
for the Arctic Monkeys to write a
song in honour of Chun-Li's
spinning bird kick - a special move
that had thousands of teenage
boys experimenting with their
pause button - and for grime
artist JME to rap about fat Italian plumbers on Deadout without
losing his menace factor. Visit
YouTube and you'll find an army
of DIY movie makers splicing
Sonic cartoons up against tracks
by bands such as My Chemical
Romance, whereas Zephyrising's
online art-films fuse drum'n'bass
music with 8-bit graphics. Modern
computer game companies are
catching on, too. This year,
Electronic Arts ran a battle of the
bands competition, inviting young
acts to fight it out over who would
soundtrack their game Burnout.
In the end The Styles scooped the prize, a garage rock band from
Italy. You can't help thinking EA
missed a trick in not recruiting one
of these pioneers instead.So how far can the retro-gaming
thing go? One hacker, Brooklyn
artist Cory Arcangel, managed to
reprogram a game cartridge so that
it displayed an endless procession
of the game's lo-res clouds. The
result? His piece, Super Mario
Clouds, ended up in New York's
Whitney museum.Last week, London's
Hammersmith Apollo staged a
concert by Video Games Live, an
orchestra and lazer show that's
taken its covers of computer game
theme tunes everywhere from S達o
Paolo to Sydney. It gets weirder.
In 2005, a rock opera about Super
Mario (the creatively named Mario
Opera) debuted in California.
A visit to the opera's website
tells you that the songwriter
Jonathan Mann is currently holed
up, penning 40 folk songs - 40!
- in honour of the Nintendo
Wii console. Head towww.the-mario-opera.com/wiiand you can
hear such future pop classics as
Wii Means You And Me and The
Wind Whispers Wii. Elsewhere,
London's Science Museum is
running a major history of gaming
exhibition until February. Oh, and
remember that Street Fighter film,
released in 1994? The one that
starred Jean-Claude Van Damme
and Kylie that nobody went to
see? They're making another one,
due in 2008. Maybe with the new
gaming resurgence it might just
work out this time.Look around and the influence
is everywhere, from contemporary
household designs (www.supernice.co.uk) to the muse of
guerilla artists like the anonymous
Space Invader, who has made it
his mission to install urban space
invader murals across the globe,
from Paris to Perth. Even those
who despise the cutting edge are
getting involved with retro-games.
Jack White is a man with so much
hatred towards the modern world
he'd flog his own amplifiers if
it were possible. His band the
Raconteurs must have balked at
the thought of having to design
something as modern as a website,
so they made it as deliberately
out of date as possible, basing it
around an old Spectrum interface.
Such antics, though, are based on
looking to the past, while for the
likes of Hadouken! and Cassette
Playa, this is more than a cloud
of nostalgia drifting briefl y over
the world of fashion. Rather, it's
a dynamic movement born out of
a love for gaming and something
that's as ingrained in them as any
movie scene or hit record."We're the generation who
grew up on gaming," says Cassette
Playa. "Our minds are built out
of Tetris blocks, so they're the
shapes our imaginations will
build. Retro gaming has an 8-bit
simplicity that totally lodges in
your head and heart." So what bit
of kit will the DIY kids dismantle
next? Well, that's for them to
decide. Tamagotchi owners - you
have been warned.Wii are your friendsDavid McNameetakes a look at the pixelated heroes hoping for a Wii-birth...Sonic the hedgehogFast, sexy, streamlined and exuding cool in his electric blue finish, Sonic is everything Mario ain't. Although the urchin's popularity couldn't save the Sega consoles from extinction, Sonic lives on in the Wii's Sonic &amp; The Secret Rings.MarioMario, a fat, middle-aged Italian plumber, is not exactly a design classic. But Mario is unlikely enough to make Nintendo's out-there gaming physics seem plausible. With Yoshi and pals he's got the coolest backing troupe this side of the Scooby Gang.Guybrush ThreepwoodMonkey Island's
wannabe pirate
Guybrush
Threepwood
is a fop, a failure and a pop culture
obsessive. He is us. Hilariously,
Threepwood recently topped a poll
of the hottest game characters ever.
Sadly, no Monkey Island games are in
the pipeline.LinkResembles
the humble,
honourable males
in Miyazaki's
anime - each game
begins with Link as
an ordinary village
boy facing a daunting rites of passage.
The much-loved character's Legend
Of Zelda Wii debut has already been
hailed as a classic.Pac-manAlthough too antiquated for the
Wii, the simplicity and lurid colour
of Pac-Man made the arcade game
a pop art classic.
Pac-Man has
appeared in board
games, cartoons,
Pac-Man pasta, in
crop circles outside
Reading, and even
Pac-Man acid tabs.ShodanForget Lara
Croft. System
Shock's (now deceased)
Shodan is
10,000 terabytes of PMS, a Hal
2000-gone-bitch-ass supercomputer
with delusions of godhood. This
villain is the "bad mother" archetype,
rewired in unloving, unfemale
circuitry and code.PaRappa the rapper"I gotta believe!" is PaRappa's sweet,
self-help catchphrase, and the
gamer helps the Playstation-only
2D puppy learn how
to bake cakes, drive
and, uh, go to the
toilet all through
the medium of
stilted rap and
lovably uncool
dance moves.Street Fighter IIAs the 12 characters from Street Fighter II pop-up repeatedly in pop cultural references, they'd be perfect for the Wii's nostalgia-fest. Arctic Monkeys, Family Guy and a myriad of kung-fu films have all paid tribute to Chun-Li, Ryu and co.Sam &amp; MaxSam (a 6ft, laconic, canine gumshoe) and Max (his gleefully psychotic "hyperkinetic rabbity thing" sidekick), became cult heroes with their 1993 LucasArts debut. Nintendo are now securing the rights to the nihilistic, surreal duo for the Wii.Toejam and EarlToejam and Earl - two cool alien dudes from the planet "Funkotron" - are slated for a Wii reissue. The pair's excruciating rap slang and the original Sega game's cheesy 16-bit approximations of 1970s funk marks them as a precursor to PaRappa.
Mercedes E500 Sport SaloonPrice&#163;48,605Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 5.3 secondsConsumption24.6mpg (combined)Eco rating3/10At the wheelColin MontgomerieTop gadgetSurround-sound systemIn a wordPrestigiousWith the peerlessly suave, overwhelmingly executive E-Class saloon, Mercedes brings us the world's first "intelligent headlight system". Well, what does one look for in a car headlight if not intelligence and a sense of humour?At speeds above 55mph, your lights cunningly brighten and broaden, handing you up to 50m further of illuminated motorway in which to spot police cars. Meanwhile, the low beam bulbs are arranged in a special "country mode", lighting the left edge of the road more fiercely, thus removing some of the stress of fumbling along lanes at night and increasing the opportunity to dazzle rabbits. What do rabbits look for in a car's headlight? We don't really know. But we do know that, with the arrival of intelligent headlight systems, life just got a little bit worse for them. Ditto hedgehogs.As if that weren't enough, this sumptuous, company director-class chariot also features disco brake lights. When the brakes are applied hard, the red lights flash, rather than glow, on the grounds that drivers respond, on average, 0.2 seconds faster to a flashing light - a reduction that, at 62mph, would evidently hand the person behind you another car length in which to get their stopping done. Meanwhile, alarmed by your heavy braking, the car braces itself for impact. A Swat team of electric pulses charges around inside, slamming the windows, fastening the sun roof, tightening the seat belts and returning your electronic seat to the optimum crash-buffering position. Time permitting, obviously.Pretty soon the E-Class will be able to pilot you home while you sleep in the back or catch up on some reading. Which would have its advantages, though the loss of some of the old self-asserting pleasures of driving could be hard to bear.Of course, none of this electronic stuff comes cheap. By the time they'd finished attaching kudos-stoking extras to my test model, the price was north of &pound;53,000. Not even the headlights could pick it out up there. It drove like a dream - soft, silent, yet freakishly powerful - but so it should for that money.Still, at least you get a hood ornament, or "ostentatious metal price tag", as some think of them. That said, unofficial statistics reveal that the average life expectancy of a Mercedes hood ornament in a UK urban setting is 2.4 days. Traditional re-use options are as a retro chest medallion and as a fairground worker's lip-ring, so demand is unlikely to slacken any time soon.I blame Mercedes for making the thing so twisty. Even if you aren't a freelance jewellery maker, you can't help but be a touch curious about how firmly it's attached - enough to have a little poke and see. They might have gone for something more solid and visibly durable. A bust of a furrow-browed German car engineer, perhaps. Or, as a mark of respect from the makers of the world's first intelligent headlight system, a rabbit.
The Wii has finally arrived in the UK, and it's already clear that it has repeated its success in Japan and the US: it's the hit of the century. The main problem is thatpeople can't get enough of them. According toBloomberg:Sony Corp sold 197,000 PlayStation 3 consoles in the US during November, missing its goal for initial shipments by half after parts shortages slowed production, market researcher NPD Group Inc estimated.Nintendo Co.'s Wii, which also was introduced last month, sold 476,000 units, Port Washington, New York-based NPD said today in an e-mail. The Microsoft Corp Xbox 360, on the market for the past year, sold 511,000 machines.Microsoft also sold more than a million copies of Gears of War, and said it "may exceed its forecast to sell more than 10 million Xbox 360 machines by the end of the year."Now look back over 30 years of the games business, and these battles have always boiled down to two-horse races. Given that the Xbox 360 has been on the market for a year and is now well established, and that the Wii is a hot seller, where does that leave the Sony PlayStation 3?Suppose you are a game developer. At the moment, you will be developing mainly for the Xbox 360, because it is (a) much easier to program than the PS3; (b) offers a much bigger sales potential. If you weren't developing for the Wii, then you will now be throwing resources at it because the Wii is (a) basically a GameCube and therefore much easier to program than the PS3; (b) offers a much bigger sales potential.If your major game development is a PS3 exclusive then you are in deep doodoo. You have embarked on the most expensive development in gaming history and you're targeting the smallest market with the smallest attach rate (one game sold per PS3 console; three games sold per Wii). If you have a working brain, then I expect you are rapidly shifting your investment from the PS3 to the Xbox 360 and Wii.In the longer term, can the PS3 overtake the Xbox 360? That's possible. However, the PS3 is dramatically more expensive to make because of its Cell processor (which costs twice as much to make as an Xbox 360 processor, maybe more) and its Blu-ray drive (which currently costs at least ten times as much to make as a DVD drive). So while the PS3 will get cheaper, it will always be more expensive than the Xbox 360 to make. How many people will pay twice the price for a PS3 when it is not visibly better?The one thing the PS3 has on its side is a loyal user base inherited from the market-dominating PlayStation PSX and PlayStation 2. So, ultimately it boils down to how many PlayStation loyalists there are, and how long they will stay loyal when all the best games are appearing first on the Xbox 360 and Wii. Will there be enough of them? You tell me.Finally, this could be the first console generation where success is split three ways, with the Wii the big winner in Japan and the Xbox 360 dominating North America. Both Microsoft and Nintendo would regard this as a successful outcome. Sony, reduced from 80-90% market domination to, say, 30-40%, could not.
To read the past week's two dozen posts on a single page, clickhere.Highlights include:Yahoo's new TV guide takes a beatingMySpace worm exploits Quicktime flawThe future of Web ads is in BritainStupid scare stories about Mac OfficeMicrosoft releases preview of WPF/EMicrosoft looking to run Windows on OLPCApple still bottom of Greenpeace's green listCutting edge: The chairs of hairMobile phones don't trigger cancer, says studyWii abuseFirefox broke our engagementDivide by zero error is a nullity
MondayMobile games innovation shockerCarbon heads Christmas number one betting listGod of War designer in drunken outburstPlaying the YouTube gameTuesdayKutaragi moved on in Sony powershiftStar gamesAre mini-games the reality TV of videogaming?Fighting FantasyWednesdaySCEA rolls out downloadable PSone gamesSocial networking in AzerothThursdayGames of 2006: initial thoughtsPS3 vs Xbox 360: a developer speaksThe dangers of WiiFridayWii dayNintendo parties like it's 1985Left Behind: misunderstood?
I've just done an interview for Radio 4's religion programme about the controversial Christian gameLeft Behind: Eternal Forces. It has been vilified by all sorts of people with all sorts of backgrounds - from Lefties to the Religious Right - but, like with other controversies which surround video game entertainment, many of the outspoken parties haven't delved deeper into the motivations for making the game. And many games folks haven't understood what it and its ilk mean for game culture.I do not propose to be an apologist for the game or for the makers. I admit it is a piece of propaganda designed to grab headlines and generate wrath. But the game, set in a post-apocalyptic New York City, is actually a well-realised Real Time Strategy game with clothing that has simply been changed to achieve the (questionable) goals of the designers. Unfortunately, the action challenges the player to convert or kill those left behind after the end of the world. That's everyone who doesn't believe in the game's concept of God. This poses some interesting questions about game culture and the power games are perceived to have in our society. (By the way, the only people who are left behind in the game are white. And they're predominantly males. Rock stars and folks who hang out under bridges.)Left Behind: Eternal Forces has been developed with the already-converted in mind. The game is based upon a series of rather successful books which have captured the top rankings in the New York Times bestseller list. This makes me wonder why explicitly agenda-settinggamesare afforded more attention than film, web and book forms of propaganda. While they may not yet be considered an artform, games are now recognised as an extremely powerful tool.Left Behind's intended audience is parishioners of so-called megachurches or people who frequent religious bookshops, just as the Harry Potter games are aimed at the Hogwarts-faithful and Star Wars games are lapped up by Jedi-wannabes. But again, this doesn't excuse its anti-social message which, among others, anti-games lawyer Jack Thompson has spoken out against.Some of the accusations levied against it, including the suggestion that its level of "GTA" violence contravenes Christian doctrine, demonstrates the ignorance of many of its detractors (and has a relatively short view of history). The game and book series are situated in a belief system of Christianity that I'd never heard about before, an EvangelicalChristian eschatology, which focuses on the future and final events within the Bible. End of the world stuff. Stuff which I admit I really can't fully understand. But at its core is the idea of "Rapture" which is the subject of rifts within the Christian faith. Thus why many Christian bodies are as vocal against this title as other faith and non-denominational groups.Still, the books (and subsequent films) focus on disaster movie-style plots (whilst making a few inappropriate nods towards the chaos after the New York terrorist attacks in 2001) in which the righteous fight an Antichrist. Fire. Brimstone. Etcetera. So it's a faithful adaptation of the other media versions. It just so happens that the message doesn't sit well.Now if the game was set, say, on an alien planet and the player's object was to, oh I don't know, convince a bunch of little people to worship you (whether through fear or love), build pillars of faith to you and populate their world with people who believed in you (by, perhaps, destroying those who didn't), you might have any game in the God genre. I'm thinking of a couple in particular.So is allegory acceptable in game culture but blatant agenda-setting not?
Sales analysis company NPD Group has released some data on the Wii launch that'll have Mario blushing with pride - apparently Nintendo sold 55 percent ofallvideo game systems in November in the US, a figure that takes in the debut of the new console plus the continued success of the DS. From thepress release:"In only the first seven days of availability after its Nov. 19 launch, Wii sold nearly half a million systems in the United States alone (as reported previously by Nintendo, total sales of Wii in the Americas reached 600,000 in its first eight days of availability). Despite spot shortages in some locations, well more than a million Wii systems will be available in the United States by the end of the year.While Wii sold through at a rate of more than 70,000 a day for the seven days represented in the data (substantially higher than any other game device), November's two top sellers of any type were the Nintendo DS, at almost 920,000 units, and Game Boy速 Advance, with nearly 642,000 portables sold. With Wii and Nintendo GameCube(TM) totals included, Nintendo sold through more than 2.1 million of the 3.9 million systems purchased for the month."Sorry, you're probably getting bored of all these sales reports. However, this might interest you - despite the fact that Wii Sports and Wii Play come free with the console and additional controller, customers have apparently been purchasing, on average, two extra games along with their hardware. That's quite a ratio.Nintendo, eh? A few years ago this didn't really seem possible, did it?
"Schoolchildren from Caversham have become the first to learn a brand new theory that dividing by zero is possible using a new number - 'nullity'. But the suggestion has left many mathematicians cold," reportsBBC Berkshire, with Real (sic) videos to prove it.The report has attracted an amazing number of comments, many including well-known mathematical terms such as crap, silly, hoax, crank and rubbish. There's even the more erudite point thatIEEE Standard 754 Floating Point Numbersalready includes NaN (Not a Number), "used to represent a value that does not represent a real number".Nullity has been invented byDr James Anderson, from the University of Reading's computer science department. There are two papers that explain the concepthere.Dr Anderson has also solved the mind/body problem, and hisBook of Paragon"shows that the perspective simplex, or perspex, is a simple physical thing that is both a mind and a body". He has also reinvented computing:The perspex can be understood in many ways. Mathematically, the perspex is a particular kind of matrix; concretely, it is simultaneously a physical shape, a physical motion, an artificial neuron, and an instruction for a machine that is more powerful than the Turing machine. In other words, a perspex is an instruction for a perspex machine that is more powerful than any theoretically possible digital computer.There is, as you'd expect, a discussion atSlashdot. After you get past the lightbulb jokes.(Charles Arthur adds:) Why is this worthy of mention? Because he's quoted saying"Imagine you're landing on an aeroplane and the automatic pilot's working," he suggests. "If it divides by zero and the computer stops working - you're in big trouble. If your heart pacemaker divides by zero, you're dead."(Yes,there are digital pacemakers.)There's a video on the BBC site in which he claims to "solve the problem" of 0^0 (zero raised to the zeroth power) which "hasn't been solved for 1200 years". Well, we've been busy, OK? Fermat and his damn theorem, Reimann and his wretched conjecture... Anyway, he says the answer is nullity.Which it might be, except that unless we've missed something, there's not a lot of use in that. Does the requirement for a solution of 0^0 come up much? Does it occur in many planes or pacemakers?And also... the problem of "zero divided by zero" is one that computer scientists and mathematicians are completely familiar with; mathematicians more than computer scientists, because they've had longer to work on it. Dividing zero by zero and getting a useful answer is the basis ofdifferentiation, which Newton and Leibniz developed independently in the 17th century. That tackles the problem of how you figure out "zero over zero" (as in, how do you work out the slope of a line that is infinitesimally short? Answer: by seeing at what rate each part of the equation *approaches* zero).Dr Anderson is also taken to task both at the BBC story and on theBad Science site, written by Guardian contributor Ben Goldacre.Anyway, we eagerly await his contribution to the knotty problem of the square root of -1.
Firefox can seriously imperil your engagement - at least if your fiance is cheating on you and visiting dating sites behind your back.Such is the sad story told on thisMozilla bugs page: after five years of engagement (hmm, was someone holding back from tying the knot then?), she discovered that there were lots of sites where the passwords were unsaved. And then that they were dating websites.Firefox prompted whether or not I'd like it to save my password for logging into my website. I chose never and changed my mind. I went into the Password Manager to change the saved password option from Never to Always and that's when I saw all these other sites that had been selected as "Never Save Password." Of course, those were sites I had never visited or could ever dream of visiting.Then I realized who, how and what... and sh*t hit the fan. Your browser does not efficiently respect the privacy of different users for one system.It sounds as if she'scomplainingabout the fact the Firefox outed her fiance as a love rat (or more accurately a potential love rat).That's not a bug. It's afeature. Though apparently it's been fixed now. But really, better to have found out now than to have to give the wedding presents back...
Back in January, Google bought dMarc Broadcasting, a little company in the radio advertising business, with the idea of integrating its system into Google AdWords. And it is making progress. Google'sInside AdWords blogsays: "We're happy to announce that the integration is now complete and we've recently begun a US beta test of Google Audio Ads with a small group of AdWords advertisers."Google Audio Ads brings efficiency, accountability, and enhanced ROI to radio advertising by providing advertisers with an online interface for creating and launching radio campaigns. You'll be able to target your customers by location, station type, day of the week, and time of day. After the radio ads are run, you will be able to view online reports that tell you exactly when your ad played.According to aCNet story: "The test is limited to just over 20 Google AdWords customers and more than 730 stations, including XM Satellite radio, said Ryan Steelberg, head of radio operations for Google and a co-founder of dMarc."
"BitTorrent, Inc., home to the world's leading peer-assisted digital content delivery platform, today announced it has acquired uTorrent, a lightweight and efficient implementation of the BitTorrent protocol. The objective is to combine BitTorrent's expertise in networking protocols with uTorrent's high-performance design and compelling user interface (UI). This collaboration of best-of-breed technology will significantly benefit the BitTorrent ecosystem, including hardware partners, content creators, content distributors, and a thriving end user community. Together, the combined install base now exceeds 135 million worldwide," says thepress release.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Today is the day - yes the Wii has launched in the UK. So how has it been for you? Managed to get one? Holding off till Christmas? Not bothered and happy with 360 or PS3? Personally I think the Wii is worth it for Zelda alone but then I'm sad like that. Generally all good then but there some Wii annoyances, particularly the amount of added extras you will need to buy when getting your console.Zelda aside the whole essence of the Wii is multiplayer So add around 30 pounds to your outlay to get another controller (Wii Play is basic but worth the fiver or so extra over a standalone controller) And unless you're playing Wii on a 14" portable you'll need to budget a further 20 quid for a proper cable (SCART is the bare minimum) Add all this onto the basic price (around 180 pounds) and the Wii isn't quite the "cheap" option it is often made out to be. Heck an Xbox 360 with all the trimmings is only a few quid more. But today is all about the Wii - how has it been for you?
When the Deep Blue supercomputer beat world chess champion Garry Kasparov in 1997, it was seen as a huge blow for the human race. Some say Kasparov never recovered from the defeat, and he lost his title three years later to his protege, Vladimir Kramnik. Now Kramnik himself has been beaten by a computer and, if anything, the defeat should be even more humbling for mankind. Deep Blue was the pride of the IBM research team, and supported by a team of programmers and grandmasters. Deep Fritz, Kramnik's conqueror, is a piece of software, usable on any PC.Kramnik proved himself the supreme human player in an epic world championship match against Veselin Topalov earlier this year; now he has lost to a program which in its basic form retails at &pound;36.50. Surely this really is the end of chess, and possibly the beginning of the end for the human race too.Kramnik and Deep Fritz, who drew an eight-game match in Bahrain four years ago, this time played best of six. Kramnik managed, creditably, to draw four games, playing the solid strategic chess that is his hallmark. But he made a schoolboy error to allow checkmate in game two, and was outplayed in game six, when the machine introduced a startling innovation on move 10 and made several other moves that it took watching grandmasters some time to unravel. Damn it, it wasn't just playing calculating chess; it was playing brilliant, innovative and interesting chess.Before the match, played in Bonn, Kramnik had talked a good game. "Whenever I can fight, I'm extremely motivated," he said. "After all, I might be the last human being to be able to defeat this machine." Sadly, it was not to be. Though he does have the consolation of a $500,000 fee for putting up with the humiliation.In any case, the reality is that this is not the end for chess. As John Saunders, editor of British Chess Magazine, has suggested, it could be a new beginning. Deep Fritz played some brilliantly counterintuitive moves in game six, and made some manoeuvres that were so ugly, they were beautiful. So perhaps it is time for a counter-intuitive statement of our own. Computers are now so much better than humans - witness the Hydra supercomputer's drubbing of British number one Michael Adams in London last year - that man-v-machine matches have become pointless. Sponsors love them; manufacturers of chess programs love them; but chess players recognise them for what they are - sideshows, games of academic interest only.Deep Fritz is reckoned to calculate 10 million positions a second; the human brain simply can't calculate that fast or that far ahead. When I played a game against Hydra last year, it modestly announced "mate in 12" in a position I thought looked rather promising for me. Twelve moves later, I was duly mated. Raymond Keene, the great panjandrum of British chess, argued yesterday for ways of equalising the struggle, but why bother? Machines, programmed with books of opening theory and tables to allow them to calculate perfect endgames, can play chess better than humans. Checkmate. Now let humans get back to playing other humans in a thrilling struggle between fallible, organic entities.By a neat coincidence, on the very day that Kramnik was losing in Bonn, the great Ukrainian-born grandmaster David Bronstein died. Bronstein was a figure from chess's golden era, when the focus was not on man v machine but East v West, and players were pawns in a superpower confrontation. Bronstein came close to winning the world title in 1951, but psychological pressure was applied to undermine him against the standard-bearer of Soviet chess, Mikhail Botvinnik. Human intrigues: the essence of chess. That's what attracted a wider public in the middle of the 20th century, and why Bobby Fischer was so fascinating a figure. A brilliant chess player and a barmy human being.Fifty years from now, there are unlikely to be long obituaries of Deep Fritz. Satisfyingly, the Deep Blue supercomputer was last heard of processing bookings for an airline company in the US. For the past 10 years, chess has been plagued by the computer menace, and the fear that the game might be "solved", that machines would play perfect chess and render it redundant. There's a simple answer - render the machines redundant instead. Or, better still, send them all to airlines to process bookings. That way, we will no longer need to have reservations about the game's future.The computer era is over. May the best man - or, one day, woman - win.
PDAs with integrated GPS have been around for a while. The Mio A701 raises the bar in that, given its size, it is more of a smartphone than an oldschool PDA. It runs the Windows Mobile 5.0 operating system and core applications, is easy to use and has reasonable call quality. Its only bugbears are a very poor 1.3-megapixel camera and no Wi-Fi. As a satnav unit, the Mio is a mixed bag. It worked well picking up my GPS co-ordinates in seconds. It also has a good speaker, which made those crucial turn-by-turn instructions audible above the noise of the car's engine. But Mio Maps, its onboard navigation software, takes some getting used to. Sure, the maps are flexible, but they are trickier to follow and more complex to set up than rival systems. Another flaw is that you need to use the stylus to change things, which can be hazardous while driving. Ultimately, at &pound;450 the A701 is a decent mobile and a reasonable GPS system. As an overall package though, it isn't really the breakthrough it could have been.
Moving your video from tape to DVD can be a time-consuming and tricky business. Sony has recognised this and delivered the VRD-MC3, a DVD burner that it claims makes transferring video from any source (camcorder, hard disk, VHS) on to DVD a breeze. It can be used in conjunction with a PC, and if you choose this route it has a respectable 16x transfer rate. However, given its simplicity and price I suspect most people who buy this unit will probably not want to take it anywhere near a computer at all. It is an odd-shaped device, much heavier than you'd expect and rather industrial in design. Nevertheless, it does match its billing in that the absence of all but the most obvious of buttons does make it very easy to operate. Users connect up a video source using USB, Firewire, S-Video or composite inputs, preview them on the recorder's LCD display and then press record. Alternatively they can copy images on to disc via its 5-in-1 card slot. The only real downside is it records at speeds of up to 8x, which these day isn't particularly quick. We also found that it didn't work first time with every disc we gave it. Also you can buy standalone DVD burners for much less than the &pound;200 asking price. If you want an easy transfer solution, though, it's a good bet.
Pretty but not safeNo it won't (Will Vista keep my PC safe?, November 30), for the same reason as always. Each version of Windows has to support legacy software and the kernel isn't written for security, but features. Malware writers attack it because it has market domination, but also because it's easy. I moved to Linux several years ago and my laptop runs OS X: I have never had an exploit. So if you want a pretty desktop by all means use Vista, but you are living in a cesspit.Eleanor ListerSydney, AustraliaSensitive soulsThe question of EMF sensitivity (ES) is pretty silly (Newly Asked Questions, November 30). Wired Magazine (http://blog.wired.com) made a good argument when it said "to claim to be sensitive to Wi-Fi specifically isn't a claim about being sensitive to electromagnetism: radiation on these wavelengths is ubiquitous, and removing Wi-Fi from your home is like removing a single violin from an orchestra". Also, 2.4GHz falls under the category of non-ionising radiation, so there is almost no chance of it being able to cause cancer.Felix SargentSan Rafael, California&middot;Is the Kate Figes who claims to suffer from Wi-Fi sickness the same Kate Figes who also protested against mobile phone masts? [Yes - Tech. Ed]David McKeeganCoventry&middot;I believe the first rule of medicine is "do no harm", and for good reasons. No-one would expect someone with peanut allergy to try one in the interests of seeing whether or not they are affected. It is helpful to think of this as being in some ways similar to an allergic reaction.It is also true that not everyone is going to show symptoms when exposed to peanuts, so not everyone is affected by eating peanuts, but we fully accept this is a life-threatening allergen for some people. In the case of ES, they are asking people to make themselves sicker in the name of science. When did science become so dehumanised ?Patty HemingwayLondonOver and outIn "How many people does it take to turn off a Vista PC?" (Newly Asked Questions, November 30). Charles Arthur asks how many people it took Apple to turn off OS X. The answer isfour.Mark VanderbeekenTurin, Italy&middot;I read "How many people does it take to turn off a Vista PC?" with amusement. The last paragraph struck me: "The lowest common denominator, the simplest and least controversial option." Where I work, we call this "Option Two". Option One is always the throwaway option, the do-nothing option, there simply to make up the numbers.Option Three is the most expensive, most elaborate option, there to scare the life out of the manager/person in charge of budget, because it is sure to do everything but will cost the earth.That leaves Option Two, the option that offends no-one, the blandest, safest, most beige option, designed to cause no earthquakes. It always gets the go-ahead because nobody can criticise it. But the end result is that nobody can say anything good about it. It is what it is: inoffensive, harmless, charmless, lukewarm water. It happens in all corporations all over the world.Tom KanLondonThe human touchI have been coming to the conclusion that Second Life is too difficult to use and that there is space for something with an easier learning curve. That could bring more people in and they might be more interested in embracing the types of commercialism that is so upsetting many SL residents.theequitykicker.com&#183;Aleks Krotoski has a great piece about digital violence over at Second Life where that virtual community is under attack by opportunistic and malicious ... programs. It's not only art that imitates life, it's impossible to escape human inadequacies even when humans are not physically present.http://joeduck.wordpress.com
Over the next year or so HSDPA (high speed downlink packet access), the next generation of 3G that enables download speeds of up to 1.8Mbps and beyond, will become the norm for UK mobiles. So in many ways the Samsung Z560 - which is the first standard handset, as opposed to a smartphone, to sport HSDPA functionality - is a real breakthrough. The phone itself is reasonable enough. It is a large, but still very thin, clamshell with all the usual bells and whistles, including a decent MP3 player and a 2-megapixel camera. The onboard web browser has trouble with a few sites, but pages load much quicker than they do on the phone's 3G rivals. What makes the Z560 something of a contender is its PC connectivity. After installing its software and hooking the phone up (which took less than five minutes and was a very simple process) I was able to surf online on my PC at pretty fast speeds. It had no problem with large data files or high-bandwidth video streams. This isn't the last word in state-of-the-art handsets. But if you fancy the option of a fast mobile connection for your laptop it is well worth a look.
Sculpture is probably the oldest of human arts. It seems a human instinct to make shapes out of whatever material is handy. Yet computers are changing even this ancient art that produced Michelangelo's David, Trafalgar Square's Lord Nelson, and the Statue of Liberty.Those sculptures all have something in common: they are big. David is five times life size, Nelson is three times life size, and the Statue of Liberty, from base to torch, is just over 152 feet tall. How do sculptors do it? This is the question Manhattan sculptor Meredith Bergmann faced in creating an eight-foot bronze portrait of the first African-American opera singer, Marian Anderson.First stepsThe first step is to make a maquette, a clay model a few feet high - large enough for detail work, but small enough to see around. That took Bergmann two years of research. Once the maquette is finished, the technical fun starts. To get from clay to bronze is a reasonably simple, if destructive, 4,000-year-old process of alternating positive and negative images ending with a ceramic shell into which you pour molten bronze. Of these many steps, the one being changed by computers is the intermediate one of scaling up the maquette to the sculpture's final size.Traditionally, this was done by "pointing up", which recreates the sculpture point by point. In one 15th- century method, craftsmen built a box around the maquette and placed a second, scaled-up box around a block of granite. The sculptor then measures to a point on the model from a corner of the box, multiplies, then cuts to that depth from the corner of the larger box into the block of granite, and repeats with next point.In another method, the model stands on a grid and the scaled-up version-in-progress on a bigger grid, and you again go point by point measuring up from the grid with a plumb line, multiplying, and measuring again. Enlarging an earlier piece using the latter method took Bergmann and an assistant a month. On her Boston Women's Memorial, a foundry did the scaling work using the first method."It works, but the guy who did it was economical with his points," she says. For example, choosing one on the chin, and one further down in the pit of the neck left a large, undescribed area. "The neck was up to him to invent. One of them looked like she had a huge goitre."The computerised method is done by several companies. Bergmann sent the Anderson maquette to Kreysler and Associates, a small company north of San Francisco. Kreysler painted it grey and put it in front of a laser scanner made by Cyberware, the company that laser-scanned actor Robert Patrick's movements for the liquid metal cyborg in the 1992 movie Terminator 2: Judgment Day. The scanner traces a line from top to bottom, turns the sculpture a fraction of a millimetre, and does it again until it's scanned the entire thing. If the maquette is too big, or if some of the block detail is overhung from a particular angle, the sculpture is turned on its side and scanned again, or sawn into pieces to scan separately. Eventually, the computer holds a complete three- dimensional representation.The software then draws a milling path, imaged as a network of fine lines. The cutting tool itself is a long, smooth metal lance-like object, much like a drill bit without the scrolling. A chunk of very dense urethane foam is placed on a turntable or flat bed, and a computer-driven machine uses the spinning tool to cut those lines back into the foam block, or blocks. It was the latter with the Anderson sculpture, which came back to Bergmann as a jumble of puzzle pieces to put together. The artist and her budget determine how close the cutting distance will be: the closer the lines to each other, the more detail - and the more time, which costs more.Other work in progress at Kreysler, which also built the AT-AT Walkers in Return of the Jedi, includes a ghost trolley car destined for Denver and a model enlargement for a four-building $15m (pounds 7.6m) house. Milling the house's model, explains director of digital fabrication Makai Smith, showed geometric flaws that "you'd only see when it's big". The upshot? "We eventually saved them from building the wrong house."Three kinds of things need correction when you scale up. The first is mechanical distortion: the Statue of Liberty had several interim enlargements, each correcting mechanical errors endemic to the available tools. Second, adjustments of proportion, though expert sculptors tend to foresee the impact of size correctly: the head of Michelangelo's David is enlarged to correct for its distance from viewers. Finally, errors of execution or details that weren't really noticeable when the sculpture was small become glaring."The further you go [in enlargement], the more undescribed areas and surfaces you find," says Bergmann. "When it's big, you want more details to the drapery, and you have to fill in the expression." Bergmann spent four months correcting and adding detail to the Anderson piece, 10 hours of it on the fingertips alone."This method [computer enlargement] is much more faithful. The laser gives you many more points." It also takes less time - weeks instead of months. On a typical commission schedule, the artist gets more time to work.Foam blocks also have the advantage of portability over a giant lump of clay. "The fact that it was lightweight was fantastic," says Bergmann. "I could get on a ladder and pull the head off and set it on a peg on a table and work on it at eye level because it weighed six pounds instead of 45 or 50 and it wasn't fragile."Future shapingComputer milling adds to an old debate: how much of the tooling process should show on the finished work? The join marks between the pieces? The milling lines? Or should it be a smooth mystery? Rodin preferred to show moulding marks. Smith says that some artists erase the tooling lines, perhaps so people won't know computers were involved. Bergmann prefers texture.Back at Kreysler there are some wacky action figures that offer clues to the computer-altered future of sculpture. They are enlargements of the little moulded plastic cowboys you used to find in cereal boxes. Pure nostalgia: the enlargements include the flaps where the toys were broken apart. Making those involves enlarging the manufacturing process as well as the toys themselves.One clue is economic: sculptors will be able to sell scale models. The other is artistic. Says Bergmann: "The notion of taking something pretty inconsequential that was never intended to be art - a penny, or a wisdom tooth - and blowing it up to the size of the Statue of Liberty is very funny. I don't think anyone would have bothered before. It could lead to all sorts of funny things."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Buy now or wait?I have been wanting to replace my six-year-old Windows Me laptop for some time. I was looking forward to Windows XP, but now wonder if I should wait for Vista at the end of January.Jenifer BlairJack Schofield replies:Since you have no experience of Windows XP at the moment, I don't see any point in learning it. You might as well make the great leap forward to Vista, which will probably carry you through the next six years. There may be some teething problems, but Vista has gone through extensive beta testing and your normal use of the machine for web and word processing is unlikely to push it into unknown areas.Vista needs around twice as much memory as XP - go for 1GB or more - and a better graphics card for all the visual effects, but the standard XP machine is likely to have the same spec as a standard Vista machine by the end of January. Even people who want an XP machine may want to wait for Vista, because there could be some bargains around as laptops that aren't quite up to spec are sold off.Photos on the goWhen I travel, I usually take copies of my photos on CDs and show them on my laptop or someone else's PC, but wonder if there is a simpler way. I have looked at the DigiMate III 40GB Photo Bank but I am not sure whether this is what I need.Carola LangfordJS:The DigiMate III is a lot like a portable music player except that it doesn't play music. It appeals to photographers because it lets them transfer photos from various storage cards to the big DigiMate hard drive without using a computer; the empty cards then go back into the camera to take more photos. If you don't need memory card support, you could use an ordinary MP3 player to display photos, though you might want to look at the Archos models with 4.3in LCD colour screens. These double as music and video players, and would enable you to produce slide shows with background music and transition effects. If you don't actually need a device that displays photos, then USB memory drives are the cheapest and simplest way to carry lots of pictures around.Missing TrojanI recently downloaded Avast antivirus software and deleted five files. Now when I boot up, an error message says: Windows cannot find "C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\Web Folders\ibm00003.exe" etc. How can I stop this message appearing? Is the file important?David SweeneyJS:Probably ibm00003.exe (the number can vary) was part of the W32.Spybot.Worm - a Trojan used to steal passwords - so the first thing to do is to change all of yours, especially ones connected with home banking and shopping. The Trojan was set up to load with Windows Explorer, and now you have (correctly) deleted the file, Windows is simply telling you it can't find it. You need to tell Windows to stop looking for it. Possibly the simplest way is to download HiJackThis. Close Internet Explorer and other applications and run HJT to scan your computer and produce a list of things that are being loaded. Almost all of these will be fine. However, there should be a line that says: F2 - REG:system.ini: Shell=explorer.exe "C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\Web Folders\ibm00003.exe". Check this line and click Fix Checked. Symantec says that W32.Spybot is "a family of worms that spreads using the KaZaA file-sharing network and mIRC" (Internet Relay Chat).Backchat&middot;Tim Gossling wanted to clean his old laptop, which was overheating. Roland Tanner and Roger Kidley suggested cooling stands, with Roger specifying the Cooler Master R9-NBC-ADAS Notepal. Nick Copp said it would help if Tim just raised the notebook enough to improve the airflow underneath.
It is a quiet irony of videogame technology that the more complex the hardware, the more games we'll see based in natural, organic environments. Considering the extreme difficulty and extravagant processing cost of producing something as seemingly benign as a believable tree, it's not surprising that so many games have dense urban settings. Buildings, after all, are squares with windows.With next-generation consoles, however, game designers are finally getting a chance to truly indulge those latent green fingers. The combination of powerful multi-core processors, advanced graphics chips and lots of memory is working in nature's favour. The PS3 off-road racer, MotorStorm, features incredibly realistic mud effects, with each particle of dirt given authentic physical properties so that it flies up and splatters on cars. Tense first-person shooters like Prey, Far Cry Instincts and Call of Duty 3 feature dense vegetation: will it be safe behind this large leaf? Or has the programmer done his job, affording true protection only to the trunk of the tree? Increasingly, the latter is the case."I also think we'll see more effects for streams and jets of water, as opposed to just pools, especially now the Marching Cubes Algorithm patent has expired," says programmer Lyndon Homewood of Blitz Games, referring to a clever chunk of maths that makes moving 3D surfaces easier to create. It was patented by its creators, Harvey Cline and William Lorensen, in 1985, but is now free to use - perfect timing for next-gen developers. He also reckons that videogame environments will have lots of objects and natural forces acting on each other using realistic physics models - floods knocking down walls, avalanches crushing buildings, etc.Increased processing power will also allow for the more intricate use of procedural geometry. With this technique, programmers create algorithms that build in-game objects on the fly, rather than storing masses of prefabricated environment data on the disc. Will Wright's forthcoming evolution sim Spore makes intense use of this to create rich organic worlds.Earlier this year, Sony announced a PS3 game called Afrika, a sort of wildlife documentary sim in which you zoom around the Serengeti in a jeep trying to photograph exotic animals. I've little doubt that this heralds a new genre of videogame in which environmental exploration is the whole point of the experience. There will be no enemies and no missions as we understand them. Just vast intricately realised and unspoiled worlds, perhaps generated on the fly for each explorer, certainly employing Dolby 7.1 surround sound to generate aural environments as rich as the natural surroundings. Surely it's the ultimate form of eco-tourism.
Given his track record, he very well might be. Early in September last year, Rose posted on his Typepad blog about an upcoming product from Apple: a new slimline form of the iPod, which he said would be called the "nano".People scoffed- "what a horrid horrid name" said one forum user - but four days later had to admit that he'd been absolutely correct about the size, colour screen, name, storage capacity and price.Now Rose (who in the meantime has become better known as the motivating force behind the Digg social news site) has - perhaps - done it again: in a video blog earlier this week he said he had some "inside information" about an Apple phone. He claimed it would have two batteries (one for the music function, another for the phone function, neatlysolving the power drain problem other music phones have faced), work with GSM and CDMA networks, have a touchscreen and sliding keypad, and come with storage capacities of 4GB and 8GB, costing $249 and $449. If you'd like to see the entire barely coherent performance where Rose lays this out, watch ithere- though we advise having a beer to hand. It's the sort of stuff that gives podcasting a bad name and videoblogging a worse one: a camera pointed at two people swigging beer from behind laptops?Interestingly, Engadget, which may have a different source, said it has also heard the "dual battery" idea, but without a touchscreen, without CDMA, but with 3G support; and unlike Rose's suggestion that it would be sold by "all" carriers in the US, Engadget reckons only one will have it - a scenario that sounds much more likely, since operators like exclusivity.So does that mean Apple is finally about to launch the near-mythical iPhone next month, finally to allow certain Apple fans to reach their own form of nirvana? The idea of such a phone has been around literally for years. In September 2002, Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, gave the keynote speech in Paris at the launch of MacExpo there. Afterwards, he gave a press conference. "What is the iPhone?" asked a reporter."The what?" replied Jobs, with enough incredulity to make it sound as though the concept of making such a thing was too insane to be countenanced. (At this time, the iPod was less than a year old, and not yet the stellar performer in Apple's business.)The idea of an iPhone (iMac, iBook, iPod, it's obvious ... ) has, perversely suggested itself to every gadget freak who likes Apple stuff since Jobs returned to the company in 1996. Perversely, because Jobs trimmed the product line down to just three, and then four - though it has ballooned since. Out went the Newton, Apple's attempt at a PDA. Out went the Newton-powered eMate (a sort of sub-computer). And Jobs has repeatedly suggested that Apple won't make a tablet computer, on the basis that being unable to touch-type is a generational thing: people who can't touch-type are older, so they're dying off.So why would Apple want to make a phone? Not because people want it to; that's never been a good reason. But now Apple has a beachhead that needs to be defended: its music and iPod business.Phone networks, handset makers and record labels all think that the billions of phones in peoples' hands ought to be a profitable place to listen to music. Apple has so far held out against the phone hordes, apart from its brief partnership with Motorola in 2005 to make the ROKR phone, which sold poorly. But the operators, and 3G, are approaching critical mass, which means Apple needs to be there.And just because Steve Jobs is offhand about something doesn't mean it won't happen. In September 2005 he was dismissive about the idea of a video iPod: "Whether people will buy a device just to watch video - it's not clear, it's not clear. So far the answer's been no." Three weeks later he stood on a stage and held the first video-playing iPod aloft. Can you wait another four weeks?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Safer for i-KidsMobiles2go has launched an i-Kids GPS-based child safety system that enables parents to track their kids. The device can speed-dial four numbers and has a one-touch panic button. It costs &pound;99.99 plus &pound;15.75 per month.mobiles2go.com/ukor 0844 800 9133Microsoft previews ExpressionMicrosoft has unveiled beta and preview versions of its new Expression Studio suite of software, which includes Web, Blend, Design and Media programs. The full suite "will be available in the second quarter of 2007".microsoft.com/products/expression/en/Expression-MediaFinal Fantasy IIIOnly 17 years after it appeared in Japan on the Nintendo Entertainment System (Famicom), Final Fantasy III will finally reach the UK in a version for the Nintendo DS handheld in the spring, says Square-Enix.http://na.square-enix.com/ff3Ronaldinho signs for LenovoBarcelona's Ronaldinho has autographed 13 Lenovo 3000 notebooks which are being auctioned on eBay for Unicef.cgi.ebay.co.uk/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;item=180056995942IBM sues over fun-sized mainframesIBM is suing Platform Solutions over its emulator, which allows IBM's z/OS (System/390) operating system to run on clones using 64bit Intel Itanium chips.platform-solutions.comBitTorrent adds studiosBitTorrent, which provides free file-sharing software, has signed deals with more movie and music providers, including Paramount.bittorrent.comAlcatel-LucentTwo of the world's largest communications equipment suppliers, France's Alcatel and Lucent, have finally merged to form Alcatel-Lucent.
Ordnance Survey, Britain's national mapping agency and flagship of its policy of earning money from public-sector data, is losing its chief technology officer.Ed Parsons, who had played a leading role in the agency's transition from being a mapping to a digital information provider since 2001, announced his departure on Monday "to pursue new challenges". The announcement comes at a time of mounting crisis for the agency: the Office of Fair Trading is this week expected to rap Ordnance Survey for some of its commercial and licensing practices.Last month, the government announced the ending of subsidies for non commercially viable mapping. Executives are scrutinising the new EU Inspire directive promoting the free exchange of data to see what implications it has for the way Ordnance Survey sets prices for its products.Meanwhile, a long-running dispute over the way it licenses addressing information is about to enter a new round. "The organisation is getting battered from every direction," a prominent figure in the geographical information industry said.Parsons joined Ordnance Survey five years ago from the private sector. He has been a forthright critic of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign on the grounds that it would imperil funding for national mapping work.In his personal blog, however, he has called attention to problems with the current regime under which Ordnance Survey (OS) makes its data available. "The issue is that the OS makes it too difficult for potential users to understand the value in its data," he posted in May this year.Such opinions are unlikely to have endeared him to managers and civil servants at Ordnance Survey's sponsoring body, the Department for Communities and Local Government.Parsons is also understood to be frustrated at the slow pace of a pet OS scheme, Openspace, which would open up the agency's data to developers of "mashups".Addressing complaintsIn an agreed statement, Ordnance Survey said his decision to leave comes as the agency focuses on "a period of a consolidation in its strategic IT development and direction". Vanessa Lawrence, chief executive, said: "We wish Ed every success for the next stage of his career and offer him sincere thanks for his contribution to the direction of our IT development and research activities." Parsons was not available for comment.Parsons' departure was announced in the week the Office of Fair Trading is expected to publish a market study into the commercial use of public-sector information. The study is expected to address several complaints raised against Ordnance Survey.In its submission to the inquiry, Locus, which works on behalf of the private sector to lobby for access to public- sector information, complains of Ordnance Survey's requirement to see the business plans of companies using its data. It also says that Ordnance Survey's licensing terms allow it to restrict competition to its own products. Britain's geographical information community - long dominated by OS - last month heard a blistering attack on government's approach to public sector information.Michael Nicholson, managing director of Intelligent Addressing, one of two organisations to file complaints against OS this year, described current practice as "a clear deterrent to innovation and enterprise". While not mentioning Ordnance Survey by name, he accused agencies of being in denial about their position as monopolies.Nicholson told the Association for Geographical Information's annual dinner that governments have two broad choices for how they handle public-sector information, which is estimated to underpin up to 25% of the "knowledge economy".One is to produce only data the government needs for its own purposes, and make it available at marginal cost to everyone else. The other is to try to earn commercial returns from data. The latter model is followed by several, but not all, UK government agencies. Nicholson described it as a failure on several different levels.Conflicts of interestChasing a financial return inevitably restricts access to information, while commercial secrecy obscures how much profit is actually made after licensing and marketing are taken into account.When trying to act as businesses, public agencies inevitably run into conflicts of interest, he said. "The government is unlikely to encourage private-sector innovation and enterprise while encouraging the development of its own monopoly market players."He dismissed the counter-argument that, if taxpayers funded mapping directly, as in the US, budgets and the quality of maps would suffer. The US experience "doesn't prove anything either way... Great Britain is one fifth the size of Alaska. The UK market for maps is richer and more commercially viable."Nicholson called for an "objective and independent review" of government policy to remove conflicts of interest. The initiative must come from the Treasury, he said. Ministers should be persuaded that opening access to public-sector information would encourage competition and that removing conflicts of interest would benefit both the public and the private sectors. "Any change cannot be instant. However, it is time to lift the taboos preventing proper analysis and debate of these issues."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Jim Allchin, the departing boss of Windows development at Microsoft, accidentally caused a stir when he was reported as saying that Vista did not need antivirus software. He said no such thing, in fact, and Microsoft's official policy is: "We strongly recommend that you install and use an up-to-date antivirus product." That's my view, too. But I confess it's a case of 'do as I say', rather than 'do as I do'.It is true that Vista is much more secure than Windows XP SP2. The extra security features include the removal of the standard administrator account, randomised code loading, new parental controls, sandboxing the IE7 browser, the hardening of Windows Services and, in high-end versions, BitLocker drive encryption.However, two things are going on here. The first is that Microsoft is working to try to make its code more secure, which is hard. The second is that Microsoft is trying to protect users from themselves, which is much harder. It's already been shown that even if you encrypt and password-protect viruses (to stop them being identified and removed by email filters), Windows XP users will still run attachments and infect their PCs manually. As author and security expert Mark Minasi says, security is mainly a carbon problem rather than a silicon problem.I've been proving that to myself this year, by running XP SP2 and Internet Explorer 6 without any security software at all, except a firewall and a standard NAT (network address translation) router. It wasn't a success, because I didn't survive until Vista shipped. But I did make it through to the end of October before picking up a small Trojan.The experiment was prompted by setting up a new Dell desktop at home just before Christmas. I had a look at my current notebook PC to remind myself what I needed to install, and there seemed to be more anti-malware than real software. The ThinkPad had three antivirus programs installed - not all running at once - and half a dozen antispyware programs, including Ewido, Spybot Search &amp; Destroy, Lavasoft's Ad-aware, SpywareBlaster and Adware Away. I also had four different firewalls.Looking in my anti-malware directory, I could see I'd used Startup Inspector for Windows, Sysinternals' AutoRuns and StartDreck to check nothing nasty was being loaded with Windows. I'd also used HiJackThis, Silentrunners.vbs, Sysinternals' Process Explorer and Rootkit Revealer to make sure nothing nasty had loaded that these had missed.Clearly this is not normal: writing the Ask Jack column means I try a lot of anti-malware products to try to figure out how useful they are. But it did make me wonder how a relatively undefended PC - the sort of system that an ordinary user would get out of the box - would survive. That seemed a good enough reason to try it, so I did.The first finding is that times have changed since attacks like the Blaster worm so embarrassed Microsoft that the company spent more than $1bn re- educating its programmers, developing new software tools, introducing a security-oriented methodology and abandoning work on what was then called Longhorn (now Vista) to tackle the problem. With XP SP2, auto-updates and a decent firewall, the average PC should now be reasonably safe on the net.The second finding is that "reasonably safe" is not enough. I thought I knew enough to avoid the viruses, malware downloads and social engineering tricks that casual and/or inexperienced users can easily fall for. That was not the case - anti-malware such as Microsoft Defender and Ewido (recently renamed AVG Anti-Spyware) may now be more important than antivirus software. Unless you're still a big enough twit to run unsolicited email attachments.The third finding is that Windows users still can't stop worrying about security. This year I ran lots of online scans and various utilities to make sure my PC hadn't picked up any malware. Even if XP SP2 were almost as secure as Mac OS X, the experience is different. Windows is under continuous attack, so you shouldn't be too surprised if you get caught. With OS X, you'd be shocked.Will Vista survive a year online 24/7 with no extra protection? I'll let you know.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology doesn't have to be complex or big to be effective. The charity Practical Action works with people in Africa, Asia and Latin America to develop simple yet effective technologies that will help them to overcome the adverse effects of climate change locally. This month, Technology Guardian will each week feature a different project being implemented to solve tasks renewably and efficiently.A key aid to sustainability is electricity generated from renewable sources. Fossil fuels are expensive, polluting and leave communities reliant on external supply. So Practical Action has been working with communities in Nepal, Peru, Sri Lanka and Kenya to design "micro-hydro" generation. Like bigger hydroelectric systems, these turn the flow of water into electricity via a turbine. But unlike those, they do not require a large dam which could affect the river's ecosystem. Instead, the systems from Practical Action divert water from the stream or river, channel it in to a valley and then drop it into a turbine via a sluice that controls water flow.Village-scale hydroelectric schemes have many benefits. They avoid environmental damage. They generate power for domestic lighting and cooking, charging batteries and for money-making activities such as millling grain.The cost varies with the project. As a rough guide, says the charity, each kilowatt of generating power costs a little over pounds 800. That is comparable with the cost, for example, of a solar installation in a home in the developed world - but this will run all the time using comparatively cheap materials.A system with a capacity of 6KW is big enough to drive a mill and provide electric lighting to 20 families. The cost? pounds 5,000. Once it is installed, the community pays a small charge for the electricity to cover maintenance and the eventual cost of a replacement. Practical Action also backs "pico" hydro schemes, which generate between a few hundred and 5KW. One is at Kathamba, 130km north of the Kenyan capital, Nairobi. "At Kathamba, the water supply comes from a stream with a flow rate of at least five litres per second for most of the year - it's small enough to jump across," says Jane Eason of Practical Action.Your donations can help to light up communities in renewable, affordable ways. Please give generously.&#183;On Saturday in the main paper, Raekha Prasad reports from Sri Lanka, where climate change has required new methods of rice cultivation.
Nintendo's much-anticipated Wii console arrives this evening in the UK, and I imagine hordes of gamers are going to be sweating profusely as they get their mitts on the diminutive dynamo for the first time.Popular games blog Kotaku recently posted about afunny Japanese Wii safety manual, but some wag's already concocted a number of more, erm, interesting graphics for those who don't know what - or whatnot- to do with it.揃Full set here on Flickr
"A team of researchers used data on the entire population of Denmark to determine that neither short- nor long-term use of cellular phones, also called mobile phones, was linked to a greater risk of tumors of the brain and nervous system, salivary gland or eyes, leukemia or cancer overall," reportsReuters."I think the results of this study are quite reassuring," Joachim Schuz of the Danish Institute of Cancer Epidemiology in Copenhagen, the lead researcher, said in an interview by cellular phone from Denmark.Schuz's team studied data on 420,095 Danish cell phone users (357,553 men and 62,542 women) who first subscribed for mobile service between 1982 and 1995 and were followed through 2002 -- meaning some were tracked for two decades. The researchers then compared their cancer incidence to the rest of Denmark's population.A total of 14,249 cancer cases were seen among the cellular telephone users, a number that was lower than would be expected for that population, according to the study appearing in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute.This confirms earlier studies, as reported here:Mobiles' 10-year all-clear for cancerComment: I ignored this story, thinking the main paper would cover it in depth... but if it has, I can't see it. However, we've recently been debating the health hazards of Wi-Fi here (Wireless technology made me sick, claims author Kate Figes). And given the low power of Wi-Fi and the distances typically involved (remember theinverse square law), it seems to me that Wi-Fi is much less of a potential risk than mobile phones.
About 15 months ago I went, rather dutifully, to a meeting about digital rights in London's Soho. I was amazed to find quite a big crowd talking animatedly about a subject that was difficult to raise in polite conversation at the time. I was told that this was an inaugural meeting after 1,000 people had pledged &pound;5 a month to get a new pressure group, Open Rights (openrightsgroup.org) established. Its aim was to campaign for people's rights in the digital age when decision-making is dominated by governments and the huge lobbying power of the music and publishing industries. It is clear that it has already become a force to be reckoned with and has had a big influence on making the Gowers review of intellectual property rights, published this week, more consumer-friendly.The group was started thanks to the admirable social website Pledgebank (pledgebank.com) through which people promise to do something as long as a specified number of others pledge to do the same. I tried it out recently and found it easy to use. The pledge was to write to my MP to ask him to oppose putting the clocks back an hour in the winter (as doing so increases accidents while reducing daylight leisure time in the evenings) as long as 50 others did the same. I was going to fix the number at 200 but I was persuaded by the site's guidance that it was better to be oversubscribed than undersubscribed.I got my 50 in a couple of weeks - though it is still open for another month. I emailed my MP and received a speedy reply on real paper (haven't had one of those for ages). He said I was the first person to raise this with him this year but added: "I have taken up the points you have raised with the Minister at the Department of Trade who has responsibility for this policy area." If this leads to a policy change this century or the next, remember: you read it here first.Pledgebank is just one part of the admirable MySociety group of social initiatives which also includeswritetothem.com(an effortless way to write to your MP, councillor or MEP by typing in your postcode) and its year-old companion site hearfromyourmp.com, which invites MPs to tell constituents what they are doing, if enough register their interest by signing up.MySociety has also just finished building a website (petitions.pm.gov.uk) making it easy to send petitions to Number 10. The next project, NeighbourhoodFix-it, will enable people to report concerns such as broken paving slabs or graffiti on an online map for all to see. The site will route the complaint to the relevant part of the local council and anyone will be able to monitor progress. Sweet. Future plans include a site making it easy to ask for government documents under the Freedom of Information Act with requests and released documents filed online.These initiatives amount to a formidable set of tools to re-engage citizens with those they elect. I am not aware of any other country doing similar things. Indeed, MySociety has a growing influence abroad. A thousand people in the Ukraine recently signed a pledge not to watch films with Russian subtitles.All this doesn't solve the problem of how to motivate people in the first place. The USC-Annenberg digital future project (2007) found that in the US only 18.9% thought the internet gave people more of a say in government (down from 20.7% in 2005). Some 53.6% of over-16s disagreed that the internet can give people more political power (up from 49.5% in 2005). Apart from the Bush factor, a lot of disillusionment is because people do not think they can influence politicians. MySociey is starting to have some impact on that by opening up new communication channels. We hear a lot about citizen journalism but rather less about citizens' democracy. Maybe it is an idea whose time has come - though we will have to think of a better name for it.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft has added a beta version ofBooksto its Live Search search engine, saysMicrcosoft's Live Search blog. This is, of course, Microsoft's alternative to Google Book Search, with a difference: Microsoft is only scanning books that are out of copyright, or where publishers opt in. Google is scanning libraries including copyright works, and allowing publishers to opt out. This has prompted a number of lawsuits....One of Microsoft's key partners is The British Library.The Live Search blog adds:The team is also taking this opportunity to announce an update to the beta of Live Search Academic (http://academic.live.com). We're adding millions of new articles--primarily bio-medical content. Live Search Academic now indexes thousands of academic journals in the computer science, engineering, physics, and bio-medical fields. We're also now indexing theses, dissertations, and books within these disciplines.There are stories with more details atBBC News,CNet,IDG Newsetc.Comment: One cute feature of Book Search is that it tells you where you are in the results list. For example, if you have three books on screen, it could say "71-73 of 376" or whatever.
AP Photo/Andres LeightonRonald Thompson, a hairdresser working with South Bank University in London, has created a new material he thinks might eventually replace fibreglass - made of hair.Thompson believes there are thousands of tonnes of hair going to waste each year, and has written to Ken Livingstone, among others, asking for donations so that he can get his hands on plenty of shorn tresses. Ken's not got too much of his own to offer, but as Mayor of London I suppose he could the process going."I picked up a piece of fibreglass, which snapped when I stretched it. Then I did the same with a strand of hair, which didn't. That sparked my thinking about how we could make use of all this spare hair to make a stronger fibreglass-type product that is environmentally friendly and sustainable."Despite the fact that rhino horn, among other things, is constructed of hair, I'm not sure if we'll all be sitting on hair chairs in the future. Still...
There's afun Wii articleon the BBC site to coincide with the growing launch frenzy. Nintendo has apparently sent an email to its customers advising them on how to handle the Wii controller:"Hold the remote securely and avoid excessive motion during game play. If your hands become moist, stop and dry your hands."Sensible stuff and I hope you've all taken that in.But the dangers of Wii play don't end with sweaty paws...Responding to blog reports that Wiimotes have been flying out of players' hands during frenzied gaming sessions, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata deadpanned, "Some people are getting a lot more excited than we'd expected". Possibly wary of the first compensation claim from a hospitalised Zelda fan, he apparently adds, "We need to better communicate to people how to deal with Wii as a new form of entertainment."And there's more. The piece mentions an interview on Reuters last week in which Nintendo America boss Reggie Fils-Aime observed that gamers were using dangerously extravagant movements when smaller ones would probably do the trick. Talking about Wii Sports Bowling, he observed, "We literally have consumers letting go of the remote like you do a bowling ball. You can't do that."I love the fact that Nintendo has spent years of research creating a controller thatanyonecan use, yet there are still people who can't get the hang of it. I'm imagining households in chaos up and down the country, people accidentally flinging their controllers through windows, drop-kicking them at the TV, accidentally slapping each other with them, confused fights spilling out onto the streets... Wii anarchy.Ban this sick filth!
"The social media news release is a next-generation news release that combines traditional and emerging forms of communications. By incorporating social media features such as hyperlinks, social bookmarking, multimedia, comment and trackback, among others, the social media news release serves as a bridge between traditional and emerging communications tools," says theEdelman press release.But as was quickly pointed out in the comments to the release, Edelman's system is a lot likea Shift Communications press releasefrom May 23: "SHIFT Communications Debuts First-Ever Template for Social Media Press Release: The 're-mixable' press release provides relevant context &amp; content in a hyperlinked format for journalists, bloggers".Shift in turn says: "The next-generation press release format was inspired by Tom Foremski of Silicon Valley Watcher."Way back on February 27, Foremski outlined the basic idea inDie! Press release! Die! Die! Die!
