Sony has revealed a new handheld gaming system, codenamed NGP (Next Generation Portable) and due out by the end of 2011. The device features a 5in organic light emitting display, with touchscreen facilities.There is a unique multi-touch pad on the rear, which Sony suggests will allow players to interact with games in three dimensions, using grab, trace, push and pull moves. There are also two analogue controllers as well as motion sensors, a gyroscope and an accelerometer for tilt sensitivity. Front and back cameras, together with Wi-Fi and 3G internet access, complete the features line-up.At a press event in Tokyo, SCE president Kaz Hirai outlined his integrated vision for the future of portable PlayStation entertainment, recognising that a vast number of gamers now play on phones rather than specialist handheld gaming devices. In response, he revealed a new "PlayStation Suite" initiative which will bring PlayStation games to Google Android devices.Sony will provide a game development environment for studios whol will be able to bring "PlayStation quality" titles to Android phones. Sony still plans to release a PlayStation-branded Xperia handset of its own, but it is unclear how such a product will fit into its diversifying mobile plans. The consumer electronics giant will also run a "PlayStation Certified" license program for hardware manufacturers to ensure handsets have the specifications required to run PlayStation quality titles.The NGP, meanwhile, is aimed at established gamers who want console-quality gaming experiences on the go. It will compete directly against Nintendo's 3DS console, which features a less powerful processor but offers glasses-free 3D viewing. The 3DS will be out in the UK in March, while the NGP is likely to arrive in late autumn.It looks as though Sony and Nintendo have some similar ideas on capturing the mainstream market in the connected era. Every Sony NGP game will feature a "LiveArea" space, a sort of community service that allows multiplayer gaming, as well as triggering real-time communication with other people playing the same title.Another buillt-in application named "Near" lets users find out what nearby friends are playing. There are similarities with Nintendo's StreetPass and SpotPass concepts for the 3DS, which allow seamless game connection and communication with fellow console owners in the vicinity.The device will support a new storage medium in the shape of a small flash memory-based card. According to Sony:Taking advantage of the flash memory feature, this innovative card can store the full software titles plus add-on game content or the game save data directly on to the card. By adopting flash memory based card, SCE will be able to provide game cards with higher capacity in the future, allowing developers to store more game data to deliver rich and immersive games.Sony has also mentioned that owners will be able to watch digital content such as movies on the NGP. It's likely these will be downloadable rather than available on physical media. When the original PSP was released, Sony distributed movies on the device's proprietary UMD carts, but sales were poor.There is no word yet on price. As for games, a demo of Uncharted was shown at the Tokyo event and a video revealed that popular first-party franchises such as Killzone, WipEout, LittleBigPlanet, Resistance, and Hot Shots Golf are coming to the system.According to MCV, third-party publishers such as Capcom, Sega, Tecmo Koei, Activision, Epic and Konami have announced their support. Activision revealed an NGP version of Call of Duty, while Metal Gear creator Hideo Kojima showed a version of Metal Gear Solid 4 running on the device.Further announcements are likely at this summer's E3, the annual video game exhibition held in Los Angeles.
Welcome to Thursday's edition of Chatterbox ... but before you join in the chat, why not check out the details of our very firstGuardian Gamesblog Live event, hosted by our very own Keith Stuart. It's taking place on Saturday 19 February, and tickets are just £12 each.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft: Windows Phone 7 Shipments Have Topped Two Million &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt's still not totally clear how quickly they are selling to consumers, but Microsoft says that more than two million Windows Phone 7 devices have now shipped to cellphone carriers as of the end of December. "We're still in the early stages" Microsoft Senior Product Manager Greg Sullivan told Mobilized in a phone interview on Wednesday. "When people use this phone, they really, really like it." That compares to 1.5m reported shipped to mobile networks about a month ago. Nobody's saying how many have actually been sold yet.IPv4 Address Report &gt;&gt; PotarooIt's as if the internet were suffering from rising sea levels that threatened to flood it, except we have an escape spaceship.The State of Music Monetization &gt;&gt; paidContentUseful reference. In a word, though: CDs are still a good way to make a lot of money.Appcelerator IDC Mobile Developer Report, January 2011 &gt;&gt; Appcelerator"Tablet interest spikes across the board: Android Tablet interest jumped 12 points in three months to 74% saying they are "very interested" in developing for these devices. Interest in BlackBerry Playbook nearly doubled from 16% to 28%. iPad rose three points to 87%, while webOS Tablet interest remained flat at 16%. "With the Android Tablet market set to explode this year and the recent success of Samsung's Android-based Galaxy Tab, 57% of developers say price will be the most important factor for success, followed by minimized fragmentation (49%) and then Android Honeycomb OS capabilities (33%). "For Apple, topping the iPad 2 wish list: new camera capabilities, a USB connector, and an improved retina display." Oh well, one out of three isn't bad. Is it? The study is worth digesting.Can Bing Catch Google? Microsoft Spends Millions on ESPN, Jay-Z Partnerships &gt;&gt; Fast Company"According to reports, Bing's market share has been steadily growing. Experian Hitwise says Bing's searches increased 5% last month, with Bing-powered searches now accounting for nearly 26% of the market (that's counting Yahoo, which uses Bing's tech; comScore has the two combined totals at 28%). Year-over-year growth rate in December was 49.4%, according to Barclays, compared with just 20.6% for Google." Growth rates can be deceptive, of course. And all this has only cost north of $100m.Bartz On Facebook: They Have More â€œLittle Impressions,â€ We Have More â€œDisplay Revenuesâ€ &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"At the tail-end of Yahoo's fourth quarter earnings conference call today, CEO Carol Bartz was asked about competition with Facebook in display advertising. Facebook has come out of nowhere to account for nearly a quarter of all display ads on the Internet. "There is some confusion about whether Facebook leads in display advertising," Bartz responded. "It is because they have a lot of little impressions. We actually lead in display revenue." But in fact, the two may be neck and neck. In 2010, Yahoo's reported display ad revenues (after taking out traffic acquisition costs, the part they give to partner sites which run its ads) were $1.89 billion. Meanwhile, Facebook's estimated global ad revenues for 2010 were $1.86 billion, with ad revenues expected to more than double to $4 billion this year." Yahoo is going to have its air supply cut off by the company it once had the chance to buy.Unhappy With Slow Growth Of Android App Purchases, Google Talks 2011 Roadmap &gt;&gt; Forbes"Google's Android platform manager Eric Chu knows that though the number of Android smartphone users may be rising quickly, the number of purchases of paid apps in the Android Market is not doing nearly as well. In fact, Google is downright 'not happy' about the purchases of paid apps, said Chu during a question-and-answer session with anxious app developers at the Inside Social Apps conference in San Francisco on Tuesday." From a user's perspective, the weakness of the Google Marketplace for paid apps is that there's no "there" there - compare and contrast to iTunes or Amazon.Windows 7 and SSDs: Setup secrets and tune-up tweaks &gt;&gt; Ed Bott"Solid-state drives are wicked fast. SSDs start and shut down fast, and they perform read operations (especially random reads) at speeds that blow the doors off conventional hard drives. In the first installment of this series, I gathered the numbers to show just how much faster you can expect an SSD to perform in the real world. "But you might need to jump through some setup hoops to get top performance out of an SSD-equipped PC running Windows 7. That's because Windows has evolved over many years with features that specifically target the behavior of conventional hard disks."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I didn't have the best of starts withDC Universe Online. A bug meant I couldn't get past the tutorial stage for a week. Then when I finally got in last weekend, the game was still suffering from technical issues – such as broken voice comms on the PS3.Despite this, I'm enjoying what I've seen so far. The action has an immediacy you don't often find in MMO games. Combat feels more visceral – button bashing is worryingly successful at the beginning – than other MMO games. The World of Warcraft style sense of inhabiting a huge world may be lacking at the moment, but flying around Metropolis with your friends is an undeniable thrill.At the moment at least, I'm happy paying the £9.99 monthly subscription. But with so many MMOs now adopting the free to play model developers, Sony Online Entertainment has had to spend timedefending the subscription cost.Sony spokesman Ryan Peters told Eurogamer that the company felt the subscription cost offered good value:We understand we're asking a lot and the equation I always give to people is that it's similar to DLC – if you were getting DLC from Red Dead Redemption every month, I'd probably sign up for that because I buy every piece of DLC they throw at me. We're trying to keep it on par with that kind of experience where it's compelling and you feel like you're getting good value.I'm not sure I agree with the RDR comparision as it would depend on the size of the update each month. Undead Nightmare yes, new version of poker, no. Peters makes more sense when he compares PC owners who have been used to paying for MMOs and console users who haven't.People on the console are a little more hesitant because this is a different scenario for them, whereas an established MMO person would say, 'OK, I play an MMO.' I would say two thirds of them are subscription-based and there's certainly a free-to-play marketplace out there.Perhaps realising he has overstated the subscription model and underplayed the booming free-to-play market, Peters says:In the PC landscape, sure free-to-play has become more and more popular, it's more competitive from an MMO standpoint. We did something kind of different with EverQuest 2 where we actually have a free-to-play server running in parallel with a paid-for service. It brought a lot of new people into the game and there's a different mentality and gameplay on that server – that works for us and is a different approach in terms of free-to-play across the board.Still not convinced? Peters thinks you should compare the DCUO monthly cost to a movie ticket.It's not so much a re-education process as saying, whatever price you're paying in your country, $15 in the States is a ticket to the movies and I guarantee you're going to get much more time and enjoyment out of this – especially the movie I saw last night, which was The American with George Clooney, which was awful. It was absolutely awful – 16 euros to watch it in my hotel was the worst investment. I thought, there was a month's subscription to DCUO right there, and I thought that was a better investment.What do you think? Happy to pay for DC Universe Online? Do you think subscription games will become more common on the consoles?
I decided to follow up some of the trail left in theMark Zuckerberg Facebook fan page hackingincident.(Update: Facebook tells us that "A bug enabled status postings by unauthorised people on a handful of Pages. The bug has been fixed.")The only – and best clue – is the link left by the hacker in the status update posted on Zuckerberg's wall, which reads "Let the hacking begin: if facebook needs money, instead of going to the banks, why doesn't Facebook let its user invest in Facebook in a social way? Why not transform Facebook into a 'social business' the way Nobel Price [sic] winner Muhammad Yunus described it? http://bit.ly/f26rT3 What do you think? #hackercup2011"That contains a bit.ly link. Well, you can find out what the original URL is by adding a plus on the end, so:http://bit.ly/fs6rT3+From which we can see that about 17,000 people clicked the link. Not bad (though we have to say that Julian Assange gets more clicks when he appears on the Guardian ... but we digress).The original, shortened link was actually:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_business?h=d044aeb71f4e466a552708fc6e3863ef&amp;thanksforthecup=https://www.facebook.com/photo.php%3Fpid%3D393752%26id%3D133954286636768%26fbid%3D170535036312026Let's begin with the second part of the long link – the part that starts "thanksforthecup": it's URL-encoded (so "%3D" actually stands for the character "=", "%26" for "&amp;") and leads to aFacebook photo page for the Hacker Cup, acompetition run by Facebookitself. So the hacker is saying he thinks he should get the cup. OK, we get it.Now, back to the first part. If you just click the link, you'll be taken to Wikipedia's page about social business. But not the latest version – to aspecificversion in its edit history.That version was up for two minutes. That version leads to a web consultancy in the US mid-west. I have contacted the owner who emphatically denies that he had anything to do with it, and I have no reason to doubt him as IP addresses are easily spoofed.Crucially, the edit was only on Wikipedia fortwo minuteson Tuesday 25 – between 19.17EST and 19.19EST – suggesting that whoever must have created the edt with the link and then deleted it straight afterwards, but kept the link to the version he had edited. Then he or she encoded the link for the photo and attached it to the Wikipedia link, and stuffed the whole lot into bit.ly. Then, having got the shortened link, he or she went and updated the status on the fan page.In other words, we might be able to find the hacker if we can find out who changed the Wikipedia page. Unfortunately, it wasn't done by a registered user. But because of Wikipedia's clever tracking system, you can see the IP of non-registered users: there it is at the top of the edit page in the screenshot: 131.74.110.168. You can also seewhat articles machines at that IP address have edited– a very mixed bag–- and also how edits from that IP have beenincreasingly smacked down by Wikipedia editors(latest on that page coming from October 2009: "Please stop your disruptive editing. If you continue to vandalise Wikipedia, as you did at Lyoto Machida, you will be blocked from editing."So who's behind 131.74.110.168? A quickwhois querytells you that it is... the US department of defence in Williamsburg.In other words: this might be someone in the military. Most likely those edits don't come from one person – they come from all sorts of people in the Williamsburg location. Or, just as possible, it was someone who had hacked into the computers there from outside (not as difficult as you'd hope it would be) and is using them as a proxy to make the Wikipedia edit, and, quite possibly, hack Zuckerberg's page. (We've asked Facebook whether Zuckerberg's page was accessed from that IP, but haven't had an answer yet.)Updated to add Facebook comment, clarify that it's original Guardian investigation, grammatical tidying.• This article was amended on 27 January to clarify that there is no clear indicaton as to who the hacker is.
Few developers are truly prepared to meddle with the intrinsic elements of online multiplayer game design. We may see a couple of odd weapons, an occasional character class that hasn't been utilised before, some crazy new take on capture the flag … but it's rare a studio will actually try to shake the format to its very foundations.Homefront doesn't exactly chuck the blueprints on to the bonfire – its multiplayer offering will be familiar to veterans of the genre. But from our three hours with the code, it is clear the game is going to stir things up a bit. The accepted rhythms, the legacy shortcomings of online competition, are being challenged.The context, at least, is straightforward. Homefront's multiplayer mode is set before the single-player campaign, centring on some of the key skirmishes between the fractured US forces and the Greater Korean Republic Army. So while the single-player campaign is about disparate groups of civilians, multiplayer is about mass military conflict.Foremost among the game's additions are the Battle Points, earned throughout each match for successful kills and other achievements. BPs can be used to buy weapons, items and vehicles, which are then made immediately available to the player within the bout. Purchases are accessible via the D-pad, so players can save up, buy something cool and destructive, and quickly flip it into play without breaking their stride."We wanted to make this large-scale warfare game with vehicles, aircraft, airstrikes … but we needed to balance all of these systems," says lead multiplayer designer Erin Daly. Apparently, someone originally came up with the rough idea of spending experience points to buy weapons, but it was thought this would confuse gamers and adversely effect their progression."So we said, forget about XP, what if we had our own currency, our own in-game economy," Daly says. "The idea was to add strategy. First-person shooters are twitch games, you're always looking around for the next thing to shoot – that's exciting on a visceral level, and certainly there's strategy involved in working out where the targets are coming from and where you can take cover – but there's not a lot of higher level thinking."With Battle Points we found that we could get players to stay in the flow, but always have those strategic decisions going on. So during a match you might think, 'Oh shit, the enemy just took two of the three objectives, so maybe I should buy a tank now so I can quickly re-take one of those.' It can really turn the tide of the match. You've probably heard that Sid Meier quote – a game is a series of interesting decisions – that's what we want to add to Homefront multiplayer."Apparently, the concept was also inspired by the RTS genre, in which players are able to use mined resources to continually increase their military power and versatility throughout each mission. What you get is a constantly evolving conflict, in which every kill opens up new opportunities.Your shopping list depends on which of the six character classes you go for: Assault, SMG, Heavy, Sniper, Tactical or Stealth. Opt for Assault and your first purchases will be a flak jacket or a rocket launcher, go for SMG or Heavy and you get straight into another of the game's extremely entertaining new features: remote control drone craft. The MQ50 MG Wolverine is a miniature tank with a fitted machine gun, while the AQ-11 Buzzard is a chopper complete with missile launcher. There's also the tactically useful RQ-10 Parrot recon craft, which allows you to spot and tag enemy soldiers, temporarily showing their position on the map to all your teammates – a sort of personal UAV.The operation of these devices is intuitive and enjoyable: simply find a safe cubby-hole for your character, then launch and steer your drone as though you're driving it personally. What you end up with is a battlefield that's buzzing with robotic killers, zooming down alleyways, or hovering just over-head. They're relatively easy to take out with heavy weaponry and their numbers are restricted by the fact that they have to been earned, but they're attainable and effective, and importantly, they'll end up levelling the vehicular playing field, bringing automated destruction to gamers who've never managed to master the helicopter controls in, say, Battlefield or Modern Warfare.Further up the price list there are vehicles like the Humvee, M1A3 Abrams tank and AH-700 Apache Scout helicopter. Once you've bought one it pops straight on to the map and if it has multiple positions, teammates can then spawn straight in beside you, grabbing the mounted chain gun or taking over the wheel. The result is a highly tactical team-based game that gets much closer to Battlefield 2 in terms of genuine co-operation than most console shooters ever have. It's also a truly three-dimensional theatre of war, with infantry going up against tanks, flying drones and aircraft all operating at different levels."We've had people in the studio trying to take out a helicopter with an airstrike, which is incredibly hard to do, because you're firing at a moving objectwitha moving object," Daly says. "But people can do it if they get skilled enough. It's cool to see those different layers interacting."Battle Points are also designed to counter two of the intrinsic problems of the deathmatch mode. There's no more hanging around at base camp waiting for vehicles to spawn, because now players can get out there and earn tanks and choppers. Plus, with larger maps, participants won't have to run long distances to reach objective points – they can simply kill a few enemies and buy a car.The other major new concept is the Battle Commander, a sort of AI director who watches everything your team does. If there's a sniper taking out multiple enemies, or a particularly successful tank crew, the Commander will reward them with a one star mission – usually involving adding to their body count. If the players succeed they'll be assigned a tougher two-star mission, and so on, all the way up to five stars. Completed missions earn benefits such as increased speed, flak jackets and personal UAV sweeps. But at the same time, the opposing battle commander is identifying enemy soldiers engaged in missions, and will order his own troops to take them out. The higher the star mission, the more enemies are assigned to the task until, at the five-star level, the entire enemy team will be after you."It makes large-scale warfare personal," says creative director David Votypka. "It allows you to pursue vendettas. It creates some really interesting emergent gameplay."There's also a high profile victim of all these new combat features. "We haven't found camping to be such a big issue in this game, because there are so many different tools with which to take out those players," says Daly. "With Battle Commander, if they're doing really well they become a threat and the AI will assign players to go take them out – then you've got your recon drone, or you can shoot them from the air. If they're really pissing you off, you can just spend your points, order in an airstrike and pilot that missile right at them."The maps themselves are conventional, but well constructed. "Suburbs", which will be exclusively available to Xbox 360 owners, is all boarded-up homes and abandoned playgrounds, providing a densely packed environment perfect for SMG fans (although there's also plenty of accessible roof space for snipers). I preferred Crossroads, a much larger map, designed to take full advantage of the new Ground Control mode, in which teams have to capture and hold three objectives before the frontline moves and a new map area opens up with fresh objectives."It's inspired by military warfare," says Daly. "There's always some semblence of a frontline, and if one side is successful they're going to push that into enemy territory – so you get that sense of movement and accomplishment. But the biggest thing is to add variety – you're playing these maps for hundreds of hours and if you're always playing the same space it can get quite repetitive – we just wanted to add more variety within a single match."We designed some of some of these areas to be quite different. So on our Farm map, for example, the first area is fairly open – there's a farmhouse, a church and a lot of grassland. But then the objectives move to an industrial area – it's much tighter and more infantry focused, it encourages SMG run-and-gun-style gameplay."Running through the centre of the Crossroads map is a highway overpass, littered with burned out military tanks and trucks. According to Daly, it's influenced by the Highway of Death running between Iraq and Kuwait, which, during the Gulf War, was lined with wrecked vehicles. Around the periphery are rolling hills and grasslands with the open terrain broken only by the occasional farm building, so it's all about cautious measured movement. In contrast, the first set of objective points are densely packed beneath the overpass, with large concrete tubes making perfect ambush points. It's a compelling blend of styles that encourages an adaptive, improvisational approach – a factor that's emphasised when the objectives move to a new location and everyone legs it across the map to the new frontline.Homefront is set to include at least seven maps at release with two sets of three maps following as DLC (all of which will come to Xbox first, thanks to a deal between Microsoft and THQ). Kaos hasn't said much about the other maps yet, but we discovered that one of the larger examples will take up almost the whole of Angel Island, off the coast of San Francisco.As for weapons, all the base types are covered, but there are some interesting newcomers including the  M200 sniper rifle with built-in thermal scope and the airburst grenade launcher, which fires shells that explode over a designated target. As Daly says: "You set your target range just by holding the trigger and as soon as you release, the grenade fires to that location and explodes at the range you've set. So if you've got a sniper in a church tower you can take him out …"It's interesting that several of the staff working on the game have been at Kaos since the very beginning, since they were a group of home coders producing the brilliant Desert Combat mod for Battlefield 1942. That pioneering spirit seems to remain, and the likes of Brian Holinka and Frank Delise – veterans of the tactical shooter sub-genre – no doubt realise that Homefront is going to split opinion as a multiplayer prospect. But here it is, loaded with fascinating little alterations and additions to the FPS menu, supported by dedicated servers and 32-player encounters. Whatever else, it's not going to be boring out there in wasteland America.• Homefront is released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 11 March
Like most titles featuring Nintendo's favourite plumber, you can't fault Mario Sports Mix for effort or production values. Certainly, it tries to cram in as many familiar elements, characters and locations as possible and does so with customary panache. However, this remains an odd mix of sporting events that adds little to the franchise or the party game genre that Nintendo created and still dominates.What you get are four main sports – Basketball, Dodgeball, Volleyball and Ice Hockey – plus a few extra party games. The main events can be played in Quick Match or Campaign Mode, in either frantic 3x3 or a more relaxed 2x2 configuration. Campaign boasts a typically silly back story before launching you into Mushroom, Flower and Star Cup tournaments that unlock new players and power ups as you progress through the rounds to the finals, which are played out in all new stadiums.Power-ups are collected by running your player over gold coins that are strewn around the courts. The coins either add to your score or reveal Star Powers, such as Koopa shells or mini mushrooms that can be activated by pressing A &amp; B buttons together. But the stunted AI, especially in early rounds, makes it easy to rack up massive winning margins without needing power-ups at all.As for playable characters, most of the usual suspects are present: from Mario and Luigi to Bowser and Wario, with a precious few like Princess Peach clad in sporty new costumes. Character abilities are graded according to speed, power and technical skill, with speedier players tending to call the shots.All four sports are fairly easy to pick up and play, although the quality, familiarity and playability varies greatly. Ice Hockey, for instance, bears little resemblance to any known version of the sport, with bollards appearing on court to block shots and stymie players. Meanwhile, Dodgeball's throw-and-catch gameplay curiously doesn't involve dodging at all, while the party games are basically silly variations on the main sports, such as dodging bombs or throwing fruit at a giant plant.Despite these problems, don't go thinking Sports Mix is a totally lost cause. Both Basketball and Volleyball combine similar effective controls with enthralling end-to-end action, raising the score to something approaching respectability and suggesting what might have been. With a few more and better chosen events and a major rebalancing of AI, Mario Sports Mix could have been a contender rather than a missed opportunity that appeals more to Mario completists than either sports or party game fans.• Game reviewed on a Wii
Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook page has been hacked by an unknown person who posted a status update suggesting that the site should let people invest in it rather than going to the banks.The page belonging to the 26-year-old Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder who was named Time's Man of the Year in 2010, was hacked some time on Tuesday.The message left by the hacker read: ""Let the hacking begin: If facebook needs money, instead of going to the banks, why doesn't Facebook let its users invest in Facebook in a social way? Why not transform Facebook into a 'social business' the way Nobel Prize winner Muhammad Yunus described it? What do you think? #hackercup2011".A wall post on Mark Zuckerberg's hacked Facebook page. The link leads to a Wikipedia page on 'social business'.That seems to be a reference to reports thatFacebook has been valued at around $50bnfollowing investments made by Goldman Sachs and a Russian venture capital firm. There have been rumours that the company is either preparing for a stock market flotation or that the shares purchased by Goldman Sachs would be sold on to rich investors who want to benefit from the company's burgeoning success.Embarrassingly for Facebook, more than 1800 people "liked" the update before the company took down its chief executive's page. Facebook has made no public statement about how the hack occurred.It is not clear how the break-in occurred, said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the security company Sophos. "Mark Zuckerberg might be wanting to take a close look at his privacy and security settings after this embarrassing breach," he noted. "It's not clear if he was careless with his password, was phished, or sat down in a Starbucks and gotsidejacked[had his login details stolen over the air] while using an unencrypted wireless network. But however it happened, it's left egg on his face just when Facebook wants to reassure users that it takes security and privacy seriously. Maybe Mr Zuckerberg would be wise to get a refresher on computer security best practice."More likely though is that Zuckerberg's page is handled by a number of people, and that one of them might have had their access details stolen or guessed, which would give an attacker the same access to the page.The only clue left by the hacker was a link embedded in the status update to aspecific revision of a Wikipedia pageabout "social business", which differs from the current page in one prominent link, and another link to a photo forFacebook's "Hacker Cup"- described as "an annual worldwide programming competition where hackers compete against each other for fame, fortune, glory and a shot at the coveted Hacker Cup" - whose final rounds will be held at Facebook's own headquarters on 11 March.Facebook had not responded to requests for comment when this story was filed.The hack comes just days after the Facebook account belonging to the French president Nicolas Sarkozywas also hackedto suggest that he was resigning; on regaining control of the account, Sarkozy pointed out that he plans to run for president again next year.
O2 launches its free nationwide Wi-Fi broadband network today, pitting the UK's largest mobile operator head-to-head with rivals including BT and The Cloud.The Spanish-owned operator will open up free Wi-Fi access to all internet users, including customers not with O2, through partnerships with restaurants, shops, and high street retailers across the UK.O2 said it will double the number of premium public internet hotspots – those which do not piggyback on existing residential networks – currently offered by rivals by 2013. O2 claimed it is the only "genuinely free" Wi-Fi network and the only one open to customers from other companies.The demand for data-hungry sites such as YouTube and the increasing popularity of smartphones, such as Apple's iPhone, have put a huge strain on operators' Wi-Fi networks.Although BT and The Cloud operate tens of thousands of public Wi-Fi hotspots, uptake has largely fallen short of expectations. Tim Sefton, O2's director of new business development, said only 20% of O2 customers opt for free public Wi-Fi instead of mobile data due to uncertainty over pricing and variable quality of the experience. "Building networks is a core capability. We have pioneered the explosion of mobile data over the last three years and know better than anyone where people are accessing data. O2 Wi-Fi hotspots will bring high quality public Wi-Fi access to the majority of mobile users," Sefton added.BSkyB is tomorrow expected to join the public Wi-Fi market by confirming an investment in The Cloud, the eight-year-old broadband network connecting three million laptops and smartphones to the internet each month.The Cloud has deals in place with Marriott hotels, McDonald's and Pret a Manger, with 22,000 hotspots in Britain, Germany and Sweden. BT Openzone has more than 2m hotspots around the UK and has deals with British Airways, Ramada Jarvis hotels and Starbucks coffee stores. Virgin Media has also signalled its intention to launch a public Wi-Fi network.O2 Wi-Fi will address the "many shortcomings" of existing public Wi-Fi offerings, the company said, adding that it will increase its investment in its overall mobile network by 25% this year.The six-month Wi-Fi network project cost "in the low double-digit millions", Sefton confirmed, but the plan was for it to become self-financing. "We've been watching this space with interest for some time, and it will be interesting to see how the market will evolve, but we're announcing a model that's fundamentally better and others will have to look to change their business models significantly," he said.Gavin Franks, the managing director of O2 Wi-Fi, added: "We're very excited about this. It's win, win, win, win for the end user because of its ease of use, win for the venue, and a win for us," he said."You wouldn't get many people saying that Wi-Fi is where it needs to be at the moment. We believe the market is changing, and that it's been stagnant over the last three years. Big players have had a massive interest in mobile data, but we're taking that to the next level."
Net revenue at theincreasingly troubled internet portal Yahooslid 4% in the past quarter, and it forecast a another dip this quarter – and more layoffs among its staff – as it struggles to revive growth in the face of intense competition from Google and Facebook.Although its net income more than doubled, to $312m from $153m, beating analysts' expectations, the company said last night that it will have to lay off a further 1% of its 14,100 staff, just weeks after announcing 4% cuts in which entire divisions were laid off or given a "sunset" label. Chief executive Carol Bartz  said the company would add staff through the year but keep costs static.In response, the company's shares fell 4.4% at $15.39 in after-hours trading. The figures were a stark contrast to those of Google last week, which announced that in the same quarter its revenue had grown 26% to $8.4bn, and its profits by 29% to $2.5bn. The dominant search engine company also announced that it is tohire a thousand people in Europe.eMarketer, which analyses US online ad spending, reckoned that Yahoo's display advertising share fell last year to16.2% of display revenues, down from 16.5% in 2009, while in the same period Facebook accounted for 13.6% of display revenues, up from 7.3% in 2009.Yahoo's chief financial officer Tim Morse insisted that "we are a premier digital media company increasingly focussed on our mission" of providing compelling content.But Bartz said that while it was not getting the click revenue it had hoped for, it was working well with Microsoft and remained confident in the value of the alliance. "We picked the right partner," Bartz insisted.Yahoo gets 638 million visitors every month, Bartz said, though its pageviews fell by 1% year-on-year. Bartz pointed to its 40% stake in AliBaba, the biggest search engine in China, as showing promise: "With e-commerce exploding in the largest country in the world, we feel our investment in Alibaba will grow in value and continue to greatly benefit our investors over time," she said.Yahoo's net revenue excludes money from partner sites, principally Microsoft, which now provides its underlying search and took a 12% share on revenue in the fourth quarter. Yahoo's gross revenue, of $1.525bn, shows an even worse pattern, with a 12% slide compared with a year ago. But Yahoo said that some of this was down to accounting changes to allow for search results provided on partner sites, and that revenue would have been flat in a year-on-year comparison without it.The company has struggled to find revenue growth, with gross revenues failing to grow since the third quarter of 2008 when an attempted takeover by Microsoft fell apart. Bartz joined at the start of 2009.However in an analyst call following the results release, Bartz called the results "a very encouraging quarter", noting the doubling of profits and earnings per share and operating margin. She said this was done "while investing in our major products to turn Yahoo around". Yahoo aims to grow revenue by offering attractive products for users, Bartz said.The company forecast that net revenue in the coming quarter will range from $1.02bn to $1.08bn, compared with the $1.13bn expected by analysts.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
A quick burst of six links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYahoo's Fourth Quarter "Encouraging," Says CEO Carol Bartz &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Posting fourth-quarter earnings today after sacking one percent of its staff, the company reported net income of 24 cents per share on revenue of $1.21 billion. The Street doesn't seem convinced, though. Yahoo shares are down 3.5 percent as I write this."Port your existing mobile number to Google Voice &gt;&gt; Google Voice Blog"Today, we're excited to announce that Number Porting is available for all existing Google Voice users. This means you can make the mobile number you've always used your Google Voice number, so it can ring any phone you want – or even your computer."Cathode.app &gt;&gt; Secret GeometryOh, so Windows has it all, huh? Does it have a vintage terminal emulator that turns your expensive LCD into an aging CRT? Huh? "Disregard thirty years of GUI advancement by immersing yourself in full-screen mode. Impress curious onlookers at internet cafes." Worth downloading for that alone. Explain that you travelled to our time from 1976.Forget Quora, New York's Stack Overflow Is Killing It &gt;&gt; The New York ObserverAs featured on this week's Tech Weekly podcast. Trends, we're ahead of them.Why I'm Moving From HTML5 To Flash &gt;&gt; TameTick.com"Reality, however, has once again reared its ugly head. There are 3 main reasons why the final version will be written in Flash: "Browser support of html5 features is spotty at best "Each browser has its own quirks - some have buggy canvas implementations, some support only mp3 encoding in audio tags, others only ogg. "One of them doesn't yet support any html5 tags at all (workarounds exist, but are suboptimal to say the least). "Performance is not up to par: "Even tho great strides have been made with regards to js execution in recent years, rendering graphics in canvas is still considerably slower than rendering graphics in flash. "Additionally, there is a huge difference in js execution speed between browsers - it is not uncommon for me to get 4x the FPS in Chrome as in Firefox. "There is no FGL for html5 games: "Flash games have been around for years- they can be packed in a single SWF file, portals know how to host them, they are easy to embed and easy to distribute."On the Rapid End-Of-Lifing of AndroidÂ Devices &gt;&gt; Fraser Speirs blog"So, from a user's perspective, are all Android devices perfect substitutes for each other? I argue that they are not. There are now many different 'flavours' of Android - Google's 'pure Google' Android experience, HTC's own interpretation and Motorola have their variations - and that's before the carriers start 'adding value'."The second problem with 'Android-powered devices' is that the history of that product category thus far has been a story about devices being built and sold and very quickly end-of-lifed for software update support by their manufacturers - or, in some cases, the carriers who have their boot on the software windpipe through subsidy contracts."Sometimes, the speed of obsolescence is shocking. My current understanding is that every Android-powered device in existence today is essentially end-of-lifed because of Android 3.0's requirement for a dual-core processor." Well, Honeycomb doesn't actuallyrequirea dual-core processor, but it's wise to have one.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The trailer for First Strike has just been released and gives gamers – Xbox 360 owners initially, PS3 and PC to follow a few weeks after – a taste of what to expect on 1 February. Zombies for a start, plus maps called Berlin Wall. Discovery, Kowloon and Stadium. Whether this map pack is worth 1200 Microsoft Points (about a tenner) is beside the point – the fans will lap this one up. But what about you?
Urgent action is needed to safeguard the UK games industry from a brain drain caused by tax breaks being offered in countries such as Canada and the US, says a lobby group.Tiga, which represents games developers and companies, says that the disappointing GDP figures released today indicate the need for action to prevent any further shrinkage of the UK industry, which has seen its headcount fall by 9% since 2008, and its direct and indirect contribution in tax revenues fall by £55m, and the sector's contribution to GDP decline by £132m.The organisation has repeatedly called for tax breaks to support companies in the UK and encourage investment in the UK, citing schemes offered by Canada and 20 states in the US, where a growing number of businesses are taking advantage of incentives to relocate.A scheme costing the Treasury £194m would over five years generate £431m of investment in development expenditure and £394m in tax receipts, and "create or safeguard" more than 9,500 jobs – including 3,300 in the games industry, according to a revised estimate by the lobbying group.But the communications minister, Ed Vaizey, indicated last December that he would not consider the idea for another four years, having turned it down not long after taking his job.However, the Tiga chief executive, Richard Wilson, said that the gloomy GDP figures for the past quarter indicated that it was more urgent than ever to encourage investment in creative industries. Without tax breaks, there will be a further 24% fall in headcount between 2010 and 2015, meaning an aggregate 30% fall since 2008."The latest GDP figures are clearly worrying. The UK government must back industries with the potential to drive the economy forward," said Wilson. "The video games industry is an industry of the future – high tech, highly skilled and export oriented. If the coalition government is serious about its intention of rebalancing the economy then it should invest in the UK video games industry by introducing a tax break for games production. Games tax relief would create jobs, boost investment and generate much needed tax revenue for the government."The global video games market is expected to grow from $52.5bn in 2009 to $86.8bn in 2014. However, this growth will happen overseas if we do not invest today. The UK is exceptionally good at developing video games but we are not competing on a level playing field. Other governments around the world are backing their video games industries. The UK coalition government is not. Of course the government must tackle the deficit, but it must also have a strategy for growth. Tiga's games tax relief will support economic growth and tax revenues. We urge the government to review our evidence and reopen the discussions on games tax relief.""The government should also improve the existing R&amp;D tax credit scheme. TIGA recommends that the existing R&amp;D tax credit for large firms should be retained. Regarding the R&amp;D tax credit for small firms, the categories of qualifying expenditure should be widened, the level of relief raised, the value of the relief for loss-making companies increased, and the claim process simplified."Tiga has released its findings in an 85-page document which revises the evidence submitted to the Labour government in 2008, following its call for evidence to support a cultural tax break for games production. The report was written by Tiga, Osborne Clarke and Games Investor Consulting, the independent games research company, which carried out the empirical research, including a census of over 80% of known British games development and publishing companies.The report found that over the past two years, overseas government support for video games development has continued to grow, leaving the UK games industry competing on a highly uneven international playing field.A games tax relief scheme would over five years create a net 1,328 new jobs in the "games studio" sector, increasing investment in games studios by £138m. It would also create 2,427 "indirect" jobs in related business, with annual tax revenues rising by £126m and a GDP contribution of £307m.The suggested games tax relief would cover any games development businesses falling within the scope of UK corporation tax which develop a game with a budget of at least £100,000 and which pass a cultural test. The tax relief would be calculated and applied in a similar way to the existing tax relief for British films.
This is how America the world power will fall. In the near future, an oil crisis in the Middle East will spark another global economic meltdown, bringing with it mass civil instability. The US economy will flatline and throughout the following decade the country will undergo socio-political collapse. Expansionist Korea, freshly unified under the aggressive nationalist Kim Jong-un, will hit the country with a sustained cyber attack followed by a massive EMP blast, taking out the electronics infrastructure. With the US armed forces in turmoil, the invasion will begin.This intriguing little piece of speculative fiction forms the narrative background toHomefront, a first-person shooter from New York developerKaos Studios. The game takes place in 2027 – the US is occupied, and isolated pockets of civilian resistance struggle to defend themselves against a well-organised, well-equipped invader. You play a US citizen, arrested by the Koreans and sent to a concentration camp – except your bus is hijacked en route and you join a small rebel unit, attempting to steal a cache of jet fuel. The aim is to get it to San Francisco where the remnants of the US airforce awaits…"The genesis of it came from watching Red Dawn as a teenager," explains creative director David Votypka, referencing the cult John Milius flick from 1984 in which Russian forces invade the US, challenged only by a ragtag group of teen actors. "Those scenes in the film where paratroopers are landing on the football field, and seeing Russian troops on this main street with banks and bakeries. I mean, America occupied – it was a crazy idea, but also engaging and you wondered what it would look like on a larger scale."After the formation of Kaos Studios, Votypka wrote a treatment called The Fall of the American Empire, set in an occupied US, but with a very different narrative to Homefront. He then talked to Danny Bilson, the VP of core games at Kaos's publisher THQ. Bilson is an ex-Hollywood screenwriter who worked on dozens of movies and TV shows throughout the 1980s and 1990s. "He said to me, 'John Milius was my writing teacher and mentor, do you want me to put him on the project?' I just said, 'wow, yes!' So John came on board and helped guide the storyline and the game grew from there."The veteran director began making regular visits to the Kaos office. "He is quite a character – a real military historian," says Votypka. "The way it would work was, he'd come in to the studio for a day, we'd listen to his stories for about five hours, then work for about two! But the stories also had lots of great ideas in them – he'd tell us about battles in Vietnam and the tactics they used. And he guided us from a tone standpoint. Originally, Homefront was much more of a Rambo-esque 'let's take the country back' kind of thing. But John said, no, you've got to make it much more of a small-scale human story, because people can identify with that. He said, 'use the Grapes of Wrath as a loose reference'." I'm not sure anyone has ever said that about a first-person shooter before.But then in Homefront, as in Steinbeck's novel, the action concerns desperate Americans, displaced from ravaged communities, on the road to nowhere. The game begins with your character in a bus on the way to some hellish prison, looking helplessly out of the window at a suburban street as Korean troops round up US citizens. Families are torn apart, troublemakers are executed – there is one sequence, mentioned in other previews but I don't want to ruin it here, that could be one of the most harrowing moments in video game narrative history. And then suddenly an explosion, and you're out, grabbing a gun and following local resistance leaders through battered suburban homes, through the wrecked fuselage of a downed passenger aircraft, through makeshift military bases. The plot comes in snatched moments of dialogue, recalling the revolutionary story-telling methods of Half-Life, where cinematic sequences were jettisoned in favour of immersive continual storytelling. From here, you're fighting a guerrilla war against masses of enemy troops.It is intense stuff – and already, in its opening skirmishes, the game keys in to a factor that Modern Warfare 2, in its more outlandish take on an invaded America, completely sidesteps. Normal people. "You can't have an occupied country without civilians, that's just an empty Hollywood set," says Votypka in what I can only read as a sly dig at MW2's deserted streets. Here, you might burst into a house and find a mother cowering with a screaming baby – so now they're another vector in your battle plan.And really, although the invasion plot is pushing at the boundaries of realism, the urban disintegration isn't – as Kaos found while it was researching locations. "A lot of America today has gotten into a scary state of dilapidation," says lead multiplayer designer, Erin Daly. "Just look at what's happened with Detroit. The amount of places that used to be bustling, vibrant cities ... The first part of our story is this big economic collapse. People are leaving the suburbs because there are no jobs, and fuel is so expensive it's just not practical to live there. Well, we had photographers going around, finding areas in America that are actually like that.""I wonder sometimes if we went too far," he continues. "We've done a lot of usability testing and I see a lot of kickback from average gamers playing early versions. Sometimes we get comments like, 'wow, this is so real, it's like fighting in the suburbs where I grew up!' But then occasionally we'll hear someone say, 'God, I hope there are some beautiful places left in this game, because this is really depressing…'"Homefront is interesting, too, on the complex reality of occupation. In the game, not every US citizen is involved with the resistance: some just want to stay out of trouble; others actively collaborate with the invading forces. Kaos studied military occupations all over the world, from second world war Europe to modern Africa; the designers wanted to give a decent sense of what happens when society collapses under external pressure. The other point is, it's not about America, not really. "Homefront could be anywhere," insists Votypka. "It's about defending your backyard, your family, your kids. It's not a flag-waving game about American patriotism. And with North Korea, we're not making a political statement – when you look at the regime there, they've been extremely 'vehement' with the west since the Korean war, so we're not painting them in any way that they haven't already painted themselves."Indeed, it looks as though there will be some darker set pieces exploring the xenophobia and paranoia that can lurk behind patriotism. At one point, you pass through an old school American survivalist camp somewhere in the midwest. "These are the guys who have been preparing for the end of the world since Y2K," says Votypka. "You see what they're doing to Koreans…" The implications – and complications – are obvious.I also ask about what's going on in the rest of the world, and whether it's represented in the game. Not in this instalment, apparently, but – if things go well – it won't be the end of the story. "We always looked at Homefront as a franchise and we plan to branch out on that a little bit," says Votypka. "It's in the backstory and we've written some fiction around it."We talk about possible scenarios. I suggest that it would be interesting to have European forces arriving. They could liberate the US – a provocative reversal of the second world war. "That would be cool," smiles Votypka. And with an almost imperceptible nod, he repeats, "That would be pretty cool…"See part two of our preview tomorrow and find out all about the game's interesting multiplayer mode• Homefront is released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 11 March
Theoutgoing chief executive of Google, Eric Schmidt, has announced a plan to hire more than 1,000 staff over the coming year to boost its European operation.Schmidt, speaking at the DLD conference in Germany today, said that the new recruits would be roughly split equally between technology and sales staff.The recruitment plan is aggressive, amounting to an increase of almost 20% on Google's existing 5,000 staff across Europe, the Middle East and Africa."We had a very, very good year and a very strong quarter," said Schmidt, referring to Google'sfourth-quarter profits of $2.54bn."We looked at this year and in particular our prospects for growth in Europe, and our businesses globally are doing well, both our core business as well as our adjacent businesses, our 'hockey stick' businesses as we call them. It's all very, very good. We are going to invest in Europe," he added.Last week the company announced that the 55-year-old Schmidt will take the role of executive chairman on 4 April, handing day-to-day control to co-founder Larry Page after leading the company's massive growth in the past decade.Yesterday Google announced that as he steps down as chief executiveSchmidt will receive $100m (£62m) in stock and optionsthat cannot be cashed in fully for four years."I think my next decade at Google will be even more interesting than the first," he said. "Technology will finally start doing what we want, instead of us telling technology what we want it to do."Google's plans to ramp up its European operations, parts of which are in theearly stages of being investigated by the European Commission, follows Facebook announcing that its Europe, Middle East and Africaheadquarters in Dublin would be expanded by 100 staff.The juggernaut-like success of the two companies contrasts with that of respective rivals Yahoo,which last month announced 700 staff would be cut, and MySpace, which earlier this month announced thatalmost half of its 1,000 remaining employees are to be axed.
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur for analysis and discussion about the biggest tech business headlines to hit the web-waves.This week, it's all change at the top as Google and Apple change their chief executives. Charles talks the team through the implications for the companies and for the financial sector. Does Larry Page have what it takes to bring Google to the next level? And what will happen to Apple when Steve Jobs decided his medical leave isn't temporary anymore? Will the cult of Steve translate into another Apple cult of personality?Jemima explains to the team why a digital media content company responsible for overseeing the distribution of pictures of cute cats with silly captions (and other internet fads) managed to scrape together a whopping $30m in investment, and what the dramatic cuts at the BBC mean for the future of public service content online.Charles explains the success behind the search-and-answer personalised crowdsourcing services such as Quora and Yahoo! Answers, getting tips from Stack Overload's Joel Spolsky for how to do it right, and how to keep the spammers out.Listen to an interview with location-based social search company Aardvarkfrom last year, and check out ourcoverage of Quora.It's a jam-packed week of news from the technology team at the Guardian.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The king of psychological survival horror is back. Konami has announced a release date for Silent Hill: Downpour, the latest title in the long-running series of supernatural shock-fests. Due out this autumn on PS3 and Xbox 360, the action revolves around Murphy Pendleton, whose prison bus crashes in woodland outside the eponymous resort. Silent Hill, we are reminded, is the place, 'where seedy pasts and uncertain futures unify to create to a terrifying present.' Isn't that Hemel Hempstead's town motto?Anyway, Pendleton is left seemingly alone to trudge into a Silent Hill that is, apparently, 'expansive, yet claustrophobic'. Konami has released screenshots of two locations – The Diner and The Devil's Pit – and has taken the interesting step of revealing some of the soundtrack, which has been written, not by series regular Akira Yamaoka, but by composer Daniel Licht, who scored serial killer series, Dexter. We can also expect to see the south eastern edge of the town, where no Silent Hill game has ventured before.The big question, of course, is – can Konami bring its 'franchise' back to the creepy majesty of the first three titles?Silent Hill 1 thrilled through its deliberatly obtuse setting and that terrifying radio that belched out static whenever monsters stumbled near. Silent Hill 2 expanded on the scenario, adding a tale of psychosexual guilt so dark and twisted, the Eastenders scriptwriters would have thought twice (before making it darker – and more implausible). And Silent Hill 3 put vulnerable teen Heather Morris into the vortex, cranking up the sense of transgressive terror. After this, the plotting started to get more confused as the writer's suffocated on the legacy of the series. The likes of Homecoming, Shattered Memories and Origin wereokay, just devoid of the gruesomely imaginative Freudian nightmares that splattered the original trilogy.There are certainly moves to tie in Downpour with the early titles. Weapons are confined to objects found around the environments – bottles, furniture, axes, etc – and the emphasis seems to be on weird puzzles and bizarre monsters. In Konami's E3 press release, the company mentioned that, "players will also be presented with variable side quests that will change depending on the user's play style, revealing further unknown evils within the town." So there's possibly a moral angle too.But in the aftermath of Heavy Rain (surely the titular similarities can't be lost on Konami?) and Alan Wake, do we need another unreconstructed Silent Hill adventure? Has Pyramid Head still got it?
Evgeny Morozov's The Net Delusion is the first book from the Belarusian-born foreign policy writer and blogger. Morozov has built a reputation as a sharp and sometimes caustic critic of the internet and "cyber-utopianism" and Net Delusion expands the arguments he's made elsewhere. I read my review copy with interest; I like Evgeny – the times we've met and corresponded, he's struck me as smart and committed.At its core, there is some very smart stuff indeed in The Net Delusion. Morozov is absolutely correct when he forcefully points out that technology isn't necessarily good for freedom – that it can be used as readily to enslave, surveil, and punish as it can to evade, liberate and share.Unfortunately, this message is buried amid a scattered, loosely argued series of attacks on a nebulous "cyber-utopian" movement, whose views are stated in the most general of terms, often in the form of quotes from CNN and other news agencies who are putatively summing up some notional cyber-utopian consensus. In his zeal to discredit this ideology (whatever it is), Morozov throws whatever he's got handy at anyone he can find who supports the idea of technology as a liberator, no matter how weak or silly his ammunition.The role of TwitterMorozov begins with an effort to set the record straight on the role of Twitter in the recent Iranian elections. Twitter was widely reported as crucial to the on-the-ground oppositional effort in Iran, but subsequently, it became clear that Iranians in Iran are only peripherally involved with Twitter, though they used many other network tools and these were, indeed central to the reaction to the Iranian election.Morozov then thoroughly documents the fact that many of the three million Iranian expats are indeed active on Twitter, and that their traffic, along with sympathetic messages from non-Iranian users, made the Iranian election and its aftermath into major phenomena on Twitter.He also documents the close connections that these expats have with their families in Iran, using other tools such as Facebook. But then he fails to conclude from this that the news from Twitter may have jumped to Facebook (and vice versa) through these Iranians abroad, instead choosing to portray the roaring traffic of millions of Iranian expats on Twitter as being so isolated from their close relations on Facebook as to be practically irrelevant.But not entirely irrelevant. Morozov goes on to quote Golnaz Esfandiari, a Radio Free Europe Iran correspondent, in "deploring Twitter's pernicious complicity in allowing rumours to spread" in Iran during the crisis. I was shocked to read this in Morozov's work: how could Twitter be "complicit" in spreading rumours – did Esfandiari or Morozov expect internet services to pro-actively censor user contributions before allowing them to go live on their networks? And if so, did Morozov believe that Twitter would be better at supporting internet freedom if it appointed itself an censor?I was so baffled by this that I emailed Morozov to ask what, exactly, the reader was supposed to make of it. Morozov told me that he thought that Esfandiari had been speaking loosely; she meant that Twitter's users were "complicit" in spreading rumours. This is certainly better, but without some evidence that Twitter is uniquely suited to spreading false rumours, it's hardly an indictment of Twitter, leaving me wondering why it's in the book at all, especially as Morozov spent the previous pages arguing that nothing from Twitter made its way into Iran — unless it's part of the throw everything and see what sticks approach to discrediting "cyber-uptopians". And I think it is: later, Morozov blames "internet culture" for the "persistence of many urban myths," a profoundly weird idea, given that scholars of urban myths such as Jan Brunvand have found that many of today's urban legends originate in the middle ages and have proven amply fecund without the need for the internet as a breeding medium.Technology and revolutionMorozov is skeptical of technology's capacity to foment revolution and spread democracy. Free access to information isn't necessary or even important to toppling corrupt regimes, he says — this is a shibboleth of Reaganites and their sentimental view of Samizdat, Radio Free Europe and other cold war information efforts. The Soviet Union didn't fall because of political organising, brave dissidents, or photocopied zines – it fell because it was a badly run nightmare that lurched from crisis to crisis until it imploded.Indeed, free access to foreign media – such as was enjoyed by citizens of the GDR who were able to tune into West German broadcasts – often acted to diffuse anti-authoritarian sentiment, anaesthetising East Germans with such efficiency that even the Stasi came to sing the praises of decadent western TV.Ironically, Morozov here agrees – unwittingly perhaps, but vigorously – with his ideological opponents such as Clay Shirky, the NYU professor whom Morozov singles out for a great deal of condemnation. Shirky's work – most recently The Cognitive Surplus – comes to exactly the same conclusion about traditional western media, especially TV. Shirky holds that TV served primarily to numb us to the crushing boredom that accompanied the surge of leisure time that arose in the early days of the information age. In Shirky's view, the internet is exciting precisely because it is the antidote to that passive viewing experience, a mechanism for luring people into participation through a series of ever-greater commitments.Regulation and controlMorozov doesn't engage this argument in any depth, though. Indeed, when he finally addresses the internet on its own, separate from mobile phone networks, 40-year-old TV broadcasts, and other media, he does so only to scoff at "technology gurus" who "reveal their own historical ignorance" when they engage in "quasi-religious discourse about the power of the internet". He supports this caricature with a few of the dumbest quotes cherry-picked from the last two decades of "internet discourse," but neatly ignores all the serious work on the history of the net as distinct from other media – notably, he fails to mention or address the arguments raised in Timothy Wu's excellent The Master Switch that was published last year.Wu, a law and communications scholar, carefully and devastatingly traces out the history of media regulation in response to potential decentralisation of communications oligarchies and monopolies, and places the internet in a context that establishes its credentials as a genuinely novel phenomenon. Morozov knows that the internet is different, of course — he even says so, discussing the way that the net can mimic and overtake other media, and the problems this creates.This failure to engage with the best thinking and writing on the subject of the internet's special power to connect and liberate is Net Delusion's most serious demerit. When Morozov talks about the security risks arising from dissidents' use of Facebook – which neatly packages up lists of dissidents to be targeted by oppressive nations' secret police – he does so without ever mentioning the protracted, dire warnings of exactly this problem that have come from the "cyber-utopian" vanguard as embodied by groups such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, NetzPolitik, Knowledge Ecology International, Bits of Freedom, Public Knowledge, and dozens of other pressure groups, activist organisations and technical projects around the world.Indeed, there is hardly any mention at all of history's most prominent internet freedom fighters, such as the venerable cypherpunks movement, who have spent decades building, disseminating and promoting the use of cryptographic tools that are purpose-built to evade the kind of snooping and network analysis he (rightly) identifies as being implicit in the use of Facebook, Google and other centralised, private tools to organise political movements.Though Morozov is correct in identifying inherent security risks in the use of the internet by dissidents, his technical analysis is badly flawed. In arguing, for example, that no technology is neutral, Morozov fails to identify one crucial characteristic of cryptographic systems: that it is vastly easier to scramble a message than it is to break the scrambling system and gain access to the message without the key.Outsmarting the secret policePractically speaking, this means that poorly resourced individuals and groups with cheap, old computers are able to encipher their messages to an extent that they cannot be deciphered by all the secret police in the world, even if they employ every computer ever built in a gigantic, decades-long project to force the locks off the intercepted message. In this sense, at least, the technological deck is stacked in favour of dissidents – who have never before enjoyed the power to hide their communiques beyond the reach of secret police – over the state, who have always enjoyed the power to keep secrets from the people.Morozov's treatment of security suffers from further flaws. It is a truism among cryptographers that anyone can design a system so secure that he himself can't think of a way of breaking it (this is sometimes called "Schneier's Law" after cryptographer Bruce Schneier). This is why serious information security always involves widespread publication and peer-review of security systems. This approach is widely accepted to be the best, most effective means of identifying and shoring up defects in security technology.And yet, when Morozov recounts the tale of Haystack, a trendy, putatively secure communications tool backed by the US state department that was later found to be completely insecure, he accepts at face value the  Haystack creator's statement that his tool was kept secret because he didn't want to let Iranian authorities reverse-engineer its workings (real security tools work even if they have been reverse-engineered).Instead, Morozov focuses his criticism on the "release early, release often" approach to free and open source software, and mocks the aphorism "with enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow," though if these had been applied to Haystack, it would have been revealed as a failure long before it got into the hands of Iranian activists. Here, Morozov is as wrong as he could possibly be: if you want to develop secure tools to allow dissidents to communicate beneath the noses of oppressive regimes, you must widely publish the workings of these tools and revise them frequently as your peers identify new vulnerabilities in them.Morozov would have done well to familiarise himself with the literature and arguments of technologists who care and think about this stuff (the closest he comes to engaging with these people is to mock EFF founders Mitch Kapor for comparing the internet to Jeffersonian discourse and John Perry Barlow for penning A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace). Some of the world's most ingeniously paranoid experts have spent 20-plus years thinking up plausible technological nightmare scenarios, all of which are more frightening than Morozov's efforts, which include the bizarre speculation that secret police might someday soon have technology to isolate individual voices out of recordings of thousands of chanting demonstrators and match them to an identity database.Watching the watchersThe picture Morozov paints of information security is misleadingly static. Noting that the web has allowed an alarming amount of surveillance by commercial actors such as ad-networks, Morozov concludes that this kind of tracking will come to the world's censorious, spying governments. But internet users who perceive a threat from advertisers face few difficulties in limiting this spying with ad blockers and the like. Lamentably, relatively few people take advantage of these countermeasures, but to assume that dissidents in oppressive regimes will have the same sanguine trust of their governments that punters have towards Google's tracking cookies is a rather titanic leap. In Morozov's analysis, your vulnerability on the web remains the same whether you're in a friendly or adversarial relationship to the site you're visiting or the snoop you're worrying about.Morozov is also willing to assume an improbable mien of credulity when it suits his argument – for example, he worries that the Chinese government proposed to install a mandatory censorware program on every PC called Green Dam, even though this move was ridiculed by security experts around the world, who correctly predicted that it would be a dismal failure (if censorware can't prevent your 12-year-old from looking at porn, it won't stop educated Chinese internet users from finding out about Falun Gong). Meanwhile, Morozov completely fails to report that the entertainment industry's plan to use "trusted computing" systems to control your use of your PC and internet connection presents a much more credible and subtler threat to the internet's freedom.Morozov isn't alone in his mistaken views about internet security — as he points out, the west's diplomatic apparatus is riddled with willfully stupid, wishful thinking about technology. China expert Rebecca MacKinnon – who is cited throughout Net Delusion – has railed at technologists' and diplomats' stubborn focus on penetrating censoring firewalls (such as the "Great Firewall of China"), while ignoring the much graver and subtler risks to liberty employed by Beijing's politburo. If the point of Net Delusion is to get the diplomatic corps to listen to a different set of wonks, or get the popular press to report more precisely on the capabilities of technology, that's admirable, I suppose. But I think Morozov is hoping to address people outside of Whitehall, Brussels and the DC Beltway here – it seems to me that he's hoping the whole world will stop looking to technology as a force for liberation, and instead trust in – what?I'm not sure. It seems that Morozov wants to see the chaos of popular, grassroots movements replaced with a kind of orderly, top-down style of regimented activism led by intellectuals whose thoughts can't be pithily expressed in 140-character tweets. Whether or not Morozov sees himself as one of those intellectuals is never explicitly stated.The question of serious discourse in the age of the internet is an important one, and here Morozov tries to bolster his technical arguments with ideological ones. In Morozov's view, the internet is merely the latest instalment in a series of communications technologies that spread trivia, gossip and inanity, crowding out serious thought and reflection. He's hardly the first to observe that fast-paced media leads to quick, flitting thought-processes; Morozov cites Neil Postman's 1985 Amusing Ourselves to Death, but he may as well have cited Thoreau's Walden: "We are eager to tunnel under the Atlantic and bring the Old World some weeks nearer to the New; but perchance the first news that will leak through into the broad, flapping American ear will be that the Princess Adelaide has the whooping cough."'The internet will make us stupid'Which is to say, intellectuals have been bemoaning the trivialising effect of mass media forever – I don't see an enormous gap between the church argument against Martin Luther – allowing the laity to read the Bible will trivialise theology – and Thoreau, Postman and Morozov arguing that the internet will make us stupid by exposing us to too many "LOLCats".But as Clay Shirky has pointed out, there is a crucial difference between hearing about Princess Adelaide's health by telegraph or watching the cast of Dallas act out their intrigues on TV and doing "LOLCats" on the net: namely, that anyone can make a "LOLCat" and disseminate it to the world. That is, the internet has the capacity to be participatory in a fashion that no other medium has ever approximated: anyone with a manifesto or exposé can make it widely available. It's true that in a world in which anyone can publish, it's harder to know what to pay attention to, but it's silly to argue that freedom would be better served if 90% of the world was forced to remain silent so that their intellectual betters would have a clear channel in which to educate the rest of us.And yet, Morozov makes the ease of publishing online into a vice. First, because the trivia drowns out the serious; second, because anti-democracy nationalist crazies can use the net to fuel hatred and intolerance; and lastly, because the old hardship involved in political organising was itself a means of honing your commitment – the risks and privation associated with dissident activity hardened dissidents' resolve.It's true that the internet has put more trivia at our fingertips than ever before, but that's only because it has put more of everything at our fingertips. It has never been simpler to publish, read and participate in serious and weighty discourse than it is today. And while there may be a hundred (or a thousand) trivial Twitterers for every thoughtful, serious blog like Crooked Timber there are more outlets for serious discussion on blogs, message boards, video services, and yes, Twitter discussions than ever before in the entire history of the human race.It's tempting to look at all this diversity and see an echo chamber in which people of the same narrow views get together and vigorously agree with each other, but a cursory glance at the heated debate that is the internet's signature rhetorical style militates against it. Besides, if we're all confined to echo chambers consisting of nothing but a narrow slice of public life, how is it that all this trivia – funny YouTube videos, fascinating popular press clippings, and links to the weird and unusual – keep ending up on our screens? (Morozov tries to have his cake and eat it too here, warning that we are both in danger of being drowned out by random trivia and that the echo-chamber effect will end "serendipitous news discovery").I'm less concerned that Morozov with the fact that the net has provided a home for authoritarian kooks, hyper-nationalist racists and mobs of violent, censorious loonies. People who believe in free speech should not be distressed by the fact that others use the freedom of expression to express bad, wicked or stupid things; as the free expression mantra goes: "The answer to bad speech is more speech."Advocating freedomAnd here is another way in which the internet isn't neutral, but rather, tilted in favour of freedom's advocates. Powerful governments have always had the capacity to control public discourse through censorship, official media, deception, agents provocateurs, and other means overt and covert. The novel thing about Russian oligarchs using the internet to propagandise is that they are forced to do so using a medium that their ideological opponents are also able to exploit. In the Soviet era, dissidents confined themselves to whispers and hand-copied samizdat; today, their descendants are able to go head-to-head and toe-to-toe with the state's propagandists on the same internet, one link away. And yes, this is risky business, but the risk isn't new (and the creation and refinement of open peer-reviewed anonymity tools opens up new possibilities for minimising the risk) – the new thing is the replacement of unidirectional propaganda vehicles such as TV (whether broadcasting Eastern or Western messages) with a new medium that allows any message to be placed alongside any other through powerful concepts such as the hyperlink.I share with Morozov a sense of irony in the use of the internet by radical Islamists to decry freedom, but while Morozov finds it ironic that the tools of freedom can be used to espouse censorship, I find it ironic that would-be censors rely on universal access one of the hardest-to-censor media yet devised to make their point.As to the question of privation as being key to hardening activists' commitment, I'm confident that for every task that is automated by the internet, new, difficult-to-simplify tasks will well up to take their place. As a lifelong political activist, I remember the thousands of person-hours we used to devote to putting up flyposters, stuffing envelopes, and running telephone trees simply to mobilise people for a protest, petition or public meeting (Morozov minimises the difficulty of this, asserting, for example, that Iranians would just find out, by word of mouth, about demonstrations, regardless of their tools – which leads me to suspect that he never tried to organise a demonstration in the pre-internet era). I'm sure that if we'd been able to get the word out to thousands of people with the click of a mouse, we wouldn't have hung up our placards and called it a day; that drudge work absorbed the lion's share of our time and our capacity to think up new and exciting ways to make change.Besides, Morozov can't have it both ways: on the one hand, he sounds the alarm about extremist and nationalist groups who are organised and motivated by the internet to take gruesome action; a few pages later, he tells us that the internet allows for such simple action that no one will be stirred to leave their house and do something substantial.Morozov observes the hundreds of thousands – millions, even – of people who are motivated to take some small step in support of a cause, such as changing their Twitter avatar or signing an online petition and concludes that the ease of minimal participation has diffused their activist energy. I look at the same phenomenon and compare it to the activist world I knew before the internet, in which the people who could be coaxed into participating in political causes were more apt to number in the hundreds or thousands, and reflect on the fact that every committed, lifelong activist I know started out as someone who took some small casual step and went on to greater and deeper involvement, and I conclude that the net is helping millions of people wake up to the fact that they can do something about the causes they care about and that some fraction of those people will go on to do more, and more, and more.The liberating power of technologyThe Net Delusion's most peculiar thesis is that the west's confidence in technology's liberating power has alerted dictators who were previously uninterested in controlling the internet, and made the internet harder to use for spreading freedom. Morozov cites the Iranian authorities' response the US state department's over-the-top claims about the role of Twitter in the post-election demonstrations as an exemplar. In Morozov's view, Iran's powerful politicians were largely unconcerned about the net until the Americans told them that it would be their downfall, whereupon they took it upon themselves to turn the internet into a tool for spying on and propagandising to their citizens.Morozov then mentions various leaders, such as Hugo Chávez, who made use of the US rhetoric in their own internet projects.He also accuses Andrew McLaughlin, deputy chief technical officer of the US government, of giving ammunition to the world's dictators by publicly calling out America's telecoms companies for engaging in covert censorship of their networks, because this allowed dictators to justify their own policies.This may be Net Delusion's most bizarre moment: condemning an American politician for bravely fighting against censorship at home because foreign dictators will be comforted to know that they're not the only ones engaged in censorship. I find it hard to believe that Morozov genuinely wants the west's politicians to turn a blind eye to censorship at home lest the news of the west's imperfection should reach hostile ears.In the same breath, Morozov warns us that dictators aren't fools or madmen, but rather, extremely clever and technically accomplished politicians. I think he's right — the western caricature of dictatorships as thuggish, lurching idiocracies just doesn't match up with the technical and social accomplishments of these states – and that's why I think he's wrong about dictators' relationship to the internet. Power arises directly from mechanisms for communicating and organising, and the internet has been around for long enough for every successful autocrat to take notice of this fact. I find the suggestion that Iran's ruling elite only woke up to the power of the internet when the US state department publicly asked Twitter to change its maintenance rota (so as not to interfere with tweets related to Iran's election) to be as ridiculous as the state department's own overconfidence in the role of Twitter in influencing foreign politics. Activists who have paid attention to the way that authoritarian states interfere in their citizens' use of the internet know that the suspicion of – and greed for – the internet's power has festered in the world's dictatorships for as long as the internet has been in the public eye.The real problem with Morozov's exposé of "net-utopians" is that it bears no resemblance to the movement I know intimately and have been a part of for a decade. Where Morozov describes people who see the internet as a "deterministic one-directional force for either global liberation or oppression," or "refusing to acknowledge that the web can either strengthen rather than undermine authoritarian regimes," I see only straw-men, cartoons drawn from CNN headlines, talking head sound bites from the US administrative branch, and quips from press conferences.Everyone I know in this movement – from donors to toolsmiths to translators to front-line activists to UN wonks – knows that the internet presents a risk as well as an opportunity. But unlike Morozov, these people have a program for minimising the risks arising from internet use (which is why there is so much campaign activity around the privacy and censorship problems arising from proprietary software, social networking services, and centralised data-collection systems such as Google) and maximising its efficacy as a tool for liberation, through the development of software and training that provides better anonymity, better communications security, and even abstract tools like zero-knowledge networking system that allow for the broad dissemination of information among large groups of people without revealing their identities.Morozov is right to assert that the west's politicians have a simplistic view of the internet's relationship to foreign policy, but this isn't merely a foreign policy problem – the same politicians have fantastically failed to come to grips with the internet's implications for copyright, free speech, education, employment, and every other subject of import. Morozov is right that cold war metaphors like "Great Firewall" obscure as much as they illuminate (The Net Delusion would be worth the price alone for its brilliant assertion that dictatorships use "fields" as much as "walls" in their internet strategies, which need to be "watered" rather than "strengthened" or "demolished").But in his zeal to awaken policy-makers to the nuance and non-technical aspects of foreign policy, he is sloppy and lazy. He asserts that ihe Internet is different from a samizdat-era fax machine, because the internet is useful to oppressors and oppressed alike – though I've never met a bureaucrat who didn't love his fax.And though Morozov wants us to know that "Tweets don't topple governments, people do," he later blithely asserts that the Soviet bloc disintegrated of its own accord, not because of people, who were beside the point of the great and inevitable sweep of history. Morozov may believe that this was true of the USSR, but given how much of the rest of the book is devoted to the plight of dissidents on the ground, I think it's safe to say that even Morozov would agree with himself that some of the time, people play a role in the toppling of authoritarian regimes.In this project, dissidents require systems of communication and organisation. Every human endeavour that requires more than one person's effort has to devote a certain amount of resources to the problem of coordination: the internet has greatly simplified this problem (think again of the hours activists used to spend simply addressing postcards with information about an upcoming demonstration). In so doing, it has provided a disproportionate benefit to dissidents and outsiders (who, by definition, have fewer resources to start with) than it has to the incumbent and powerful (who, by definition, have amassed enough power to squander some of it on coordination and still have enough left over to rule).The internet makes it possible for more people to speak and participate, which, inevitably, means that protest movements will have a more diffuse set of goals than was common in the era of top-down, authoritarian revolutions. But Morozov romanticises the consensus of revolutions gone by – whether it was 1776, 1914 or 1989, every successful revolution is a fragile coalition of conflicting interests and views, held together by the common desire to abolish the old system, even if there was no consensus on what to replace it with.Meanwhile, the internet has become so integral to the daily functioning of the world's states that it's hard to credit Morozov's fear that in the event of a real revolutionary threat, governments will simply pull the plug. As Morozov himself points out, Burma's brutal junta kept the internet running day after day during its brutal crackdown on political riots, despite the global black eye it received courtesy of the reports that emerged thanks to the net; China depends so much on the net for its internal functioning that it's impossible to contemplate a national net shutdown (and even the regional shutdowns such as the one in Xinjiang province during the Uighur unrest are notable by dint of being such a rarity).The world needs more people seriously engaged with improving the lot of activists who make use of the net (that is, all activists). We need to have a serious debate about tactics such as the Distributed Denial of Service – flooding computers with bogus requests so that they can't be reached – which some have compared to sit-in demonstrations. As someone who's been arrested at sit-ins, I think this is just wrong. A sit-in derives its efficacy not from merely blocking the door to some objectionable place, but from the public willingness to stand before your neighbours and risk arrest and bodily harm in service of a moral cause, which is itself a force for moral suasion. As a tactic, DDoS has more in common with filling a business's locks with super glue, or cutting its phone lines – risky, to be sure, but closer to vandalism and thus less apt to convince your neighbours to look sympathetically on your cause.We need to fix the mobile internet, which – thanks to closed networks and devices – is more amenable to surveillance and control than the fixed-line variety. We need to fight the move – driven by entertainment companies and IT giants such as Apple and Microsoft – to design devices to work covertly and without the consent of their owners in the name of protecting copyright.We need to pay heed to Jonathan Zittrain (another scholar whom Morozov both dismisses and then later inadvertently agrees vigorously with), whose The Future of the Internet warns that the increase in crime, sleaze and fraud on the net will cause user fatigue and make people more willing to accept locked-down devices and networks that can be used to control, as well as protect them.We need all of this, and a serious critique and roadmap for the future of net activism, because the world's oppressive regimes (including supposedly free governments in the west) are availing themselves of new technology at speed, and the only way for activism to be effective in that environment is to use the same tools.
Ooh er, missus! St Valentine's Day is peeking its Hallmark around the corner, and let's face it: the real motivation behind the slew of over-the-counter sales of bushels of chocolate, fathoms of roses and sloths (or sleuths) of teddy bears is to get the object of your affection into the sack.And so, with the timeliness afforded to a fortnightly column, this week Untangling the Web is tackling the topic, S-E-X.Phowar.So how has the Web transformed our sexual intentions, interests and interludes? Has the proliferation of easy-access porn rendered us more or less randy? Have the compelling tales of a score of sex bloggers pushed back the boundaries of TMI? And what are the technologies that keep people, er, close when far away?Send in your evidence:aleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.ukon the email,@alekskon the Twitter or comment beneath this post. But keep it clean, people. Please. Keep it clean.
The controversial London-based law firm which sent tens of thousands of letters demanding payment from people it accused of illegal filesharing has dramatically quit its copyright litigations, claiming death threats are causing "immense hassle" to the lead solicitor's family.Andrew Crossley, the founder and lead solicitor at ACS:Law, announced in a statement to the patents county court in London yesterday afternoon that his firm would no longer be chasing alleged copyright infringers."I have ceased my work. I have been subject to criminal attack. My emails have been hacked. I have had death threats and bomb threats," Crossley said in the statement, read to the court by barrister Tim Ludbrook, who is acting on behalf of copyright licensee MediaCAT. "It has caused immense hassle to me and my family."ACS:Law is at the centre of a long-running row over its method of so-called "speculative invoicing", where thousands of generic letters are sent to internet users it suspects of illicit filesharing. The Solicitors Regulation Authority is currently investigating its practices ashundreds of the accused claim to have been wrongly identified.In September last year, the personal details of thousands of Britons wereleaked onlineafter a crippling attack on ACS:Law's website. The details, including telephone numbers and addresses, surfaced online during a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack on the company's servers. The information commissioner ispresently investigating the data breachand could levy a £500,000 fine if ACS:Law is found to have held the information insecurely.Crossley's revelation came at the close of yesterday's patents county court hearing into 27 people accused of illegally sharing copyrighted pornography, of which MediaCAT is the exclusive licensee.Of the thousands of letters that ACS:Law has sent out to alleged infringers, these 27 cases are the only ones to be heard before a judge. ACS:Law attempted to drop the cases just days before its first court hearing earlier this month, but was told that it first needed the court's permission.Judge Birss QC called the situation "absolutely extraordinary", and said: "I am not happy about this. I get the distinct impression that at every twist and turn there is a desire to avoid judicial scrutiny."It seems to be first instinct to avoid judicial scrutiny. There's been thousands of letters, and only 27 cases have had to be dropped – I doubt that. Copyright infringement is a serious matter, but this is just mindboggling."The protracted hearings have been further complicated by the recent emergence of a separate law firm issuing similar payment demands on behalf of MediaCAT, known as GCB Ltd. ACS:Law claims to have no connection with GCB Ltd, other than two of its former employees founded the newly established law firm.Judge Birss said he had considered banning ACS:Law's client, MediaCAT, from sending any more payment demands until its claims and claimants are clarified. "It would be an extraordinary order to make," he added. "But these are extraordinary circumstances".The patents court is expected to rule later this week on whether ACS:Law should be allowed to discontinue the cases, and whether the copyright owner – understood to be Sheptonhurst, the owner of the UK's biggest sex shop chain, Private – has to join proceedings as a claimant.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft is prepping its partners making or selling Windows 7 tablets - the unloved lonely hearts of the tablet world - in how to pitch to enterprises and, more importantly, how to position their products in opposition to the iPad, even at businesses that have committed to using Apple's tablet. (The slew of Android tablets that have been released don't get a mention, it seems.)In a10-deck PowerPoint presentation released in December and leaked to Mary Jo Foley at ZDNet, Microsoft points to various questions that it reckons the iPad can't answer and Windows 7 tablets can: document DRM support, automated application delivery, "choice in hardware" (as in, different makers), Flash and Silverlight support, peripheral support, videoconferencing, enterprise support, "design change request" options and easy integration with "existing access, authentication, policy and single sign-on infrastructure".For Microsoft, Apple's iPad certainly is a problem for the entry of Windows 7 tablets in the enterprise: Apple said in its latest earnings call that 80% of the Fortune 500 are testing or deploying iPads, and that 60% of FTSE 100 companies are testing or deploying.Foley, ZDNet's Microsoft writer,points outthat the deck doesn't include any reference to Windows Phone 7, despite the fact that it does have the potential to be enterprise-class, and has an interface that looks - to everyone but Microsoft, apparently, where executives have repeatedly and pointedly ignored it - like it would work well on tablets as well as smartphones.It doesacknowledge"what customers are telling us about the iPad" includes the appeal of its form factor, long battery life and intuitive interface" and that it's end-user interest that's driving adoption (a new model for Microsoft, one suspects), and that its form factor is "driving new LOB [line-of-business, ie specialist] app in some industry verticals". It's "optimized for consumption of data, poor for data creation" and has "limited enterprise manageability, security, hardware and support." It's a balanced evaluation.At this point the deck becomes less coherent, withquartered graphics that don't mean anything(Windows tablets apparently are ideal both for content consumptionandcreation, and for onlineandoffline use), withproductivity across the content creation/production spectrum(we're not sure how that works).It moves on to a "call to action" for companies that are not committed to the iPad, which includes "engage with OEMs to learn their roadmaps of Windows-based slate devices". Given the tiny number of such devices, that wouldn't take too long - perhaps a day; if you were trying to find out the equivalent for Android tablets, better lay aside a month or so.For those companies which have plumped for iPads, and hence risk eating into Microsoft's share, it suggests "implement a VDI [virtual desktop infrastructure] infrastructure to reduce risk in your enterprise" - a wise move at any time - though there's no suggestion that any dirty tricks be employed. On its face, it's a useful evaluation of the problems that enterprises could face in trying to implement iPad use if their infrastructure is presently dependent on Microsoft's products such as SharePoint.Some of thecomparisonsbetween iPads and Windows 7 devices are arguably going to be out of date soon - the iPad 2, expected some time in the next few months, is widely expected to include front and rear cameras, and hence videoconferencing in some form. Plus it doesn't deal with the big issue that Microsoft itself identified right at the top that the iPad does have, and Windows 7 tablets don't: long battery life. Sounds trivial, but matters to a lot of people. And the interface for Windows 7 may be familiar, but my own experience shows it really isn't ideal on a tablet.And that's before we get to the question of how - or when - Android tablets will start getting into the enterprise. Then it's going to be a real fight.
A quick burst of nine links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team25% of files downloaded from The Pirate Bay are fakes &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"A huge dataset from popular BitTorrent search engines The Pirate Bay and Mininova showed that antipiracy agencies managed to upload an amazing 30 percent of all files in the study group (which comprised 55,000 top files shared by 35 million IP addresses). And these files weren't simply ignored by users; even taking the countermeasures deployed by search sites and their users into account, fake files made up 25 percent of actual user downloads."Windows Phone 7 Feature Availability Matrix &gt;&gt; Andrew Tech Help"Windows Phone 7 is available in many different countries across the world, but where you live depends on how much of the experience you are able to get. The 3 major features on the Windows Phone revolve around availability of online services and they are the Zune Marketplace, Xbox Live and Bing Local search. Microsoft has not made each of these 3 services available in every country that they are launching Windows Phone in and therefore have created a mess of what services are available on the phone in each country (with some countries even having partial access to some services)." Lots of gaps.Windows 7 and SSDs: just how fast are they? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott finds that an SSD (solid state disk) leads to read speeds about twice as fast as a rotating one. That accords with those we've had testing a Kingston SSD - review to follow.The Inside Story of How Facebook Responded to Tunisian Hacks &gt;&gt; The AtlanticTunisian ISPs scraped all customers' Facebook login details and began handing them over to Ben Ali's authorities, prompting Facebook to implement two quick-fix security measure, according to the Atlantic. If you stayed persistently logged in, you were safe – but if you logged in and out again your details were compromised.Keep your opt-outs &gt;&gt; Google Public Policy Blog"Today we are building on this work, and that of others, by allowing you to permanently opt out of ad tracking from all companies that offer opt-outs through the industry self-regulation programs. Keep in mind that once you install the Keep My Opt-Outs extension, your experience of online ads may change: You may see the same ads repeatedly on particular websites, or see ads that are less relevant to you."So we grew 3400% last year &gt;&gt; Foursquare BlogFoursquare registers its 6,000,000th user, and nears its 400 millionth check in. And does a lovely infographic to spell it all out for us.Find and Understand Data &gt;&gt; DataMarket"100 million time series from the most important data providers, such as the UN, World Bank and Eurostat." Impressive, and interesting.Mapping London's Surnames &gt;&gt; Centre for Advanced Spatial AnalysisInteresting, using the 2001 census content. A more ambitious effort might look at mapping incomes and other details; there's a huge treasury of data to be worked with.iPhone sells 16.2M in Q4, Apple barely misses out title for 2nd Biggest Smartphone Maker 2010 &gt;&gt; Communities Dominate BrandsEx-Nokia man Tomi Ahonen tries to figure out how many iOS devices are actually being used, after Apple said 160m have been sold: "The number of 160 million is misleading, because Apple (of course) reports only their cumulative shipments, not the installed base, which is a smaller number. Similarly we could list Nokia as having shipped over 3 Billion phones haha, while their active user base is only about 1.3 Billion. We can safely assume all iPads are still in use but not all iPod Touch devices and certainly not all iPhones. I use the best info I can find, and my current model shows iPhone active installed base at 68 million, iPod Touch devices at 44 million and obviously all iPads in use ie 15 milllion. That gives the iOS family an active installed base of about 127 million (not 160 million)."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Others might celebrate Burns Night with haggis, neeps and tatties, Google has honoured the occasion in the only way it knows how – by wheeling out its latest Google doodle.While Robert Burns's birthday is mostly celebrated in his homeland of Scotland, it can be embraced by any lover of literature or offal.Google's doodle pays homage to his much-loved poem My love is like a red red rose, replete with drawing of the flower. Curious searchers clicking on the doodle are whisked to a Google search result for Robert Burns.Burns, born on 25 January 1759, rose from humble beginnings to become 'Scotland's favourite son', and his work is celebrated worldwide.Yesterday Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond marked the anniversary of the bard's birth by calling for all schoolchildren to visit the Robert Burns Birthplace Museum, dedicated to his life and work."This new museum cost £21 million, and it is worth every penny even in these tough times," Salmond said. "Not only will it quickly become one of the great tourist attractions in Scotland, but our ambition is that every school child in the country will have the opportunity to visit and be touched by Robert Burns."He said early supporters of Burns had helped make him a world-renowned poet, adding: "These supporters, living in small towns, were literate, educated, interested in new ideas - because Scotland then as now had a system of free education."You see the most important thing about Robert Burns, is not that he was a heaven taught ploughman who was struck by a bolt of lightning one day in the fields and started to produce inspired poetry."The most important thing about Robert Burns is he was an educated man. And the most important thing about Scotland is that Scotland then was the only country in the world where somebody of Burns' status in life would have been an educated man. And that is why we must always preserve the right to free education in this country."
Not so long ago, horror games relied predominantly on suggestion as the device for inducing terror in their audience. The cinematic and psychologically provocative "survival horror" titles of the 1990s scared by holding back. It was what they didn't show that was truly frightening and for some time that has remained a convention in game design.Dead Space 2, however, is unconcerned by its predecessors. Set in a sprawling city on one of Saturn's moons, this science-fiction adventure delivers a relentless barrage of brutality. From the opening chapter, pitching antihero Isaac Clarke into an escape from a blood-drenched mental health institute-cum-alien testing laboratory, it is clearDead Space&nbsp;2is neither understated nor subtle.Most of the gameplay centres on exploration and gun combat, with violent aliens known as Necromorphs as adversaries. The narrative makes for an engaging yarn and delivers enough detail for those who missed out on the firstDead Spaceto catch up quickly with the plot.Moving through the game, much of the contact with the screeching Necromorphs is at close quarters, and in combination with the violence and gore it makes for a jarring experience. But althoughDead Space 2's onslaught is aggressively effective, it's not without nuance or delicacy of design. The lighting and audio do a particularly good job of raising the heartbeat and are notable for their impeccable timing and implementation.The subplot, concerned with the protagonist's battle with insanity, is woven through the game with finely balanced potency and there are enough narrative twists to maintain suspense. While, in-play, Clarke's range of abilities, including telekinesis, is at first rather intimidating to exploit, the shooting sections quickly reveal themselves as a highlight. Thanks to tight game mechanics, the gunplay is hugely satisfying and evokes a sense of the precision of the lightgun arcade games that so few modern console releases manage to capture.Of course, in gaming the third-person shooter format is a little familiar, but here it's realised with such quality that it really doesn't detract. Working outside the genre's traditionsDead Space 2succeeds in being both immensely terrifying and action-packed. Do not miss it.
Google is to hand chief executive Eric Schmidt $100m (£62m) as he steps down from his top job at the company, according to a regulatory filing.Google announced today that Schmidt would be awarded the sum in stock and options that cannot be fully cashed in for four years. The move ties Schmidt to Google until 2015 and comes after some investors expressed worries about his exit.Last week Google co-founder Larry Page announced he was taking over as chief executive of the search company from April, with Schmidt becoming executive chairman in a move that shocked Wall Street and Silicon Valley. The 55-year-old, who joined the company in 2001, has been integral to growing Google into one of the most successful and powerful companies in the world.He resigned with a tweet saying that "adult supervision" was no longer needed at the company but analysts said the move may have been sparked by Google's slips in social media. Facebook is now the most visited website on the planet.Schmidt said in an interview with Reuters that his move was not a reaction to competitors but an effort to speed up decision-making at Google."It's important to remember that Schmidt is responsible for growing Google into the behemoth it is today," Beacon Equity Research analyst Dave Goodboy wrote in a note. "Although Larry Page and Sergey Brin created the company, it was Schmidt who ran the day-to-day operations during the massive growth. Even worse news hit the wire when it was announced that he plans on selling $335m in shares this year, his first sale in three years. Does this indicate that the top is in place for the search engine?"Other analysts were more positive. "We do not view Schmidt's new role as executive chairman and Page's new role as chief executive as negative developments. In our view, Schmidt very effectively spearheaded Google to become one of the largest and most innovative technology companies of our times and we expect Page to be an equally effective CEO of Google," wrote Sandeep Aggarwal, internet analyst at Caris&amp; Company.Although Schmidt, Page and Brin have received salaries of just $1 for years, the three are among the richest men on the planet as Google's controlling shareholders. Schmidt holds 9.2m Google shares worth $5.8bn.The $100m package is the first stock-based compensation that Schmidt has received since he took over as chief executive.Google has said the politically well-connected Schmidt will concentrate on government relations and other external issues after his move.But the New York Post reported Schmidt was also considering a second career as a chat show host and has been consulting with CNN. He reportedly filmed a pilot with producer Liza McGuirk that was "a complete disaster".Schmidt would not be the first media mogul to make the switch from boardroom to studio. Former Disney boss Michael Eisner had a chat show, Conversations with Michael Eisner, which was dropped after poor ratings.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 22 JanuaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)LittleBigPlanet 2(7+)PS3 (100)12 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (35)Wii (9)PC (3)113 (3)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)154 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (35)Wii (7)PSP (5)175 (7)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)106 (4)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)607 (–)Mass Effect 2(15+)PS3 (88)Xbox 360 (10)PC (3)148 (5)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)119 (8)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)910 (6)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (39)Wii (10)PC (2)10UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
My weekend was dominated by the PS3. I had a first go on the charming Little Big Planet 2. More thoughts on this soon. And then - finally! - I managed to get on DC Universe Online. Due to a corrupted data bug I hadn't been able to play since the game launched last week. This weekend saw a patch go live which looks to have fixed the problem.  From the brief time I could get on it the game looks good. The action seems more visceral and fluid than most MMOs and the characterisation options are impressive. The small font and slow menus could be an issue though.If you have played DC universe what do you think? Does it prove that MMOs really can work on consoles? If not, what else did you play this weekend?
Welcome to Monday's edition of Chatterbox ... but before you join in the chat, why not check out the details of our very firstGuardian Gamesblog Live event, hosted by our very own Keith Stuart. It's taking place on Saturday 19 February, and tickets are just £12 each.
Android device makers did indeed distribute code licensed to Oracle online, says software patents blogger Florian Mueller - and there is the possibility that Motorola, LG and Samsung might have included some of the code in their handsets, though he doesn't explicitly state that.The argument that has been going on since Mueller posted on Friday that he had found 43 files which apparently included content from Sun, since acquired by Oracle, goes on. On Friday, Mueller posted about it (aswe reported).Then other bloggers piled in, notably Ed Burnette at ZDNet and Ars Technica, offering rebuttals (though not, in Mueller's eyes, refutations).Now he's got more, and his own refutations. In apost from late on Sunday, Mueller writes:"Motorola offers some source code releases that contain both the decompiled security-related files I presented and the files marked as "PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL". I found them in the packages containing the source code of the Droid X, Droid 2 Global, and Droid Pro. If you follow those links, you can either download the entire package ("Download Release") or download specific packages. The decompiled files are in the dalvik.tar.gz package, and the "PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL" files are in the external_sonivox.tar.gz package."LG has the decompiled "acl" files in at least a couple of source availability packages. On the LG source code page you can search for particular devices. If you search for VS740 as the model number, you get a certain LG Ally model, and for LG509TN a certain LG Optimus T model."Samsung offers source availability packages on opensource.samsung.com. In the "mobile" section you can find all of the source releases for Samsung's Android-based phones and tablets. For some examples of source code packages containing the decompiled "acl" files, see the GT-P1000_OpenSource.zip file or GT-P1000_OpenSource_Update1.zip file (Galaxy Tab), SCH_R880_OpenSource.zip file (Samsung Acclaim), GT-I5800_OpenSource.tar file (Galaxy 3), SCH-I500_OpenSource.zip file (Samsung Fascinate), or the SPH-D700_OpenSource.zip file (Samsung Epic)."To the argument put up by others that he was somehow claiming these were in every Android device - that they'd been in the distro since its beginnings - Mueller points out simply that he didn't."It's problematic for those bloggers who dismissed my analysis that they didn't even talk about [the source code availability packages]. They just claimed that the related code never made it into any device. In order to prove that (which still wouldn't contradict the things I actually said), they would have to perform clearance for each and every Android device out there. Maybe they thought they had so much knowledge they didn't have to check the facts."It's knockabout stuff, but the key element, and questions, are still: is the code from Sun used without permission? And has it been distributed?Mueller points to part of Oracle's complaint against Google, which states that "In at least several instances, Android computer program code also was directly copied from copyrighted Oracle America code. For example, as may be readily seen in Exhibit J, [...]". His comment: "So the copyright infringement allegation is by no means limited to only one file (PolicyNodeImpl, which was presented in that Exhibit J). There will now be a comprehensive discovery process involving everything, and I have no doubt that at least some (if not all) of the files I presented will come up at that stage.."You can see theOracle-Google complaint.A final thought: some people think that Larry Ellison wants to destroy Android. My reading is that nothing could be further from the truth, if it has indeed infringed Oracle-owned copyright. What Ellison wants, instead, is for Android to become spectacularly successful and dominate the world - and for him to get a cut every time a manufacturer puts Android on its handset. Sort of like Windows for mobile. Given that there are going to be more smartphones than feature phones out there in a couple of years, Ellison could be the surprise victor in the smartphone market. Stranger things have happened, though we can't name them just at the moment.
A quick burst of seven links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Music Bay: Pirate Bay Crew Instill More Fear Into The Music Industry &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"The music industry can't even imagine what we're planning to roll out in the coming months. For years they've complained bitterly about piracy, but if they ever had a reason to be scared it is now," TorrentFreak was told. "It will be a special surprise for IFPI's 78th birthday, and we're thinking of organizing a huge festival in Rome where IFPI was founded."Google's Page brings change and questions &gt;&gt; Reuters"One day after Google's surprise announcement that Larry Page would once again run the company, investors and industry insiders were wondering if he is up to a now very different job."Digital Hubris &gt;&gt; I, CringelyRobert X Cringley writes about the idea of Apple doing a tablet: "For Apple, doing a tablet really isn't much of a gamble. Macs still dominate the graphic design market despite Adobe's recent switching of allegiances to the Windows camp.... Give artists a big tablet screen to draw on, add wireless networking and good battery life, then throw this all on top of a powerful and easy-to-use OS, and Apple can be assured of at least breaking-even. They will become must-have gizmos in graphics departments everywhere. It's Apple's BMW strategy all over again, and virtually guarantees at least modest success. "But Steve Jobs would prefer something more than just modest success. He wants to define a new product niche or, in this case, finally give practical definition to a niche that already exists, kinda-sorta." Now see if you can guess the year it was written.Researchers turn USB connection into attack vector &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThe headline on the story - and its first paragraph - are, simply, wrong: it's not the USB *cable* that contains the malware, but the device at either end. You can either connect a poisoned smartphone and take over a computer, or vice-versa. What's happened - in this theoretical exploit - is that the USB driver has been hacked to add keyboard and mouse capabilities to the connection. Not, emphatically, that someone has worked out how to store a program in a length of wire. Still, should make a good line in a film involving hacking. Next series of Spooks perhaps?Google search and search engine spam &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogMatt Cutts says that while "pure" spam in search results has fallen off, there are still problems: "As 'pure webspam' has decreased over time, attention has shifted instead to 'content farms', which are sites with shallow or low-quality content. In 2010, we launched two major algorithmic changes focused on low-quality sites. Nonetheless, we hear the feedback from the web loud and clear: people are asking for even stronger action on content farms and sites that consist primarily of spammy or low-quality content."Councils minimise IT cuts to drive through savings &gt;&gt; Computer Weekly"Cuts to IT budgets in local councils have been minimised in an attempt by local authorities to drive efficiency savings through technology, according to the latest report from Socitm. "Budgets made available for ICT functions declined by 2.6% in 2010 compare to the previous year, while borrowing to invest in ICT doubled. In 2009 budgets shrank by 11%. This year's figure was much less than expected, said the body for public sector IT professionals."Why Eric Schmidt had to go: Google's innovation dilemma &gt;&gt; Asymco"What I think is the most serious failure is that for the past five years Google has not addressed the possibility of search itself becoming commoditized. Social media and app economies are asymmetric to search. They make money in different ways and appear to be less efficient or effective means to reach users, but they are growing. Facebook has overtaken Google in terms of page views and apps are a new interaction model for cloud-based content that does away with the indexing model Google champions."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
This way. Or possible that. Photo byStéfanon Flickr.Some rights reservedIf you sawour postbased onFlorian Mueller's blogpostof Friday, which suggests that there is prima facie evidence of copyright infringement in Android 2.2 and 2.3, we have to tell you the story has moved on somewhat since then.But it hasn't clarified. Anything but.Over at ZDNet,Ed Burnette says that he has a complete rebuttalof Mueller ("who by the way is neither a lawyer nor a developer"):"There are two sets of files in question. The first set of 7 (PolicyNodeImpl.java, AclEntryImpl.java, AclImpl.java, GroupImpl.java, OwnerImpl.java, PermissionImpl.java, and PrincipalImpl.java) are in the unit test area of the source code tree. As any programmer will tell you, you don't ship your unit tests with your product. Unit tests are tools used internally to ensure the quality of the software before you ship it."The second set of 37 files is actually zipped up into one file called MMAPI.zip and tucked away in a directory used for native code audio drivers for one particular type of chip set.  Florian really had to go digging for this one. I double-checked the make files and it's clear this file is not shipped with Android either. Somebody uploaded it by mistake and it should simply be deleted."So, complete rebuttal, right? He even adds that Google has deleted the files from the Android repository as of 30 October 2010 and 14 January 2011. "The commit comment from developer Dan Bornstein reads "Remove pointless tests". You can still go back through the history to see the old versions. Sadly, while sensational articles like Engadget's and Mueller's will get splashed all over the web and lavished with thousands of views and hundreds of comments, the boring truth will rate no such attention."Mueller has in turn rebuffed this on Twitter: "Ed Burnette is just one of many ZDNet bloggers and he is wrong. I will however do a follow-up blog post, so stay tuned," hewroteon Saturday. (We await it still.)Engadget'scomeback, by Nilay Patel - who is aformer copyright attorney:"We'll just say this straight out: from a technical perspective, these objections are completely valid. The files in question do appear to be test files, some of them were removed, and there's simply no way of knowing if any of them ended up in a shipping Android handset. But -- and this is a big but -- that's just the technical story. From a legal perspective, it seems very likely that these files create increased copyright liability for Google, because the state of our current copyright law doesn't make exceptions for how source code trees work, or whether or not a script pasted in a different license, or whether these files made it into handsets."Head spinning yet? Let's just add some more rotational momentum withGroklaw's take(which started out to throw legalistically-inclined peanuts at the SCO v Linux case but has stayed on to throw them at pretty much anything else involving open source; it describesits missionas "an antiFUD site. We strive to present solid facts in rebuttal to attempts to smear FOSS with fear, uncertainty, and doubt (FUD), as well as to correct well-meaning but inaccurate portrayals of Linux, GNU/Linux and the FOSS community. In connection with that purpose, we are happy to answer any questions journalists may have or to help them find accurate facts, without any need for credit or attribution."Anyway, in "How Not to Get Snookered by Claims of "Proof" of Copyright Infringement" it has an enormously long post that asserts that claims of copyright made over a file aren't necessarily enforceable, and that if Google hasn't directly made any more from distributing Android that lessens any possible damages if it had infringed.To be honest, the Groklaw post isn't the most enlightening: it diverts into questions of what would happen if some of the code were licensed under GPLv3, which it isn't; Android is under Apache source licence 2.0, and Sun didn't released any code under GLP3 either. (Chris di Bona, Google's open source person,told me in 2006that the company didn't like GPL3 for various reasons.But there is one part in the Groklaw post that I think we can all agree with:"As discovery proceeds, at some point Oracle will tell us version, file and line information on all its claims, and what precisely it thinks was done wrong, and then the analysis can begin by the hired experts. Until that happens, no one at all can know whether anyone violated anybody's copyright as the law views it. That can be quite different from how a party views it, as SCO found out. After all their bold claims to the media, when it was time to get specific in court, the mountain of evidence simply evaporated. That can happen in the Oracle v. Google case too, and we'll just have to wait to find out the outcome down the road."Yes. That seems to sum it up very well.Update:and there'sanother followup from Mueller..
What happens when one idea meets another idea? They have idea sex. And, if the conditions are right, they go on to spawn lots of interesting, new baby ideas. That's the theory, at least, as expounded by the science writer Matt Ridley. Provide the right environment, and ideas breed.The point he made, in a talk delivered at last year'sTEDGlobal, the annual conference dedicated to "Ideas Worth Spreading", is that together we are far cleverer than even the very cleverest among us. The collective brain – which comprises all of our ideas, all together – is a powerful engine of human progress, the force that drives human innovation and leads to greater knowledge, better ideas, shinier technologies.And so, that's what we've done. We've taken the TED concept, which is all about finding brilliant speakers with something powerful to say and encouraging them to give "the talk of their lives",  and we've crossed it with theObserver. The result isTEDx Observer, a day of inspirational, thought-provoking, mind-expanding ideas on 19 March.We've called it "Where Inspiration Meets Action", and we'll have musical performances and short films as well as talks – none more than 18 minutes long – from scientists, actors, philosophers, campaigners, chefs and environmentalists. It's been designed to challenge, engage and inspire. And it's where, we hope,Observerreaders will come and have idea sex.TED started out 22 years ago as a high-powered ideas summit in California dedicated to "Technology, Entertainment and Design". It has grown to encompass everything else: education, economics, sustainability, how to solve global hunger. And, since it started uploading its talks onto ted.com four years ago, it's become an internet phenomenon: nearly half a million people a day watch a TED talk somewhere in the world.Because what it has done is bring a passion to the spreading of ideas. It's not alone, either: over the past decade, festivals and websites dedicated to discourse and debate have blossomed. In Britain alone, there's theDo Lectures(the Welsh "TED in a tent" in Pembrokeshire), Alain de Botton'sSchool of Life, theBristol Festival of Ideas, theBattle of Ideas, Editorial Intelligence'sNames Not Numbers,Interesting North,Interesting South, theCambridge Festival of Ideas, theDerby Festival of Ideas… and further afield there'sPopTech, theAspen Ideas Festival, theAdelaide Festival of Ideasor tryGoogle's Zeitgeist, or theSkoll World Forum, orDoSomething.org… and so on. That's a lot of ideas. Mating and breeding and bringing forth other ideas.TEDx  (where x = an independently organised event) is TED's latest big idea, launched just over a year ago. There have already been 1,000 events in 25 languages in 80 different countries. And there are 1,000 in the pipeline, including ours, TEDx Observer, the aim of which is to search out some of the new thoughts that will shape our future. Some of the speakers you will have heard of; some you won't. That's deliberate: we want to surprise you. All of them, however, have something important, interesting or provocative to say. And, of course, some of theObserver's own passions – and writers – will be there too, building on the paper's rich 219-year history of fostering debate and welcoming the widest possible range of ideas.Ideas such as: what's the secret of the world's best restaurant? Are women the future of Africa? Can dance change the way we think? Will larvae solve the world's fish crisis? Should we find new ways to measure happiness? What makes a video go viral? We'll have music, film, a west African singing legend, the man who pioneered drum'n'bass, a mathematical wunderkind, a Paralympic inspiration, an internet guru…But most of all we hope we'll have you. You, the readers, are the key to whether these ideas spread, or whether they wither and die. And, anyway, we want to meet you: in London, or at one of our free regional events, all hosted byObserverwriters. Because ideas are for everybody. And we want to share them.A TED event is only ever as good as its audience. It's not just about listening to speakers on a stage. It's about speaking to the person sitting next to you, meeting new people in the breaks or at the party after, talking, discussing, sharing the experience; and, dare we say it, just possibly having idea sex.•Book your ticket for TEDxObserver now
TheNew Yorkerrecently ran aterrific articleby Peter Maass about one of the most-reported moments in the Iraq war: thetoppling of the statue of Saddam Husseinin Firdos Square, opposite the Palestine Hotel in Baghdad. You will doubtless recall the TV footage – a mob of excited Iraqis, helmeted US marines, an M88 Hercules tow truck equipped with a crane, the noose around Saddam's neck, a gentle tug from the M88 and – bingo! – the evil dictator's likeness crashes to the ground. The Iraqis gather round, shouting exultantly and slapping the brazen head with their shoes.The message was clear: the Iraqis welcomed their liberation – and their liberators. The neocon mantra about US forces being greeted with flowers by a grateful populace was right after all. Job done; next step democracy.Er, not quite. Maass's article tells the whole story of what was, effectively, a pseudo-event that took place in front of the hotel housing the majority of the media then in Baghdad. "Very few Iraqis were there," he writes. "If you were at the square, or if you watch the footage, you can see, on the rare occasions long shots were used, that the square was mostly empty. You can also see, from photographs as well as video, that much of the crowd was made up of journalists and marines."So much for journalism being "the first draft of history". It's more often the first draft of misapprehension, especially if the internet is involved. The story is always the same: something unexpected happens in the real world; journalists notice that some of the people involved are users of the web/mobiles/Facebook/Twitter (delete as appropriate); the unexpected is then labelled "the Facebook/Twitter/smartphone (delete as etc) revolution/protest/demonstration/election".The latest example is the current political upheaval in Tunisia, which has already been excitably pigeon-holed as a "Twitter revolution" or a"WikiLeaks revolution". This rush to categorise has sparked a thoughtful discussion in parts of the blogosphere.For example,journalism professor George Brock assertedthat "this has been a social media revolt, both in the mobilisation of middle-class intellectuals via Facebook and Twitter and in the gathering and distribution of detailed information about what was happening on the ground". He pointed out that theZine al-Abidine Ben Aliregime apparently also seemed to understand the importance of the internet."At first, traditional reflexes operated. Newspapers were disrupted and journalists detained. Then the authorities realised that the printed press was a nuisance but not the real problem: they went after the bloggers and the web."On this analysis, the regime's mistake was to ignore Facebook. Ben Ali &amp; Co succeeded in preventing journalists from travelling to cover protests in Sidi Bouzid, and the reports from government-controlled media portrayed demonstrations as either vandalism or terrorism.But,as Ethan Zuckerman of Harvard pointed out, "Tunisians got an alternative picture from Facebook, which remained uncensored through the protests, and they communicated events to the rest of the world by posting videos to YouTube and Dailymotion. As unrest spread from Sidi Bouzid to Sfax, from Hammamet and ultimately to Tunis, Tunisians documented events on Facebook. As others followed their updates, it's likely that news of demonstrations in other parts of the country disseminated online helped others conclude that it was time to take to the streets."In a way, there is an intriguing  parallel between the failure of the Tunisian regime to spot the significance of social networking, and mainstream media's conviction about its overriding importance. Both camps persist in regarding this stuff as exotic, which for them it is, which in turn highlights how out of touch they have become with reality. For the reality is that the net and social networking have become mainstream, even in societies that seem relatively underdeveloped to western eyes. Nearly a third of the world now has an internet connection. Facebook is the third biggest "country" on Earth, in terms of population, and if things keep going as they are, it will soon have more users than India has people.What is happening is that connectedness is becoming a relatively mundane part of people's lives. So when significant things happen – riots, strikes, elections, conflicts and social upheavals of all kinds – it's only to be expected that they will use the communication tools with which they are familiar. The message for dictators, elected politicians and newspaper editors alike is simple. This is the way things are: get used to it.
It is the season for Hollywood to celebrate itself in a sycophantic flourish of statuettes, tiaras and tear-stained platitudes. Following the Golden Globes come this week's Oscar nominations and hopefuls will be eyeing up the ballgowns and DJs that their designer friends aim to get on the front pages of the celebrity-spotting magazines. But it won't just be papers and magazines scrutinising the nominations announcement; across much of the internet, a profusion of celebrity-obsessed blogs, forums and websites will also be predicting and predicating, perpetuating our bizarre cultural obsession with all manner of gossip.As the editor ofHeatmagazine's website, Samuel Pinney, tells me, gossip has always existed. "It just used to be about her at number 42, instead of the latestX Factordrop-out."Indeed, the web pumps out gallons of weirdness about bothX Factordrop-outs and her at number 42 at the speed of a Google search, so it's not surprising our hunger for useless gossip has been exploited by an ocean of online services that want to capture our attentions. But beyond this proliferation of gossip sites, the web has transformed our relationship with celebrity. Although the star system is still vital in shaping who's covered by magazines, the web has destabilised the relationship between the media and the audience. "It's moved the power over who decides if someone is a celebrity out of the hands of a select few," Pinney says.The media apparatus that bolstered the ascent of particular personalities to public recognition was highly structured even 15 years ago, according to sociologist P David Marshall, author ofThe Celebrity Culture Reader. Then, a person's "people" drip-fed carefully constructed nuggets of information to a roster of approved outlets. Sure, scandals happened and tongues wagged, but now, thanks to long camera lenses and a free-to-access publication platform that reaches around the world, digital technologies have upset the balance of a highly strung industry.It's because the web works outside the consent of the business. The audience is in charge, armed with a smartphone and a wi-fi connection. This makes us potentially more dangerous to the celebrity than ever before. Then, the worst George Clooney might have faced was a busload of strangers armed with the star maps they got from a hawker in Sunset Boulevard standing outside his well-guarded Beverly Hills fortress. Now fans can zoom into Clooney's backyard on Google Maps or report his most recent location onjustspotted.com. And beyond the personal privacy issues, we've also got more control over their careers: then, the duration of their fame was determined by a story arc fabricated by a studio executive; now, the studios have a second-by-second litmus test of a celebrity's worth.But not only has the web transformed how we interact with our idols, we the audience have also wrested the power to create celebrities from the traditional star-makers. We can now act outside the system, promoting ourselves using similar techniques as the studios, using carefully placed pieces of media and cultivating followings among specifically targeted communities. We can also thrust unwitting people into the spotlight by posting a video on Twitter or Facebook for our friends to see and pass on. Web fame is a moving target and utterly unpredictable.David Weinberger, fellow at the Harvard Berkman Centre for Internet &amp; Society, thinks the people who are successful at chasing online fame do it by seeking 15 followers, rather than 15 minutes. At a conference about internet trends in 2008, he said it was about cultivating those personal connections by engaging with communities and by getting mentioned on important blogs for your particular shtick.Unfortunately, the support network built into the experience of offline celebrity that helps to protect the star from the baying masses isn't in place online and the fleeting fame often associated with successful memes or accidental "cewebrities" can often be problematic. Notoriety is a strange bedfellow, thrusting bizarre responsibilities upon people who may suddenly become well known for being the only person followed on Twitter by Kanye West, as was the case withCoventry student Stephen Holmesin the summer of 2010, or for recording a misjudged video of themselves pretending to be a Jedi knight,as happened to Canadian Ghyslain Raza in 2003. Such accidental celebrity can cause unexpected hardship for the person now doorstepped by the global media or bullied into seclusion.The web offers carte blanche for attention-seekers, whether they are already famous or want to be. Yet online fame is still only second-best. TheStar WarsKid will never be nominated for best supporting actor. But then again, he might forever have some sort of following online and a small but steady income based on guest appearances at supermarket openings. Looking at the career trajectories of some of this week's awards nominees, it may actually be the same thing after all.
Not content with being one of the games of 2010,Mass Effect 2has taken so long to reach the PS3, it may now be one of the games of 2011 too. So what's been the hold-up?At first,Mass Effect 2on the PS3 seems identical to its Xbox 360 predecessor. This is a good thing; it was, and so still is, a near-flawless fusion of tactical shooter action, story-driven RPG adventure and exquisite graphics. There are differences, however, and they're all good. The textures are slightly more sumptuous, the interface is almost imperceptibly slicker, and all of the Xbox's downloadable extra content is included. Three new missions are on the game disc, while bonus characters, weapons and armour are easily downloaded.The real cause of the delay is hinted at in the extra piece of downloadable content. The originalMass Effectgame is available to PS3 users as an "interactive backstory comic" – exclusively. TheMass Effecttrilogy will only ever have two games on PS3, because Microsoft won't share the original. Which is a shame – it's better on PS3.
In many games, the objective is to prevent the protagonist's demise. YetGhost Trick's hero, the sharp-suited Sissel, has just been murdered when the story begins. Luckily, death has bestowed upon him a special power that allows him to manipulate inanimate objects. These can be used to distract the hitmen responsible for his death, preventing them from assassinating other targets, including the one woman who may know the reason why Sissel was killed.This fantastical conceit comes from the mind of Shu Takumi, creator of theAce Attorneyseries, with whichGhost Trickshares a few strands of DNA. Characters are gloriously idiosyncratic and the wry dialogue is similarly warm and witty. It's less dialogue-heavy than Takumi's previous games, with some sublime animation that fills in the gaps, brilliantly capturing the emotions and mannerisms of the key players.Each dilemma has a single solution. Subtle hints ensure the trial-and-error mechanics rarely hold up the superb story for long, meaning you'll probably reach the end before you want to. Consistently inventive and entertaining,Ghost Trickis yet another reason not to abandon your DS just yet.
A small UK app developer and a woman from Orpington were today's winners as Apple announced that the 10 billionth app from its iTunes App Store.Gail Davis of Orpington in Kent downloaded the app, Paper Glider from Cirencester-based iPhone app developer Neon Play. As the winner of Apple's App Store Countdown to 10 Billion Apps, Davis will receive a $10,000 iTunes Gift Card."We've been eagerly discussing the 10 billion app countdown in our game studio, so when I got a call from Apple Cupertino saying they had some 'good news', I thought they might tell us they were featuring one of our apps on the App Store," said Oli Christie, CEO of Neon Play."So when they said that Neon Play's Paper Glider was the 10 billionth app, I was completely and utterly dumbstruck. It's a great piece of news for the whole Neon Play team. Paper Glider is currently the number one app in the UK, so this is a double piece of great news for our studio."Apple opened its App Store in July 2008, having previously suggested to developers that it would not be necessary because they could develop applications to run on the web instead - but then relented.Having an "app store" is now seen as crucial to the success of any smartphone platform: Nokia, Google Android phones, BlackBerry maker RIM, Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 and other rivals all have competing stores vying to attract developers and buyers using their phones. Android's is the closest in terms of apps, though a larger number of its apps are advertising-supported rather than paid-for - although overall the majority of apps are offered free.Apple said earlier this week that more than 160m iOS devices that can download and run apps have been sold, though the number of active devices isput at between 120m and 130msince they were introduced, the first being the iPhone in June 2007."With more than 10 billion apps downloaded in just two and a half years – a staggering seven billion apps in the last year alone – the App Store has surpassed our wildest dreams," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "The App Store has revolutionized how software is created, distributed, discovered and sold. While others try to copy the App Store, it continues to offer developers and customers the most innovative experience on the planet."
The outgoing Google boss Eric Schmidt has said he is preparing to sell shares in the search engine worth more than $326m (£200m)the day after he stepped down from the top job.The sale comes after the firm announced that Google co-founder Larry Page would replace Schmidt as chief executive in April, taking over day-to-day running of the company. Schmidt will become executive chairman. The share sale would be his first in more than three years.The stock-trading plan, filed with the American financial regulator the Securities and Exchange Commission, states that Schmidt intends to sell as much as 534,000 Class A shares during the course of the year. Google's shares were worth $611.75 yesterday, making the sale worth $326.67m at today's prices.The sale represents just a fraction of Schmidt's Google fortune. Over his 10 years at the company the 55-year-old has built up a holding of 9.2m Google shares, worth $5.8bn.The surprise announcement that Schmidt was leaving the chief executive job shocked Wall Street and Silicon Valley. He has worked closely with Page and co-founder Sergey Brin for a decade, taking the company public and building it into one of the most powerful and successful firms in the world.He stepped down after tweeting that the firm no longer needed "adult supervision". On a conference call with analysts Schmidt said: "I believe Larry is ready. His ideas are very interesting and clever and it's time for him to have a shot at running this."Last year Google was eclipsed by Facebook as the most visited website on the planet and Google has suffered setbacks in social media. Analysts believe the move may signal an attempt by the company to regain the lead in innovation.In a note to investors, Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Financial, wrote: "While Google certainly has grown during Eric Schmidt's tenure as CEO, a case can also be made that the company has not built any new material revenue streams, was late to building for the mobile market, has no effective social solutions, overbuilt its headcount, and placed itself in the crosshairs of government regulators."
Louder Than WarLouder Than War is a music and pop culture site led by journalist and one-man punk rock army John Robb – late of riotous combos the Membranes and Goldblade. A TV page suggests he has ambitions that extend beyond blogging, but for now it houses interviews with Johnny Marr, Crass and Howard Marks, plus video clips of high-level insubordination from Motörhead's Lemmy. Elsewhere are feisty pieces on the cabinet office's behavioural insight team, the rise of Shanghai, ageism at the BBC, and music opinions that seem split between championing new acts and reprinting vintage music paper interviews with the likes of Nick Cave and Joe Strummer.Mean SheetsMean Sheets.This repository of movie posters "and stuff" began life spoofing celebrity culture. Tiring of Kim Kardashian scoops, editor Russ Ryan decided instead to pay tribute to what he describes as the "Picassos, Monets, and Matisses of the movie poster world". A little of that gossip site snarkiness remains but Mean Sheets is mainly a celebration of the classic posters of yesteryear and the artists who created them. There are also posts dedicated to lips, belly buttons and the incredibly large number of films with "Me &amp;" in the title, while the current trend for Photoshop tomfoolery includes a recent contest which asked what movie posters would look like if your mum designed them.Blog roll: FootballNigel's Webspace.Nigel's WebspaceStunning collection of British football cards and stickers from 1965 to 1980.Studs UpDaily cartoon strip mocking the Premiership's snood trend among other misdemeanours.KicketteFootballer fashion, Wag gossip, pap snaps and unabashed ogling at "mancandy" and Gareth Bale.Two Hundred PercentHome to the Baker &amp; Kelly podcast archive, transfer gossip and essays on world and non-league football.Football EconomyLooking at the money and politics of football, from the scrap for the Olympic stadium to David Milliband's links to Sunderland.The Run Of PlayThe story of Man Utd rewritten as King Lear, "Beckham's visceral allure", and other intellectual sliding tackles.What we learned on the web this weekPhotoshop rap.How tolearn Photoshop in rhymeAlien causedcorridor fetishismWe're notvery musicalThe scentof broccoli can make the engines run too fastBanksy's sketchpad for The Simpsons introWhy therewill be a surge of ugly fonts in the futureThe differencesbetween supermodels and zombiesThe threeAs of awesomeThings realpeople don't say about advertisingWhat it'slike to work at a Disney parkCee LoGreen's F You much improved by sign languageThe darkside of Barbie
I'll be honest with you, I&nbsp;wasn't quite sure what a&nbsp;Mazda 5 Sport is. I was excited about the "Sport" part – maybe it'd be one of those Japanese Max Power beasts like anEvoor anImpreza, with a massive exhaust, spoilers, full body kit, and I'd be doing donuts around Homebase car park pumping out some wikkiddubstep.Oh, it's a people carrier. That's no&nbsp;bloody good, I haven't got any people to carry, not even my girlfriend, who's gone to flipping Thailand to get away from the miserable English boyfriend. I mean weather.Hah, no problem, I can borrow some people. So I do. I borrow Dan (15), Kate'n'Alice (12), Oliver (8), Miles (6) and Lucy (4). No idea who they are – street urchins, I think. They're very happy to provide feedback in exchange for half an hour or so out of the cold. Kate will even take notes. Really? I'd assumed they were all illiterate. Maybe I've underestimated my passengers.First impressions are good. Dan enjoys the quality of the bass on the stereo. Kate likes her heated front seat. Alice says it's much better than her family's car because it doesn't stink so much. She has a family? And a car? I have underestimated them. I'm not sure Lucy's ever been in a car, though – she seems overwhelmed and bewildered by the whole experience and says little of interest. Miles likes the sliding doors.We take the Mazda 5 on a punishing test drive around north London. And as the journey goes on, the comments become less positive. There's not enough room in the pop-up middle seat of the second row. It feels cramped everywhere, especially the very back. Can't it go any faster, Oliver wants to know. Well, not really. The Sport part refers only to the fact that it has darker rear windows than the standard model, slightly bigger wheels and black leather seat trim with red piping. It's nothing to do with performance. You'd be bonkers to spend nearly three grand more for the few extras and the black leather, which seems incongruous in what is clearly a school-run wagon. A sheep in wolf's clothing.To be fair, it isn't bad to&nbsp;drive, for a people carrier. Crisp, assured even, which means a bit hard on the bumps and the kids bounce around a bit in the back. And it does what is says on the tin – ie, carry people, seven of them, provided they're not very big, and they don't have anything more than a packed lunch with them. You can change it around to carry four people with a bit more room, or two with a lot more. Adaptable then, and practical, but unlovable. And from my passengers? They settle on a&nbsp;generous seven out of 10 score.OK, get out now, go home, if you have one. What do you mean, I'm your uncle? Don't be daft – scram.Mazda 5 2.0 SportPrice£20,195Top speed120mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11 secondsAverage consumption40.9mpgCO2 emissions150g/kmEco rating6/10Bound forSchoolIn a wordGrey
Photo byjeff_goldenon Flickr.Some rights reservedHere's Larry Page's first headache aschief executive of Google: figuring out how to handleOracle's lawsuit against the companyin which it is suing over seven Java patents (acquired with its acquisition in 2009 of Sun Microsystems) and some copyrighted material.The headache may need some extra-strong pills: an analysis by Florian Mueller, whoseblogpost about Android's patent weaknesswe featured here earlier this week, suggests that " evidence is mounting that different components of the Android mobile operating system may indeed violate copyrights of Sun Microsystems".Mueller says in hisblogpost saysthat he has "discovered additional material that Oracle might present to the court as examples of copyright-infringing material in the Android codebase".Update:but seethe followup, which suggests that this is by no means open-and-shut.)(Mueller, by the way, is a strong open source advocate, besides being an intellectual property lawyer. But he's also a pragmatist who recognises that software patents are a fact of life, particularly in the US technology industry, and that they can affect the development of many businesses.)He says that he has found "six more files" in Android that show the same pattern of direct copying as Oracle is complaining about from Sun's original Java code. The files form part of the Android 2.2 and 2.3 (Froyo and Gingerbread) code.And what may prove extremely difficult for Google:"In addition, I have identified 37 files marked as "PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL" by Sun and a copyright notice file that says: "DO NOT DISTRIBUTE!" Those files appear to relate to the Mobile Media API of theSun Java Wireless Toolkit. Unless Google obtained a license to that code (which is unlikely given the content and tone of those warnings), this constitutes another breach."Mueller suggests - following up on somecomments on Redditand elsewhere - that some of the early Android developers might have used a decompiler on the Sun Java code in order to generate their own source code.So the detective work began:"Idownloaded a Java decompiler named JAD. And when I decompiled PolicyNodeImpl.class from J2SE 5.0, the result was pretty much the same source code as Android's PolicyNodeImpl.java code (which Oracle presented in its Exhibit J). My"PolicyNodeImpl synopsis"document shows the similarities."... My synopsis PDF files document the same problem: Android contains, under the Apache license, code that is essentially just decompiled code of Oracle/Sun software that was never licensed to Apache.... A copyright infringement is a copyright infringement, and if Google publishes code under a license for which it was never made available by its rightful owner, that's a serious legal problem.You can see how itmighthave made sense, if that's what happened. After all Java was owned by Sun, which was run by a guy with a ponytail who blogged and tweeted and stuff, and so nothing bad could ever happen even if it was sliiiightly wrong to reverse-compile the code. Right? (We're not saying that was how it happened. At all. It's just for illustrative purposes.)Enter Larry Ellison and Oracle swallowing Sun, and the patent lawyers start to get in. If you want to sir in a bit of conspiracy, Ellison is a longtime friend of Apple chief executive Steve Jobs. Sure, that's why Oracle's suing Android. A terrific conspiracy, except that nobody in Oracleforcedanyone in Google or the Apache foundation to grab the Sun code.Simply copying is, well, copyright infringement, and if proven then it lays the copier open to damages in proportion to the amount of copying - and the distribution of the illicitly copied content.Which in the case of Android would bemillionsof times, because it has helped to sell millions of handsets. That in turn means that Oracle can go after both Google, for the initial infringement (demanding damages per copy) andalsothe handset and tablet makers, on the basis that they have infringed its intellectual property too. Which would mean that they're liable to pay Oracle some money too. Plus legal costs. (We don't often write about Oracle on these pages, but for those who don't know, its founder and chief executive doesn't play hardball - he plays neutroniumball.)Has Google indemnified those handset makers against any infringement in Android? Likely not. That could make life rather uncomfortable for Page. And it might also explain why LG said recently that itdoesn't want to rely solely on Android phones, but is keeping its options open with Windows Phone 7.Engadgetnoted back in Octoberthat Google's response then to the Oracle lawsuit seemed odd: "it basically accuses Sun and Oracle of not playing fair when it comes to Java's open-source license situation and directly implies that parts of Android are based on code that might require a patent license." That Engadget post is worth (re-)reading in detail, because it describes Google's position rather well. And it draws the conclusions of that position, which it says are:• Because Apache doesn't have a license to test Harmony [the open source Java runtime] with the JCK [Java Compatibility Kit], it doesn't have a license for Sun's Java patents and copyrights either.• Part of the reason Apache wants a JCK license is to assure its users they have the necessary IP rights.• Google knew all this and used parts of Harmony in Android anyway.Which isn't good.Ed Bott at ZDNet comments that this latest incident - which will send a shiver through a lot of handset companies, even if Google manages to prevail against Oracle in court - suggests that another Google open source project, WebM, might also see the brakes put on.Bott writes:"any large company would be foolish, even reckless to adopt Google's WebM codec for Internet video. As Inoted earlier this month, "the patents underlying WebM have been obscure up till now but are about to be catapulted into the mainstream by a company with very deep pockets and very big ambitions." If Google can't even vet its source code for obvious examples of copyright infringement, how can a third party conclude that it has thoroughly reviewed the underlying patents for WebM?"We noted earlier this week that Google isvery firmly not suggestingthat YouTubeorAndroid is going to move over exclusively to WebM/VP8 encoding and/or playback any time soon. Possibly not because of patents (lack of good widespread codecs and encoding/decoding hardware might be more to do with it). But it may be wise to be cautious there.So that'stwoof Google's big open source projects which should be high in the inbox on Page's desk. It wasn't like this last time he was CEO, back before Schmidt took over in 2001; then the only problem was content spammers (theyhaven't gone away) and how to monetise the web (solved that one, anyhow).Assuming, that is, that he has a desk and isn't going to try to run the company from a single Cr-48 laptop running ChromeOS. Welcome to the new old job, Larry.
It turns out three is no longer a crowd – at least when it comes to developing billion-dollar shooter franchises. According toa report in the LA Timesyesterday, Activision has drafted inSledgehammer Gamesto help with the development of Modern Warfare 3, the latest in the massively successful Call of Duty spin-off series created byInfinity Ward. Last March, Infinity Ward's founder members Jason West and Vince Zampella left to form a new outfit, Respawn Entertainment, much to the chagrin of Activision and its CEO, Bobby Kotick. Dozens of upper echelon development staff subsequently left the beleaguered studio, many of them joining Respawn.Since then, Activision has been recruiting staff to join Infinity Ward, and in a recent interview with Edge Magazine, Kotick claimed to have received thousands of applications. However, with a traditional release date of November looming, it seems that Infinity Ward has had to seek extra help to complete the game's single-player campaign. Another studio, Raven is handling multiplayer.Sledgehammer Games, set up in 2009 by ex-EA staff Glen Schofield and Michael Condrey (who both worked on the original Dead Space) was originally working on a whole new Call of Duty title, thought to be a third-person action adventure. Allegedly that one may be delayed as a result of this call-up.Interestingly, the LA Times piece makes the point that Sledgehammer and Infinity Ward are 'equally sharing duties' on the single-player title. If accurate, it's a damning testament to how far Infinity Ward has fallen since the departure of its old studio heads. The developer previously enjoyed a high level of creative autonomy, symbolised by the hugely controversial 'No Russian' sequence in Modern Warfare 2 where, posing as a terrorist, the player is able (but not directly compelled) to shoot dozens of innocent people.It is common for game production to be split between studios, with one taking on the single-player component and one handling multi-player – the two elements require very different development skills, and splitting the work means a shorter schedule. German developer Crytek bought UK Free Radical Design to provide the multiplayer maps for forthcoming shooter Crysis 2, while Medal of Honor was created jointly by EA LA (single) and EA DICE (multi). However, it's rare for the campaign mode to be split between different studios.
It is an online publishing empire built out of bored workers' staring at cute kitten photos on their office computers. But the three-year-oldCheezburger Network– home to Lolcats, as well as Fail Blog and other internet crazes baffling to anyone over 35 – this week announced it had raised $30m (£18.7m) of funding that will see the quirky startup aim to become the biggest network of humour websites in the world.Lolcatshave become one of the internet's most enduring crazes, combining cute pictures of animals – generally cats – with funny mis-spelled captions. The original site was created by Eric Nakagawa and his girlfriend Kari Unebasami in 2007, who had been inspired by the irreverent community site 4chan.One year later, Ben Huh, now chief executive of the Cheezburger Network and the man credited with taking internet "memes" (fads) to the mainstream, brought angel investors together to buy the site for $2.25m. Three years on, Huh has expanded the Seattle-based company to the point where it employs 50 staff and has launched almost 50 niche humour sites including Graph Jam, with its witty pie charts, and Engrish Funny, home to well observed translation errors.Eking out that investment for three years, Huh managed to ensure the company was profitable from the start, flooding the site with advertising on the 375m page views it generates every month, as well as selling merchandise such as Lolcat T-shirts, Fail mugs and Cheezburger desk calendars. Its popularity could rival many mainstream media organisations; a masterclass in the art of aggregating simple, cheap content created by users, letting its popularity take care of distribution, and building as much revenue as possible around that.Foundry Group – which has also invested in the Farmville games firm Zynga – led the new $30m investment round, along with Avalon Ventures, SoftBank Capital and Madrona Venture Group. Madrona's managing director, Greg Gottesman, told the Seattle Times the company was "a great entrepreneurial story". He added: "Financing aside, the size of what they've built with such limited capital, so few people, is really impressive."The company plans to move to bigger offices and double its staff to 100 by the end of the year. Investment will also fund expansion of the site's international audience, but the company will scale down its strategy of rapidly churning out experimental new sites. That approach has had mixed success, allowing the company to exploit and respond to fast-growing internet memes and virals, with a failure rate of only one in five.James Whatley, marketing director at analysts 1000heads, said Lolcats investors were not as crazy as they might seem because the network had room for growth. "If you spend any amount of time on any of the above sites, it's immediately clear that they're behind on the social features. The whole network needs a declutter and tidy up, and that's before you start on the whole store element and the adverts. With the right investment, there's a lot more money to be made."But other analysts were less impressed and reckoned Cheezburger's fundraising was as much about the amount of cash looking for a home as the prospects for a Facebook-style business success .Reuters' Breaking Views blog said investors "skirmishing to finance oddball ideas" illustrated the venture capital industry's problems. "The upshot of not needing cash is that entrepreneurs can command huge prices for their babies. Considering the risk associated with start-ups and the need to lock up capital, it is no wonder new commitments to venture capital funds have declined four years in a row. You can has too many moneys chasing too few Cheezburgers."
We've all been there – a bad cold, a day off work. Lying on the sofa, a box of tissues and a half-drunk Lemsip at our elbow, a copy of FourFourTwo barely opened on the floor. Having a day to lounge around should be fun, but the entertainment options can quickly wear thin. The BBC's daytime staple, Cash in the Attic, is not as much fun as it sounds, even when you've downed so much super strength over-the-counter cough medicine the presenter appears to be floating around the house dressed as a Cyberman.It's here that games can come in handy. The interactivity keeps your mind off those aching joints, while completing a level can boost your torpid self-esteem.But which games are the most comforting? Which classic or contemporary titles are the digital equivalent of a big, long hug?I've suggested four contenders below, but I need you to add your own. I see this as an important public service at this time of year. Successful sick-time gaming could well aid recovery – it's in Britain's interest. So check mine out, then let us know which discs you turn to when illness smites.Super Mario 64(Nintendo, N64, DS)It's just so bright and charming, and the almost ambient soundtrack of harmless riffs and gently muffled sound effects adds to the calming properties. Okay, so some of the levels are hugely challenging, but you can always just stay outside the castle, frolicking in the sunshine. You are ill after all.Animal Crossing(Nintendo, GameCube Wii, DS)Another Nintendo title (they were always going to do well in this list) – and really, what could be more relaxing then gently skipping around a town populated exclusively by anthropomorphic animals?Tiger Woods PGA Tour(EA, various platforms)When I was off school as I child, I'd play Leaderboard, a lovely golf sim for the Commodore 64. Again, it's the sedate pace, the gentle challenge and the lack of sub-machine guns. You also get a vicarious feeling of being out in the sunshine rather than cooped up in your bedroom in a haze of Vicks vapour rub.Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots(Konami, PS3)If you absolutely, positively have to shoot things, Kojima's PS3 epic is the way to go. It's all about thoughtful, considered action rather than all-out combat madness, plus there are plenty of cut-scenes so you can have a bit of a rest.Now, Dr Gamesblog Reader, what would YOU prescribe?
Eric Schmidt's departure after nearly 10 years as chief executive of Google, to be replaced by the intense Larry Page (after whom Google's PageRank algorithm, the system for determining where web pages should rank in search results,is named), has been quite a while coming."Day-to-day adult supervision no longer needed!"Schmidt tweeted as the announcement was made on Thursday evening. But the truth is that Google needs much more adult supervision as it enters its second decade as an organisation. Like so many before it, the company is hitting the barriers to growth: how to stay as nimble as when it was younger given that it is now much, much larger.The move has clearly been planned for some time;in a blog post, Schmidt admitted the move had been planned "over the [Christmas] holidays". Of course the trio – Schmidt, Page and his co-founder Sergey Brin – had figured out that if Schmidt had simply announced it on 2 January, all hell would have broken loose: the stock would have tanked, and everyone would have picked the financial results announced on Thursday night apart like vultures on a carcass.Instead, everyone noted the top-line numbers (which are good – revenue $8.44bn, up 26% on a year ago, and net income of $2.54bn, up 28.7%), agreed they were good, and started obsessing over how it would happen and listening to Schmidt's jolly words complimenting his younger colleagues.It resembled the easy ride that Apple, which timed its announcement of Steve Jobs's open-ended medical leave for a time when markets would be closed, and brought forward its financial results to the day after. Not a single analyst asked Apple what Jobs's absence might mean.This time, analysts simply accepted that Schmidt's explanation that the move followed "a long series of conversations" and moved on.Though it's not obvious, Google's problem has been in focus and execution of strategy. Despite having something like a 90% search share in most markets, its fabled search algorithmsare being exploited by spammers; despite the huge growth in sales of smartphones using its Android operating software, it hasn't been able to persuade mobile networks or handset makers to give customers the best deals by automatically upgrading their software; and more dangerously itfaces an antitrust investigation in Europeover whether it cross-promotes its own services in its search results.The first two are problematic, but the third could be murderous to company culture, as Microsoft discovered after it was found guilty in the US (and later in Europe) of antitrust violations.While Wall Street analysts purred at the numbers, the (amateur) analysts were a lot tougher on Twitter. The reason why Schmidt had to go? (Because you can bet he didn't really want to go. It's a cool gig being the chief exec.) Google's organisation was starting to get too big to make things happen, sources suggested."Google's core search is troubled, and [Wall Street] seals prattle about how lovely it is that BrinPage have matured into execs,"said Paul Kedrosky, an investor and (in his words "lapsed") analyst acidly. "In case anyone pays attention to such things, [JP Morgan] saying all [Google's] numbers tonight ahead of expectations, except margins, which missed,"he added. "Not to be all self-serving, but I read Google's mgmt shakeup as a confession that the co is a decision-making mess losing its way in search,"he said,adding: "Ask employees. Any engineer with initiative has been going mad at processes and vacillation."Why would that mean Schmidt should go? Because the arrangement in which he was chief executive and Page and Brin, the co-founders, had an equal role eventually has led to drift.Google needs someone who will speak, singularly, for the company. At the other two of "big three" technology companies around at the moment – Microsoft, Apple, Google – the co-founders (Paul Allen, Steve Wozniak) faded into the background as the ones better suited to leading the company took over.Ignoring search and Android – its two giant (but flawed) successes – one can see myriads of little failures. Google hasn't gotten into social networking or social search that Facebook has conquered; instead, in trying to create a Twitter clone, it had its embarrassing debacle of Google Buzz,which led to a class action settlementwhen users sued over being enrolled automatically. Then there has been Google Wave, a product so revolutionary that nobody could quite enunciate what it was for, including Google. There has been theaccidental collection of personal data via Wi-Fiwhile generating its Street View product, leading to a privacy investigation that has rumbled on and on.None of those failures could be laid directly at Schmidt's door, but each one is a failure of corporate culture – and that is down to Schmidt.Google needs to become a tight ship where products are not pushed out of the door without really careful examination of their value both to the company and to customers. I spoke last week to someone who has worked for all of Microsoft, Apple and Google (though presently working for none of them), who noted that unlike the other two companies, in Google the attitude is that "it's software on the web. If you get it wrong, then you just roll it back to how it was before."Such a laissez-faire attitude won't work once you get bigger, as the Buzz example shows.Page now has a couple of urgent tasks. Search needs attention (and has received it since criticisms grew louder over Christmas). Android needs a strong negotiator on Google's side who will insist that handset makers and mobile networks do not hold up software updates to customers – many of whom are frustrated at not getting the latest versions of Android on phones which can run it.Compare the iPhone,where statistics show around 90% of users are on the latest version of its operating system, and Android, where about 58% are on the widely used 2.2 version (and developers complain that "fragmentation", where different versions proliferate,is putting them off developing for it.)By contrast, Microsoft has indicated that it will push through software updates for its new Windows Phone 7 handset.Page now has a tough task of slowing and reversing a tendency for Google's teams to act too independently, and create coherent products that fit with the rest of its strategy. Last night it emerged that Google is going to develop its own clone of Groupon, the wildly successful discount voucher company that Google tried to buy last year; called Google Offers, its launch date is unclear but the company is trying to recruit local companies that will take part.It could be a huge success. But it will need all of Google's considerable heft to make it work well. Groupon's success is down to its focus on its task. Google has grown so big it is missing some of that. Page and Brin can make it happen. But it's not going to be easy.
Nintendo may have unveiled its new 3DS handheld this week, but outspoken Wedbush Securities analyst Micheal Pachter thinks the company should be focussing on Wii 2 instead. Nintendo has "blown it",he said.OK, he did give some more detail:With as much respect for Nintendo management as I can muster, I think Nintendo's completely blown it with their second generation Wii strategy. I think they have the mentality that to launch a new console they have to retire the old, and I think that's wrong. I think the right strategy would have been to get a second generation Wii out and keep the old Wii at the same time, and have the second generation be the natural progression upgrade model.He probably has a point here. Sales of the Wii have slowed as the novelty has worn off, but I'm not sure that an "upgrade" to Wii would involve "online functionality" and "Call of Duty multiplayer" as he implies:You don't see Mercedes stopping production of the E-Class because they have a C-Class ... so they should let people start with the Wii and graduate to the Wii 2, and have online functionality and Call of Duty multiplayer on there and compete with the 360. Instead, they're actually conceding that multiplayer market to Xbox 360 and PS3. They've always conceded it, but now with Kinect and Move, it's a lot easier for people to make 360 or PS3 their starter console.Does Pachter honestly think that Wii 2 needs to add online multiplayer to be a success? To me, he is missing the point. The Wii sold so well because it was new and different. It appealed to people who would never go near a 360 or PS3. Can you imagine your mum/dad/gran ever saying, "stuff the Wii bowling today let's all play Black Ops this afternoon"? No, me neither. And anyway, the Wii already has online gaming. Yes, the system is cumbersome and restrictive but it's there; it's just not that popular. Would it be more widely used by Wii owners if it was slicker and had Call of Duty on it? Honestly?Anyway, Pachter concludes:I just think Nintendo's blown it; I think by the time they launch if it's Christmas 2011, it's two years too late, and for sure one year too late. So it's over – I don't think they can ever recover. Wii sales will continue to decline and I think Wii 2 will not sell well. And third parties aren't going to support it unless it's really similar to a 360 ... and when I say similar, I mean so that it's easy for them to port games from 360 to Wii 2. If Nintendo advances the technology, and it's more powerful than a PS3, then no one's going to support it. That's a problem, and so they're really stuck. If they were going to emulate the 360, which is what I thought they'd do, they should have done that in 2009. And if they're going to advance the tech, then 2011 is really not the right year. They're really in between right now.So Pachter thinks the currently unannounced Wii 2 will "not sell well". He could have a point. The original Wii was a unique product that was well marketed and built. Wii 2 will need more than better motion control to have the same impact. But you can imagine Nintendo know this and are working on something that is more than just an HD Wii.What do you think? Does Wii 2 need to have online multiplayer to succeed? Are most Wii users – who are not hardcore gamers, remember – really looking for an upgrade path? And what would you want to see in the Wii 2?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Larry PageGoogle's new CEO, Larry Page, was born to two computer science professors in Michigan on 26 March 1973. He met Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, while at Stanford. The two started working on a way to search the rapidly growing internet more efficiently. Google has made him one of the richest men in the world with a personal fortune of $17.5bn  (£11bn), according to Forbes magazine. He is now a major investor in alternative energy companies. Page ran Google with Brin until the pair appointed Eric Schmidt as chief executive in 2001.Eric Emerson SchmidtThe ex-Google chief executive has one of the most impressive CVs in Silicon Valley. A long-time techie, in 1979 he earned a masters for wiring up the campus's computer systems at University of California Berkeley.Stints at Bell Labs, Xerox and Sun Microsystems followed. In 1997, he became chief executive of Novell. The Google twins recruited him in 2001 under the influence of venture capital king John Doerr. Google has made him fantastically rich. Forbes estimates his fortune at $6.3 billion. The combative Schmidt has clashed with privacy advocates and rivals. He has been widely tipped for a top position in the Obama administration.
