You can now pre-order it atwww.amazon.co.ukfor £29.99. It says: "This item will be released on 5 November, 2004. You may order it now and we will dispatch it to you when we receive it from our supplier. Please note that release dates are subject to change." Its current Amazon.co.uk Sales Rank is 267.
Melissa Harrington, 21, was given a ticket in Lincoln, Nebraska, for "posting nude pictures of herself on the Web that were taken in a downtown bar" (below).The Smoking Gunhas now published the citation and a couple of the (censored) photos.
On her final day as a pioneering internet celebrity, Jennifer Ringley got up some time after 7.30am, used her computer for a while at around 1.15pm, had something to eat at 6.15pm, and then apparently went out for the evening.So it was clearly not the promise of ceaseless excitement that brought hundreds of millions of web users to Ms Ringley's site, which since 1996 has broadcast a live, unedited, 24-hour chronicle of her life from cameras set up around her apartment.But Jennicam.org, an online experiment that predated the Big Brother TV series and laid the ground for hundreds of subsequent internet cults, still proved too exciting for PayPal, the company that handled the annual $15 (&#163;8.38) subscription to Ms Ringley's site.Visitors with nothing better to do than watch her cameras for hours on end occasionally caught sight of her naked, contravening PayPal's regulations and forcing closure of the site this week, according to an email Ms Ringley sent to subscribers. "They've disabled my account so I'm not able to accept subscriptions," the email read, according to one recipient.Jennicam was established, initially as a college project, to "provide a window into a virtual human zoo," Ms Ringley wrote at the time. "I keep JenniCam alive not because I want or need to be watched, but because I simply don't mind being watched."Since her main competition at the time was a live broadcast of a coffee-pot set up by Cambridge University computer scientists, it proved a popular notion.A host of other "micro-celebrities" soon followed, including the Turkish web hero Mahir Cagri, whose kitschy web page, headlined I Kiss You!, spread around the world in days. Ms Ringley took her cameras with her as she moved from Pennsylvania to Washington DC, and on to California, where she reportedly now works for a social services agency.Despite an early appearance on David Letterman's US talkshow, Ms Ringley's passion for publicising her life does not normally extend to accepting interview requests, and she was not responding to them yesterday.But on the internet news group alt.fan.jennicam, enthusiasts and detractors were busy picking over her legacy, making little effort to disguise their hostility towards Ms Ringley's boyfriend Dex, and speculating about her future."I am glad she could get much more than her share of 15 minutes of fame and live to tell the story," one admirer wrote. "Furthermore, she has a good chance to resume a normal (albeit boring) life."
"A 'shocked and awed' Lake Superior State University Word Banishment selection committee emerged from its spider hole with its annual List of Words Banished from the Queen's English for Mis-Use, Over-Use and General Uselessness." Thelistincludes bling bling, X, LOL and "sweat like a pig" (on the grounds that "pigs do not have sweat glands").Comment: It's hard to see why X was rejected "this year" when it has been in use fordecades, albeit given a boost by Douglas Coupland's book, Generation X, in 1992. (Even Microsoft's use goes back at least as far as ActiveX and DirectX, launched in 1995, and in development much earlier.)My own nomination for a word that should be banished is "spim", for instant messaging spam. This started on AOL, and "spimming" appeared in Fast Company inJuly 2002. The Washington Post used the word spim (seeSlashdot) and even the Wall Street Journal used it once last month.But it's not needed.Spam isn't unique to e-mail, and the term was first used on online bulletin boards forboringly repetitive posting and cross-posting. At the time, the posts weren't even adverts, nor do they need to be. The the idea became more widely known in 1994 not through e-mail but because of a Usenet cross-posting by two lawyers, Cantor and Siegel. More recently, Onlineblog has had to delete stupid and boring spams from its comments section. In sum, the termspamis not unique to or specific to e-mail, so there is no need for a term to distinguish e-mail spam from IM spam from Usenet spam from BBS spam etc. It's all spam.
The iPodlounge website has 1,741 pictures of iPods, submitted by iPod-lovers all around the world. An iPod flying over the Swiss Alps; an iPod on the roof of the Australian parliament building in Canberra; a dog listening to an iPod in New Jersey; a man running the Washington marathon while listening to an iPod; an iPod on Mount Rushmore; iPods at the Grand Canyon, outside St Basil's Cathedral, in front of the Eiffel Tower, gleaming beside Sydney Opera House. Coming soon - an iPod on Mars.Often the landmark is shown reflected on the case of the iPod. It is clear where the photographers' interest lies. What are the Pyramids compared with this modern wonder? Most of the pictures are staggeringly dull - skinny, dysfunctional-looking men listening to iPods in bedsits in Amsterdam - but there is a clever one at Stonehenge which makes it look as if it is constructed out of iPods. Fitting, too, for here we have the first great icon of the 21st century - an object of desire, veneration, love.Poddies will admit it, too: this is a cult that dares to speak its name. "I'm in love with this machine and I may start sleeping with it," announced Dominic Mohan recently in GQ. Stuff magazine placed it first in its list of 100 greatest gadgets, hailing it as "the coolest thing to come out of California since the Beach Boys". It even appears to have reached Wales. "Just as any self-respecting Maoist would not step out in public without a copy of the Little Red Book," said the Western Mail in a splendidly off-target metaphor, "anyone in step with the zeitgeist will be clutching an iPod in 2004.""The great shame is that Douglas Adams is not alive to describe the beauty of the iPod," one gleaming-eyed Poddie (Poddict?) told me. "He was the great guru of technology and famously said he had never read a computer manual in his life because he'd always used Apple Macintoshes and you don't need a manual to understand the Mac. He would have told us what they really meant."Sadly, Adams is dead, so the oracular role falls to me - sceptic, technophobe, someone so out of step with the zeitgeist that he still has to get his son to set the video (remember them?). Please let me in on the secret.Some people, adorers of technology, are labelled "early adapters" (or "adopters" - there seems to be some dispute and dictionaries have yet to adapt/adopt). They are the ones who had breezeblock-sized mobile phones in the mid-80s; their laptops are always half the size of anyone else's; they know you don't listen to   Radio 2 on a BlackBerry Wireless Handheld. These people were importing iPods from the US at the beginning of 2003; upgrading them when they finally went on sale here in the spring; are probably laughing at us now as we struggle to catch up. I am a "posthumous adapter": had I been a caveman, I would have doused the fire, refused to pick up a pick-axe and failed to see the point of the wheel. Huh, they call that progress?Chris is the archetypal early adapter (though he prefers adopter). He is bedenimmed, crop-haired, very sharp and something in television. He is also in one of Micro Anvika's four stores in Tottenham Court Road, London, on the day before Christmas, buying his third iPod. His first was for work, his second for himself, this one's for his girlfriend.He is lucky to get it. He has tried five department stores and there wasn't an iPod to be had. This shop, which has been selling up to 300 a day in the run-up to Christmas, has four left. "I bought my first one about four months ago," says Chris, exuding zeitgeistness. "It's been the fashion statement of the year - and it marries that with practicability. The only problem is that the iPod2 is coming out soon, which is very disturbing for us early adopters, but I think this'll be all right for a while."Multiple iPod buying seems common. Tony, a large man with a sarf London accent, is buying two - one for his wife, the other for his 18-year-old daughter. Just 10-gigabyte models - the lowest spec - but sufficient to hold 2,500 songs, 250 albums. "That's enough for anyone," he says sagely. He has timed his arrival at Procom Electronics well - coming in just as a fresh batch of iPods shows up. The manager is tearing open the packaging as a reasonably orderly queue forms. Will Tony buy one for himself, too? "I don't think so - I'm too streetwise for that. You become oblivious to what's around you." I assume he is a boxer or a debt collector - always looking over his shoulder - but he says he has an interior design company.Back at Micro Anvika, Trevor has produced his goldcard to buy iPod cases for his two children, 17 and 26, both iPod obsessives. Zoran Topic, who manages the store, can't believe his luck. Who says consumer spending has been flat? "They've been selling well since August, but there was a sudden increase two weeks before Christmas. Sons buying for mothers, husbands buying for wives, parents buying for children. We can't get enough of them."The media-savvy early adapters are being joined by the second wave: soon that technological tipping point will be reached where Discman users are openly abused in the street.Poddies radiate joy - the joy of first love or   true belief. "I love my iPod," says Gareth. "It's changed my life. Mine's a 30-gigabyte &#91;already superseded by the 40-gig, note&#93; and holds seven and a half thousand songs. I've downloaded 6,000 - the soundtrack of my whole life."Eager to be in step with the zeitgeist, I forgive him this grim music-station cliche. He lets me fiddle with his iPod, feel its absurd lightness, rotate my finger round the keypad on the front of the cigarette packet-sized box that contains his personal soundtrack, wonder at the 102 songs by Madonna. Six thousand songs broken down by album, artist, genre. Thanks   to Apple's self-cataloguing system - being a little adrift of the zeitgeist, I am incapable of explaining how it works - the downloading was the work of just two Saturday afternoons. A life compressed.Do you not feel a sense of loss, I ask Gareth, thinking of my collection of classical CDs, lovingly arranged by composer and opus number on an old pine bookcase. "Not really," says this hard-hearted modernist. "All my CDs are under the bed now. I still buy CDs occasionally, but only in the way people still buy vinyl. It's nostalgia."CD sales are falling worldwide; record companies are panicking; the future of music is digitalised and downloadable; the Poddies are on the march. They access each other's collections; share their personal playlists; produce the soundtracks of all our lives. They feel no sorrow for the plight of the music mastodons facing extinction. "For years and years, record companies have screwed con sumers - making us pay &#163;15 for something that cost 50p to manufacture. Now they're like, 'Please feel sorry for us.' ""The iPod is the greatest piece of technology since the motor car," says Paul, a music-loving, single professional in his early 30s who perfectly fits the iPod-enthusiast profile. "Remember when the Walkman was launched in 1979 and people said this was fantastic - a moment that would change your life. Well, this is even more amazing. It's the first piece of kit that has convinced the philistine masses that Apple Macs are what we Mac users have known them to be all along - refined, easy to use, beautiful, cool."That word "cool" - it keeps cropping up. It is to Poddism what "pious" is to Catholicism. What does the iPod mean to Gillian? "I can play any music I like; I can change the music whenever I want; and I will look much cooler. I've become obsessed by iPods. I was introduced to them by   a friend who is a real geek. He helped me to download the music on to computer. You're going to be nice about them, aren't you. I mean there's nothing nasty you could say. Is there?"Not really. They are unquestionably small, compact, easy on the eye. But teasing questions do suggest themselves. Who really needs to carry round 1,000 hours of music, 102 songs by Madonna, the entire oeuvre of the Beautiful South? Is this really Nirvana? Gareth says it saves him having to listen to people "yapping" on the bus, but is this not a technological piledriver to annihilate a nut? Paul says it is useful at parties because you can produce a playlist that can't be tampered with; friends can't find that old recording of Wizzard's I Wish It Could Be Christmas Every Day. But is that a reason to splash out &#163;350, or a reflection of a bad choice of records - or friends?There is also guilt by association. The celebs who, analysts believe, made this an iPod   Christmas are Posh and Becks, Craig David, Fatboy Slim, Robbie Williams, P Diddy ("I got a boning playlist on my iPod for when I have sex"). Are these people really the quintessence of cool? Would you want to attend a party with them, even one that wasn't playing Wizzard's I Wish It Could Be Christmas Every Day? Posh and Becks's conversion to Poddism certainly demonstrates the iPod's ease of use, but I would prefer the celebrity company of Geri Halliwell, castigated in the Sun for sticking with her obsolete Walkman.And then there are the extremes to which Poddism can take you - the outer fringes of this new religion. Take Hannah. Hannah does not construct playlists - she lets the randomiser select tracks for her from the thousands she has downloaded. But, she says, the randomiser is not random. "Sometimes I just know what's coming up - I can sense it. My iPod knows me and knows what I'm doing. The other day I was   walking into a churchyard and it started playing Jeff Buckley's Hallelujah - it was an amazing moment."Hannah is an evangelist and her friends are rapidly being converted. They have to be. She recalls a recent meal out with six friends: three of the group had iPods; the other four didn't. "I was sitting opposite someone who had a mini-disc - I felt really sorry for them," she says. All the talk, the entire evening's conversation, was of iPods - presumably, the podless ones either left early or signed up to the cult. Conditions of entry: &#163;350, a passion for sleek design, two little earpieces permanently plugged in, and a head full of classic rock. In Hannah's circle, the opening gambit is no longer "Hello, how are you?", but "Hi, how many gigs do you have?"So, where does it leave music? All the Poddies reckon the CD is dead: under the bed at best; most likely in the bin. Who needs the artefacts? The composer Ferruccio Busoni called music "sonorous air" - and Poddies think Busoni was right."The iPod, the place where storage becomes magic, now helps us say for sure: it's all over," says Paul Morley, whose book Words and Music appeared last summer, just as the Pod pioneers were setting out on their journey. "The physical presence of the popular song is gone. It's time for the next thing. No disc, nothing spooled or grooved, no heads to clean, no dust to wipe, no compulsive alphabetising. Nothing to put away in shoeboxes or spare cupboards, and be embarrassed about. A chip inside us and inside the chip a route to all the music that there ever was." Don't listen to the music; become it.There are, however, still some unbelievers, clutching CDs, standing by their Discman, their shrill voices crying out in a desert of podlessness. "I hate the idea of the iPod," says music writer Caroline Sullivan. "Why would you want to carry around 10,000 songs? Nobody needs that number. This is a complete Nick Hornby anorak's dream - middle-aged men will be buying it with joy. Models like it, too, but they don't have any brains. Ten thousand tracks are more than anyone has in their collection - you end up having to fill it with Hurricane Smith songs. What's wrong with a Discman or a Walkperson? It's just a gadget that appeals to men who want access to everything - all the indie schmindie stuff they think they should listen to, a rock critic's wishlist of songs. They think it offers limitless potential, but our lives need editing, or it ends up like digital TV - hundreds of channels and nothing to watch."On Tottenham Court Road, the heretic's words go unheeded. If the Three Wise Men were buying gifts today, it would have to be an iPod. Preferably 40 gigabytes. I feel sorry for the non-Apple stockists who can't ride the iPod boom. An assistant in one sluggish store tries to sell me the iRiver. "It's a fantastic product," he insists with a look of desperation. At the moment, there is only room for one religion - and can it really be a coincidence that iPod rhymes with God?
At The Register, Kieren McCarthy has reviewed the new digital version of The Guardian,here. It's still in beta but you can try ithere.
The popularity of playing poker online has risen sharply in the past year, according to a report published today.The study, from the bookmaker Ladbrokes, quotes figures showing that the amount gambled on poker websites around the world increased from &#163;6m a day last January to &#163;38m in December.Some 150 poker rooms are thought to be operating on the internet now, compared with 30 in 2002. Players enter their credit or debit card numbers and then compete against other players who could be anywhere around the world.Ladbrokespoker.com, which claims to have 50,000 registered users, makes its money by taking a percentage of the stake gambled on each hand.The popularity of online gambling has raised concern among some voluntary groups.One source working with addicts said: "Of all the forms of internet gambling we have seen to date, poker could well be the biggest problem, partly because it was previously shrouded in secrecy."A Ladbrokes spokesman said the company took the issue seriously and included on its poker website information about GamCare, a charity which addresses the social impact of gambling.
A ban preventing newspapers from reporting an alleged scandal involving Prince Charles has made his name the most popular British search term of 2003, according to internet search provider Google.More people searched for information on Prince Charles than for either the 'King of Pop', Michael Jackson, or former basketball star Kobe Bryant, who were at the centre of high profile sex scandals in 2003.The Guardian overturned a high court injunction in November, banning it from reporting the name of Charles's former aide Michael Fawcett. The ban followed an earlier injunction on the Mail on Sunday.Buckingham Palace was later forced to issue a denial of the scandal, despite an injunction remaining in place banning newspapers from reporting details.Mr Jackson was arrested in November and has been charged with seven counts of lewd conduct with a child. Mr Bryant is still on trial for alleged rape.Sex scandals dominated search activity on the internet in the UK.But the most popular global search term across the world was US pop star Britney Spears, followed by Harry Potter, The Matrix, Shakira and David Beckham.
"As enthusiasts devoted to Apple prepare to descend on San Francisco next week for the annual Macworld conference, at least two online petitions have collected hundreds of signatures from potential plaintiffs seeking to file lawsuits over claims of defects in the iBook laptop," reportsReuters.Also, "in California, a lawsuit seeking class-action status is expected to be filed January against the company over the claim that Apple's warranty does not run long enough to cover problems with the player's battery."Update:Just noticed The Register has waded in with Andrew Orlowski on theiBook problems: "We can vouch that this is an issue from our own experience, as both of The Register's US iBooks have died this year, one after only ten weeks." There's also a link to aMacWorldpiece that says: "We can't check the vital signs of every computer Apple ships. We can, however, report on the quality of the PowerBooks we've received, and that report is not encouraging. Of six 15-inch PowerBooks Macworld ordered from a non-Apple retailer, three had to be returned."
Mobile phonesThis year will undoubtedly be another big one for mobile phones. The mobile has become an electronic Trojan horse with all sorts of applications hiding inside (over 30 at the last count) waiting to be triggered when usage dictates. As ownership spreads, we will see widespread use of phones as cameras in 2004 (though the main use will not necessarily be sending snaps to friends). Why buy a disposable camera - which still outsell others - or even a low end digital model when your phone will do it for you?As the year goes on, more models will be able to receive and transmit video clips - and it is possible that third generation phones (a flop so far) will gain acceptance as they shrink in weight and price - though two-way video chat has a long way to go before reaching critical mass.Mobiles that can receive television will appear in Asian markets this year though technical factors will prevent their early adoption here, but GPS - enabling the phone to know exactly where it is thanks to satellite positioning - may appear later in the year as cost and miniaturisation make it possible.Meanwhile an increasing number of phones are coming configured with Java software that will facilitate an explosion not only of mobile games (see article by Keith Stuart below) but also other uses (and not just early-driving applications like porn and gaming). And it won't be long before phones will receive signals from radio frequency identification chips.Victor KeeganID chipsCould this be the year of chips with everything? No, this is not the arrival of some post-Atkins diet fad, but the tiny RFID chips so controversially implanted in Gillette razor boxes and supermarket DVDs last year.The tiny chips simply store information, and broadcast over the air when prompted. And they can be implanted in pretty much anything.When supermarkets started experimenting last year, they were intended to prevent shoplifting and track stock around warehouses. But the chips caused an outcry because they could just as easily be used to follow products, and shoppers, after they had left the store.This year, we're unlikely to see retailers frightened off quite so easily. RFID's progress will be quiet and - by the chips' nature - hard to spot, but the technology is likely to prove just too useful to be ignored. Only teething troubles with the technology and a consumer backlash - if it happens - stand in the way of widespread adoption of the technology.Why? Take supermarkets, desperate to squeeze every last wasted penny out their systems. They will use them to trace goods through the supply chain, prevent theft, and control stock levels. And we could even start to see more public applications for them too. Want to check the history of that piece of organic beef? Swipe the package in front of the reader in your supermarket, and hey presto: get its history, from field to freezer.Neil McIntoshDisposable gadgetsThe future is rubbish. All right, so it's a throwaway line, but that's the point: my prediction for the next big thing of 2004 is disposable gadgets. While we are used to our digital cameras, mobile phones, and MP3 players costing hundreds of pounds, next year will see the introduction of use once and throw away devices, costing a tenner a go.Cameras are the obvious place to start. The disposable cameras you might have messed around with during your office Christmas party are about the only place that old fashioned film is still holding on. Not for long: two American chains, Walgreens and Ritz Camera are selling digital cameras, with printing and a CD-Rom of the images, for $10. This year expect them to become smaller and even cheaper - just in time to save the high street developers from going the way of the buggy whip.While you are out and about with your disposable camera, you'll probably want to call your friends to gloat.Hop-on.com's disposable prepaid mobile phone is launching any week now and will offer 60 minutes of talk time before you chuck it.Both of those gadgets actually exist - which is more than can be said for the third disposable in the pipeline this new year. Cheap, disposable MP3 players look like one good alternative for the beleagured music industry. Rumours have it that Apple is about to announce a cut-price iPod, which probably only goes to show one thing: this year, as ever, Apple rumours will be the truly big thing.Ben HammersleyWireless musicFor the past few years Bluetooth has seemed like a technology in search of a killer application. Well, next year it is likely to find it, as manufacturers cut the cord on personal music players and deliver wireless Bluetooth headsets.No longer will listeners have cables dangling round their necks and pockets bulging with players. With Bluetooth, users wave goodbye to wires and can leave their players in their bag. Intriguingly, listeners will also be able to share their music with other device-owners in the 10 metre area.There are a few drawbacks. The players aren't going to be cheap and Bluetooth connections will also drain the player's batteries. Yet Philips has already promised that the next generation of its MP3 jukebox, the HDD100, will feature Bluetooth, while Creative is rumoured to have been experimenting with a technology from a company called Infinite Range. Don't rule out Sony, too, for the company - which has a wide range of Bluetooth-endowed products - is set to launch in the personal jukebox market and will need a USP to take on its rivals.However the first personal audio player to feature Bluetooth is likely to be the Apple iPod. iPod vendor XtremeMac is promising to deliver a Bluetooth add-on early next year that uses Infinite Range's technology and circuit boards. We have no idea on price, or whether the gadget will be available in the UK. Still, we can't wait for it to arrive.Ashley NorrisMobile gamesThe next generation of mobile phone games will take advantage of bigger screens, smarter processors and improved Java functionality to expand the possibilities of the medium. We can therefore look forward to greater tactical depth: Jamdat has the impossibly cute Lemonade Tycoon out on Java phones in January - it's a management sim where you guide a fizzy pop business from front yard stall to global operation, and was massive in the US last year. In spring, the same company has Neverwinter Nights, an ambitious RPG that should allow players to download new objects and locations from the internet. But there's some good old-school action too. Digital Bridges' conversion of the classic arcade shooter Metal Slug is due out in February, the same month as the latest Splinter Cell platformer, Pandora Tomorrow, from Gameloft. We're also hoping that recent mobile conversions of Ridge Racer and Resident Evil (both in luscious 3D) will make their way over from Japan.However, multiplayer mobile gaming is the most exciting prospect this year - both via Bluetooth for close-proximity face-offs and over GPRS networks. Nokia has two multiplayer N-Gage titles on the way, Operation Shadow a futuristic death match shooter, and the much-anticipated Path to Glory, a second world war battle strategy title that may accommodate up to 16 players. You can battle with friends, conquer their army or beat them at pool - the perfect way to end heated arguments.Keith Stuart
Web inventor Tim Berners-Lee has been given a knighthood, asThe Daily Mirrorreports.
"Phil Goldman, the charismatic and pioneering engineer who co-founded WebTV and more recently sought to build a spam-free e-mail system, has died at 39," reports theMercury News."Goldman, a Bay Area native, died suddenly at home in Los Altos Hills on Friday. The cause of his death is not known, and a diagnosis may take several weeks, according to a spokeswoman for the Santa Clara County coroner's office."Before founding Mailblocks, Goldman worked at Apple, General Magic and WebTV.
The Bank of England has become the latest financial institution to have its name hijacked in hoax emails sent to hundreds of thousands of internet users over the holiday weekend.A high-level investigation was under way last night after the Bank revealed it had become aware of the matter only after receiving emails from more than 100,000 recipients of the fake message on Monday night.The Bank urged anyone who had received the email from a sender purporting to be admin@bankofengland.co.uk to delete it immediately and ignore the attachment, antikeylog2004.exe, which the email claims can protect customers' bank account details.The email read: "The security of your personal and account information is extremely important to us. By practicing &#91;sic&#93; good security habits, you can help us ensure that your private information is protected. Please install our special software, that will remove all the keyloggers and backdoors from your computer. And will help us to prevent credit card fraud in future."The email is being investigated by the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, which was set up to police cyberspace following a government review three years ago into cyber crime including financial fraud and pornography.The NHTCU said it wanted to establish who was behind the fake address and urged anyone who received the email to delete it.The body, which has the powers to launch a criminal investigation, is also trying to establish what effect downloading the attachment has. It may be a virus.An NHTCU spokeswoman said British bank customers were alert to such scams. The body is already investigating a number of similar hoax emails which the NHTCU said had affected many of the high street banks. She refused to disclose whether any progress had been made in tracking down the cause of these internet problems.This month NatWest was forced to temporarily shut down its online banking facilities after a fake website was set up and emails were sent to customers asking for account details and pin numbers.Lloyds TSB, Barclays and HBOS have been affected by similar scams, as has the Nationwide building society.Unlike banks and building societies, the Bank of England does not have retail customers, but it has received calls from members of the public and other banks about the suspect email."We are aware that fraudulent emails, which have the appearance of being sent by the Bank of England, are in circulation. Both the email and attachment are fraudulent," the Bank warned in a statement.The Bank admitted that the replies it received appeared to be ones that bounced back from recipients - either because they have anti-virus software installed or had set up automatic replies for emails received during the holiday period.This may suggest that the 100,000-plus emails it had received by Monday night are only a small proportion of the overall number that were sent out by the hoaxer.A spokeswoman for the Bank said it appeared that whoever had set up the email address had designed it so replies were diverted to the Bank.The Bank was unable to disclose how many emails it expected to receive daily but regarded the 100,000 as an unusually large amount of traffic.
Ofcom, the new communications regulator, marked its birth this week with a move to bring high-speed internet access to rural communities by wireless to prevent them falling behind in the information revolution. If successful, this will enable villages and country towns to download data, including video transmissions, at up to 1Mb of data a second - or twice the speed of most fixed-line broadband connections. This may seem like a small step for humanity, when less than half of households in the UK have any internet access at all, let alone a fast one, but that is not the point. The long-term success of modern economies will depend on the speed with which they exploit the IT revolution. It does not always pay to be the first mover, though the US gained from being the first nation to exploit the internet. The UK leads the world in sectors like digital television, but is only now catching up with the internet, which offers instant access to knowledge and commerce on almost any subject.But what passes today as "broadband" access is not really that at all. True broadband means laying fibre optic threads along the "last mile" from the exchange to the home at speeds 100-200 times faster than current broadband. As far back as 1985 there were plans to lay fibre to every home in the UK; but, nearly 20 years on, there are virtually no homes that have it, except as an experiment. There were even grandiose plans to wire Europe with fibre which, if pursued, might have given Europe a much more dynamic profile than it has now.A number of countries are at various stages of getting fibre to the home, including Japan, South Korea, Italy, Singapore and even eastern Germany. In the US a consortium called "100 by 100" is thinking how the internet itself can be improved to give 100m US homes access at speeds 100 times faster than today's high-speed domestic connections. The most interesting plan of all is in Iceland, where Reykjavik Energy (not the publicly owned telephone utility, interestingly) is about to decide whether to push ahead with plans to connect every home in the Reykjavik area with fibre, the most intense operation of its kind in the world.Back here, Ofcom does not have a specific brief to promote fibre as opposed to high-speed data services in general. It is doing a good job releasing new wireless spectrum (the 5.8Ghz Band C spectrum range announced this week will, unusually, be shared with the military) and encouraging competition to BT's entrenched monopoly. But it should not take its mind off the big picture. Telecoms engineers have worked wonders in squeezing amazing data speeds out of 50-year-old copper wires. However, nothing yet devised has the speed and reliability of fibre cable. The arrival of fibre in the home will almost certainly happen sooner or later. But the big payback will go to any country that adopts it quickly and wholeheartedly - as ours should.
"Police ticketed a Lincoln [Nebraska] woman for posting nude pictures of herself on the Web that were taken in a downtown bar," reportsAP."Melissa J. Harrington, 21, was ticketed Monday for violating Lincoln's public nudity ordinance by posting pictures on her Web site 'showing her naked at one of our downtown bars and in several other locations around the city,' Police Chief Tom Casady said."Harrington works as a part time Web designer at a local bank, and the photos were taken inside the Marz Intergalactic Shrimp and Martini Bar.On theMelissa Lincolnsite (curiously missing from the AP report), Melissa says: "I've been featured FHM Magazine, Maxim Online, and Gallery Magazine. I am also the Winner of Gallery Magazine's Girl Next Door APRIL 2003 Contest, And I am the WINNER of Girl Next Door 2004!"It is a pay site, so I'd guess the free publicity will more than cover any fine....
"Rural broadband has been given a boost by the UK Government's decision to free up a key radio frequency," the 5.8GHz Band C spectrum, reports theBBC."Opening this band is expected to boost the development of fixed wireless access services, such as low cost internet access in areas not currently reached by broadband services," said the DTI in a statement.ZDNet UKhas more details.
Microsoft Research has been toying with aPenny Blackidea to cut spam by making people "pay" for sending mail. Here's how such a system could work: The mail recipient, eg me, could decide not to accept any e-mail that does not have a stamp (unless the sender is on my whitelist). The sender has to get a stamp from a stamp-server, and pay for it in some way, eg by solving a cryptographic puzzle that consumes some CPU resources, but possibly by making a micropayment or some other method. Of course, if I reply to your e-mail, then I don't have to get a stamp: I just use the one I received with that particular e-mail.The idea has been around for at least a decade, and last February, the Penny Black version was discussed, after a fashion, atSlashdot. (Why does that remind me of a million monkeys typing Shakespeare?) Slashdot linked to an article inThe Inquirerpublished on February 15, 2003. However, for reasons that escape me, theBBCWeb site ran something about it today.Comment: There are so many possible complications with cc mail, newsletters, potential stamp-issuing bodies (eg the US Postal Service) and the ready availability of personal supercomputing power, I'm not sure this idea would work, but it already sounds a lot more trouble than it's worth. I suspect it would be simpler just to fix the real problem, which is SMTP. When I suggested that in Online inJune, some people thought it sounded a bit heretical. However, I think the tide has turned, and some form of authenticated SMTP (or better) is now inevitable.
"On January 1, the Los Angeles suburb of Cerritos, California, is staking a claim as the biggest Wi-Fi hot spot in the United States," reports theIDG News Service. "The city of Cerritos gave Internet access company Aiirnet Wireless permission to use city property such as lamp posts and traffic lights to mount antennas and offer wireless broadband access to Cerritos' 50,000 residents.""Pricing will be similar to cable and DSL service, Aiirnet representatives say."
National Lottery Lotto players will be able to buy their tickets online for the first time from today, operator Camelot has announced.The new service, which follows a week-long trial, enables players to buy tickets for Wednesday and Saturday Lotto draws, as well as Daily Play, atwww.national-lottery.co.uk.Camelot plans to extend the service to interactive television and mobile phones at some stage next year.The move online follows the launch of scratchcards and instant win games on the internet earlier this year. Other games, such as Thunderball, Lotto Extra and Lotto Hotpicks will be made available online in the future.Camelot's interactive director, Richard Hurd-Wood, said that the move was aimed at persuading occasional players to buy more tickets."Our research suggests there is a significant market among irregular lottery players, who are comfortable with technology and who don't make the time to purchase tickets regularly at retail outlets," he said."In our bid to continue exploring new channels, we will also be extending this service to both interactive TV and mobile phones in 2004."Camelot's profit from the lottery recovered this year after suffering a damaging sales slump. The operator reported a £27m profit in the first half of this financial year, compared with £18m for the same period last year.Reliance on sales of tickets for the main Lotto draw has fallen still further, with other lottery games making up 29% of sales between July and September this year, up from 24% in the previous quarter.
"The CIA's Directorate of Science and Technology is celebrating its 40th anniversary by revealing a few dozen of its secrets for a new museum inside its headquarters near Washington. Keith Melton, a leading historian of intelligence, calls it 'the finest spy musuem you'll never see.' It is accessible only to CIA employees and guests admitted to those closed quarters, reportsAP. "Besides the jungle transmitter, the exhibits include a robotic catfish, a remote-controlled dragonfly and a camera strapped to the chests of pigeons and released over enemy targets in the 1970s."Comment: It would be a much better idea to give all this obsolete stuff to theInternational Spy Museumin Washington, where lots of people could see it. It's a wonderful museum -- I highly recommend a visit -- and includes good coverage of UK topics includingBletchley Parkand theCambridge spy ring.
There are three types of fool in the 21st century: people who smoke, people who don't appreciate music, and people who can't use a computer, according to North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il.APreports.
"I needed a small Windows XP machine and a Mini-ITX board was the obvious choice. So I decided to build my "Windows XP Box" in aWindows XP box. The external dimensions of the box are a tiny 243mm x 200mm x 48mm," writes Andy France. Pictures show the process step by step for people with time on their hands over the holiday. [Thanks to Manek Dubash for the link.]
At the time of writing, a gaggle of British scientists is still waiting anxiously to hear a jingle, composed by Britrock band Blur, that will be broadcast by the Beagle 2 probe if it survives its landing on Mars. But, whatever happens, at least two people present have had a result today. This, from theBeagle 2 weblog.Mitch Harris, guitarist with Napalm Death, waiting with the Beagle 2 scientists, proposed to his girlfriend at the time Beagle was scheduled to land on Mars. Whilst we await confirmation of the landing, we are pleased to say that she accepted.Merry Christmas to all.
Jakob Nielsen's latest Alertbox column reports that: "Many of this year's top design mistakes actually indicate a happy phenomenon: we are making progress in Web usability. Now that sites are doing certain things correctly, we get hit by second-order phenomena that only cause problems because users have progressed past the first-order issues." The list ishere.Also worth reading: last month's list ofThe Ten Most Violated Homepage Design Guidelines.
The Tonight's Menu Intelligent Oven (model DW002SS) and the Wurlitzer Digital Jukebox are among thehonoured products, which will be shown in the lobby of the Las Vegas Convention Center during the 2004 International CES, starting on January 6.There's a discussion atSlashdot.
"Wireless carriers Verizon Wireless and Vodafone Group Plc on Monday said they will soon let their customers send text messages via mobile telephone back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean," reportsReuters. "Initially, Verizon customers in the United States and Vodafone customers in Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain will be able to message each other."Comment: I wonder how much longer it will be before mobile phone operators catch on to the idea of a global interactive network where interoperability is a starting point, instead of something that has to be kludged together afterwards.....
Bollywood movie fans will soon be able to download full-length features with the file-sharing software Kazaa.A deal struck between a partner of Sharman Networks Ltd, the company which owns Kazaa, and IndiaFM.com, a popular entertainment site, will allow Indian film producers to distribute movies, music and other large, rich media files online to an estimated 60 million international Kazaa users.The move follows a pilot scheme in November when Bollywood thriller Supari was offered for sale at US$2.99 (£1.69) and promoted through Kazaa prior to its release in India. The file was designed to self destruct after being watched and could not be copied.India's film industry, dominated by Bombay's Hindi-language hit factory, churns out about 1,000 features every year. This deal is expected to bypass the complicated and expensive film distribution system in the country.But with internet users numbering only about 10 million out of India's population of a billion, it is the 20 million Indians overseas who will be the short-term beneficiaries this deal.
The health secretary, John Reid, has announced another £2bn-worth of IT contracts to give NHS patients electronic records of the care and treatment they receive.The announcement of the successful bids to run the records system in the north-west and west Midlands and eastern regions follows the award earlier this month of contracts to set up a national system and local services in the London and north-east regions.The electronic records system is a key component in the government's NHS modernisation programme and will give 50 million NHS patients an individual electronic NHS care record, replacing the current patchwork of paper and computer records.The £973m, 10-year contract to connect the north-west and west Midlands regions to the system has been awarded to IT outsourcing company Computer Sciences Corporation, while management consultancy and IT firm Accenture has won the £934 eastern region contract.Mr Reid said: "The NHS care record will completely revolutionise the way that information is managed by the NHS, making sure that all doctors, nurses and allied health professionals can access vital patient information 24 hours a day, seven days a week; helping them to deliver the best care to patients in the most efficient way."The NHS IT programme will mean that patients will get access to more  comprehensive information to help them make choices and will  eventually be able to access their own health records."Richard Granger, director general of NHS IT, said he was pleased that contracts had been awarded "in line with the schedule we committed to in January this year".But he said the Department of Health now aimed to award the remaining contract for the Southern region - originally expected before the end of the year - in January, "when we believe we will have secured the optimum value for patients, the NHS and tax payers for the systems and services we have specified".Mr Granger added: "Our focus now moves to the challenge of ensuring the timely delivery of high quality services, which we will approach in a similar vein, with attention to clear plans, clear milestones and effective partnership working."Guy Haines, president of CSC's UK government business, said: "This is a highly complex but exciting challenge, for which we are delighted to be selected."Accenture's UK managing director, Ian Watmore, said: "This win will deepen our relationship with NHS and expand our commitment to helping them provide the best possible service to people in local communities."
"Writers for the Future explores innovative ways of writing using the internet, and provides criteria for best practice in the emerging genre of new media writing," says the Web site,http://www.writersforthefuture.comThe project is being run for NESTA (National Lottery money) by the trAce Online Writing Centre at Nottingham Trent University, which has just announced a New Media Article Writing Competition. There are small cash prizes for reviews, opinion pieces etc, and the competition deadline is April 30, 2004.Details are at thetrAcewebsite.
Azeem Azharposes a very interesting question on his (other) weblog: what's the ultimate digital media centre set-up?"My minimum requirements are: -- PVR functionality with access to UK listings (and Sky digital) -- Digital storage of music and easy access and management of said music -- No PCs [...] I want to minimise wires so ideally would like to wifi across media from mac to media server and then connect the media server to my amp. The media server (whatever form it takes) needs to be easy to control: it would be great if I could control it via iTunes or something similar."Don't leave comments here, but do click over to Azeem's to give him some advice: I'll be fascinated to see what people come up with. And I wonder if Apple will come up with something to help him out at the January MacWorld Expo? Or maybe someone will unveil something at the Consumer Electronics Show in Vegas a few days later. We'll see (and yes, we'll be covering both events liiiiiive here, and on Guardian Unlimited).
Name five board games invented in the last 75 years which have racked up sales of more than £500 million. Answer: Monopoly, Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit, Pictionary and Cluedo. All very familiar. But what's tipped to be number six? Cranium.Cranium may be rather less familiar now, but not for long. Its story is a testament to the product development skills of the former high-flying Scottish Microsoft executive who invented it. It is set to be one of the biggest Christmas hits this year and a massive shot in the arm to Britain's toys and games industry worth £1.9 billion.Speaking from Seattle, where he has lived for more than 10 years, Richard Tait, 39, said he left the world's biggest company to take advantage of the internet craze during the late Nineties. The trouble was, he couldn't come up with an idea.It was on a rainy afternoon while on holiday outside New York in 1997 that he stumbled upon the idea that made his fortune. Having trounced his holiday companions at Pictionary, he was 'humiliated' in a revenge grudge Scrabble contest. Puzzled why games focused on just one skill, he set about devising something that would test all-round ability.And so Cranium was born. It was quickly tried on small focus groups of former Microsoft colleagues whose savage comments ironed out any glitches.Five years later Tait has the world's fastest-selling board game on his hands after spending hardly anything on advertising. Mainstream distributors refused to touch it. But Tait persuaded Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble, Starbucks and Virgin Megastore to stock it.This year sales will reach six million. The game which claims to test all areas of the brain by getting four players to sing, act, draw and answer general knowledge questions is the hottest board game this Christmas.'We sold the first million without advertising,' Tait said. 'We had some incredible luck when Julia Roberts on the Oprah Winfrey show said she couldn't stop playing the game. We saw a definite lift. Since then we've had unsolicited namechecks from Mike Myers, Ant &amp; Dec, David Beckham and Britney Spears.'The game has broken the mould in an industry which has seen firms like Hasbro and Mattel dominate.But if Tait is raking it in this Christmas, so is the mighty computer game industry.Christmas is increasingly the season of computer games' publishers. This month around £500m worth of games will be sold in Britain, making 2003 gaming's greatest year in terms of sales. This year total sales could approach £1.4bn - double the size of cinema box-office receipts at £755m and triple that of DVD and video rentals. The fastest-growing sector within leisure now has the £2bn target of music sales in its sights.It was 1981 when Shigeru Miyamoto designed Donkey Kong for video-games arcades and Nintendo was born.Since then the toys market has shrunk while companies like US games giant Electronic Arts have thrived. Founded in 1982, EA posted revenues of $2.5bn this year. Its last quarter saw a 17 per cent revenue hike to $530m with gross margins at an astonishing 59.7 per cent.Saturation television advertising campaigns are pushing titles like The Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter; Quidditch World Cup and Fifa Soccer 2004.Shareholders in games publisher SCi Entertainment Group can expect a bumper Christmas. Thanks to the success of the shoot'em up war game Conflict: Desert Storm, which has sold two million copies, the firm is riding high with its Gulf war sequel.Next year SCi should score with Conflict: Vietnam and Reservoir Dogs, based on the Quentin Tarantino movie. Earlier this month the firm signed up the rights to the latest game developed by Toby Gard, the creator of Lara Croft and the original Tomb Raider game. Not much of a peaceful Christmas with that lot then.Christmas, though, is expected to be a nightmare for Nintendo. Despite lowering the price of its Gamecube to just £79.99, it still can't catch Microsoft's Xbox. But Sony's Playstation 2 still rules. Microsoft might have shifted 10 million Xboxes, but Sony is at 62 million worldwide. Nintendo's Gamecube sales are probably less than half the sales of Xbox.Kids under six will receive Christmas presents from their parents this year worth an average £180. Fathers will splash out an average £212 and mums £168. Parents under 24 will spend the most - an average of £256 - and those aged 35 to 44 the least, £159.But 80 per cent of parents surveyed by the Early Learning Centre say they won't buy this year's latest fads like Boohbah soft toys, Lego Bionicles and Yu-Gi-Oh! trading card game. Instead, most children will receive traditional gifts like bicycles and dolls' houses.Although this year there has been a resurgence of Eighties mainstays like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and the My Little Pony range - there is no craze which has seen fevered parents trawl toy shops in desperation.This year is the 20th anniversary of the great Cabbage Patch Doll riots when shoppers at a mall in the US ran amok because they couldn't get their hands on the pug-faced creatures. Throughout the Nineties, there were rushes on Thunderbird Island, Sylvanian Families, Power Rangers, Ninja Turtles, Pokemons, Tamagotchis, electric pets and Nintendo Game Boys. Some parents are still recovering from the great Tweenies shortage of 1999.The British Association of Toy Retailers reported last week that its members were struggling to grow sales this year and are increasingly looking to develop new distribution channels - principally websites or targeted magazines to draw punters in.Jon Salisbury, an editorial consultant on ToyNews, said: 'There's no single hit toy, and there's a game of brinkmanship between sellers and consumers. The consumer is winning. Prices are being cut and three-for-two offers are very much out there.'One loser appears to be Barbie. She has been tossed aside in favour of Bratz. Made by Japanese firm Bandai, Bratz are big-breasted, crop-topped dolls. And some reports suggest that Barbie's latest DVD/video, Swan Lake, will not match the success of her Nutcracker movie two years ago.
More than half my Christmas shopping has been done over the internet; my 65-year-old mother is increasingly buying online; my boss used it to work out where to get the cheapest gadgets on his Santa list. So is this the Christmas when online retailing has finally taken off?On the face of it, the statistics support my own anecdotal evidence. According to IMRG, the trade body for online retailing, internet sales grew by 44 per cent in November - or 12 times faster than retail sales as a whole - and it estimates that sales for the year as a whole will be up more than 80 per cent. It has, claims the Post Office, overtaken mail order catalogues in its share of the total retail take.Its acceptability is growing. The Apple iPod, this year's hip Christmas present that allows you to download up to 10,000 music tracks, was virtually sold out on all UK sites last week. The number of shoppers directed to stores by Kelkoo, the store price comparison site, is up four-fold on last year. Fashion and lingerie sales are up almost fivefold on this time last year, taking over from established internet products like electrical goods and CDs.Look behind the statistics, however, and online retailing looks a bit less exciting. November may have been a record month but total internet sales were still just £1.2 billion and IMRG's estimate for the year is just over £14bn. That is roughly the same as just one supermarket chain, Sainsbury's, will take through its tills this year.That total includes things like Easyjet flights and other leisure travel bookings which most people would not count as retail sales. Exclude these, as retail experts Verdict Research do, and the total shrinks to just £4bn, or around the size of the Somerfield chain. Director Richard Hyman thinks it will take until 2007 for internet sales to reach 5 per cent of the total. That is not inconsiderable and, given that internet retailing was virtually unheard of as recently as three years ago, it is a fast-growing business. But it is more akin to a niche business than a retailing phenomenon.Hyman is not surprised. 'Retail is less focused on need and more on want - persuading you to buy something you have already got. You have got to do that with devices like ambience and branding.'And he points out that now that fewer families have the luxury of having someone at home all day, taking delivery of internet-ordered goods is a real problem. 'Can you afford to take a day off to wait for something which might not even turn up?'Food retailers have solved this issue by offering a guaranteed two-hour delivery slot, including weekends and evenings. Others, like Argos and Next, allow you to order online and pick up (or return) to your local store. And 'e-tailers' are also having to cut delivery prices to stay competitive. In the past Amazon's high delivery costs made its discounted prices look less cheap; now delivery is free for orders over £25.Amazon, along with online giants like auction site eBay, may have managed to become established retail brands, but otherwise internet shopping is dominated by old-fashioned companies like Tesco and Argos. Indeed, according to Kelkoo, only four of the top 20 internet retailers are purely e-commerce: auction site e-Bay; Amazon; Kelkoo itself (although it does not actually sell anything, merely directing shoppers to the store offering the cheapest price on the product they are looking for) and CDWow, which has captured a big share of the music retailing markets by selling imports VAT-free.It is also getting more concentrated. Last year the top 10 online retailers on Kelkoo's site had 35 per cent of the market; this year it is 59 per cent and marketing manager Dorothea Arndt estimates that, within a year, it will be 75 per cent.That is not surprising. Survey after survey shows that shoppers' main concern about the internet is security; will the goods actually arrive, is it safe to give credit card details over the phone, what happens if the product does not work?While many internet-only brands have impeccable records on that, customers are still likely to find it rather more reassuring to buy from a name they know, like John Lewis or Argos, rather than from a site they have never heard of and which, they fear, could be out of business tomorrow.The more reputable e-tailers are working hard to allay customer concerns. IMRG has established a scheme called ISIS, standing for Internet Shopping Is Safe, which does an annual security and service audit of members' sites. That is aimed at giving customers confidence that some of the lesser-known - and often far cheaper - sites are safe to use.'The point of the internet is choice,' said IMRG's James Roper. 'What is the point if you only buy from Marks &amp; Spencer?'And, as regular surfers will know, there are some real bargains to be had. Discounts of as much as 40 per cent are possible on popular products from some of the discount operators. And that is forcing more established operators to follow suit.Nick Hawkins, retail analyst with Merrill Lynch, found that Dixons was offering 'web-exclusive' discounts of up to 40 per cent on many of its products, apparently in response to online discounters like Empire Direct.'We do not believe that a dual pricing structure of this sort is sustainable in the long term. The underlying message, of course, is that Dixons prices on the high street are too high.'Indeed, most observers think the main impact of the internet will be to keep prices down on the high street as well. With most households now having access to the internet - and 10 per cent of us on broadband - comparing prices is easy.'Retailing used to be all about location, location, location,' said IMRG's Roper. 'Now we have internet and mobile phones, location is receding.'In a shop you do not know if what you see on display is available and you cannot tell if it is the cheapest price or how it compares with other models.'The web is giving consumers a lot of power. If retailers want to survive online, they have to be competitive.'
"On the day of the 100th anniversary of the Wright brothers' 1903 flight, a small craft called SpaceShipOne demonstrated that supersonic flight is now possible by a small company working without government help. It also represents an important milestone in Scaled Composites' ambition to win the X-prize, to be awarded to the first non-governmental body to launch a manned spacecraft into space," reports Dr David Whitehouse ofBBC News.The rocket is backed by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, as confirmed on theScaled.comWeb site in the PDF file,SpaceShpOne Rumor Confirmed.
"In a fresh blow to the entertainment industry's campaign against file-sharing, the Supreme Court of the Netherlands has upheld a lower court's ruling that the creators of Kazaa can't be held liable for the copyright-infringing actions of users of the popular file-sharing application," reports theIDG News Service. This was, of course, expected, based on previous decisions. "In its decision Friday, the court cites international rulings including the 1984 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the so-called Betamax case. In Sony v Universal, the U.S. Supreme Court said device makers--in this case, VCR maker Sony--can't be held liable when people infringe copyright using Sony's equipment. The Dutch decision also cites a Los Angeles federal judge's dismissal of a lawsuit against file-sharing services Grokster and StreamCast Networks last April. US District Court Judge Stephen Wilson decided the two companies could not be held culpable for illegal file trading done over their networks."
The legal machinations of the games industry have hit the headlines since Sega announced it has filed a lawsuit against Fox Interactive.Sega claims Fox's latest cash-in on a certain yellow-hued American cartoon family (The Simpsons: Road Rage) was a direct gameplay infringement on Sega's three-year-old game Crazy Taxi.Although it's uncertain quite how far this case will progress down the legal line, it has certainly raised some interesting questions about whether videogame innovation should realistically be copyrightable or not, and what the implications of a widespread crack-down would be.Even if Road Rage is found to bear no relation to Crazy Taxi, it a fact that the recycling of other people's ideas has always been around in the world of videogames. With a large chunk of development being focused on pushing new technologies, such as real world physics and dynamic lighting systems, gameplay is often borrowed and tweaked from those titles that have gone before.Most game genres are unafraid to plunder rigorously, especially first person shooter and strategy games, with varying results.As the games industry struggles to come to terms with its own worth and potential for the future, mixed with a rather rocky climate for small developers (especially in the UK), there is certainly a cautiousness amongst games publishers.Consequently we have a market that is saturated with "proven" big sellers: sports games, movie licenses and, above all, sequels. As a result of this, genuine innovation has been pushed further down the ladder of importance. That's despite the fact that original ideas, even when applied to existing franchises, can still be extremely big sellers (just look at GTA3 and Vice City).Jason Kingsley, Creative Director and CEO of Rebellion Studios in Oxford, thinks that publishers can often back themselves into a corner over innovation. "I think publishers are keen to analyze what people want, but the trouble is they're only analyzing what's previously been successful."I was once told by a marketing person (who isn't in the industry any more): 'We want a really, really original game...just like that one!' I don't think they understood the logic behind why we couldn't do that."When it comes to games, it seems to be the curse of the innovative to be copied and, in doing so, help create their own future rivals.Sometimes even much-lauded games with their own claims to fame can owe their very existence to previous titles. Half-Life would simply not exist were it not for id Software's original Doom and Quake games. Now their descendents (Half-Life 2 and Doom 3) are about to go head-to-head in the charts next year.But when the big boys start taking an entire gameplay concept, re-branding it and calling it their own  the call for some kind of protection on innovative gameplay doesn't seem quite so far-fetched.Whether such draconian measures as actually patenting gameplay would force games to become innovative is uncertain, but innovation is certainly drastically undervalued in the current climate.Perhaps what is more important than protecting innovation is nurturing it, before we reach a state of derivative saturation where no one remembers who got there first.Full price software chartOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Medal of Honor: Rising Sun (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.992) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts £39.993) FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - £34.994) The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - £37.995) LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £34.996) True Crime: Streets of LA (PS2, Xbox, GC) Activision - £37.997) Tony Hawk's Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Activision - £39.998) Finding Nemo (PS2, GBA, PC, Xbox) THQ - £34.999) Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup (PS2, GC, GBA, PC) Electronic Arts - £34.9910) Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (PS2, XB, GBA) Atari - £34.99
Has Apple really got a video iPod ready for release? Will phone users upgrade to 3G handsets next year? Ashley Norris makes five predictions for 2004.Camera phones to take decent picturesUp until now the best quality images UK camera phones have taken are VGA standard - good enough for sending as e-mails or MMS (picture) messages, but not really high enough resolution for printing out and saving.That will change next year with the arrival of one, and maybe even two megapixel camera phones. Sharp/Vodafone is widely expected to get there first when the GX30, the fourth in its series of clamshell phones, arrives in February. Sony Ericsson is however rumoured to have a one-mega pixel model ready to roll, and LG has already committed to launching the GT, its phone with a one-mega pixel camera, in late spring.In tandem with higher quality snappers expect to see storage cards for archiving the shots become a standard feature on phones.Personal video players become must-have gadgetsThe market for small handheld devices that feature a 3-4inch screens, a large hard drive and video playback software is set to explode in 2004 with many high profile launches.Sony has already committed to debuting its first model, the Giga Pocket PCVA-HVP20, probably in the spring. Later in the year a range of manufacturers will parade devices that run using Microsoft's Portable Media Center operating system.The big question though is whether Apple will beat its rivals to the market with a Video iPod. There is speculation that Steve Jobs could unveil a product of this ilk at the MacWorld Expo in San Francisco in January, but it is probably more likely to arrive later in the year.Digital TV recorders replace the VHS VCRAfter the iPod the most coveted consumer electronics items this Christmas has been the Sky+ digital satellite/hard disk based video recorder.Sky is set to take the unit to another level next year with rumours that its next generation box will boast a huge hard drive of 240 Gigabytes (six times the capacity of the current Sky +) that will allow users to record up to four programmes simultaneously.Sky has already committed to introducing technology that will enable users to program the box remotely via e-mail or text messages. Sky won't have it all its own way though.Freeview digital TV boxes with hard disk recorders are already starting to arrive. Their main weakness is that they don't feature weeklong onscreen programme guides, although will change in 2004 and will at last make them a real alternative to the Sky + unit.Wireless gadgets head for the living roomThe first wireless gadgets able to transfer video, audio and image files from a PC to a screen in a living room arrived in 2003. Next year the consumer electronics heavyweights will deliver their lounge-friendly wireless product.Philips has a range of devices including surround sound and hi-fi systems and standalone wireless units, while Sony will deliver the Network Media Receiver, which works with its Vaio range of desktop PCs. Panasonic may also deliver its AVC1, a home server that distributes video and audio signals wirelessly throughout a home. The next generation of Microsoft's Media Centre PCs are also likely to have streaming facilities on board.Phone networks deliver broadband to goLater next year will see at least Orange and Vodafone unveil their 3G mobile phone networks. Unlike Three, which has attempted to attract consumers with its video calling and video download features, it is likely that the first 3G offerings from the other networks will be aimed at the corporate market.Expect to see campaigns along the lines of "broadband to go" as networks offer 3G PC cards that enable laptops to download data at speeds far superior to the current GPRS networks. After the large brick like handsets Three has offered so far, 3G mobile phones will become a great deal sexier next year.Upcoming 3G models from Sanyo, LG, Motorola and Nokia are much more like existing GPRS phone in terms of design styling, weight and dimensions.
The music industry was dealt a double blow yesterday in its attempt to staunch the flow of illegal song downloading that has devastated sales.In the US, a federal appeals court rejected the industry's efforts to force internet service providers to give the identity of some of the biggest culprits of online piracy.The ruling was a setback for the US campaign to scare people out of the habit of offering songs online with the threat of legal action.In Europe, the Dutch supreme court ruled that the operators of Kazaa, the world's most popular file-sharing website, cannot be held liable for copyright infringement by people using the service. The ruling was the first of its kind   by a national court attempting to wrestle with the legality of peer-to-peer technology.IFPI, the international record industry body, described the Dutch decision as "a flawed judgment", but added that "it still leaves no doubt that the vast majority of people who are using file-swapping services like Kazaa are acting illegally - whatever country they are in".It was confident the verdict would be negated when other cases in the pipeline reached court.In June the Recording Industry Association of America launched legal action against individuals infringing copyright laws by offering songs for downloading.Since September, the RIAA has filed suits against 341 consumers in the United States.
Freeserve yesterday opened up an 18-month old dispute, accusing BT of anti-competitive behaviour in the pricing of its broadband service, BT Openworld - now BT Yahoo.The ISP has lodged an appeal with the competition appeals tribunal after Oftel yesterday rejected for the second time its claim that BT is pricing its broadband offering at below cost.Freeserve lodged its original complaint with the regulator in April 2002. The following month, Oftel rejected it and Freeserve appealed. Having won that appeal a year ago Oftel was obliged to re-examine the issue but yesterday rejected Freeserve's case again.Freeserve said it will appeal yet again because it believes Oftel's thinking is "fundamentally flawed on factual, legal and methodological bases".A spokesman for BT said he hoped that the new super-regulator, Ofcom, will put in place a mechanism for weeding out what he deemed Freeserve's spurious claim.
Moreantitrust actionfor Microsoft, as RealNetworks goes after $1bn in damages and "unspecified injunctive relief measures".
Microsoft is being sued by its longtime rival, the RealNetworks internet media company, which has accused the software powerhouse of unfairly promoting its own software for playing audio and video on computers and over the internet.In an antitrust complaint filed in federal court in San Jose, California, RealNetworks claimed that Microsoft illegally tied its Windows Media Player software with copies of the ubiquitous Windows operating system, whether Windows users want Microsoft's player or not.The lawsuit claims this made it harder for RealNetworks's Real One software to compete, "resulting in substantial lost revenue and business for RealNetworks".RealNetworks is seeking more than $1bn (£703m) in damages and unspecified injunctive relief measures.RealNetworks said Microsoft broke the law by restricting how PC makers install competing media players with Windows, which controls more than 90 per cent of personal computers."We believe our business would be substantially larger today if Microsoft were playing by the rules," RealNetworks chairman and chief executive Rob Glaser said in a statement.Bob Kimball, RealNetworks' vice president and general counsel, said the case "is based on many of the same types of Microsoft conduct that US courts have already declared to be illegal, such as failure to disclose interface information and imposing restrictions on PC makers".Microsoft rejected RealNetworks claims, saying that there was "vibrant competition" in the digital media player marketplace and that it would respond forcefully to RealNetworks' allegations in court."Real&#91;Networks&#93; claims to be the number one provider of digital media solutions, with massive distribution of its software and more than 1m player downloads a week," said Microsoft spokesman Jim Desler."This is a case where a leading firm is seeking to use the antitrust laws to protect and increase its marketplace share and to limit the competition it must face."Seattle-based RealNetworks said that its lawsuit was complementary to an ongoing European commission investigation. European Union regulators are wrapping up a five-year investigation to determine whether Microsoft tried to squash competing audiovisual software by including its Media Player with Windows.Microsoft has already agreed to pay $750m to Time Warner Inc after the company saw the market for its Netscape browser eroded as Microsoft's Internet Explorer grew.
You'll recall themySocietyproject held a doo earlier this month to evaluate ideas (and Tom Steinbergexplainedthe concept back in October, in Online). Well, they've picked their opening projects, and the mix looks quite interesting. The top one has a working title of Faxyourrepresentative, and is branded a 21st century version offaxyourmp.com. We already know faxyourmp is great, and has had quite an impact. But my favourite of the new ideas is GiveItAway - an engine to make it easier to give stuff away, rather than throw it out. Having just moved home, I've only just found out how hard that can be. This one could really be quite useful.
Wal-Mart, the American retailer which owns the Asda supermarket chain, is to launch a cut-price downloading music service on its website.It set up a test service yesterday on its internet site and will officially launch the service early next year after assessing customer feedback.Individual songs are priced at 88 cents (50p) for every track. The price undercuts Apple Computer's iTunes service, which has been a roaring success and sells its tracks at 99 cents. As with iTunes, Wal-Mart's tracks can be burned on to CDs if wanted, which is one of the features that has made it popular.Yesterday Robbie Williams albums were available for $9.44, although some songs by different artists were listed as not available."We've found that easy access to a wide range of music is very important to the Wal-Mart customer," said Kevin Swint of Walmart.com. "With 64% of our customers online, we see digital music downloads as a natural extension of the music selection offered in Wal-Mart stores."Yahoo! yesterday announced that it was getting out of the internet downloading business in the UK. The industry has become increasingly cut-throat, with Microsoft's MSN and Time Warner's AOL entering the market.A spokesman for Asda said there are no plans to introduce a music downloading service on its British website at the moment.
An international operation has been launched to trap internet paedophiles who search online for images of abused children.Police forces in Britain, the US and Australia are setting up websites which claim to contain pornographic photographs of youngsters. Anyone entering the sites will be able to continue through a series of pages ending at a screen which tells them they could face prosecution.The initiative, codenamed Operation Pin, was launched by the National Crime Squad (NCS) and developed by a West Midlands police team.A spokesman for the NCS said it was a warning to those who viewed images of child sex abuse that the internet was a public place and would be policed as such.NCS assistant chief constable Jim Gamble said: "We hope this initiative will disrupt the activity of paedophiles operating on the internet... and undermine the confidence of those who hope to use the internet anonymously when searching for gratification with images of child sexual abuse."It is crucial that the public understand that those who search and view online images of child sexual abuse fuel the demand for new pictures and films."Assistant chief constable Stuart Hyde, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "This is a major contribution to our national strategy that makes it more difficult for would-be paedophiles to post or download abusive images.Chris Atkinson, NSPCC child protection policy adviser, said: "The internet is no longer the last hiding place for people who view and download images of children being sexually abused."
Flashmobbing, the favoured pastime of bored students and the radically hip, lost some of its radical edge today with one of the first ever publicity stunt flashmobs.The UK's largest volunteering agency, Community Service Volunteers (CSV), took on internet culture's latest trend for spontaneous and pointless gatherings organised by email and text message by inviting 500 people to flashmob Charing Cross Library in central London to celebrate the release of its report, Lending Time."The idea came from one of our directors, who read an article about flashmobs in the New Statesman. He thought: 'Why don't we give it a whirl and put the point back into flashmobs and give them a different spin?'" said a CSV spokesman, Jason Tanner. "They're usually so pointless."The charity alerted members of its London volunteers database by email and asked mobbers to bring in unwanted books for donation to schools in exchange for a mince pie, a bookmark or a copy of Lending Time, which outlines CSV's volunteering strategy over the next three years.Mr Tanner said: "We wanted to make the point that volunteering can be for a minute or for an hour. It's anything that makes a difference to someone's life."The event had been a great success, he said, with about 100 people turning up to donate more than 500 books."The volunteers were really excited," he said. "At first they were very hesitant and wondered: 'How do I flashmob?' But we gave them a mince pie and they soon relaxed."The people already in the library went about their business and didn't seem at all phased, although there were a few raised eyebrows and a few wanted a mince pie, too."
UpgradeI need a CD writer. Rather than spend cash upgrading my five-year-old Windows 98 PC, it would seem more sensible to buy a new machine using Windows XP Home. Should I be able to transfer and access existing files and programs? It is vital that I retain my email address: should this be an easy task to set up again on the new system? I was thinking of a Compaq package which I note uses either Intel or AMD Athlon processors. Is this a major factor in one's choice? Most of my work is emails, simple spreadsheets and word processing. I have just got a digital camera: hence the need for a CD-RW to back up pictures to disc.Gavin ElliotJack Schofield replies:Windows XP has a utility to collect and transfer important information from your old machine, so it should not be hard to get up and running. There are also programs that will transfer things from one PC to another via a serial cable or other connection: one example isAloha Bob's PC Relocator. However, I prefer to install software from scratch: it means you get a clean start, and can avoid mistakes you may have made earlier. The drawback is that you need to have kept original software CDs and registration keys (which are probably on the packaging), and copies of any programs you downloaded that may no longer be available. Also, it may take a day or two to get everything back to a state that makes you feel comfortable.Once you have customised the new   system to your satisfaction, it is a good idea to take a backup of the hard drive using Centred Software's Second Copy, Norton Ghost, Drive Image or a similar program. Manufacturers often provide a CD to return a PC hard drive to its factory condition, but if you have to resort to that, you will have to re-install all your software and customisations. Also, if you did not keep original CDs handy - I use a yellow plastic briefcase to store them all together - and a notebook to log things like IDs and passwords, then this would be a good time to start.For your purposes, it really doesn't matter whether you use an Intel Pentium or Celeron processor or AMD chip. A 1.3GHz or slower chip will handle these tasks comfortably, but even cheap PCs usually run at twice that speed today. If you are working to a budget, it is better to spend the money on more memory - get at least 256MB and preferably 512MB - and on Windows XP Pro rather than the home version.Too muchI have a 40GB hard drive with 38GB of free space. When I try to copy a 4.3GB file, Windows says I don't have enough space. Is there a limit to the file size on a Fat32 drive?Mike CampbellJS:According to Microsoft's Technet, the maximum file size in the Fat32 disk format is 4GB minus 1 byte. This was one reason Microsoft switched from FAT (file allocation table) to NTFS (New Technology File System) when Windows NT was launched in 1993, and this should be the standard file format for Windows XP. I would try this but my PC doesn't have a DVD drive or the free hard disk space.Backchat&#183;Brian Lapworth and Jerry Hathorn asked about scanning negatives and slides, and Jerry complained that using a flatbed scanner, images came out black. David Harper had the same problem and says: "Epson's    user manual isn't all that helpful on the subject of film scanning, so it was only after some investigation that I discovered you need to remove the white reflective plate that clips inside the lid before you scan film. After that the results were exceptional."David says he uses a Nikon CoolScan IV to scan 35mm slides: "It's a fantastic bit of kit, and fierce competition has seen its price nearly halve recently to &#163;399." He bought an Epson Photo Perfection 3200 flatbed to scan medium-format (6x6cm) slides. He says: "I'd thoroughly recommend the 3200 to anyone looking for an affordable way to digitise larger film formats to a very high standard." Martin Harradine also bought one and agrees it produces very good results. However, he adds: "From February 1, Epson is bringing out the 4870, which looks like rewriting the books on flatbed scanners altogether, making dedicated film scanners virtually redundant." Martin recommendswww.photo-i.co.ukas a source of information.&#183;Ron Ross and other readers also wrote in with advice. Ron suggests reading reviews in camera magazines rather than computer magazines as "the latter often spend too much time thinking of the technology, and not enough of the final products". He also suggests buying a "previous-generation slide and/or film scanner" which are often sold off at a quarter of the price.Ian West and Alan Simpson both recommend the Pacific Image Primefilm 1800 (about &#163;130) as a cheap option. Ian says: "The results are good enough for most purposes." Alan Murray-Rust suggests buying a scanner that has an external graphics package such as Photoshop Elements. "Don't use the inbuilt software that allows corrections to be made at the time of the scan: if you get the corrections wrong you will waste time rescanning the slide. With an external package, it is much easier to get your adjustments right."
The UK's Office of Government Commerce recently signed a five-year agreement with Sun, which means it will soon be running trials of Sun's Java Desktop System. It is not the only UK government body looking at Sun's new personal computing platform: the NHS is also beginning an evaluation programme. With Windows 95 and NT reaching the end of their lives, perhaps now it is time for Sun to offer serious competition to the various versions of Microsoft Windows.Part of a rebranding and relaunch of Sun's software applications, the Java Desktop System is Sun's attempt to deliver a user-friendly, Unix-based desktop environment, based on top of SuSE's Linux offering and the Gnome desktop. Key components are Sun's Star Office 7 productivity suite, and Ximian's Evolution mail and calendaring tool. Web browsing comes from Mozilla, and file access through Gnome's Nautilus file manager.Sun's user interface is friendly enough. Windows users will find their screens somewhat familiar: a Launch button in the lower left mimics Windows XP's Start menu, while This Computer sits where My Computer might. They'll also be able to use Star Office to work with Microsoft Office files. However, this isn't a purely open source package, and is best thought of as one that takes advantage of open source offerings. Star Office builds on the work of the Open Office team, and adds proprietary components. Sun is also providing Java applications, and tools for linking into its Java Enterprise System suite of server applications.The first release of the Java Desktop System is really an evaluation release, missing several features that are essential for enterprise roll-outs. A key omission is system administration tools, with no way of building a standard configuration and deploying it across an entire network. These will be provided in an update due in the first half of 2004, so mass roll-outs will need to wait until these additional features have been evaluated. If you want to look at Sun's offering, start with a CD-based trial version, using the Morphix bootable CD-Rom Linux distribution. This makes it easy to run a basic evaluation. Just drop the CD into a PC, reboot and you're ready to try things out. It'll even run inside a VMware virtual machine.The Java Desktop System is cheaper than rivals. If you're already using the Java Enterprise System, it's an additional $50 per employee a year: otherwise, it will cost $100 per desktop per year. The yearly pricing   model may seem a little confusing to business used to one-off software purchases, but it includes support and upgrades. IT managers will need to ask if it is worth paying that much a year for something that can be assembled out of free components. Sun expects that enterprises will find their update, packaging and support processes will be preferable to open source mailing lists and newsgroups.With IT hardware replacement budgets stretched to breaking point, the Java Desktop System's ability to run on older PC hardware is going to be an attractive feature. You don't need to buy new PCs to roll out Sun's suite. While Pentium III machines are recommended, Sun will support anything better than a 266 MHz Pentium II.So what is the future for the Java Desktop System? At the SunNetwork conference in Berlin, Scott McNeally demonstrated Looking Glass, a 3D user interface based on the next generation of Java graphics technologies. Like Microsoft's Avalon and Apple's Quartz Extreme, Looking Glass will need a 3D gaming quality graphics card to produce 3D window effects. It is also the basis of a new generation of 3D user interfaces, including 3D data exploration tools and CD jukeboxes where discs rotate in front of you.Sun intends its Java Desktop System to run on more than just Linux. While this first version is only a Linux release, there will be releases built on top of its own Unix variant, Solaris. This approach adds up to an interesting strategy for Sun, where you can roll out a Linux-based Java Desktop System on x86 desktop PCs, and a Solaris version on Sun's own workstation hardware (whether using Sparc chips or AMD's new 64 bit processors), or on centralised Sun systems delivering user sessions to remote terminals such as Sun's SunRays.As user-friendly Linuxes go, the Java Desktop System is one of the easiest to use. With Red Hat focusing on the server market, Sun's packaging of SuSE is likely to become the desktop Linux of choice.As to whether it will make an impact on an entrenched Microsoft, only time will tell.
An international police operation was launched today to catch people who download child abuse images from the internet.Police forces in Britain, the US, Canada and Australia have set up fake child pornography websites, which will record the details of people who access them, in a bid to deter paedophile activity online.Anyone who enters the sites will be given the option of continuing through a series of web pages while being prompted to withdraw from the process at every stage.Those who choose to continue will be confronted will be told they are breaking the law and that the police have their details, which may be circulated to 180 countries by the international police agency, Interpol. Users of the sites could then face prosecution in their country of residence.The scheme, codenamed Operation Pin, was launched by the national crime squad (NCS) and is supported by other UK and international law enforcement agencies.The NCS assistant chief constable, Jim Gamble said: "We hope this initiative will disrupt the activity of paedophiles operating on the internet, discourage those who facilitate the supply of images of child abuse online and undermine the confidence of those who hope to use the internet anonymously when searching for sexual gratification by viewing images of child sexual abuse."It is vital to remember that those viewing or attempting to view this material are committing an offence in the UK, and if they are abroad they may well also be committing an offence in their own country."It is crucial that the public understand that those who search and view online images of child sexual abuse fuel the demand for new pictures and films, contributing to the real-time abuse of many new victims every day."The "virtual global task force" behind Operation Pin also includes the FBI, Interpol, the Royal Canadian mounted police and the Australian high tech crime centre.The fake websites were originally developed by a specialist team at West Midlands police.Stuart Hyde, assistant chief constable of the West Midlands, said: "This is a major contribution to our national strategy that makes it more difficult for would-be paedophiles to post or download abusive images."Mr Hyde, spokesman on combating child abuse on the internet for the Association of Chief Police Officers, added: "We hope this sends out a message to internet users that the police service takes their safety seriously and will make life difficult for criminals who wish to promote images of children being abused."Children's charities have expressed concern that the police lack the resources to investigate internet paedophilia.The government admitted last week that less than one in 20 of the 7,200 Britons found to have downloaded obscene images of children from a Texas-based website two years ago have been convicted.Police forces involved in the huge Operation Ore internet paedophile inquiry have so far charged only 723 of the suspects of whom just 277 have been convicted, according to the Home Office.
If he Heaf there are experts have long disagreed about whether using a keyboard can cause must a skeletal problems, such as Koppel tunnel syndrome. But couple of weeks ago, researchers at Temple University in the US, are revealed that there is a direct relationship between repressive, though force movements and inflammation of mussels, bones, nervous and connective tissue.As a journalist, I spent most of my day using a keyboard, and I suffer from chronic wrist pain. Six years ago, I tried using voice-recognition software to get around this problem. The software didn't live up to the hype, but it did provide a momentary distraction of work as we laughed the ludicrous output.I've heard that voice recognition software, long way since then, so decided to give it another try. At the moment, there are only two real players in this film, IBM's ViaVoice and scans soft streak in naturally Speaking. Both products are distributed by a scan soft in the UK (www.scans staff.co.uk).I tested ViaVoice release 10, using a plan to run ex-US be had set. It took two hours to train the software to understand my voice. After that, I was ready to try some packed sentences. "Un you use a wizard makes easy to get started" came out as "and the user was it makes it easy to get starter it." the man York tells me that by correct in recognition errors, the software will make few errors. I launch the corrections when there and left click on the offending word. Bizarrely, the text takes a life of its own. I watch as random words add to the sentence until I'm left with: enough Lorraine of have enough findings off Fifth Firth for her at how half a thing he has pith of Heath off of her new user did makes easy to get start at.Using by voices correction when there is an exercise in frustration. Left clicking on a word is meant to highlight it, but it doesn't, and even if you don't select a replacement work with corrections window, the dead ones for it at one and one for you anyway.. A. And another and another, for as long as you do there. When I highlighted a whole series of words and re dictated as, as "there" the perimeter wrong time again. I get "of a" "birth" and "Howarth."If re frustrated that the system doesn't understand "third," I take get the look at some of the other features. There is a utility called What can I say which tells you which verbal commands can be used with application you using. Unfortunately, they are only four commands the can be used to navigate internet Explorer. Jump to open angle brackets favourite close and will brackets, back, Ford, and home. The package understood none of these commands. But his kick she kept getting "please remember to speak clearly and try again." I decided to try drain naturally Speaking seven.Dragon naturally Speaking goes to the same routine as ViaVoice to train system, however, the analysis is a lot quicker and less painful in Dragon. With very little training, Dragon was able to take some admirable dictation. What I saw on the page was intelligible English, albeit with the of solecism. Here is a line from article in last week's G2. "Of the caterpillar work one morning from uneasy dreams to find it had metamorphosed into a detached house in leafy Surrey, it might look like this." was uneasy sentence, but this is portraying gamey: "for the cat to put her work one morning from uneasy dreams to find it had metamorphosed into a detached house in leafy Surrey, it might look like this."Dragon also has a sophisticated screen navigation capability. You can even control took personal voice, using a facility called Mouse grid. Intricate icons, dragged documents, and to pre-match everything once did with the mouse and keyboard.Wise recognition software has come a long way, but it has limitations. There will always be the odd error with common nouns, but that side has been his fault. We are right, I don't "here" the punctuation. By driving a car, you cease to notice changing gear or indicating. And with writing, I don't think,,.! There bleared infatuation breaks my float. I start to think differently and all the natural cadences of "Island writing" a lot. Or distribution is great free mouse-which are usually staccato and full of typos anyway. But not sure I'll ever use the software for writing features Walsh. And I would recommend it for poets:The ways beside them down; but they   Gout-did the startling ways in glee:Dragon does provide a water punctuation facility, but it doesn't do a great job.   Sir ally of voice-recognition converts? Yes, definitely. At least a quarter of my day spent writing mouse, and Dragon will make the task so much easier. Alerts you us have ever been completely hands-free at the computer, but the software will save me a lot of respect.
If you had your Christmas party in the local pub and found the jukebox had an unusually high level of choice, you were probably in one of the first boozers to have the world's most advanced music system.By Christmas Day, around 10 pubs will be using The Music system, from Inspired Broadcast Networks, which holds almost 2m tracks - a number that is increasing by 300 a day as new releases are added. If you find it difficult to select a track from the usual 3,000 held on a regular CD jukebox, then this amount of choice will give you a real headache.However, this is only one of a raft of products rolling out of the Soho-based labs of Inspired as part of its plan to drag pub entertainment into the 21st century.Norman Crowley, the chief executive of Inspired, says: "Entertainment in pubs has not kept up. Fruit machines have not changed in 30 years, video games machines offer only single games, TVs are either off or have the football on, and jukeboxes have not really changed in years. Compare this with the home, where there's Sky TV, broadband internet access, interactive video games, iPods and DVDs. We're now bringing this entertainment into the pub," he says.The problem is that while the early public houses were a close copy of a typical house of the day - hence the name - times have changed. So while the average residence is now home to a wide array of digital entertainment, the pub remains stuck in an entertainment time warp.Crowley intends to change this and the jukebox represents the first step. It will be rolled out to as many as 2,000 pubs next year as part of a plan to replace the 5,000 CD jukeboxes supplied to pubs by Leisure Link - the leading operator of traditional coin machines, which owns Inspired. The long-term objective is to have the machines in the rest of the 24,000 Leisure Link-supplied boozers.At the heart of the jukebox is a broadband connection to a batch of servers that hold the tracks. The 5,000 most frequently played songs are also held on the hard drive. As well as paying 50p for your favourite track, you can stump up &#163;1 and jump to the front of the queue. During the early technology trials in three pubs, 20% chose this option.The system brings in further revenue by acting as an e-commerce kiosk selling CDs to customers who decide they must have the album they have just heard. Payment can be made with cash or credit card and fulfilment is handled by Entertainment UK - a division of Woolworths.From January, customers will also be able to pay for MP3 downloads of any tracks. Initially, they will receive an email containing a hyperlink to the track, but by the middle of the year, each jukebox will have its own memory stick slot. And if customers have a Wi-Fi-enabled PDA and the pub has invested in a hotspot - from Inspired's wireless business, the Cloud - they will be able to receive the track in less than a minute. Customers can also buy ringtones of songs, which are sent to their mobile.All the revenue streams help offset the running cost of the system, which is three times the CD version. The system also took four times more money during the trials, says Crowley.He expects the system to be used initially by publicans as a provider of background music. By selecting the "background" option, the jukebox function is disabled and a pre-selected list of tracks played instead. A number of playlists can be created. He adds: "Although we expect early publicans to just use this option, when they realise the increase in revenue they could get, then they will want to use it as such. It will start a resurgence of jukeboxes in pubs."Early next year, these publicans will also be able to incorporate video jukebox functionality into the same box as The Music. This will give it the capacity to hold 300 videos on its hard drive and access up to 100,000   more by downloading them over the jukebox's broadband connection. These videos can then be displayed on plasma screens. It is this broadband connection that is at the heart of what Crowley calls the "Pub Hub". This and the plasma screens provides the opportunity to create the pub of the future.By splitting the screen, a section can be used to display adverts or sponsored drinks promotions. There have been trials in Dublin with Diageo as well as at a number of universities. For example, after a goal has been scored during a football match, the screen could display a timer and inform customers they have five minutes to order pints at &#163;1.50.Landlords - using a PC and a simple, user-friendly interface - can control all promotions as well as run their own. The screen can also be used as a chalkboard on which customers can pay to have a message displayed. Such messages can be sent by mobile phone using a short-code number. Mobile phones can also be used to request a video to be played.While this all sounds pretty advanced, Crowley says it does not really represent the pub of the future because the technology is already being installed around the country. The real pub of the future is still in the labs and we will probably have to wait until next Christmas to get a glimpse of what that involves.
Last post promoting stuff we're doing, promise (at least for today :-)): but Online'sonline, and in the paper, today. Don't miss Sean Dodson and Ben Hammersley on theDean Campaign, Ashley Norris on thetop gadgets of the year, Clint Witchalls onvoice recognitionand Glynn Davis on how technology is changing theGreat British pub.
