How much are you paying for your videogames? The answer has remained roughly the same for years: &pound;35 has been the benchmark for full-price releases on the most profitable formats. But new consoles such as the Xbox 360 are trying to establish &pound;45 as the new price-point, to reflect rising development costs. Unfortunately for publishers, increasing numbers of consumers and retailers seem determined to pull in the opposite direction.The secondhand or "pre-sold" games sector is booming, with trade magazine MCV putting its value at more than &pound;100m a year - still a drop in the ocean compared to last year's &pound;1.3bn UK market announced last week by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa), for full-priced titles. But in light of recently reduced revenue forecasts from Take 2, Electronic Arts and Activision, it can't be ignored any longer. The extent of the problem was not hard to find in shops such as Computer Exchange in Tottenham Court Road in London."I don't buy new games any more," one customer said. "What's the point? Within two weeks they'll be &pound;20 less, and you can trade in your old stuff at the same time."Another customer at nearby Games Focus agreed, suggesting that publishers may have brought the problem on themselves in their drift towards the more casual mainstream of console games."Games are so easy now, they're not worth the money" he said. "The old PC role-playing games and adventures used to last me weeks. Now I can rarely find them and can finish a shoot-'em-up in five days - who wants to play them again?"Furious debateAfter years of turning a blind eye to eBay, publishers have at last begun to voice their concerns - pricked by the rise in retailers selling full-price and pre-sold titles (or increasingly just the latter). A furious debate kicked off last month in the pages of MCV, when EA's boss Keith Ramsdale commented that "new product is being made to look almost worthless and some retail outlets are starting to look more like libraries".Opinions have since been flying back and forth, with the likes of Sony suggesting there could be long-term effects if reselling keeps growing."We recognise the secondhand games market is part of the revenue mix, for retailers at least," said a spokesman. "However, if it continues to grow, it could potentially starve us of the funds necessary for research and development, and therefore, developers will be less willing to take a risk on new and genre-diversifying titles. It's this creative diversity that makes the games industry so popular, and without sustained funding from new software sales, this could be at risk."Judging the true extent of this impact is tricky, especially when none of the publishers contacted were willing to name specific titles being affected.And while the appearance of King Kong in the secondhand section of Game or Gamestation only days after release (and for &pound;5-&pound;10 less) might well have an effect on the full-price version a few feet away, this only brings it in line with the heavy discounting offered by supermarkets and online retailers. Furthermore, trade-in customers, who often buy a new or secondhand title at the same time, create a constant churn of products that some retailers maintain has invigorated the games economy as a whole."We have had a trade-in programme and have been selling pre-owned games for more than 10 years," said a spokesman for Game. "Many industries thrive on giving consumers better value for money - the motor car industry is a prime example. We are in no doubt that our trade-in programme helps drive the sales of new products. It enables more customers to access more new games than they may otherwise be able to afford."And while publishers of triple-A titles might agree with Ramsdale's exaggeration that "What is the perceived value of a game when a consumer sees an almost new product being offered... for less than the price of half a lager?", smaller labels often see things differently."Mid-range titles (&pound;15-&pound;20) are less restricted by price, time and technology," argues Koch Media's David Blundell. "So although a title may only sell 200 copies a week, it will do so for two years. We concentrate on specialist titles that fit into that evergreen area - so I don't think we fear the secondhand market."But can publishers stem this market? As a disc is physical property, there's nothing in law to prevent a person reselling one they have bought legitimately. The publisher might try to alter the licensing agreement (the "I agree" box most people tick without fully reading) or even try to discourage retailers from dealing in full-price and pre-sold titles. However, such measures would be tricky to enforce, says Paul Carlisle, head of media and technology at lawyers Shepherd &amp; Wedderburn."Once an item is put on the sale in the EC, you're deemed to have exhausted your intellectual property rights in it, which may prevent a publisher seeking to restrict the resale of the game. On the other hand, telling a retailer 'I will not sell you any more copies if you sell them secondhand' runs into the dangerous territory of anti-competitive conduct by artificially maintaining the price of a product."For now, the challenge to full price games seems certain to get worse before it gets better. High-street giant HMV has been testing pre-sold games in around 30 stores for the past year and has yet to decide whether it will be rolled out further."You wouldn't do this with CDs or DVDs because there isn't mass demand," explains HMV spokesman Genaro Castaldo. "But in games, there's a more distinct culture to trade in, and there's a strong enough consumer base. Games are also more expensive. If we feel consumers want more of it, we'll invest more space and manpower."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Are you Vista ready?I have a Centrino laptop with 512MB of memory and Intel Express Graphics. Will this run Windows Vista when it emerges, or am I better to stick with XP?Phil MayorJack Schofield replies:Most PCs that run Windows XP will run Vista, and you already have the recommended minimum memory. However, you also need a graphics system that supports the new Windows Display Driver Model (WDDM) and 64MB of graphics memory to use Vista's new Aero Glass 3D graphics interface.I don't believe your Intel Express Graphics will qualify, and therefore you will either have to install a separate graphics card (if your notebook has Intel's 915PM Express chipset - not 915GM - and a suitable slot) or settle for running Vista with what is so delightfully termed a "Windows XP-comparable graphics experience".According to Microsoft, integrated graphics systems that do support WDDM include Intel's 945G Express chipset and ATI's RS400 and RS480 family chipsets.Any graphics card that currently supports Microsoft's DirectX 9 should also be OK. Details are emerging attinyurl.com/8zznb.You can find out what your PC has installed by going to Start|Programs| Accessories|System Tools and clicking on System Information. To see the graphics info, click Components and then Display. This will tell you the type of hardware, memory size and level of hardware support for DirectX. Prepare to be disappointed!If you are buying a new PC this year, it's worth making sure it is "Vista ready" and supports DirectX 9 and WDDM. But if you are already running Windows XP SP2 on a machine that is not WDDM-compatible, there may not be a strong reason to upgrade.Microsoft is working to make key features of Vista - the Avalon graphics subsystem, Indigo web services technology and WinFX programming interface - available for XP SP2, probably next year.Microsoft recognises that most users only "upgrade" their version of Windows when they buy a new PC. However, it hopes that making the new technologies available on XP SP2 will encourage developers to use them to create new programs.Faster, cameraWhy does my new Canon Ixus 55 only seem to allow "film speeds" of 50-400. Wouldn't it be easy to allow a much wider range that would offer much greater flexibility?Hannah ChiswellJS:It would - but the image quality would suffer. In normal photography, a slow film needs more light than a fast film, but a slow film usually provides much better image quality: pictures taken with fast films usually show grain. With digital cameras, faster "film speed" settings don't produce more grain but more "noise".This can be very visible in clear areas such as sky. To get more speed, you need a bigger sensor, which can collect more light. This is why pro digital cameras usually produce better results than the snapshot types, even if the number of megapixels is the same.Picture viewerI have bought a scanner, which came with Adobe PhotoShop 3. Now if I double-click an image, Adobe PhotoShop 3 opens automatically. I have tried to disable it and failed, and Adobe is no help. I like the standard MS image viewing software that comes with Windows XP, especially the "View as slide-show" facility.Clive PygottJS:Windows files usually end with a three-letter extension that can be assigned to the program you want to open it. Go to Windows Explorer, click Tools and select Folder Options. On the resulting Properties sheet, click the tab marked File Types. Scroll down to the JPG entry, and read the Details section: this will specify a program next to "Opens with". Click on the Restore button and XP will revert to whichever program was assigned to do this job.If this still isn't the one you want, click on Change to see a list of the programs available, select Windows Picture and Fax Viewer, and click OK. Finally, close the Folder Options box. (Note: this program requires the MS06-001 security patch.)Also bear in mind that if you right-click any file, Windows will show an in-context menu. If you right-click a JPeg and select Open With, this will let you choose from several programs that could open it. In your case, the options should include Windows Picture and Fax Viewer, Paint, and Internet Explorer, as well as Adobe PhotoShop 3.Backchat&middot; Andy Whitehouse wanted a program to find duplicate files and I couldn't find a good free one. Robert Prins suggests Clonespy, which is "absolutely free, pretty fast and very powerful. The site atwww.clonespy.comhas been in 'maintenance mode' for ages, but the link still works." You don't need to install Clonespy, just unzip it into a new directory and run it.&middot; In last week's Backchat, I erred in expanding an abbreviation. Dave Budd was referring to Manchester University not Man United.
Within one-twentieth of a second, according to Canadian researchers who flashed up screens and found that people formed subliminal judgments about their like or dislike of a page before they had had a chance to read it.The researchers at Carleton University in Ottowa, led by Gitten Lindgaard, had predicted that people wouldn't absorb much in less than 500 milliseconds (half a second). But to their surprise, when they showed people sites that others had previously rated as easy on the eye, or notably jarring, there were consistent responses when the sites were shown for as little as 50 milliseconds - about as long as a single frame on a TV screen, and about on the limit of human reaction time (since it takes roughly 20 milliseconds for a signal to reach the brain from the sense organs).The work, published in the journal Behaviour and Information Technology, is reported by Nature (seetinyurl.com/be5uf).Having made a snap decision, psychological effects then take over: we like to be correct, and to keep on using a website about which we formed a good first impression helps to "prove" that we made the right choice initially.For e-commerce companies, the message is serious: "Unless the first impression is favourable, visitors will be out of your site before they even know that you might be offering more than your competitors," says Lindgaard.Of course the miracle would be if you could ever get a website to load in 50 milliseconds; Lindgaard's team had them preloaded, using special software to flash the screens up.But as Marc Caudron of Pod1, a web-design agency based in London, told Nature, having a quick-loading site "can be the difference between big business and no business", because 60% of traffic to commercial sites comes via search engines. "You'll get a list of sites, click the top one, and then either say 'I've engaged' and give it a few more seconds, or just go back to Google," he says.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the field of batteries for consumer electronics, Lithium-ion (Li-ion) technology has proven itself the best (Technology, January 5). But there's plenty more to come. A number of companies are experimenting with fuel-cell technology to power laptops.Unlike a battery, which stores energy already created, a fuel cell produces its own energy using external fuel. Direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs) use methanol - a cheap, ubiquitous alcohol product - to produce electricity. Instead of burning the methanol by combustion, DMFCs use the anode to separate hydrogen atoms from the fuel.The hydrogen atoms are then stripped of their electrons before passing through a catalyst to the cathode, where they react with oxygen to form water. The orphaned hydrogen electrons in the DMFC pass from the anode to the cathode via the electrical circuit, producing usable power.Rather than charging the device with more electricity, you add more methanol. Methanol stores more energy than Li-ion chemistry, according to Bill Acker, chief executive of DMFC maker MTI Micro Fuel Cells (www.mtimicrofuelcells.com). "The alcohol powering the fuel cell has 20 or 30 times the energy density &#91;the energy stored in a given volume&#93; of a battery."Consumer electronics companies are taking notice. "It is something that we feel is certainly the future of battery power," says Adrian Horne, media relations manager at Lenovo, which took over IBM's PC business in May. "But there is a way to go."Big problemPerhaps that's why IBM's prototype DMFC-powered notebook, produced with Sanyo, vanished after a demonstration last April. NEC showed one in October but has consistently put back predictions of a commercial product. Hitachi has also produced prototypes with a flourish, only to spirit the technology back into the labs. So why is DMFC always next year's technology?Part of the problem is building one in a small enough package. Toshiba used what it calls the world's first DMFC to power a prototype hard drive-based MP3 player measuring 3in x 5in x 1in last year. The unit was so small that no pumps were needed to deliver the methanol or the oxygen. Steve Crawley, the product marketing manager, says that a larger system using pumps for fuel delivery is needed for cells that can power notebook-sized products.Vendors could create a larger cell as a separate mobile energy source for laptops and other devices, but there are efficiency problems. "A DMFC kicks off twice as much energy in heat as it gives you in electricity," says Andy Keates, energy sources enabling manager at Intel, comparing it to Li-ion rates. "Under normal use, when you take the energy out of a battery you'll get 95% of the electricity you wanted, and maybe 5% in warming up the battery."MTI has been able to double the energy density of Li-ion batteries using equivalent-size fuel cells in military applications, argues Acker. But because fuel cells are hard to miniaturise, it will take more work to create the smaller packages required for consumer products, he says.But the biggest problem is regulatory. "Methanol is being heavily pushed for small-scale fuel cells but I understand the use of methanol on aircraft won't be acceptable," says Professor Peter Bruce, at St Andrews University, a participant in the government-funded ITI Energy (www.itienergy.com) battery research project.Li-ion batteries can explode, but only under extreme temperatures. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) allows them on planes without operator approval and spare batteries can also be carried, although their total lithium content cannot exceed 8g. Flammable methanol is considered more dangerous, hence the total restriction on using it during flights. Still, all may not be lost. The US Fuel Cell Council (www.usfcc.com) has worked with the ICAO proposed regulation amendments allowing the use of DMFCs on aircraft. If ratified, they will come into effect in January next year and national regulators will need to revise their rules.If the rules change, Toshiba could commercialise DMFCs "in and after" 2007, according to Dr Ueno, a technology executive in the display devices and components control centre at Toshiba's Japanese headquarters. NEC's Japanese spokesperson suggests a similar timeframe.If the cells do ship, establishing the distribution channels for methanol will take considerable muscle. Power sockets are everywhere, methanol sockets less so. No problem, says MTI's Acker, citing the firm's strategic alliance with Duracell owner Gillette. "They are developing and will distribute the fuel refills for the fuel cell systems we develop," he says.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
With more and more of us able to check the time on our mobile, MP3 player, digital radio etc, what use are watches? A meme running around the net last week (the original source is athttp://tinyurl.com/72fjx; free registration required), suggested that kids regard watches as jewellery rather than timepieces, and that the hands (who wears a digital watch these days?) are all but redundant. Although the story suggests a neat reversal from the wristwatch's introduction in the early 1900s - when many men disdained them as effeminate - the reality is that watches are doing fine. Last year roughly 19m timepieces were sold in the UK, while the US market is worth about $9bn.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This relates a bit to what Aleks was hinting atbelow. Nintendo are holding a press event next week at theScience Museumin London. Chances are they will be showing offElectroplankton, Animal Crossing DS and some of thebrain traininggames for the DS. Edutainment will be a prominent gaming trend in 2006 - seriously. I'm interviewing Nintendo's UK General Manager David Yarnton, so if there is anything you want me to ask him then post in the comments. It's likely that he will want to focus on the DS and GC, but the Revolution is certain to come up.
Jack previously mentioned thatMillion Dollar Homepage had suffered a denial of service attack. Yesterday Alex Tew, the student who created the site, put out a statement on his blog confirming that the site has been subject to an attack from hackers.I can confirm that MillionDollarHomepage.com has been subjected to a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack by malicious hackers who have caused the site to be extremely slow loading or completely unavailable since last Thursday, 12th January 2006.I can also confirm that a demand for a substantial amount of money was made which makes this a criminal act of extorsion. The FBI are investigating and I'm currently working closely with my hosting company, Sitelutions, to bring the site back online as soon as possible. More news soon.This morning, it's become apparent that a group of hackers calling themselves The Dark Group launched a DDoS onmilliondollarhomepage.comafter Tew refused to pay them $50,000."I haven't replied to any of them, as I don't want to give them the satisfaction and I certainly don't intend to pay them any money," Tew toldthe BBC. Apparently the FBI and British police are on the case, but I just spoke to the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit who said this wasn't falling under their auspices.DDoS is, of course, one of the crudest tools in the net blackmailer's box... but that doesn't stop it being effective.
Horie: investigation triggered share blitz. Photograph: Itsuo Inouye/APThings are looking pretty dicey over on the Tokyo stock exchange, which had to close early last night thanks to immense amounts of trading. Why was so much share selling going on? Because of concerns about a fraud investigation at internet service provider Livedoor, which is run by maverick Japanese businessman Takafumi Horie.The impact is spreading rapidly - aswe report:Trading in Tokyo was so heavy that the exchange closed 20 minutes early - its first-ever early closing. The Nikkei index has lost 6% over two days.Japanese investors have grown increasingly jittery as a criminal investigation into allegations of fraud at Livedoor, an internet startup, has been widened. The investigation triggered a sell-off in technology shares.Fears are apparently building about the combined effect that this and devaluing shares atInteland Yahoo could have on the technology market. Sounds like an entirely different way to arrive at a dotcom bust, doesn't it?Related:If you're interested in Horie, there's more on his political exploits in apiece from our Tokyo correspondentJustin McCurry dated last year. Or see Guardian Unlimited's archive of stories onTakafumi Horie
Intel's quarterly sales increased by 6% to $10.2 billion in the last quarter of 2005, but the company missed its own December forecast of $10.4 billion to $10.6 billion, and its shares fell 8.9% last night in after hours trading. The company was unable to supply enough supporting chipsets in December so desktop processors didn't get used. Intel's Chief Financial Officer Andy Bryant said Intel had expected third party chipsets to be used. According toReuters, Bryant said:"Our guess had been the chipsets would arrive in early December, allowing us to ship more processors in the quarter," he said. "Those chipset supplies actually hit in late December, so it constrained our ability to ship product."Still, Intel's profits for the quarter grew by 16% to $2.45 billion. And for the fiscal year, Intel made $8.66 billion on sales worth $38.83 billion.Further info is in theIntel Corporation Q4 2005 Earnings Conference Call Transcipt (INTC).
"MSRGroup Shothelps you create a perfect group photo out a series of group photos. With Group Shot you can select your favorite parts in each shot of the series and Group Shot will automatically build a composite image."Charles Arthur adds: I saw this last year at the open day at Microsoft Research in Cambridge (UK), where it was calledGrabcut(link to the original MSR page). It looked very interesting - a weird variant on Orwell's 1984, where rather than banishing people to the memory hole, you'd put them in places they'd never been.Of course, we saw something like this used for political ends in the last US election (Jane Fonda on a platform with John Kerry, anyone?)
Google yesterday underscored its ambition to expand beyond its core internet-search business and into traditional media when it announced a deal to acquire a radio-advertising group for up to $1.2bn (&pound;680m). The agreement follows a deal struck last year when Google bought up space in technology magazines to resell to its online advertising clients.With about $6bn in cash on its books, Google is rapidly expanding into new areas of business and new geographies. The company allows its engineers one day a week to work on their own projects to provide a pipeline of potential money-spinning ideas. The company said it is buying the privately held dMarc Broadcasting for an initial $102m in cash. If certain performance targets are hit over the next three years, Google could pay an additional $1.14bn, the company said."Google is committed to exploring new ways to extend targeted, measurable advertising to other forms of media," said Tim Armstrong, vice-president of advertising sales at the search engine.DMarc uses an automated advertising platform designed to simplify the sales, scheduling, delivery and tracking of radio advertising. Broadcasters are able to use the technology to manage the scheduling and placing of advertising to minimise radio station costs as well. The company, based in Newport Beach, California, is run by brothers Chad and Ryan Steelberg.Google aims to integrate the business with its AdWords platform. AdWords places relevant advertising on Google search results pages as well as on partner sites, such as the New York Times online and Earthlink. The company said the addition of dMarc would provide AdWords advertisers with an additional outlet to promote their goods or services.Google confirmed in September that it had dipped its toes into print advertising sales. The company bought space in specialist titles such as PC Magazine and Maximum PC to resell to its existing advertising base. The company at the time said the scheme was a test and would not elaborate further. But it is clearly not satisfied with sitting on the rapidly growing market for search-related advertising. In November it provided advertisers with another service, trialling "click-to-call" sales, where web users can phone an advertiser using a voice-over-IP connection.Shares in Google keep marching higher - they are now five times the $85 offer price when the company joined the market 18 months ago. The brokerage firm Bear Stearns earlier this month lifted its price target for the next year from $360 to $550. Piper Jaffray expects the shares to hit $600 this year. One analyst at the brokerage Caris &amp; Company speculated that the shares could reach as much as $2,000 apiece. The market currently values the business at more than $130bn.But doubts could creep in on Wall Street if Google strays too far from the internet search-related advertising business. Radio in the United States has been in a slump. The company had investors guessing when it raised an additional $4bn in a secondary share offering last August, adding to the $3bn of cash it already had in the bank.At the time, Google said the money was for "general corporate purposes" including potential acquisitions. Last month it used $1bn of that money to take a 5% stake in the internet service provider America Online. The deal with dMarc Broadcasting will have analysts widening their lenses to work out what Google might buy next. "Don't be surprised," the firm warned at the IPO "if we place smaller bets in areas that seem very speculative or even strange."Google has been throwing off new ideas and products at such a rapid rate that the firm last year launched an internal project called "fusion" aimed at trying to bring some of the technologies together.One result of that effort has been the launch of a personalised Google home page, including news feeds, local cinema listings, stock prices and ultimately advertising. The firm has in effect created an internet portal that could eventually rival Yahoo or MSN. The company's revenue last year was around $4bn. Among other recent launches from Google, the firm earlier this month announced the Google Video Store, allowing consumers to buy and rent content from the likes of CBS, ITN and Sony BMG.
It may only be a Wednesday, but it's still a good time to wax philosophical(ly) nonetheless. A friend is staying with me for the month of January. More often than not, he's got his head inSecond Life(as do I). If he's not there,Perfect Dark's on the Xbox 360. The other evening we suggested that, instead of playing a computer game, we play a game "in real life". Out came the board games, cards and odd puzzle pieces from the dusty shelf.We played a game calledTantrix, a puzzle-type thinker apparently similar to the board gameCarcassone. Here was the shocker which took us all by surprise: we had tothink for ourselves. There was no little icon to tell us where to go. There was no automatic replacement of a tile if it was put in the wrong place. The rules of the game had changed - we the other players were now the software which had to tell Jay where to go, rather than relying upon a bunch of 1's and 0's to do the job for us.It was a funny realisation, particularly because of all the pro-game literature which argues that playing interactively helps with lateral thinking, criticism and cognitive development. Sure, versus the television or DVD player - i.e., more passive entertainment - games do cause more neurons to fire and connections to be made, but they still have a never-wrong ruler to make final decisions, thus removing the player from a level of active decision-making.There are more and more hand-slap games (as I like to call them) being released - those that don't let you do something, or send you back to the start of a level if you've done something wrong. In both scenarios, the game punishes you without really explaining why. According to research conducted bySheri Graner Rayfor her bookGender-Inclusive Game Design, this is a particularly male approach to gaming. Interestingly, women tend to enjoy games in which they challenge themselves indirectly, thus the success of casual games in that demographic. Indeed,watercoolergamesrecently reported on a forthcoming study byPopCap, inspired by users commenting that playing the games kept their minds sharp.Are mainstream game companies realising that their audience is inherently lazy and producing titles which provide direction rather than inspire deep thought?Sure, this doesn't apply to all games on release today - and the proof for sharpness-of-mind comes from my recent thrashing at board game Risk by two people who forever have Advance Wars on their DS's - but playing an offline game again reminded me that much of the strategy in computerised entertainment, even in open-ended games, is out of my hands.I think I'm going to start playing more board games.
ModelHonda Civic 1.8 EXPricefrom &pound;16,600Top speed127mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.9 secsConsumption42.8mpg (combined)At the wheelRula LenskaCO2 emissions:156g/km (road tax band D)On the stereoDvorakEn route forThe heart of the sunOnce a byword for sensible, practical and blessedly anonymous motoring, the Honda Civic now squats among us like a two-headed bug with some unresolved personal issues. Its old dutiful dullness - its civicness, indeed - is long gone and it seems no more willing to blend into the kerb than Pete Burns is. In fact, this latest Civic couldn't be trying harder to be noticed if its exhaust pipe burst vertically out of its roof to a height of 25ft and periodically trumpeted the Marseillaise. What's going on?Well, that would be "the power of dreams", I guess. The power of dreams is the advertising tagline Honda now works under and which appears to be the theme for a 21st-century revamp across the company's range which threatens to leave no cup-holder unturned. Honda has seen the future in those dreams, and the mixed news is that it's not completely unlike Star Trek. Quite soon, the company will launch a car that offers hands-free motorway driving, for anyone who dares trust it. Meanwhile, there's the Civic, which you still have to drive yourself, but which, by way of consolation, comes with a front end like a Lego Bionicle and a boot with a faux rear radiator grille slapped on to it, and striplights and plastic mouldings that make it look like some kind of sci-fi fly.And then there's the dashboard. You have never seen the like of the dash on the new Honda Civic, unless, possibly, you have been abducted by aliens, in which case you might plausibly report that a dash such as this was the last thing you clearly remember seeing before the probing began in earnest.Performing a broad, semi-circular sweep beyond the steering wheel and extending deep into the plains of plastic between the driver and the foot of the windscreen, the Civic's dash is, in addition, arranged on three receding levels, in the manner of an agricultural project on a steep hillside. Dotted about these slopes at jaunty angles and in various hooded alcoves, are the dials and counters without which no car is complete. And what's that, way off to the left, past yonder lea? Why, it's a sat-nav screen.Inevitably, the entire console is about 30 yards shorter than what Captain Kirk was used to on the Enterprise, but it's the kind of thing that could pop up without comment on the smaller kinds of interplanetary craft. Accordingly, a driver getting behind the wheel of the Civic for the first time can experience a moment of indecision over whether to select first or simply set the controls for the heart of the sun.It's different, definitely. But is this difference with a valiant and measurable purpose, or difference for its own sake? It's certainly handy to have the speedometer right up high along the window line - even if it is one of those big, green digital counters, rather than a traditional sweeping needle on a dial. (The digital counters tend to have the same mesmerising effect as a taxi's meter, I find; though it's more dangerous because you tend not to be driving the taxi whose meter is mesmerising you.) And I guess it's handy, in these days of a united Europe, to have a button to push that converts the speedo from miles to kilometres per hour. (No more pretending to the French police that you didn't know the difference.)Yet, for all that elaborate ergonomic theories probably explain the positioning of every dial in this car, you can't quite rid yourself of the feeling that this entire area is there to make an elaborate and cooky play for your affection. Consider also the long, thin - and, in fact, brittle and nasty to use - front door handles. (The back door handles are concealed in the door-line, slightly redeeming things in this area.) Or consider the bright red clown's nose start button. Given that you still need to put the key in the ignition and twist it, where, exactly, is the added value here, beyond the fact that the button facilitates private fantasies that one is, in fact, driving a Ferrari?You're not, of course. You're driving a Civic. And this has its own pleasures. The car is supremely easy to drive and whizzes beautifully and quietly around the place, in the manner of the best urban runabouts. For which one should probably forgive its little eccentricities. But I threw open the boot in a shower and experienced mild disappointment as a stream of rain water ran off the door and directly into the computer bag that was stowed within. Which sort of defeated the point. It's also the case that the cunningly concealed lower floor in the boot would be even more cunningly concealed if the cover fitted it properly. Weird altogether, then. But dreams so often are.
Over on the Technology blog, Jack Schofield haslinkedto a Forbes.comreport, which questions the current PS3 launch plans. The story suggests that the low-profile showing of PS3 at the recentConsumer Electronics Showin Las Vegas, speaks volumes about the company's readiness to meets its sketchy deadline for a Spring Japanese launch:"Although Sony had a prominent location on the showroom floor at the annual convention, the company showcased televisions and portable music players, while the PlayStation 3 was tucked behind glass in the back of its booth. Sony offered only non-playable, demonstration versions of a limited number of games."The article suggests that Sony faces a 'manufacturing challenge' since its employment of the high-tech Cell processor and Blu-Ray disc formats. It could be that the company will be unable to produce enough of these key components in time to get plenty of PS3 units on the shelves by Spring. According to the report "Another analyst, Evan Wilson of Pacific Crest Securities, said 'the most likely scenario' is that PS3 will be released in Japan this summer with about 1 million units and in the US in November with 1 million units, followed by a European launch in March 2007."Ah, it's that old trade off - the need to launch as early as possible in order to get into the market, against the need to produce enough units to meet demand. Sony, naturally, is not commenting, but when Chief Executive Howard Stringer chose to talk about other areas of the company's business in his CES keynote speech - a platform on which you'd expect a fullscale PS3 hype attack (especially as videogames are easily the most profitable area of Sony's consumer business) - rumours of a delay are bound to propagate.Or this could just be a smokescreen, designed to lull Microsoft into a false sense of security. Perhaps if Bill Gates and co believe they have another six months of next-gen monopoly they might relax and put off releasing, you know, some truly Triple A titles...At least Sony has PSP to fiddle with, and it can still rely on its old war horse, the PS2, which has plenty of decent releases left in it - rare for the final year of an ageing platform. Usually, it's all Disney platformers and Barbie horse riding sims by now.
A story by AFX News Limited at Forbes.com raisesdoubts about the launch of the Sony PlayStation 3based partly on its non-appearance at the recent Consumer Electronics Show:Although Sony had a prominent location on the showroom floor at the annual convention, the company showcased televisions and portable music players, while the PlayStation 3 was tucked behind glass in the back of its booth. Sony offered only non-playable, demonstration versions of a limited number of games.Other factors include the difficulty of manufacturing high volumes of key parts -- the PS3's untried Cell processor and Blu-ray drives -- at acceptable prices. The story says:Even the most optimistic analysts say Sony will wait and miss its predicted launch window to ensure it maximizes the ratio of usable chips per silicon wafer, better known as a chip's yield, before Sony begins mass production.When it comes to launching the PS3:Evan Wilson of Pacific Crest Securities, said 'the most likely scenario' is that PS3 will be released in Japan this summer with about 1 million units and in the US in November with 1 million units, followed by a European launch in March 2007.This is pretty much what I've been predicting for some time. And I won't be too surprised if Sony misses those dates.
Ars Technica has a review of theiMac 17" Core Duowith benchmarks.
Newsweek magazine has a short"web exclusive" interviewwith Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, evidently from MacWorld. The interesting bit is at the end:Q: At the Consumer Electronics Show last week, there didn't seem to be any iPod killers.A: The problem is, the PC model doesn't work in the consumer electronics industry, where you've got all these companies and some does one thing and another does another thing. It just doesn't work. What's going to happen is that Microsoft is going to have to get into the hardware business of making MP3 players. This year. X-player, or whatever.Comment: Microsoft has certainly had a taste of Apple-style "controlling the experience" with the Xbox, where MIcrosoft did the servers, software, online service, hardware devices, marketing and branding (but has yet to make any money out of it). This was a straightforward play because Microsoft tried all the device manufacturers and couldn't get multiple sources to support a games console -- not surprising when the market requires standard consoles to launch at loss-making prices. It's not straightforward when there are a dozen or more companies making Microsoft-based portable players, including Creative, Toshiba and LG Electronics. Unless done co-operatively, a Microsoft X-player could put some important noses out of joint, or worse, spook its all-important PC manufacturers. (Music players are small beer compared with the $250 billion PC business.)"We've got a lot of work to do," Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said inan interview with CNET News.com. "On the PC, our stuff is still the most popular stuff out there. It's not true in the portable device space, and I think we have to do some stuff to simplify the experience."Sure, but what?
For the past few months, the mobile network operators have been cascading propaganda upon us about the wonderful world of mobile television.Today is the latest chapter in that ongoing story: the mobile TV trial that O2 has been running in Oxford is now reporting its results - and according to the spiel, it shows "clear consumer demand for the creation of a nationwide, mass-market, multi-channel mobile broadcasting service".Great. But, of course, they would say that. Hang on, don't be so cynical, say O2. According to the figures, 76% of triallists said they'd buy the service within a year. Sounds good, but is it the whole story?Well, last week the Guardian reportedhow mobile TV might not be the money spinner the networks hope.Mobile telephone operators, desperate to make more money from their customers and having so far failed to persuade them to do more than talk and text, are clutching at mobile television as a potential money-spinner. The research, however, shows that most people would be willing to pay only about £5 for the service - half of what many in the industry were hoping.The industry, of course, is constantly looking for a new cash cow. Spending billions of 3G licenses is just one of many reasons why revenues need to go up. That's why the "next big thing" is constantly paraded in front of us - but whether it's picture messaging , music downloading or video calling, most new models have failed to catch fire in the way that networks really want.But who knows. Mobile TV might take off - if somebody can develop really good content. But don't be surprised if the telecoms industry soon comes up with another "must-have" service we should all be using.
Internet time, we're often told, are the technological equivalent of dog years: clocks just move faster on the web. If ever proof were needed, this snippet that came out of CES is it. AccordingFolio Magazine, a new internet publication lasted an astonishing 24 hours before the plug was pulled.On Monday, publisher Jeremy Meyer of the Gaming News Bureau News Group, issued a press release touting the launch of the magazine at last week's buzz-heavy Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, including the launch of an online version as a "free e-zine." By Tuesday afternoon, however, Meyer wasn't touting anything. "As of right now we have no plans on printing issue 2 because of lack of advertising support," Meyer wrote in an e-mail response to a potential subscriber.Ouch.Update:Jeremy Meyer, the publisher and editor-in-chief of Game Industry Report, has been in touch to say that the title has not been discontinued, and that the next issue will be available on March 15th.
The machinima-making computer game from Lionhead,The Movies, is infiltrating one of the major events in the cinema industry: Robert Redford'sSundance Film Festival. According to theHollywood Reporter(registration required), publishers Activision and US car manufacturer Chrysler are kicking off a contest on 20 January at Sundance to challenge any would-be movie makers to submit their Movies-created film for a hootenany of an award in a virtual ceremony.Sound good? Hold tight for details. More soon.This isn't the first time machinima has been featured at the premiere independent film festival;Paul Marino, author of3-D game-based filmmaking: The Art of Machinima, presented there last year to great critical success.
One of the comments yesterday suggested that Gamesblog was becoming a bit cynical. I can't speak for Keith or Aleks but yes, I'll admit, I have had the oddwhingerecently. I blame a ropey Q4 release schedule combined with a lack of sleep (Keith - how you bearing up?) So it's about time we emphasised the positive and, y'know, there is actually a lot to look forward to when it comes to gaming in 2006. These are some of our reasons to be cheerful:Shadow Of The Colossusis released in EuropeThe 360 should finally get a true next-gengamePlayStation 3 and Nintendo'sRevolutionshould launch in Japan at leastTwilight Princess- brand new Zelda that will demand attentionNintendo DS redesign - it will happen. Arthritis prevention is assured.Pro Evolution 6 will feature the newly promoted Southampton FCAny others?
"A UK consumer watchdog has called for new laws to protect users' rights to use digital music and movies. The National Consumer Council (NCC) said anti-piracy efforts were eroding established rights to digital media," reportsBBC News."Consumers face security risks to their equipment, limitations on their use of products, poor information when purchasing products and unfair contract terms," said Jill Johnstone, the NCC's director of policy.
FromHugh Macleod, who is famous for drawing on the back of business cards....
I was watching breakfast TV this morning waiting for the Golden Globes coverage when they ran one of those 'we're all getting really old' stories. I can't quite recall the figures but apparently in a few years time a quarter of the UK population will be over 60. The report went on to suggest that, due to pension shortfalls, we'd all end up working til we're 70 - probably in B&amp;Q, a retailer that makes it a policy to employ mature and experienced people who can then spend their final days on Earth misdirecting customers to the plumbing aisle. I'm not sure what use a clapped out technology journalist will be to them in 35 years time, but I'm already penning my application letter.Anyway, the report got me thinking about videogames and how they're almost exclusively aimed at young men. Not only does this policy cost the industry over 50% of its potential market on gender terms alone, but in a few years time, it's also going to cut out a huge audience on the age side of things too. I wonder, are forward-thinking publishers already having brain-storming sessions in order to address the challenge of the grey gamer? Wired.com ranan articlethis week on how the ageing population in Japan is bringing about some major cultural changes. Have Namco, Nintendo, Capcom and Konami et al caught the zeitgeist?Older people (what's the politically correct terms these days?) make a pretty good market for games publishers. They have a naturally sedentary lifestyle, which means fewer hobbies competing for their leisure pound. Many have a decent disposable income, but (if my elderly relatives are anything to go by) will also appreciate the thriftiness of a videogame investment - £30-40 for dozens of hours of entertainment isn't bad.The social element of the MMORPG genre could also be a boon.Loneliness and isolationare problems often faced by those over 70. With a massively-multiplayer game, however, it's easy to maintain a strong, varied social circle without leaving the home. Videogames are also a hell of a lot more stimulating than watching TV - dozens ofstudieshave concluded that mentally challenging activities can maintain cognitive abilities and stall the onset of dementia. These will surely be key marketing themes in the coming era of mature gamers.And in ten years time, the key problem with attracting an ageing population won't be technophobia, as it probably is now: the explosion in home PC use over the last decade has built a knowledgeable demographic of mature computer users. No, the problem will be content. What will an older, computer-literate population demand from its games?What willyouwant to play when you're in your late sixties? Will you still be blasting gangstas and driving Mustangs? Actually, you probably will - it'll be a nostalgic pursuit in a few years. Or, if you're already a mature gamer, what areyouplaying right now?I just wonder if anyone in the industry is thinking about this... about you.
It's about cotton-pickin' time. Last week, the firstSex In Games conferencewas announced, taking place in early June in San Francisco. It promises to be a stimulating three days of discussion, covering online and offline game plans. Panels include:Creating Mainstream Erotic GamesIntegrating International Success to the US MarketEmergent Sex in Video Games and Video Game HardwareCreating Successful Online Erotic GamesInvesting in Sexually Themed GamesAlternative Distribution Methods for AO GamesMMOEG PanelAs an emerging mass entertainment, the computer games industry has seen little inclusion of sex in games (barhotcoffee,Sam Fox,Leisure Suit Larry,Stroker(not safe for work) andLula). Why? The homebrew market's thriving; why has there been no real investment in the mainstream games industry?If you prefer the more subtle approach to lurve, you might consider the thoughts of three respected game designers, Raph Koster, Will Wright and Warren Spector, in their 2004 Game Developers Conference challenge: to make aninteractive love story.More on this theme from the gamesbloghereandhere.
"Mushroom Networks, which was started at the University of California, San Diego, and WiBoost Inc., based in Seattle, have built prototypes of simple wireless systems that make it possible for groups of neighbors to share their D.S.L. or cable Internet connections. Both companies said that sharing high-speed lines might enable users in small neighborhood clusters to download files and Web pages up to 10 times faster," reportsThe New York Times.The two firms are exploiting the fact that most computer networks are used in an irregular or "bursty" fashion. Even though large numbers of users download e-mail, Web pages or music and video files, most of the time the networks sit idle, waiting for a computer user to strike a key or issue a command."Our studies show that, averaged across all users, the utilization is less than 1% of the total capacity," said James Baker, president of WiBoost.
I love World of Warcraft but there are times when I'd prefer to get my fix on the sofa rather than on the PC - usually when my mouse hand starts twitching. I really must see the doctor about that. So anyway, thereleaseof the Final Fantasy XI beta for Xbox 360 was highly anticipated in the Howson household - well, by me anyway. Here was a game that promised exploration, character advancement and wildlife culling all in spangly 360-o-vision and all from the comfort of your favourite sofa. Oh dear.Anyone tried it yet? It took me nearly 3 hours to install - keep reminding yourself the 360 is a console and not an off-white PC - and even longer to get up and running. The resultant experience was underwhelming in the extreme. The aged graphics were only the start - basically it looked like a PS2 game.Just getting going was a faff, with a steep learning curve and a decidedly unwelcoming interface (the on-screen text was hard to read on a normal sized TV). Yes, I've been spoilt by WoW's polished assistance, and yes this is a "beta", but FFXI as it currently stands is recommended only to masochists or hardcore Final Fantasy fans who probably already have the game on PC as well as achocobotattoo. The wait for a decent console MMORPG goes on - is it really 6 years sincePhantasy Staron the Dreamcast?
"It may not be the last laugh, but on Friday afternoon, after the close of the stock market, Steve Jobs, the chief executive of Apple Computer, shared an e-mail chuckle with his employees at the expense of Dell, a big rival. The message was prompted by the 12% surge in Apple's stock price last week, which pushed the company's market capitalization to $72.13 billion, passing Dell's value of $71.97 billion," reportsThe New York Times.In 1997, shortly after Jobs returned to Apple, the company he helped start in 1976, Dell's founder and chairman, Michael Dell, was asked at a technology conference what might be done to fix Apple, then deeply troubled financially."What would I do?" Dell said to an audience of several thousand information technology managers. "I'd shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders."
On Friday, Reuters posteda faintly alarmist news storyon the US videogame business, pointing out that sales were up by six percent to $10.5 billion in 2005, but that a decent performance by handheld platforms had cleverly masked disappointing figures in the console sector:"Console dollar sales were down 3 percent in 2005, while console game dollar sales dropped 12 percent."Blah, blah, blah... Anyway, there are a few more figures and year-on-year comparisons for you to gawp at if you wish to, but the only reason I'm referencing this article is the staggering piece of punditry featured inconspicuously about halfway through. Faced with having to give his opinion on an industry seemingly stuck in some kind of amnesiac five year cycle of boom and decline, an industry once again sinking slowly to its knees grasping at its neck and squawking breathlessly for the next-generation to arrive, Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Michael Pachter told Reuters (drumroll)..."You need people to buy more stuff. This is a bad downturn"And with that he seemingly fell silent, perhaps returning to a zen-like state of contemplation, secure in the knowledge that the fortunes of a billion dollar industry had been adequately analysed and dissected.I want "This is a bad downturn" printed on a t-shirt. I'll wear it to E3.
"Television-style advertising is coming to a mobile phone near you. It is part of a broader push by marketers to create a new generation of 'up close and personal' ads by delivering video, audio, banner displays and text clips over a device carried by most American adults," saysThe New York Times.Cellphone-based marketing could be "the silver bullet we've been looking for in advertising for a long time," said Laura Marriott, executive director of the Mobile Marketing Association, a consortium of wireless carriers, ad agencies, technology companies and advertisers.The article says: "In March, Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel plan to test how consumers react to short video ads on their phones. But the carriers, fearful of upsetting customers, said they were not planning to deploy this broadly."
Google has defended the integrity of its news service after it emerged that reports filed by the British National party are being listed as sources on its website.In the week that the leader of the British National party, Nick Griffin, appears in court on charges of inciting racial hatred after being secretly filmed by a BBC documentary team, the BNP's news reports are being listed on Google News alongside those from organisations such as the BBC and Reuters.One article, written by the BNP's south-east England "correspondent" about the trial of six men accused of murdering 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan, is the first news source listed when searching under the dead girl's name.The article, which accused the BBC of double standards in not reporting the colour of the defendants in the case, is listed ahead of reports from the BBC, Reuters, Channel 4, the Times and the Telegraph.Its prime position will mean that many Google users will be directed to the BNP's website by virtue of having clicked on the first headline that is listed.Other articles listed on the search engine giving the BNP's take on recent news - written by the far-right party "correspondents" - include a man arrested for making homophobic remarks, and support for the BNP among Christians.But a spokeswoman for Google said today that its job was not to act as censor, and that its automated search services could not screen results.The company acknowledges that a search may result in a "link to sites that some people find objectionable, inappropriate, or offensive" but that it assumes no responsibility for the content of any site included in any search results.But it said that if any illegal content was linked to in its index the web pages in question would be removed from the Google site.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
News is not a product, it's a process. There is no better illustration of this than the tragic mistake made by most American media this month when they shouted jubilantly on front pages and in broadcasts that 12 of 13 men trapped in a West Virginia coal mine explosion had survived. In fact, 12 had died.Hours after the terrible truth emerged, network executives and newspaper editors fell over themselves issuing justifications and excuses: they listed their sources and said they did the best they could with what they were given. I asked CNN correspondent Randi Kaye on the air what they could have done better and she couldn't think of a thing. "I don't think we got it wrong," she protested. "I think we got it right." Well, yes. Eventually. Boston Globe editor Martin Baron told a US press review, "It seemed we handled it just fine all along the way ... wrong information was given out."The journalists were invoking what I'll call the Judith Miller WMD Defence: when the former New York Times reporter finally admitted that her prewar reports of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq had not panned out, she argued that "if your sources are wrong, you are wrong. I did the best job that I could." Blame the message, not the messenger.But they all miss the point. Their stories were wrong. The public was misinformed. They also miss the lesson: it is not about trying to pin blame or issue a louder caveat or yet another ass-covering attribution. No, the real lesson is this: you can't trust the news. Now before you have me drummed out of the hack corps, know that I'm not saying you can't trust journalists (well, in most cases). Instead, I'm saying that in this age of instant communication, ubiquitous connectivity, and constant coverage, the public is put in the position of having to judge the news and its reliability for themselves. Like a good reporter, the public must be sceptical and must learn that sometimes it takes time for the facts to catch up with a story. So the public has to decide whether to trust the news they hear. The public is the editor.In West Virginia, the CNN crews had little choice but to impart misinformation. Their microphones broadcast the church bells pealing in celebration, thanks to erroneous reports of a miracle. Perhaps they should have reminded their viewer-editors about New Orleans, where they also reported exaggerations about death and mayhem from the mayor, which proved to be wrong.It is time for journalists to tell the audience not just what they know but also what they do not know. And it is time for journalists to admit that, in the end, they don't decide what is true. The public makes that judgment. So journalists must arm the public to do that job. We get to the truth together.Another, smaller example: recently, the Associated Press and the Guardian reported that the US National Security Agency was putting cookies on the computers of users who visited its website, in an apparent violation of federal policy. This looked like a tantalising story after the New York Times reported that the Bush administration had the NSA monitor communications without warrants. But cookies are hardly spycraft; they are used to count traffic to websites and target ads. I rolled my eyes at the story on my blog and other bloggers went to the Guardian's own site to catalogue all the cookies it uses.So imagine if that AP reporter had a blog and asked for advice from cookie experts before writing the story; it would have been written more accurately, if it had been written at all. And also imagine if Guardian Unlimited linked to all the blogs that were discussing the story, then readers would have gained the perspective of those experts. They also would have seen how the story was being used by the left (who cried about Bush conspiracies) and the right (who cried about media conspiracies). By acknowledging that we may not have the complete story and by including the public in the hunt for facts and perspective we'll get closer to the truth together. News is a collaborative process.&#183;Jeff Jarvis is a media consultant who blogs at BuzzMachine.com
"Just 12 days after Bob Iger became CEO of Walt Disney Co., he made a splash by agreeing to let Apple sell ABC's television shows over the Internet," reportsFortunemagazine.Iger has to decide whether Disney wants to invest in its ten TV stations and 64 radio stations or get out of those businesses. They are cash cows today, but they will decline in value as consumers take charge. Iger says Disney's TV stations will be fine, but others who own TV stations that distribute ABC are watching nervously as more of its programming becomes available over the Internet or via cable's video-on-demand platform. "I can't blame Disney for trying new things, but we don't want to lose our prime-time audience," says Deb McDermott, president of Young Broadcasting, which owns five ABC affiliates.The article says Iger is a user: "Iger has stored his music on Internet servers since the mid-1990s, his car is equipped with 120 channels of Sirius Satellite Radio (Spa 73, a soothing jazz and blues channel, is a favorite), and he travels with two iPods, the 40-gigabyte videoplayer as well as the Nano, which goes into his pocket during workouts at the gym."This makes him potentially more attractive to deal with than his predecessor, Michael Eisner.It did not escape notice that Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO and no fan of Eisner's, has gone out of his way to praise Iger. This bodes well for future relations between Jobs' other company, Pixar Animation Studios, and Disney, which distributes its movies. They are renegotiating that arrangement now, and some Wall Street analysts have speculated that Disney may acquire Pixar.
"A new Boston website aims to bring order to the tens of millions of weblogs proliferating online and provide one-stop shopping for overwhelmed Internet surfers. In the process, it could put some cash in the pockets of Internet scribes pecking away in obscurity," reportsThe Boston Globe.The site, Gather.com, positions itself as a kind of eBay for online writers and their readers -- a gathering spot for musings and discussions on everything from wine and computers to fitness and spirituality. And, with a business model that could shake up the writing profession, executives from Gather Inc. are recruiting bloggers by offering them a share of the company's advertising revenue.Eventually, popular writers will be able to earn a living by posting their work and attracting eyeballs to advertisements, said Gather's founder, 35-year-old technology entrepreneur Tom Gerace. That won't happen right away, though.
Race and gender. Surely such offline social constructions are absent in the virtual world? Academics and other students of the Internet have known for decades that even typed communication can reveal such non-verbal aspects of an online user, but it still comes as a surprise when discrimination emerges in an online game.According to apress releasewhich appears to be blatant self-promotion beyond the pale, non-English speaking users of the mega World of Warcraft are claiming that they are excluded from group activity because of the world's reliance upon English as thelingua franca. Perhaps racial discrimination is an incorrect term. Linguistic discrimination?The release, which comes from a WoW gold seller based in Ontario, Canada suggests that players who do not use appropriate grammar in their sentences are shunted out of groups because it's assumed that any non-English speaker is a gold farmer. Now, that is a load of poppycock. I've been through these worlds and my incorrect grammar radar goes into melt-down. Furthermore, my hair follicles cringe at the racial, sexist and homophobic epithets. I'd argue that the best way to eek out a non-English speaker in a virtual world is to seek outcorrectgrammar. Hell, even the press release has grammatical flaws.However, it is well-observed that offline race and gender do come through in virtual interaction. Professor Jerry Kang, at UCLA's law school, published apaperin 2000 that examined the race issue in the anonymous medium. TL Taylor, author of the forthcomingPlay Between Worlds: Exploring Online Game Culture, has studied (and has played alongside) the legions of women who enjoy virtual worlds. My own research also suggests that it's pretty easy to tell whether a woman onscreen is played by a woman offscreen (first clue: the proportions of the avatar).The Internet was once upon a time heralded as a giant levelling ground, a place where you could be anyone you wanted to be, without anyone ever really knowing who you actually were. We now know that's not the case, but what are the implications for the future? Thegamesbloghas already looked at one sort of discrimination, a potential doomsday scenario based upon in-world class. What other kinds of discrimination occur in-game?Furthermore, has anyone actually experienced discrimination in a virtual world based upon an offline identity?
Help will soon be at hand for technophobes who don't have a clue how to use their iPods - but at a price.One-to-one "iPod survival" tutorials costing &pound;65 for 40 minutes are to be offered at Selfridges department store in London. Subjects covered will include using iTunes, installing videos, creating playlists and downloading podcasts.Kristina Rate of Selfridges said staff giving the one-to-one tutorials would be iPod enthusiasts. "Our guys basically know everything about it by really being interested. There isn't such a thing as an iPod school or an MP3 player course," she said.
"A capsule containing dust collected from stars and a comet has landed on Earth after a seven-year space mission. The US probe Stardust released the capsule as it flew past Earth after a 3 billion-mile (4.7 billion km) trip," reportsBBC News.NASA has a Stardust sitehere.
Better late than never dept: The British Library has published 30 pages of Mozart's Musical Diary in itsTurning the Pagesgallery (uses popups, Shockwave plug-in required). The exhibit includes the opening bars of some "lost works", including Little March in D -- recorded for the first time for this show.
Qpod&pound;4,995Top speed:45MphSeats:2Good for:thrillseekersBad for:hitchhikersAfternoon-telly junkies looking to soothe their shredded nerves after being glued to Noel Edmonds's Deal or No Deal - the C4 show in which 22 people holding 22 sealed boxes compete for 22 different cash prizes (one of which is mere pence and one mortgage-sized), won't be surprised to learn Mr Edmonds has brought the same qualities of mindless fun and unremitting gormlessness to his next project. This time, though, it's not something to watch but something to drive. And it's called the Qpod. It actually makes more sense than you might think. Before Noel Edmonds took command of the airwaves, the mirthmaker was an early version of Jeremy Clarkson - more than 25 years ago, Noel was the petrol-headed presenter of Top GearNoel has never lost his love of cars, so when he saw a Qpod on the back of a trailer near his home in Devon his curiosity was piqued and he simply had to have one. In fact, as they say, he liked it so much he bought the company. After a bit of research he found the vehicles were actually made in France and Noel, seeing their potential, created the Unique Motor Company (www.uniquemotorcompany.co.uk).The Qpod looks like a cross between a deranged bumper car and an outsized knobbly trainer. It is, in fact, a miniature all-terrain off-roader - a sort of luxury quad bike with better brakes and a roof. Edmonds is keen to point out that the raison d'etre of the Qpod is fun. It's motorised ecstasy - a four-wheeler that is guaranteed to put a smile on your face. I spent an afternoon whizzing around the mean streets of east London in one and I had surly builders waving at me, cabbies giving me the thumbs up and even people stepping slack-jawed out of coffee shops to get a better look.Part of the Qpod's appeal is that it is so easy to drive. It's a slim two-seater, or a fat one-seater, and rather than a steering wheel it has a set of handlebars. It has a traditional brake pedal but a twist throttle, which does take a moment to get used to. Several times I found myself jerking and hopping at a green light like a large, hairless kangaroo. It has no gears to worry about, a body made of the stuff used to make wheelie bins, padded side bars, head restraints, seatbelts and full roll-over protection to avoid the horrors that befell Rik Mayall when he came off his quad bike. It is powered by a 340cc engine which produces a top speed of 45mph - though you'd have to have a brain as small as Mr Blobby's to go that fast. In a moment of madness, I touched 30mph and that was as frightening as a first date with the Bride of Wildenstein. Alarmingly, it also goes as fast in reverse as it does forward.Other than roaring around muddy lanes and being a big-boy's toy for those struggling to accept middle-age, the Qpod could in theory also be the ultimate city runaround. Cool, economical (it does more than 60mpg) and easy to park (you'll fit snugly into a space tighter than a pair of Peter Andre's briefs), but it has had a major setback in London - it's not congestion-charge exempt. The other drawback is its price: &pound;5,000. Watching Deal or No Deal offers a much cheaper thrill.lmartin.love@observer.co.uk
There's a lot of discussion about Google's share price, since it's reminiscent of the Great Internet Bubble of the late 90s. Indeed, Henry Blodget -- a former Merrill Lynch analyst who was intimately involved with Bubble 1.0 -- has recently posted two stories about it on his blog. Thefirst,$500. $600. $2,000. Do I Hear $10,000? $0?, looks at how stocks are valued. The second putsThe Bear Case: Google is wholly dependent on AdWords for meaningful revenue, so what happens if that goes sour? (If click-fraud bites, for example.)The New York Timeshas had a look at "three companies with household names" that are all worth about $135 billion -- Google, IBM and Berkshire Hathaway -- and what investors get for their money. It also points out that Yahoo was worth $140 billion when its stock peaked in 2000, and although the company has done extremely well since then, it's lost two thirds of its value....Of course, the fact that Google shares look overvalued at $400 doesn't mean they won't go to $600 or more.
It was always a safe bet that Apple would be first to ship notebooks with Intel Core Duo (Yonah) chips, given the bargaining power Apple boss Steve Jobs got by defecting from the PowerPC to its hated rival. How Michael Dell feels about this is anyone's guess butThe Inquirerreckons some of his customers are a tad disgruntled:One major corporate buyer told the INQ: "Am I the only IT person who finds it odd that Intel's favourite brand has not introduced or announced Core Duo Latitudes and Inspirons? I am ready to begin purchases for 2006 and would love to be able to get my hands on these, but they don't exist. I don't recall Dell ever missing a new CPU launch from Intel."It's a publicity stunt that could end up costing Intel heavily. Dell is expected to sell around 40 million PCs this year, and so far it has been Intel's biggest and most faithful supporter. We can assume it already gets some sweet deals for not using AMD chips, and its Core Duo prices could now be even sweeter than usual....Update: I withdrew this post for reconsideration and would now do it differently, if at all. Apple may not be the first to ship Core Duo chips innotebooks(the Apple Store says February) though it may be the first to ship Core Duo chips -- one blogger isexpecting one today-- which is what I'd expected. My mistake -- as pointed out by Jonathan in a comment -- was that I missed Dell's announcement of Core Duo notebooks, for which my apologies. As The Inquirer quote shows, I'm not the only one....
Sales of Sony PlayStation Portables and Nintendo DS handhelds saved the US games market last year, pushing total game industry sales (not including PC games) up 6% to a record high $10.5 billion, according to NPD Research. However, console sales were down 3% by value, while console game sales fell 12% by value, according to aReuters story.Combined unit sales of Sony's PlayStation 2, Microsoft Corp.'s original Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube current-generation consoles fell more than 19% to 33.5 million in 2005, Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Michael Pachter told Reuters.He added that total console and hand-held game unit sales were 190.3 million in the United States in 2005, down 6.3%."You need people to buy more stuff. This is a bad downturn," Pachter said.NPD reckons Microsoft "sold 600,000 of its new Xbox 360 video game consoles in the United States," reportsanother Reuters story.
You'll recall the interest inMalcolm Gladwell's recent bookBlinkabout how we make decisions about people and things in the blink of an eye.And now, the latest bit of data to add to those he had: it's true for web pages too, according to new research from the science journal Nature.A study by researchers in Canada has shown that thesnap decisions internet users makeabout the quality of a web page, in just a twentieth of a second, have a lasting impact on their opinions.The study, reported by news@nature.com today, shows that the brain can make flash judgements in just 50 milliseconds. The discovery has come as a surprise to experts in the field, says Gitte Lindgaard of Carleton University in Ottawa, whose team predicted that little could be taken in by a viewer in less than 500 milliseconds. The research is published in the journal Behaviour and Information Technology.Those first impressions are then solidified by psychological effects, say the researchers. People enjoy being right, so continuing to use a website that gave a good first impression helps to 'prove' to themselves that they made a good initial decision.Lindgaard and her team presented volunteers with the briefest glimpses of web pages previously rated as being either easy on the eye or particularly jarring, and asked them to rate the websites on a sliding scale of visual appeal. Even though the images flashed up for just 50 milliseconds, roughly the duration of a single frame of standard television footage, their verdicts tallied well with judgements made after a longer period of scrutinyIt's surprising if the researchers really thought that you couldn't take anything in in less than half a second, to be honest. Tennis professionals react to a ball headed their way in 50 milliseconds; they don't know exactly where it's going to go, but they can take things in and process them without being conscious that it's happening. Only afterwards will they have any recollection of hitting the ball, or thinking about where they wanted it to go.So the initial reaction to a web page is exactly that - a reaction. And it tends to stick.
The US marines' use ofDoomas a training tool was publicised at the time with some mirth, whereas last year's excellent tactical simulatorFull Spectrum Warrior, built with investment from the army, was taken far more seriously by pundits worried about its failure to acknowledge the human side of war (pundits who, presumably, had never played any other games, or this would have come as less of a surprise). The latest military flirtation with playtime may return things to a more comic footing, with the American defence department asking for funds to develop a "Gaming and Training Environment for Counter Space Operations". A casual perusal of HMV shelves reveals options fromSpace Invaders25th Anniversary EditiontoStar Wars: Galaxies, already available for plucky would-be extraterrestrial infantry.
Amped 3XBOX 360Snowboarding games quite fairly conjure up street slang written by pot-bellied marketing managers, lifeless play mechanics that have absolutely nothing in common with controlling a board on snow, and scenery which rarely deviates from white. By contrast, Amped 3 features a surreal concoction of urban youth and genuine freaks participating in an expanding set of challenges on an almost intimidatingly large selection of mountains, which can also be modified in the game's Builder mode. It's also incredibly easy, with your ability to perform tricks coming quickly and wipeouts being a rarity right from the start. While levels eventually get more testing, you can't help wondering whether the sheer size of the game meant its designers wanted you to see at least a portion of it. Forget realism and gruellingly repetitive trials of dexterity - Amped 3 is glorious knockabout snowy fun.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;50Touch GolfNintendo DSWith Tiger Woods finally north of 30, it's once again safe to think of golf as an old man's game. While simulated golf may not have quite the same superannuated demographics, of all available sports game genres it's the most sedate, making football, hockey and tennis look a bit like hard work. And Touch Golf is anything but, with use of the stylus and touch screen to take shots working intuitively, and the game's clear interface and well designed courses adding to the mildly soporific entertainment. If you're taking those delicate touch-screen shots on public transport, every shimmy and wobble will translate into misuse of your golf club, but aside from this, Touch Golf provides near-serene portable gaming.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
If BBC1's The Sound Of Musicals inspires you to go in search of online showtune action, here are a few websites to which you can direct your mouse. Theatricopia (tinyurl.com/9y3h5) is an exhaustive list of links to everything fromwestsidestory.comandSondheim.comto fansites for the cast of Grease (stockardchanning.cjb.netand quizzes about Michael Crawford (tinyurl.com/dwako).For 24-hour showtune radio, go tomaximumbroadway.com, a blog about musicals (blogwaybaby.com) or everything you ever needed to know about Hair (geocities.com/hairpages). Should you wish to sing along with with Julie Andrews in a darkened cinema filled with people dressed as nuns, check outsingalonga.net/uk.
MondayI own my DS in name only2005 and all thatNational Geographic discovers NintendoTuesdayIGDA Game Developers Choice Awards open call for nominationsCubedDS vs PSPWednesdayMore kicking of videogame journalismBan chainsaws nowGame design inspiration 2006ThursdayThe scoop on the Korean games industryTechnologyCreating a buzzFridayIndustry's profits slow downLook back in anger
Mobile phone users are more interested in listening to digital radio through their handsets than watching mobile television services, according to research unveiled yesterday, and are only willing to pay about &pound;5 a month for the privilege of catching up with their favourite shows on a phone's small screen.The first major British trial of real broadcast mobile television was carried out by BT and Virgin Mobile among 1,000 users within London's M25 motorway. The results showed that while 59% rated mobile television as appealing or very appealing by the end of a six-month test, 65% said the same about digital radio. In terms of actual viewing and listening time, users watched an average of 66 minutes of television a week on their phone but listened to 95 minutes of radio.Mobile telephone operators, desperate to make more money from their customers and having so far failed to persuade them to do more than talk and text, are clutching at mobile television as a potential money-spinner. The research, however, shows that most people would be willing to pay only about &pound;5 for the service - half of what many in the industry were hoping.While companies such as Vodafone and 3 are already offering mobile television, it uses up space on their expensive 3G networks and if 3G became very popular it could quickly clog up the airwaves, potentially leaving callers without a signal. The service that BT has developed, and which it hopes to sell to mobile phone companies across the world, uses a portion of the digital radio spectrum. So as well as live television stations revamped for mobile TV, handsets with the right receiver can also get digital radio stations.As a result, the service may provide a new lease of life to radio companies as broadcasts over mobile phones also introduces the potential for interaction. Listeners would be able to press the equivalent of their TV's red button on their phone to get involved in radio quizzes and polls or to download music tracks."I would characterise it as radio &#91;being&#93; even more attractive than TV in the trial," said Emma Lloyd, managing director of BT's Movio business, which plans to offer a wholesale TV service to mobile phone companies from this summer. "We will be able to piggy-back on the attractiveness of digital radio and I don't think that is a negative thing; I see it as a positive thing because the UK leads the world in digital radio."This Christmas, for instance, digital radios were again one of the top sellers among electrical goods. Part of the attraction of radio over mobile TV is also, she admitted, that "there are a lot of times in your daily life when it is not practical to look at a TV screen".Participants in the trial were offered three channels a week from a selection including Sky News, Sky Sports News, E4, ITV2 and the Blaze music channel. The trial showed that while some viewers liked to dip in and out of the rolling news channels, many people used it to watch their favourite shows on ITV and E4 when out of the house.While at home, participants used mobile television to continue watching when away from the set elsewhere in the house, while children used it to watch television in their bedrooms. Users preferred to watch whole programmes or news bulletins rather than specially prepared highlight channels. Mobile television was particularly popular with rail commuters with usage peaking in the mornings and evenings.BackstoryMobile televisionin Britain is available from Orange, Vodafone and 3, which all charge about &pound;10 a month. All three use the firms' 3G networks, which cost billions to build but have so far given little return on investment. Streaming TV content over amobile phone signalmay be a quick way to make a return but it risks clogging up the network.In contrast, BT's Movio's service uses abroadcast signalrather than a mobile phone network. It even works in areas without mobile phone coverage. It uses internet technology and part of thedigital radiospectrum owned by Digital One, the national digital radio broadcaster controlled by GCap, to simulcast live TV channels to mobile phones fitted with a receiver.The technology, calledDAB-IP, works like a traditional TV and the first commercially available handset, made by Taiwan'sHTC, is already rolling off the production line. As well as TV, the handsets can receive digital radio.Virgin Mobile is angling for a period of exclusivity for the technology in Britain and will offer several channels in the summer. While mobile TV over 3G is available in several countries, Virgin Mobile looks set to be the first to offerreal broadcast TVover DAB-IP.Next week, O2 will announce results of a trial of another rival technology it has been testing in Oxford. Its service, which uses a Nokia-backed standard calledDVB-H, relies on radio spectrum that will not be available in Britain until the analogue television signal is switched off in 2012.
Please no, enough already. No, notBig Brother, although clearly that too. I'm talking about that scourge of modern day gaming, the retro compilation. I got a copy of Sega Classics for PS2 in the post yesterday. Perhaps I'll file it next toTaito Legendsor the forthcoming Namco Arcade Collection in my modern life is rubbish gaming pile (current occupants include a Capcom compilation and a scratched Midway disc).This regurgitating of gaming history has got to stop, really it has. You may think you are getting a welcome chance to, I dunno, relive that frenzied1942session on Bournemouth pier in the mid-80s. But you're not. You're actually donating hard earned cash to lazy publishers and making them think that you'll buy any old tat with "Classic" on the box. Even the games included are haphazard. For every Defender there'll be a Pitfighter to pad out the package.Of course, a smallminorityof "classic" games still stand up today, but far too often the memory clouds the reality. I recently downloaded the Gauntlet demo from the 360 marketplace. The graphics, the music, the pixellated Elf - it was great for 45 seconds until I realised that the action was tedious in the extreme. Gauntlet was a revelation in 1986 but then so were theBlow Monkeysand no-one is digging their scene anymore. Play retro games on your phone if you have to, at least they make some sort of sense there, but let your console work for a living.
"Rumours of a redesigned DS have been circulating for several months, but received a boost last month when Japanese magazine Famitsu reported that a Nintendo hardware redesign was in the pipeline - which instantly suggests the DS, since the GameCube is to be replaced by the backwards-compatible Revolution later this year, and the GBA was redesigned as the Game Boy Micro only a few months ago," saysGamesInustry.biz."Nintendo's US marketing manager Reggie Fils-Aime also confirmed late last year that a redesign of the DS was on the cards, and now leading Hong Kong based videogames import retailer Lik-Sang has reported that the new hardware will be unveiled on Monday in Japan."UK retailers we spoke to this afternoon, however, claimed to have heard no information from Nintendo regarding any imminent redesign or change to the Nintendo DS strategy in this territory...."
