By its own boss’s admission,Twitter “suck at dealing with abuse and trolls”. Now Dick Costolo has shed a little more light on how the company plans to change that.Twitter is planning to shift “the cost of dealing with harassment” on to the people accused of that harassment, not on the people who endure it, said Costolo in aninterview with the New York Times.“Some people believe that Twitter hasn’t taken the issue seriously because harassment isn’t a form of physical harm – they’re just tweets. No, that’s not true at all. We’ve always taken it seriously,” he said.“We’ve drawn a line on what constitutes harassment and abuse. I believe that we haven’t yet drawn that line to put the cost of dealing with harassment on those doing the harassing. It shouldn’t be the person who’s being harassed who has to do a lot of work.”The firm has not yet given any details of how it plans to accomplish this.‘Wake-up call’Costolo admitted that the internal “we suck” memo had been uncharacteristically blunt, but claimed it reflected his determination to tackle the abuse that has fuelled growing criticism of Twitter’s policies in this area.“I meant what I said. One of the reasons I was so blunt about it was that I wanted to really send a wake-up call to the company that we’re going to get a lot more aggressive about it, and it’s going to start right now,” he said.Related:Twitter unveils new system for reporting abuseShifting the cost of dealing with harassment onto the accused harassers will be welcomed bypeople who have been targetedfor such abuse. Even so, it is fraught with pitfalls for Twitter, if its new policy is not well thought out.For example, an overly-automated process might be open to groups of people ganging together to report someone whose views they disagree with in an effort to get their account suspended; a barrage of harassment reports could become a new form of harassment.Avoiding this will require Twitter to continue increasing its investment in human moderation – more costs for the company, but vital for the overall health of its community.Costolo’s comments indicate his company hopes to draw the line fairly between harassment and spirited disagreements.“I may have a right to say something, but I don’t have a right to stand in your living room and scream it into your ear five times in a row,” he said, while warning that some reports of harassment turn out to be “fairly rational political discourse”, which Twitter is keen to protect.
Net neutralityis the principle of making sure that your internet service provider doesn’t make it easier for you to access one service over another – the Guardian over the Telegraph, say – or otherwise distorting your use of internet services just because someone dropped a few extra quid in their pocket.Yet in many ways, the current battle over net neutrality is less a question of broad, public-interest internet values, and more a parochial telecommunications policy war between US cable and content companies, waged on a global stage.After more than a decade of wrangling, on 26 February an executive board of US telecommunications regulator the FCC will vote on a 322-page proposal, titled Preserving the Open Internet. Matters of deep principle are claimed to be at stake, but agreement on what those principles are is less forthcoming.Related:Only net neutrality can protect the internet from becoming like TV: white, middle-class and exclusiveThe internet is not unlimitedNobody can object to aspirations such as neutrality, equality and openness. But each of these terms is also a conceit. The internet is not unlimited. Traffic management, in some form or another, is obligatory in shipping digital packets.When you make a phone call, your voice is sampled maybe 50 times a second, and then reconstituted at the receiving end, with a minuscule delay to account for any network failings.When you call up an internet application or website, that site or service is hurled at you, progressively increasing as many packets as the network can carry, unless something else gets in the way. If voice gets in the way, the application adapts. If it’s the other way around, voice drops out.Related:Net neutrality battle pitches activists and FCC against Big Cable and GOPNetwork engineerFred Bakeruses this distinction between voice and web, or between “real-time” and “elastic” applications, to demonstrate one of the consequences of a rigid application of net neutrality rules. If everything must be treated equally, he argues, then nothing can be done about your voice line dropping. You are subject to the internet service provider’s best efforts – “passing your traffic to the enemy, and hoping for the best”. With voice, this is usually fine – we can cope with some small delay. With video and other data-rich streaming, it becomes more complicated.Is there only one form of net neutrality?In the first order, net neutrality is the Telegraph/Guardian example: ensuring that internet service companies don’t intentionally block or degrade access to legal content or services. At this level, there is little controversy. Rules against such practices are welcome, even if there is little evidence that it is a market problem requiring fixing.One of the damaging side-effects, nevertheless, is that a crude assessment of legality could unfairly prevent the bulk of upstream traffic and a significant proportion of downstream traffic in many parts of the world that is comprised of peer-to-peer file sharing.Second-order net neutrality is about the voice/web challenge – the detail of traffic management – and it’s much harder. In particular, there is a heated debate over paid prioritisation, or “fast lanes”, negotiated between ISPs and content providers. Here, the market is already active.Streaming companies such as Netflix have complex “peering” arrangements with cable companies to fund good service and make up for some of the vast percentage of the cable traffic Netflix uses.Another area where such arrangements are manifold is mobile, and the meat of the FCC proposal focuses on these issues. But it is not clear whether it is just about ensuring public-interest oversight of peering arrangements, or actually interfering with the arrangements that can be made. Either way, the US now seems to recognise that public regulation of bandwidth, to ensure the public interest is met, is the appropriate foundation for such regulation, bringing it into line with the rest of the world.Related:Cord cutters on net neutrality:  'It would be the end of wild wild west of the internet'What this debate doesn’t solveNet neutrality has been the central campaign point for a grassroots movement of internet activists in the US. It has an obviousbad guyin the fat cat cable companies, but it’s as much about the incredibly consolidated and monopolistic US telco landscape, and the geoeconomic aversion to internet regulation, as it is about wider, public interest internet issues.The rather extraordinary thing is that over-the-top services – the content providers – have come off as the white knights. Just like artists and struggling musicians are the frontmen of the industry copyright lobby, here, start-ups and bloggers are the frontmen to the internet giants. In the end, however, we’re all small fish to Facebook, Google, Amazon and their kin.Net neutrality is no panacea to walled gardens, tethering, transit providers that exploit exchange-point congestion, and content-delivery networks that outpace the speed of light in giving me access to Google and Amazon quicker than the Guardian or the Greek national library. Your access to a small newspaper or voice application, is slow not because of shady service provider deals, but because of the enormous network infrastructure and network entrenchment of its competitors.We citizens, often derogated as “users” or “consumers”, have much to win in a global communication space. That is much more than simply a “neutral network”. Instead, it is a truly open, distributed network where everyone’s fundamental rights are respected. Not having our access providers acting as interested gatekeepers may be a step in the right direction, but it is by no means an end. Many other distortive factors remain and we will not have an open space until we get rid of them all.
Google is changing the the structure of its European business as it anticipates further regulatory scrutiny across the continent.Related:European commission reopens Google antitrust investigationFacing investigations and complaints driven by politicians and commercial rivals across Germany, France, Russia and other European countries, Google has merged its disparate European businesses into one, continent-wide operation.The new European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) arm will be overseen from London by Matt Brittin, previously head of Google’s northern and western Europe businesses. Individual country managers will report directly to Brittin in a bid to unify the company’s actions across European nations.The reorganisation is in response to failures to deal with escalating challenges in individual European countries.The so-called “right to be forgotten” ruling in May 2014 arose from a local issue in Spain, but became a Europe-wide ruling after being promoted to Europe’s highest court in Strasbourg.Google’s newly elevated European boss Matt Brittin.Regulatory scrutiny and political ill-willGoogle also faces potentially serious consequences for its business operations in search and advertising from a recentlyre-opened anti-trust investigationby the European Commission.The European parliament’sapproval of a motioncalling for a break-up of Google’s search and other businesses in November was a demonstration of the political ill-will felt for Google. It is regarded by some as the tip of the spear of US control of the European technology market.A plan by chancellor George Osborne to introduce a new tax on multinational corporations accused of diverting profits –dubbed the “Google tax”and announced in the autumn statement – also underlines a key challenge to Google’s business in Europe.Related:European parliament votes yes on ‘Google breakup’ motionClosely watched by other countries across Europe, Osborne’s plans mean that from April companies face a 25% tax rate on profits from economic activity that is “artificially shifted” abroad.It will target companies that employ complex structures to divert profits to low-tax nations such as Luxembourg and Ireland, where Google’s European operations are headquartered.Commercial rivals have also put pressure on Google’s core business, with Facebook and Twitter growing as a source of news, for instance.Meanwhile, companies such as Russia’s Yandex have lodgedcomplaints with regulatorsover abuse of Google’s monopoly over its Android smartphone and tablet operating system, instigating further regulatory scrutiny.Google is likely to use its new pan-European structure to consolidate power and attempt to appease politicians and regulators to avoid potentially damaging disruption.Related:Autumn statement 2014: Osborne to introduce ‘Google tax’In a bid to win over skeptics, the company has pledged to train one million Europeans in digital skills and invest a further €25m in skills initiatives.But Google’s support of a single European digital market – a proposal put forward by EC president Jean-Claude Juncker – is likely to be its biggest push.Brittin will tell officials in Brussels on Thursday: “For Europe to reach its full potential, we need to clear the way for companies online. We need a single market in the digital world that reflects the single market we enjoy in the physical world already. With over two dozen regulatory and frameworks to contend with, businesses stumble when they seek to sell, grow or hire across borders.”
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) looks set to pass strict new rules to govern broadband internet in the US on Thursday, following one of the most intense –and bizarre– lobbying battles Washington has ever seen.The FCC’s five commissioners will meet on Thursday morning to approve a plan to regulate broadband like a public utility, giving the regulator the greatest power over the cable industry it has had since the internet went mainstream.Related:Net neutrality: FCC votes on the future of the internet – livePresident Obama gave his support to the rules last year, following an online campaign that pitched internet activists and companies including Netflix and Reddit, I Can Has Cheezburger? – weblog home of the Lolcats meme – and online craft market Etsy against Republican leaders and the cable and telecom lobbies.Activists and tech companies are keen to protect the principle of net neutrality – the idea that all information and services should have equal access to the internet.Protesters gathered outside the FCC’s Washington headquarters before the meeting, in celebration of their success in lobbying for a dramatic U-turn in regulation.“We need to send another signal that you can’t mess with the internet,” said Evan Greer, campaign manager for net advocates Fight for the Future. Open Media, another of the protest groups, parked a Jumbotron giant screen close to the FCC’s offices, broadcasting messages from supporters of the new rules.At the meeting the commission’s two Democrat members, Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel, are expected to approve the plan put forward by the Democratic chairman, Tom Wheeler, with some objections. They will overrule the two Republican commissioners who have already lambasted the plan and will hold their own press conference later in the day.One of the Republican commissioners, Ajit Pai, has called the plan “a solution that won’t work to a problem that doesn’t exist”. He is backed by senior Republicans and most of the cable and telecoms industry, who are working on plans to overturn the decision even before the details are published.Wheeler has made clear he plans to regulate broadband under Title II of the communications act – the strongest legal authority the regulator has. Obama called on the independent regulator to implement Title II last year, leading to charges that he unduly influenced Wheeler’s decision that are now being investigated in Congress.Related:Net neutrality: Republicans to strike back against Obama's 'internet grab'The act gives the FCC the power to ban so-called paid prioritisation – or fast lanes – for willing content providers. It would also would ban broadband providers from slowing traffic for competitive reasons. The regulator would also have the authority to challenge unforeseen barriers broadband providers might create as the internet develops.Related:Net neutrality: what's the latest controversy? Your questions answeredThe regulator will vote on two proposals. The first, which has been eclipsed by the net neutrality debate, will allow municipal broadband companies to compete more freely with established cable firms.Municipal broadband companies inChattanooga,Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, are seeking to overturn bans on their expansion plans which have beenlobbied forby private cable and telecom rivals. Twenty states currently have limits or bans on local governments building, owning or partnering with others to give local businesses and residents a choice in high-speed internet access. That vote too is expected to fall along party lines, potentially opening many US cities to wider competition.Christopher Mitchell, director of community broadband networks at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance said the vote could set “an historic precedent” that could “profoundly impact the lives of three-quarters of Americans who are without broadband or a choice in their service because of big cable underinvestment in their towns.”The FCC was forced to rewrite its broadband rules after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to stop it creating fast lanes or to more broadly regulate the industry under its last set of regulations, the Open Internet Order of 2010. Legal challenges for the new rules are also inevitable.Republican FCC commissioners Pai and Michael O’Rielly will hold a press conference after the meeting to detail their objections to the orders, which as yet have been seen by only a few dozen people. Their objections will be taken up by Republican politicians who are alreadyworking on plans to circumvent the orders.
When I started working abroad about three months ago, my company provided me with a new Lenovo laptop. Should I be worried?AnthonyEveryone should be worried, but not for the obvious reason.The good news is that you probably do not have Superfish installed, and if you did, your anti-virus software may already have removed it: Microsoft released removal code in Windows Defender within about 24 hours of the news.The bad news is that the “magic ingredient” in Superfish was an “SSL hijacker” and a root certificate provided by Komodia. This has beenused by many other programs, including ones designed to provide parental controls. Worse, several other companies are trying the same idea.You should therefore check to see if you have Superfish or any other untrustworthy certificates installed.The Lenovo problemThe furore blew up because Lenovo installed Superfish adware on consumer laptops sold between September 2014 and January 2015. All these laptops were running Microsoft Windows 8.1. Your laptop fits the time frame, but you may have escaped for two reasons.Related:'Superfish'-style vulnerability found in games and parental control softwareFirst, Superfish was not installed on Lenovo’s business machines, such as ThinkPads. Second, it was not installed on laptops running Windows 7, which is still the business standard.Unfortunately, Lenovo’s attractive Yoga laptops – including the Yoga Pro models – are classed as consumer laptops. This may have caught some who wanted a smaller screen and/or cheaper device than the ThinkPad Carbon X1. Either way, Lenovo has listed the models that may have been affected in itssecurity advisory.Lenovo says “user feedback was not positive” so it disabled Superfish in January, and stopped preloading it.On itsSuperfish uninstallweb page, Lenovo has now provided an automatic removal tool (including source code) and illustrated manual instructions for removing Superfish and its certificate from laptops running Windows 8.1.Removal is extremely simple via Windows’ standard add/remove programs utility, which most people know from the control panel. Find Superfish Inc VisualDiscovery, tick it, and click uninstall.As mentioned, Superfish may already have been removed by Windows Defender, McAfee’s anti-virus software, and possibly by similar programs. However, with every version of Windows, you should still check that the certificate has been removed from your PC, and from Firefox’s certificate store. Why? There’s more …The Komodia problemAs you will have gathered, Superfish on its own was no big deal. The problem was that Superfish used an “SSL hijacker” – Komodia Redirector with SSL Digestor – bought from a small Israeli company calledKomodia. This opened a very large security hole. In fact, your PC may have this security hole even if it is not made by Lenovo and has never been near Superfish, because Komodia sold its kit to other companies as well.These companies include Atom Security, Infoweise, Komodia (KeepMyFamilySecure), Kurupira (Webfilter), Lavasoft (Ad-Aware Web Companion), Qustodio, and Websecure Ltd (Easy Hide IP Classic), according to the officialUS vulnerability note.A still from a Komodia video on its website.Photograph: KomodiaFacebook adds: “We’ve observed more than a dozen other software applications using the Komodia library.” Itsreportnames the certificate providers: CartCrunch Israel, WiredTools, Say Media Group, Over the Rainbow Tech, System Alert, ArcadeGiant, Objectify Media Inc, Catalytix Web Services and OptimizerMonitor. There will be others as well.You probably do not think any of these have been installed on your PC. That is exactly what Lenovo laptop owners thought until last week.Go to theSuperfish, Komodia, PrivDog vulnerability testweb page, and it will try to find any SSL-disabling software on your PC. The site was built and is being updated by Filippo Valsorda, who created theHeartbleed test sitelast year. (Heartbleed was a very serious vulnerability in the OpenSSL cryptographic software library.)The certificate problemWe always advise people to use secure https:// websites, where traffic is protected using SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) encryption. This is particularly important for banking transactions and online shopping. Komodia’s SSL Digestor provided a way to subvert SSL to insert advertisements, and included its own certificate.Briefly, a secure web server sends your browser its certificate and its public encryption key, so your browser can check that the certificate was issued by a trusted party. The certificate provides information about its owner, possibly including their name, email address and website address, and the identity of the certificate supplier – essentially a signature.If the certificate is accepted, your browser and the website can use encrypted communications both ways. If the certificate is not accepted, the user gets a message to that effect – you have probably seen examples.What Komodia did was interpose its own certificate without alerting the user. Worse, each product seems to have used the same certificate, and so far, it seems the password is always Komodia. As a result,many people– and almost any malware writer – could use this certificate to exploit your PC.Uninstalling Superfish and other Komodia-type programs does not remove the root certificates, so you need to do this separately. Lenovo provides instructions, mentioned above. However, the quick way to do so is typing certmgr.msc into the Windows search box, right click on the program’s name, and select “run as administrator” from the pop-up menu.When the certification manager program runs, click the action menu item and select “find certificates”. Type Superfish (etc) into the search box and click the “find now” button. If you find an unwanted certificate, right-click and select delete.But wait: it gets worse….Komodia is a problem, but it is far from the only company doing so. Apost at How-To Geeksays that adware programs such as Wajam, Geniusbox and Content Explorer are “all doing the exact same thing, installing their own certificates and forcing all your browsing (including https encrypted browsing sessions) to go through their proxy server”.If you have installed software fromunsafe placessuch as CNet’s Download.com or from Google search ads, you could have installed one of these without knowing it. How-To Geek suggests deleting certificates from Sendori, Purelead, Rocket Tab, Superfish, Lookthisup, Pando, Wajam, WajaNEnhance, System Alerts, and CE_UmbrellaCert. Given the number of certificates on the average PC, weeding out any bad ones will not be fun.As How-To Geek points out,Microsoft has a web pagethat, at the click of a FixIt button, will delete “the certificates folder and everything inside it” and update it to “the list that is accepted by Microsoft as part of the Windows root certificate program”. This sounds like a good solution. But, it adds, “we really don’t recommend it until somebody tests this out”. Let me know if you do.I reckon there is now a market for good certificate-checking software.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Lenovo, the PC maker at the centre of the Superfish controversy, suffered its own security breach on Wednesday when its main website was defaced, redirecting users to a slideshow of pictures of bored-looking teens (apparently the hackers themselves) set to the songBreaking FreefromHigh School Musical.Clicking on the slideshow sends users to the Twitter account of hacking collective the Lizard Squad, while viewing the source of the page reveals a note reading “the new and improved rebranded Lenovo website featuring Ryan King and Rory Andrew Godfrey” – two people previously named by security reporter Brian Krebsas being members of the group.Related:How can I find and remove Superfish and similar malware?Lizard Squad tweeted hours before the attack to expect “more mischief”.Expect more lizard mischief soon.&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardCircle)February 25, 2015The hack was apparently carried out through a “DNS hijack”, an increasingly common method whereby domain name system server, which translates a human-readable web address such as google.cominto a machine-readable IP address such as “8.8.8.8”, redirects visitors to another website – in this case, one controlled by Lizard Squad.The hijack closely resembles another Lizard Squad attack, on Google’s Vietnamese website, which was carried out this week, according to Andrew Hay, director of security research at OpenDNS. Both sites used the same domain name registrar, Webnic.cc.“Two defacements in a single week is normally nothing, but two extremely high-profile defacements from the same registrar in the same week is a definite trend,” Hay said. “We may see more redirections of domains that were registered with Webnic.cc in the coming days.”Following the hack, Lizard Squad has been posting screenshotsof emails allegedly sent to Lenovo.com addresses, includingone discussing Superfish. A DNS hijack can potentially gain access to emails sent during the period the site is taken over, by redirecting the email in the same way as the website. But this would not grant access to the full database of emails.In a statement, Lenovo said: “Unfortunately, Lenovo has been the victim of a cyber attack. One effect of this attack was to redirect traffic from the Lenovo website. We are also actively investigating other aspects. We are responding and have already restored certain functionality to our public facing website.“We are actively reviewing our network security and will take appropriate steps to bolster our site and to protect the integrity of our users’ information and experience.“We are also working proactively with 3rd parties to address this attack and we will provide additional information as it becomes available.”Related:What will happen to the Lizard Squad hackers?Lenovo’s reputation in the information security community was already rock-bottom after it emerged that the company sold laptops infected with pre- installed malware named Superfish, which broke users’ encrypted connections in order deliver the firm’s own adverts into search pages.The company initially denied the reports, saying that it was “satisfied” that user security was never at risk. A day later it recanted and apologised for its error.Peter Hortensius, Lenovo’s chief technology officer,told the New York Times that“we did not do a thorough enough job understanding how Superfish would find and provide their info. That’s on us. That’s a mistake that we made.”He added: “This week we begin the plan to make sure this never happens again. We’ll release that plan by the end of the week.”
With the majorGame Developers Conferencetaking place in San Francisco, and a whole range of recent controversies to discuss, March is a pretty good time to meet our games writing team. And the good news is, you can.After January’s successful “meet the Guardian games writers” night, we’re hosting a follow-up on 4 March at the Guardian office in Kings Cross.Related:Guardian Live event: on games, augmented reality and trucking simulatorsHosted by games editor Keith Stuart, the evening will feature PC Gamer’s Andy Kelly, Rock Paper Shotgun’s Philippa Warr, Official Xbox Magazine writer Kate Gray, and freelancers Jordan Erica Webber and Rich Stanton. We’ll be discussing the latest news and trends, and the games we are looking forward too – and there will be plenty of time for audience questions.The event runs from 7pm to 830pm and afterwards, we’ll wander down to the Rotunda bar beneath Guardian HQ.Just head tothe Guardian Live page for booking details.Guardian Liveis our series of debates, interviews and festivals exclusively for Guardian Members. Find out more about membership andhow to sign up.
So a computer program has learned how to play classic Atari games. Big deal. I mean, they’re just big blocks of pixels pushing smaller blocks of pixels around a screen, right?Yet somehow, the UK artificial intelligence specialist Deep Mind, bought last year by Google for £240m, is extremely excited about the fact that it has developed an AI agent capable of learning how to play Space Invaders. I learned how to play Space Invaders in a cafe in Blackpool when I was six. But Google hasn’t acquiredme. What’s going on?Related:Google develops computer program capable of learning tasks independentlyThe thing is, classic Atari games such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout were, despite their visual limitations, much more complex than our modern minds give them credit for. Indeed, many of these games set in place the fundamental mechanics that modern titles are still utilising – and they are deceptively deep, even for a Deep Mind AI gamer.It turns out the Deep Mind program fared very well against titles that allowed it to learn systems through simple trial and error such as Video Pinball and Breakout. However, it failed spectacularly at games that required the participants to build a mental map of the level and develop long-term strategies, or that required the mastery of different skillsets, such as the more complex shooters Zaxxon and Gravitar.However, learning to play and master any of these games is a significant feat, despite their chunky aesthetics. Here are four classic Atari titles and why they’re not quite as basic as they appear.PongDesigned by electrical engineer Al Alcorn and launched as an arcade machine in 1972, Atari’s legendary bat and ball simulation, is widely considered the most basic interactive electronic game possible. Indeed, Atari founder Nolan Bushnell once said to Alcorn: “I want to make a game that any drunk in any bar can play.”But Pong is actually a very important early example of game physics - the ball reacting to surfaces in different ways. When it hits a wall, it simply rebounds at a mirror-opposite angle.However, each of the bats is actually divided into eight sections, each providing a slighting different angle of return. Therefore players are able to develop strategies, planning the return gradient so that the opponent is unable to quickly guess where the ball will return to, leaving them stranded in the wrong part of the screen. Consequently, players – or indeed computer programs – with a knowledge of projectile displacement physics have a distinct advantage.BreakoutCreated as a single-player version of Pong, Atari’s wall-breaking classic was designed by Bushnell, with help from Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs who would, of course, later go on to found Apple. Players simply use a bat at the bottom of the screen to knock a ball into rows of coloured bricks, smashing anything it hits. Once again, the bat has different impact zones that affect the angle of the bounce.Extra depth comes from the fact that the ball speeds up when the player reaches the upper layers of the walls, and then the bat shrinks to half its size when the ball finally hits the top wall. This is an early example of gameplay balance, with a system that increases the level of challenge as the player begins to excel. The fiendishly compulsive “tidying up” format of the game would later become a staple of the puzzle genre (see Tetris).Space InvadersOriginally devised by Tomohiro Nishikado, a designer at Japanese arcade company Taito, Space Invaders is - alongside Pac-Man - one of the best-known video games of all time. Players shoot at waves of aliens as they descend to Earth, occasionally blasting a UFO as it whizzes across the top of the display.Seemingly simple, the game was one of the first to introduce a smooth difficulty curve, the invaders speeding up as they get closer. Incredibly, this was actually a bug: the archaic processor was able to handle the movement more efficiently when there were fewer objects on screen. But Nishikado kept it.Alongside the cowboy shoot-’em-up Gun Fight, Space Invaders (which was later ported to the Atari 2600 console) also popularised the “cover” mechanic, providing a row of destructible barriers for the player to hide behind. It is a feature that would later be brought to more complex action adventures such as Grand Theft Auto and Gears of War.Indeed, Hideo Kojima, the creator of the multimillion-selling Metal Gear Solid series credited Space Invaders with inventing the “stealth” game genre, as players could sneak from barrier to barrier evading the attention – and bullets – of the extraterrestrial enemies.AsteroidsCreated using monochrome “vector” graphics by Atari coders Ed Logg and Lyle Rains, Asteroids has players controlling a tiny ship as it blasts passing space rocks. Once again, however, the basic set-up hides a complex challenge. The ship itself is piloted using thrust and inertia, an intricate physics system, that adds a significant skill factor to the multi-directional movement.The game also exhibits a clever difficulty curve: when larger asteroids are blasted they split up into faster moving rocks, considerably increasing the challenge. And it experiments with contrasting AI enemies. Two different flying saucers can appear on screen – a large one that fires inaccurately, and a smaller one that is much more deadly.Released in 1979, Asteroids was a smash hit, selling more than 70,000 arcade machines. Players were so addicted to its merging of simple visuals with intense action that they began to work out and exploit its systemic features. A good Asteroids player knows that leaving a single slow moving rock on screen and using it as a barrier from which to blast saucers is the way to huge high scores. It’s a technique known as “lurking” and its one of the earliest example of players gaming the system for tactical advantage.
“Pinterest is not a social network. Really. It’s not about your friends! The last thing I need is another messaging app, y’know?” says Evan Sharp, thumping his fist on the table for emphasis. “It’s really this different kind of unique thing.”Sharp should know: he co-founded it. And since its launch in 2009, Pinterest has reached a large audience – 47.1 million active users in the US alone this yearaccording to eMarketer– raising a startling $764m of funding along the way.So what is it, if not a social network? Many people who aren’t on Pinterest have a hazy idea that it is something to do with online mood boards for planning weddings and house redecorations, used mainly by women.The company is keen to scotch those perceptions: men are its fastest-growing demographic, and it’s being used for a lot more than ogling wedding dresses and furniture (although, yes, those too).“It’s really this great tool for discovering creative ideas and saving them for later,” is how Sharp boils it down, sitting down with the Guardian as part of a visit to the UK, where Pinterest usage has, he claims, more than doubled in the last year as the company’s local team grows.“Part of the reason I’m on this trip is to try to understand how is this working here. Does Pinterest in the UK feel like an American service ported over, or does it feel authentically British?” says Sharp, a self-confessed anglophile.“A lot of that goes back to who do we feature, who do we connect you to when you sign up, who’s driving the tastes on our platform in Britain, and who are the sources of the stuff that people are saving and discovering?”Getting more Brits using the service is a big part of that process: hence Sharp’s desire to explain exactly what Pinterest is (and what it’s not) and how people are using it.Evan Sharp, Pinterest’s co-founder.‘Pins are things’That includes emphasising that Pinterest is much more than an image-focused digital mood board in 2015, in terms of the more than 30bn “pins” – from products and fashion to apps and music videos – that its users have created and shared.“We like to say pins are things. Hopefully they’re not just images: there’s a link behind them, and that small difference makes a world of difference in terms of usefulness and utility,” says Sharp.“We’re very recommendations and search-focused. It’s a service that should become more valuable the more you use it, and more specific to your taste or your interests.”Related:Pinterest promises 'smarter search' including manly pins for menPinterest as a search engine rather than a social network? “People don’t think of Pinterest as search, necessarily, and that’s partly the design of the service: the way it’s laid out, but we’re a huge search engine. A massive search engine, and it’s very different type of search to Google or Yahoo,” he says.How? Sharp suggests that while Google is good at answering specific “objective” questions like how far it is from one place to another, it struggles at more subjective questions like what sofa to buy or what to cook for dinner. “Those are harder, more subjective things to get through a [traditional] search engine.”Like many other internet services, Pinterest is increasingly driven by mobile, with 80% of its usage coming from smartphones and tablets, and Android and iPhone its lead platforms for almost all new features.“There’s a fundamentally different mindset on the phone. It’s partly about the user interface, the inputs that come with the phone, and it’s partly the fact that phones are about apps not websites, and the way you refer traffic is very different,” says Sharp.“We’re in the middle of that transition. In the next five years, so many people are going to come online in the world who’ve never had a smartphone before. It’s a fascinating time.”Pinterest’s first smartwatch app for Android Wear.Pinterest on the wristThere’s another mobile device on Pinterest’s agenda: the smartwatch. The companystarted supporting Android Wear devices in June 2014, with an app that alerts people on their smartwatches when they’re near a place that they’ve pinned. Pinterest is also a launch partner for the upcoming Apple Watch.Sharp describes the geo-location feature as “interesting, but a bit of a distraction”, suggesting that Pinterest sees smartwatches as a way to be more useful in day-to-day life.“One of our company goals is to get you offline, unlike a social network. We’re not just about engagement and time spent. We aspire to be more about helping you with your life and getting you offline and doing things,” he says.“What’s great about the watch is that it will be with you when you’re doing things … you can imagine, you’d be cooking a recipe, and rather than having to pull it [your smartphone] out, just seeing it quickly on your wrist.”Pinterest is also working hard on its advertising strategy for “promoted pins”, which wasfirst announced in September 2013, thentested with a few US advertisers from May 2014, andfinally opened up to all brands in that country in January 2015.Inserting ads into people’s Pinterest feeds hasn’t led to a backlash so far, which Sharp sees as proof that the company’s softly-softly approach has worked.“They’re not really even ads. If you show someone a version of the homefeed without the promoted pins label, and one with it, people might be hard-pressed to pick out which one is an ad,” he says.“It just gets back to the nature of Pinterest: brands happen to create a decent percentage of the stuff you find, and as long as we keep the format native to the experience, and as long as the type of content feels relevant... It’s not a service about your friends, so brand stuff doesn’t feel like a jarring disconnect.”Pinterest has rolled out its promoted pins ads slowlyNo eyeball-frying uglyfestOne of the creative challenges facing Pinterest in 2015 is the growing amount of gifs and videos being pinned, rather than just images. Boards are becoming animated rather than static.“I think in the next few years we’ll see a kind of breaking down of the barriers that we have today between images and video and gifs. Motion can be incredibly compelling: this real cinematic narrative story through video. Or it can be very similar to an image, just with a bit more life behind it,” says Sharp.“That Harry Potter thing where everything on the wall moves? That’s not far away! At least in a digital way. And it’s going to be better for everyone, I think.”The idea of digital walls where everything moves doesn’t just bring Harry Potter to mind: it also sparks more troubling flashbacks to the worst, garish and flashing excesses of MySpace profile pages back in the day.How does Pinterest avoid turning into a similar eyeball-frying uglyfest? “It has to be tasteful!” says Sharp. “One of my favourite things about Pinterest is that everything was put there by a human being – all 30-plus billion pins – and there is a level of quality to the things that tend to get popular.“There are lots of flashing banner-ad style things: it’s not that this stuff isn’t on the internet. But that’s not what gets saved. What gets saved is useful or inspiring, and even better, a combination of the two. Done the right way, that sort of motion media points into this other world of possibilities that can be really positive for the experience.”Services like Pinterest help trends zip from country to country faster.Connecting the curatorsCuration can be an overused buzzword in the internet industry, but in Pinterest’s case, it really is at the heart of what the company does: encouraging people to create and collaborate on boards about their passions, and then tackling that Sharp admits is the “non-trivial” challenge of connecting people to those curators, so that Pinterest becomes more useful to them.(In the streaming music world, Spotify is facing a similar challenge in helping people find new music that they’ll love by connecting them to curators – playlist creators – whose tastes chime with theirs.Related:Ben Silbermann: the modest genius behind Pinterest“It’s really about trying to connect you to the right person. I mean, I’m going to come back to London in a few weeks, and figure out what I’m going to do in a three-day period. And that’s going to be me on Pinterest looking at the boards of London, for people who live here who’ve got great taste,” says Sharp.“It’s about connecting to the right curator: about finding that person who’s got the same tastes as you, and has already done the work for you. But connecting you to that person is non-trivial [as a challenge]. We think about that a lot.”This leads on to a discussion about the way the internet – from services like Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram to street-fashion and coolhunting blogs – are vastly increasing the speed at which trends and culture zips across the world. Not just in terms of hipsters in Tokyo, Shoreditch or New York cribbing one another’s style, but also in reducing the time it takes trends to trickle down from those early adopters to everyone else: the mainstream.“I do think hipster culture in particular comes out of the internet: it comes out of exposure to a generation of imagery and music and fashion and so hipster culture tends to be – from what I can tell – more international, more so than other movements,” says Sharp, addressing the first of those points.“But there’s always a nuance. I was in Japan last year, and there was a hipster culture there but it’s definitely a Japanese hipster culture. And it’s the same thing here [in Shoreditch] as well, from what I can tell.”Catching the hipstersWhat about that second point, though: cultural trends hitting the mainstream faster than ever. If I follow the right people, blogs, boards and playlists, it certainly doesn’t make me the tastemaker, but it does – with a minimum of mediation – mean their recommendations reach me much faster.“One of the beautiful things, hopefully, about the internet, is that it’s no longer as simple to generalise: ‘Oh, you’re a mod’ or you’re whatever it is, ‘a punk’. The movements are much more… maybe not even movements any more. Much more nuanced,” says Sharp.“There hasn’t really been an art movement in, like, two decades, which I really think is the beautiful thing about the time. No one sees it yet or talks about it, but it is a new world. One of the big changes is this access, this exposure that Pinterest and other services give you to that world of culture.“It allows people to more personally curate their own culture: their own food, their own fashion, their own travel… That idea of ‘developing taste’ in something sounds elitist to me, almost. It’s this process of being exposed to the possibilities and then deciding what your own preference is.”How it fuels that process is, I think, a much more interesting question about Pinterest than “will it start making money?” (yes) or “will it get bought by Google or Apple?” (quite possibly, yes).It’s certainly more than a glorified scrapbook. Or, indeed, just another social network.
Australian researchers have created the world’s first 3D-printed jet engines, a breakthrough that could change the way aircraft are constructed.Researchers from Monash University, aided by staff from the CSIRO and Deakin University, have printed two engines and put one of them on display at the International Air Show in Avalon, Victoria.Monash and its spin-off company Amaero Engineering have registered interest from Airbus, Boeing and Raytheon, the defence manufacturer.Researchers were given an old gas turbine engine by French firm Safran to copy, printing out two versions. The year-long process was led by Prof Xinhua Wu, the director of the Monash centre for additive manufacturing.The aerospace industry is interested in the process of printing parts because of the reduced lead time, the lighter weight of parts and lower production costs.Monash created the parts of the engine using printers that spread a very thin layer of metal powder across a base plate. A laser then formed the required shape using a computer-generated outline. This process was repeated over and over again until the part was completed.“The project is a spectacular proof of concept that’s leading to significant contracts with aerospace companies,” said Ben Batagol, of Amaero Engineering.“It was a challenge for the team and pushed the technology to new heights of success – no one has printed an entire engine commercially yet.”Although 3D printing has been around since the 1980s, in recent years it has developed to produce a wide array of items,most controversially guns.Other items created by 3D printing have included bikinis, houses and models of unborn children.
The firmallegedly hacked by the NSA and GCHQhas stated that it cannot find any evidence that the US and UK security services breached and stole the encryption keys billions of Sim cards.The alleged hack was revealed by documents from the NSA files provided by Edward Snowden, which detailed attacks on Gemalto – the world’s largest Sim card manufacturer – which allegedly saw them steal encryption keys that allowed them to secretly monitor voice calls and data from billions of mobile phones around the world.But after an investigation, the Dutch security company, which supplies Sim cards to all of the major UK mobile phone networks and 450 operators globally, has said that no evidence of a theft of Sim card security details has been found.“No breaches were found in the infrastructure running our SIM activity or in other parts of the secure network which manage our other products such as banking cards, ID cards or electronic passports,”said the company. “Each of these networks is isolated from one another and they are not connected to external networks.”Gemalto confirmed that two “particularly sophisticated intrusions” into the company’s office network that deals with external communications were detected in 2010.Related:Mobile phones hacked: can the NSA and GCHQ listen to all our phone calls?“At the time, we were unable to identify the perpetrators but we now think that they could be related to the NSA and GCHQ operation,” said Gemalto. “These intrusions only affected the outer parts of our networks – our office networks – which are in contact with the outside world. The SIM encryption keys and other customer data in general, are not stored on these networks.”According to the Snowden documents, Gemalto was targeted by the joint NSA and GCHQ Mobile Handset Exploitation Team (MHET) and that the British intelligence agency had planted malware – malignant software – on several of Gemalto’s computers, giving GHCQ access to “their entire network”.Gemalto claims that it didn’t sell Sim cards to four of the 12 mobile phone operators listed by the NSA files and that its Sim card production facilities listed as being in Japan, Colombia and Italy were not in operation at the time of the hacks.Other Sim card manufacturers including Giesecke &amp; Devrient, which supplies 350 mobile operators globally, launched investigations into their operations, implementing tougher security measures.
Google scientists have developed the first computer program capable of learning a wide variety of tasks independently, in what has been hailed as a significant step towards true artificial intelligence.The same program, or “agent” as its creators call it, learnt to play 49 different retro computer games, and came up with its own strategies for winning. In the future, the same approach could be used to power self-driving cars, personal assistants in smartphones or conduct scientific research in fields from climate change to cosmology.The research was carried out by DeepMind, the British company bought by Google last year for £400m, whose stated aim is to build “smart machines”.Related:Those classic Atari games were harder than you thinkDemis Hassabis, the company’s founder said: “This is the first significant rung of the ladder towards proving a general learning system can work. It can work on a challenging task that even humans find difficult. It’s the very first baby step towards that grander goal ... but an important one.”The work is seen as a fundamental departure from previous attempts to create AI, such as the program Deep Blue, which famously beat Gary Kasparov at chess in 1997 or IBM’s Watson, which won the quiz show Jeopardy! in 2011.In both these cases, computers were pre-programmed with the rules of the game and specific strategies and overcame human performance through sheer number-crunching power.“With Deep Blue, it was team of programmers and grand masters that distilled the knowledge into a program,” said Hassabis. “We’ve built algorithms that learn from the ground up.”The DeepMind agent is simply given a raw input, in this case the pixels making up the display on Atari games, and provided with a running score.When the agent begins to play, it simply watches the frames of the game and makes random button presses to see what happens. “A bit like a baby opening their eyes and seeing the world for the first time,” said Hassabis.The agent uses a method called “deep learning” to turn the basic visual input into meaningful concepts, mirroring the way the human brain takes raw sensory information and transforms it into a rich understanding of the world. The agent is programmed to work out what is meaningful through “reinforcement learning”, the basic notion that scoring points is good and losing them is bad.Tim Behrens, a professor of cognitive neuroscience at University College London, said: “What they’ve done is really impressive, there’s no question. They’ve got agents to learn concepts based on just rewards and punishment. No one’s ever done that before.”In videos provided by Deep Mind, the agent is shown making random and largely unsuccessful movements at the start, but after 600 hundred rounds of training (two weeks of computer time) it has figured out what many of the games are about.In some cases, the agent came up with winning strategies that the researchers themselves had never considered, such as tunnelling through the sides of the wall in Breakout or, in one submarine-based game, staying deeply submerged at all times.Vlad Mnih, one of the Google team behind the work, said: “It’s definitely fun to see computers discover things you haven’t figured out yourself.”Hassabis stops short of calling this a “creative step”, but said it proves computers can “figure things out for themselves” in a way that is normally thought of as uniquely human. “One day machines will be capable of some form of creativity, but we’re not there yet,” he said.Behrens said that watching the agent learn leaves the impression that “there’s something human about it” – probably because it is borrowing the concept of trial and error, one of the main methods by which humans learn.The study, published in the journal Nature, showed that the agent performed at 75% of the level of a professional games tester or better on half of the games tested, which ranged from side-scrolling shooters to boxing to 3D car-racing. On some games, such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout, the algorithm significantly outperformed humans, while on others it fared far worse.The researchers said this was mostly because the algorithm, as yet, has no real memory meaning that it is unable to commit to long-term strategies that require planning. With some of the games, this meant the agent got stuck in a rut, where it had learnt one basic way to score a few points, but never really grasped the game’s overall objective. The team is now trying to build in a memory component to the system and apply it to more realistic 3D computer games.Last year, the American entrepreneur, Elon Musk, one of Deep Mind’s early investors, described AI as humanity’s greatest existential threat. “Unless you have direct exposure to groups like Deepmind, you have no idea how fast [AI] is growing,” he said. “The risk of something seriously dangerous happening is in the five year timeframe. Ten years at most.”However, the Google team played down the concerns. “We agree with him there are risks that need to be borne in mind, but we’re decades away from any sort of technology that we need to worry about,” Hassabis said.
Motorola has launched a 4G update to its bargain-basement Moto E Android smartphone, which is faster but more expensive than its predecessor.The Moto E was launched last year providing asolid, basic Android smartphonefor under £90. The new Moto E launches with 4G and faster quad-core processor, but costs £109.Related:Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90?The new Moto E has larger 4.5-inch qHD display, a front-facing camera for selfies and a 5-megapixel rear camera, with auto-focus. The smartphone also runs Google’s latest Android 5 Lollipopsoftware, but without the usual modifications that manufacturers such as Samsung make to the standard Android OS.“We don’t see any reason to hide or slow down Android – the world’s best mobile operating system. There’s no bloatware or skins to slow things down,” said Seang Chau of Motorola’s software engineering team. “That allows us to update the software as quickly as possible.”The new Moto E weighs 145g and has 8GB or 16GB of storage with a microSD card slot accessible from under a removable, customisable coloured band. The battery is not removable, however.Motorola claims the low-cost smartphone will last a full day’s mixed use on a single charge and includes features such as a scratch-resistant face and a water-resistant coating often found on smartphones costing twice the price.Related:Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphoneMotorola gained momentum with its original budget smartphone, the Moto G, which secured the company a6% share of the smartphone marketin the UK in the first quarter of 2014 from prior, negligible levels. The Moto E followed the Moto G but cost around £40 less, with software features and a frustration-free interface that set it well ahead of its similarly priced competition.Available in the UK from the 26 February, the Moto E builds on a solid foundation. But its increased price could reduce its appeal for the budget-conscious with intense competition from Microsoft, Chinese and local smartphone manufacturers in India, the UK and other emerging markets.Now owned by China’s Lenovo, recent revelations that its parent companyinstalled malware on its PCscould damage consumer confidence in Motorola, which is branded as “a Lenovo company”.
A cybercrime ring that used millions of hacked computers in Britain to steal banking information has been shut down by European police and technology companies.Europol’s European cybercrime centre coordinated the operation from its headquarters in The Hague, targeting the so-called Ramnitbotnet– a network of computers infected with malware.It worked with investigators from Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands and was assisted by companies AnubisNetworks, Microsoft and Symantec, which said 3.2m computers were hacked.‘The criminals have lost control’Computers around the world have been infected by the botnet, but most users have been infected in Britain, said Paul Gillen, head of operations at the cybercrime centre. Ramnit has been infecting computers since 2012.“We worked together to shut down the command-and-control servers for the network in various countries across the European Union. The criminals have lost control of the infrastructure they were using,” Gillen said.Wil van Gemert, Europol deputy director of operations, said the operation underlined the importance of law enforcement agencies working with the private industry to tackle cybercrime.“We will continue our efforts in taking down botnets and disrupting the core infrastructures used by criminals to conduct a variety of cybercrimes … our aim is to protect people around the world against these criminal activities,” he said.Seven servers used by the cybercriminals were shut down overnight.Related:Hackers steal $1bn  in series of online bank thefts says reportThe malware, installed through links on spam email or infected websites, enabled culprits to take control of the PCs and use them for criminal activities. Online banking details, passwords, cookies and personal files were harvested from victims.Symantec said that the Ramnit network had “evolved into a major criminal enterprise” that defrauded large numbers of victims. The online security companyreleased a free toolto let users remove Ramnit infections from a computer.The British-led investigation was continuing and Gillen declined to comment on any possible arrests. Europol, the European police agency, has been coordinating cross-border efforts to take down criminal infrastructure on the internet and prosecute offenders.
Better start exercising those fingers and rehearsing your rock stances: the hugely popular music game Guitar Hero could be about to tune up and hit the stage again.Gaming news site Kotakureportsthat Activision could announce a new title at the giant E3 games convention in Los Angeles in June.Launched in 2005 and originally developed by music specialist Harmonix, the Guitar Hero series became a major entertainment phenomenon, selling more than 25m copies and kickstarting a huge industry trend for audio gaming.Players used a plastic guitar controller to strum along with a series of licensed rock tracks, using a combination of buttons and a slider control to emulate the instrument.The first title was an instant hit, inspiring four major sequels as well as a range of spin-offs and add-ons, including the turntable-based DJ Hero.After the Activision purchase, Harmonix was bought by MTV Networks for $175m and later launched a new music series, Rock Band, which added drums to the familiar gameplay.Activision axed the Guitar Hero series in 2011, after poor sales of the 2010 instalment Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock. By this time, the market was saturated, and gamers were tired of constantly purchasing and updating new titles and controllers.“I think the road to rejuvenating that category goes through innovation,” said Activision chief executive Eric Hirshbergat the time. “The premise of Guitar Hero – that everyone has an inner rock star – it’s something that we’ve all done forever. Some version of singing into a hairbrush, or holding a tennis racket like a guitar, or singing karaoke, or singing into the bathroom mirror – we all do that.”According to Kotaku, the new Guitar Hero, which is likely to premiere on Xbox One and PlayStation 4, is set to feature a more realistic look in contrast to the exaggerated cartoonish visuals of previous instalments.It is not clear which studio will be working on the comeback title, though Activision has closed both Neversoft, the team that took over the series after the departure of Harmonix, and RedOctane, the original publisher of the games.It is unlikely, though, that Guitar Hero will have the stage to itself. There is alsospeculationthat Electronic Arts has plans to rejuvenate its rival Rock Band series, again for the current consoles.
There have been myriad attempts to marry television and games into “holistic transmedia experiences” – and the results have often been as bad as the phrase itself.All that could be about to change following a decision by film and television studio Lionsgate to make a “significant” investment in Telltale Games, the developer of episodic adventure games based on The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones.The two are to collaborate on what the companies are calling a “super show” – a drama series that features both television and game elements.Telltale chief executive Kevin Brunertold Entertainment Weeklythat the linear and interactive elements will work together in an episodic format. “Each super show episode [the interactive game and the scripted episode] will be released as a package designed so that you can consume the interactive portion or watch the scripted show portion in any order you’d like,” he said.Lionsgate diversifies“For instance, if you play the interactive episode first, certain elements of the scripted episode portion will be tailored to reflect some choices made in your interactive play-through. If you watch the show before playing, some elements in the interactive portions may be presented differently than if you played first.”Lionsgate has been looking to diversify its entertainment business. The studio best known for the Hunger Games franchise and acclaimed TV dramas such as Mad Men and Orange Is The New Black,set up its own game development studiolast April.Meanwhile, Telltale Games has carved out a niche as a specialist developer of episodic narrative dramas, based around well-known TV and game brands.The company’s Walking Dead titles have sold 8.5m copies and it has just announced a new series based in the Minecraft universe.Related:Minecraft: Story Mode spin-off game announced by MojangThis is not the first tie-in between television and interactive gaming content. Some experiments have sought to slot TV content into narrative gaps between gaming instalments. The Halo: Nightfall live-action TV series for example, takes place between the games Halo 4 and Halo: Guardians.Other projects have tried to combine interactive and linear components – US sci-fi series Defiance is accompanied by a massively-multiplayer role-playing game, with battles in the latter originally planned to have ramifications for the television plotline. However, the interconnectivity between the two hasproved limiteddue to differences in production schedules.Meanwhile, Microsoft is yet to release Quantum Break, the combined game and digital television series, which was announced with much hype at the launch of the Xbox One console.In May 2013, Microsoft promised that player actions in the game would have an effect on the live-action TV series, and vice versa. The game is expected to released later this year. However, last July Microsoft hasclosed its Xbox Entertainment Studios arm, which was created to work on transmedia projects.Telltale told Entertainment Weekly that it still planned to work on traditional narrative games alongside its super show plans. There was also the possibility of adventure games based around Lionsgate properties.“We have a ton of respect for the IP [intellectual property] they own and control,” said Bruner. “We will continue to explore how we can work together on some of their IP just as we have been doing for some time, but there’s nothing to announce right now.”Certainly the prospect of an Orange is the New Black adventure game would be an intriguing one, with its large cast of female prison inmates and challenging, adult themes – though Hunger Games: the Adventure is probably more likely.
It’s Wednesday! And don’t forget, there are still tickets available to our‘meet the game writers’ event on March 4. Come along and ask why I never get Chatterbox ready on time!
Apple has been ordered to pay more than $530m after a federal jury in Texas found its iTunes software infringed three patents owned by a patent licensing company called Smartflash.AlthoughSmartflashhad been asking for $852m in damages, the verdict handed down on Tuesday night was still a blow to Apple.The jury, which deliberated for eight hours, determined Apple had not only used Smartflash’s patents without permission, but did so wilfully.The patents concerned digital rights management, data storage and payment systems.Apple, which said it would appeal, said the outcome was another reason that reform was needed in the patent system to curb litigation by companies that do not make products themselves.“Smartflash makes no products, has no employees, creates no jobs, has no US presence, and is exploiting our patent system to seek royalties for technology Apple invented,” said Apple’s Kristin Huguet. “We refused to pay off this company for the ideas our employees spent years innovating, and unfortunately we have been left with no choice but to take this fight up through the court system.”‘Very happy’Smartflash sued Apple in May 2013, alleging its iTunes software infringed its patents related to accessing and storing downloaded songs, videos and games.“Smartflash is very happy with the jury’s verdict, which recognises Apple’s longstanding wilful infringement,” said Brad Caldwell, a lawyer for Smartflash.The trial was held in Tyler, Texas, which over the past decade has become a focus for patent litigation. Smartflash’s registered office is also located in Tyler.Related:New Apple patents seek total dominance of selfie marketIt was also in Tyler federal court that a jury in 2012ordered Apple to pay $368mto VirnetX for patent infringement. A federal appeals court later rejected that damages figure, saying it was wrongly calculated.Apple tried to avoid a trial by having the lawsuit thrown out. However, US district judge Rodney Gilstrap, who presided over the case, ruled earlier this month that Smartflash’s technology was not too basic to deserve the patents.Apple had asked the jury to find Smartflash’s patents invalid because previously patented inventions covered the same technology.Smartflash’s suit said that about 2000, the co-inventor of its patents, Patrick Racz, had met with executives of what is now European SIM card maker Gemalto, including Augustin Farrugia, who is now a senior director at Apple.Smartflash has also filed patent infringement lawsuits against Samsung, HTC and Google.
Can you really detect the melanoma type of skin cancer by taking a photograph of a mole using your smartphone? The US Federal Trade Commission’s latest action provides strong encouragement to be wary of such claims.The FTC hasreached settlementswith two firms marketing melanoma detection apps MelApp and Mole Detective, and plans to file claims against another company that did not agree to settle.Both apps involved people taking photos of suspicious moles, then providing a risk assessment of how likely they were to be melanoma, with the aim of helping users decide whether to visit their doctor.“The FTC alleged that the marketers deceptively claimed the apps accurately analysed melanoma risk and could assess such risk in early stages,” explained the regulator. “The marketers lacked adequate evidence to support such claims.”Mole Detective’s initial marketer, New Consumer Solutions, has been fined $3,930, while MelApp’s maker Health Discovery Corporation has been fined $17,963, with both barred from making “misleading or unsubstantiated health claims” about products in the future.According to the FTC’s complaints, MelApp was released in 2011, with the $1.99 app for iOS and Androidgoing on to make more than $17k of revenuesbetween January 2011 and July 2013. The Mole Detective suite of apps, meanwhile,generated more than $50k of salesbetween January 2012 and December 2013 in the US alone.Related:FTC in talks with Apple over health data protection – Open Thread“Truth in advertising laws apply in the mobile marketplace,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. “App developers and marketers must have scientific evidence to support any health or disease claims that they make for their apps.”Scrutiny of apps claiming to provide early detection of melanoma is not a new thing. In January 2013, aresearch paper published in the Archives of Dermatologyexamined four apps, and found that their accuracy in identifying lesions that were melanomas varied between 6.8% and 98.1%.Those that performed best involved sending the mole photos to qualified dermatologists to study, rather than trying to detect melanoma using an algorithm.
BlackBerry will have fewer than 1 million users outside businesses in the UK by the end of the year, a radical slump from a peak of nearly 8 million in June 2012, according to new research from two companies.The dramatic fall from grace of the iconic mobile phones, which wereblamed for spreading unrest during the London riots of summer 2011, follows a series of high-profile and expensive flops – first with its PlayBook tablet and then with the touchscreen Z10 phone, as it tried to catch rivals such as Samsung and Apple.The firm has also plunged into operating losses and seen revenues dwindle for 11 of the past 12 quarters. In a bid to cut costs, it has fired thousands of staff.Now new research from eMarketer provided exclusively to the Guardian paints a bleak picture for the company. It says it may have as few as 700,000 non-business users in the UK, and that by 2017 the figure could fall to 400,000.These latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in drovesBill Fisher, eMarketerSeparately, another research company, Kantar Worldpanel, told the Guardian that although BlackBerry’s data currently shows 1.4 million non-business users, it is losing 56,000 users every month to other platforms such as Apple’s iPhone, Google’s Android and Microsoft’s Windows Phone. “I’d expect we would see fewer than a million people with a BlackBerry as their primary handset around September 2015,” Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at Kantar, said.The UK used to be one of BlackBerry’s biggest and most loyal markets – but the collapse in consumer base will create financial problems for the company, which under its new chief executive John Chen has retrenched to its original corporate and government roots, where it is prized for its levels of security. But both Apple and Samsung have begun to make inroads there, winning approval from the US and UK governments for their handsets to be used in low-level security work.BlackBerry’s revenues rely heavily on handset sales: Chen has said that it needs to sell 10m per year to be profitable. But falling user numbers mean fewer sales and a spiralling problem for the company.“BlackBerry’s fall from grace has been spectacular, but these latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in droves,” said Bill Fisher, UK analyst at eMarketer. “Its market share has been decimated by Android and iOS, and more recently by Windows Phone, which is slowly gaining a foothold in the UK market.”The company has not been helped by high-profile missteps, such as a software update last Thursday that left LadyTanni Grey-Thompson, the paralympic medallist and parliamentarian, bemoaning the random shuffling of her contacts book. She has threatened to dump BlackBerry for another maker.@O2software upgrade... vast maj on contacts are muddled.  so phone calls to husband Ian are listed as Rod.  wrong email add and random job&mdash; Tanni Grey-Thompson (@Tanni_GT)February 23, 2015BlackBerry had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.Among UK smartphone users, Google’s Android makes up 56.2%, comprising 21.5 million owners, says eMarketer, while Apple’s iPhone has 12.3 million users, or 32.2%. Microsoft’s Windows Phone has 3.3 million users, or 8.5%, and BlackBerry’s sub-1 million users make up just 1.9%. Kantar puts Apple’s figure higher, at 13.4 million (38.1%) and Android’s lower, at 17.4 million (49.6%), with Windows Phone users totalling 2.3 million (6.5%).Sunnebo said the shift pointed to wider challenges in the phone market. “What this does mean is that ‘easy wins’ in the UK market are coming to an abrupt end. With only 2.1 million customers of old platforms like BlackBerry, Palm, [Nokia] Symbian and [Samsung] Bada left, brands can only really win significant numbers of new customers from consumers already using modern, competitive platforms.”
Longstanding allegations that women are routinely discriminated against in Silicon Valley were being aired in open court on Tuesday when a former venture capital executive began a $16m sexual discrimination lawsuit against top tech investor Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Ellen Pao, 45, who worked for Kleiner Perkins between 2005 and 2012, claimed the firm held back her career and excluded her from meetings after she complained about harassment by a married male colleague with whom she claimed she was pressured into having an affair. She has accused Kleiner Perkins of treating her “despicably, maliciously, fraudulently and oppressively”.Among Pao’s claims was the allegation that she, and other women, were excluded from an important Kleiner Perkins dinner because they would “kill the buzz”. She also claims that women were barred from work trips on private jets to ski resorts, and were regularly excluded from important meetings or ignored and asked to take notes.Kleiner Perkins denies all the allegations. It said Pao, who is now interim chief executive of Reddit, failed at the company because she could not lead others and was not a team player. The firm, which was an early investor in Google and Amazon, also pointed out that 20% of its senior partners are women and said it invests in startups run by women at four times the rate of the wider industry.While there have been many claims of sexual harassment and discrimination in Silicon Valley, this is the first high-profile case not to have been settled out of court before trial.On Tuesday Pao’s attorney, Alan Exelrod, told the jury at San Francisco Superior Court that “Kleiner Perkins had promoted just one woman to senior investing partner by 2011, despite being in business for about 40 years.“Was there a level playing field for Ellen Pao at Kleiner Perkins?” Exelrod said. “We will prove to you in this case that there was not.“She [Pao], like the men, has a science background. An engineering degree from Princeton. She, like the men, has a business degree. A business degree from Harvard.”“Kleiner Perkins used Ellen Pao’s talents for six years, but when it came time to choose the next generation of leaders at Kleiner Perkins, Kleiner only chose men,” according tothe San Jose Mercury News’s liveblog of the opening statementsfrom inside the courtroom.Exelrod said Ajit Nazre, the Kleiner Perkins with whom Pao had an affair, wanted to “punish” her after she ended the relationship. He claimed Pao was excluded from meetings and emails. The couple first had sex at a work event, according to court papers.In another instance, Exelrod claimed that on Valentine’s Day in 2007 senior Kleiner Perkins partner Randy Komisar gave Pao a signed copy ofLeonard Cohen’s The Book of Longingwhich she took as sexual advance. “The problem was the book had very erotic poetry in it and Cohen’s many sketches of naked women,” the attorney said.In court papers, Kosimar has said that the book was a return gift after Pao gave him a statue of a Buddha. Kosimar said his wife picked out the Cohen book as the appropriate gift.Lynne Hermle, attonery for Kleiner Perkins, accused Pao of twisting the facts. “There is an entirely different explanation for Ellen Pao’s clear failure to succeed as a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins,” she said in the defence’s opening statement, according to the Mercury’s liveblog. “Ellen Pao fails to meet her burden of proof even though she repeatedly and consistently seeks to twist facts, circumstances and events.“Pao did not succeed at Kleiner Perkins as an investing professional because she didn’t have the necessary skills for the job. She did not come close. Despite her own belief that she was outstanding in those areas, the evidence will show that just isn’t true.”The defence said Kleiner Perkins founder John Doerr had made it his “mission” to increase the number of women in venture capital.Women hold 11% of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies compared to 16% across the top 100 Standard &amp; Poor’s firms, according to a report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. Silicon Valley firms board’s are on average 15.7% female compared with 20.9% in the S&amp;P 100.“Most of the companies that released data publicly acknowledged that the numbers reveal ample room for improvement, and many of them committed to increasing the number of women and minorities in the workplace,” the report said.Venture capital firms are even less diverse than the technology companies in which they invest. Babson College’sDiana Report, a research initiative working to increase the number of female entrepreneurs, found that the number of female partners in VC firms decreased from 10% in 1999 to 6% in 2014.The report found that 97% of VC-funded businesses had male chief executives, and businesses with all-male teams are more than four times more likely to receive VC funding as teams with one or more women.Several technology workers were excused from the jury, which is made up of five men and seven women and includes a physical therapist, a male prison nurse, a Genentech manager, a painter and a teacher’s assistant.The case continues.
Later this week, a Jumbotron will arrive outside the Washington DC offices of the Federal Communications Commission. The giant screen being erected by internet activists at OpenMedia will broadcast messages calling on the regulator to keep standing up for strong rules to protect an open internet. But this is not so much a protest as an early celebration, complete with a gif, a Lolcat and a proclamation:WE CAN HAZ NET NEUTRALITY?The animated cats have almost certainly won this round. But as net-neutrality activists know, it won’t be long before the Republicans strike back.On Wednesday, the most vocal congressional committee will start to investigate claims the FCC has been railroaded into voting through new rules governing the broadband industry after undue pressure from the president. The hearing of the House oversight committee will begin before the regulators’ landmark vote on Thursday because, by now, the result is a foregone conclusion:the FCC is now committed to protecting net neutrality– the concept that all information and services should be entitled to a level playing field online.But hearings are just the beginning of a series of attacks on the FCC’s proposals likely to build momentum ahead of the 2016 election. Republicans are convinced that Democrats aim to paint them as enemies of a free internet – and having lost ground, they are launching an early campaign of their own to win back the debate.According to Greg Walden, the Republican chairman of the House communications and technology subcommittee, the FCC has been bullied into supporting the open regulations by an Obama administration intent on using a hot-button issue for political gain.Walden’s investigation followsreports in the Wall Street Journalthat the White House set up a “shadow FCC” (codename:Obamanet) in the months leading up to Thursday’s vote. This secret task force was charged with building a case to regulate broadband under Title II of the Communications Act – the toughest set of rules available to the FCC that give the regulators utility-like jurisdiction over broadband in the future.“The closer we get to the FCC rubber-stamping President Obama’s internet grab, the more disturbing it becomes,” Walden said in a statement announcing the hearing.A generaloutline of the new net-neutrality planshas been disclosed, but so far just a handful of Washington insiders have seen the details. By Friday, the FCC’s two Republican commissioners will be free to give their detailed objections to the proposals. They are preparing to blow holes in the outline, highlighting legal issues that will be seized on instantly by Title II’s vociferous opponents.The two commissioners, Ajit Pai and Michael O’Rielly, have fought to have the released ahead of the vote. “With the future of the entire internet at stake, it is imperative that the FCC get this right. And to do that, we must live up to the highest standards of transparency,” they wrote in a statement.Their internet-activist opponents support the transparency, but critics charge the move is an attempt at further delaying the long-anticipated FCC vote.In the meantime, Republican senator John Thune is working on a bill that would trump the FCC’s plans, with the broadband industry lining up to sue.Michael Powell, the chairman of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, has called Title II a “fatal step”, and pushed back onObama’s call in November for the FCC to make the “strongest rules possible”in protecting net neutrality. Powell’s powerful lobby group has intimated likely action after it sees the more specific FCC new rules.Activists lobbied against the plans to create ‘fast lanes’ for customers who could pay more.Photograph: Free Press/flickrFor some on the right, however, this Thursday’s FCC vote is more about the 2016 election than net neutrality. They charge politics was the real reason that Obama stepped into a debate that has consumed potential voters that may not fall into typical Democrat or Republican territory.“There’s never been an issue like this where the president has taken such an active roll,” said Berin Szoka, president of the thinktank TechFreedom. “They are making this an issue that they can keep milking politically.”Szoka was one of the panelists at an Lincoln Labs’s Reboot Congress conference earlier this month in Washington. Lincoln Labs, a libertarian technology lobby group, pulled in an all-star gathering of Republicans – including likely presidential candidates Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Carly Fiorina – for the conference at the US Chamber of Commerce. At the meeting, Senator Thune said Title II is a“terrible”idea.On stage, Szoka won a round of applause after he told Nick Grossman, the general manager of tech investor Union Square Ventures that Title II was the last thing his industry needed. “We could resolve all of these issues in Congress,” said Szoka. “If your community had spent a fraction of the time pushing for a legislative solution or had the president asked for one, we’d be done.”With the current timing, a court case – or a congressional battle – could be reaching a peak just as the 2016 midterms campaigns begin in earnest. So farRepublicans have fared badlyin the net neutrality debate.There is a whiff of sour grapes. One telecoms lobbyist, speaking anonymously, said the net neutrality debate had been hijacked by the left and Democrats smarting after their midterm election defeat. The White House has made “a cynical political calculation that this is an opportunity to reinvigorate the net roots base”, the lobbyist told the Guardian.“They lost them on Snowden. This is an easy call.”But Republicans – and their supporters in the business community – believe they have a fighting chance on net neutrality. Outside the Chamber of Commerce’s imposing Hall of Flags this month, Garrett Johnson – a Lincoln Labs founder and a former special assistant to another presidential candidate, Florida governor Jeb Bush – said that once the details of the orders were out, opponents would have more to work with and he was confident of winning support in the tech community.“I don’t think the tech community is fully on board with the idea of giving a Washington bureaucracy a blank cheque to decide how the internet is managed,” Johnson said. “The end result will be more regulation and less innovation.”It’s been over a year since the courts effectively overthrew the FCC’s authority to regulate broadband internet. The case, brought by Verizon, came after a series of skirmishes with broadband providers, but left a deep a split in the industry. Many cable operators were happy (enough) with the old regulatory regime – the Open Internet Order of 2010 – and feared that vacating the old rules could pave the way for tougher ones.And so it came to pass. While the FCC licked its wounds and worked on new rules, internet activists organised a mesmerisingly effective lobbying campaign in support of Title II. The campaign spurred president Obama into action and triggered a U-turn from the FCC, which only last May was proposing a “hybrid” solution that would have allowed the broadband companies to create high speed fast lanes for some paying clients.That proposal elicitedhowls of protestacross the internet and from companies including Etsy, Netflix, Reddit and others which charged that it would end net neutrality and make it impossible for new companies, without access to fast lanes, to compete.Senator Ted Cruz summed up what appeared to be the Republican position on the debate with a tweet late last year:&quot;Net Neutrality&quot; is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.&mdash; Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz)November 10, 2014What a difference a few months make. Most of Cruz’s colleagues are now on board for “net neutrality”. Thune’s proposals would also ban fast lanes and prevent broadband firm’s from “throttling” – slowing down – services. Now they have to convince a sceptical public.Republicans face an uphill battle, Szoka insisted, beginning Thursday.“Most of all because net neutrality sounds like mom and apple pie. Nobody can be against it,” he said. “The real fight has become about legal authority, which is what it always has been.”
Pebble, the company that ignited the smartwatch market with its $10.3m (£6.7m) crowdfunding campaign in 2012, has returned to Kickstarter with a new device calledPebble Time.The new version has a colour e-ink screen, a claimed battery life of seven days, and is 20% thinner than Pebble’s previous smartwatches. It can also track its wearer’s activity with a built-in accelerometer like a fitness band.Pebble Time’s crowdfunding campaign went live at 3pm GMT, and hit its $500k funding goal 17 minutes later. It then became the fastest Kickstarter campaign to hit $1m in 30 minutes and $2m in 58 minutes. It will cost $159 (£103) for 5,000 “early bird” backers, although its regular price once it launches in May will be $199 (£129).Related:2015 gears up to be the year of wearable techPebble Time on Kickstarter.The device is one of only very few smartwatches that will work with multiple smartphones, rather than just being restricted to Android or iPhone, such as, respectively, Android Wear smartwatches or the upcoming Apple Watch.While Pebble’s new device also includes a microphone for dictating voice replies to messages, its key feature – if it delivers on its promise – will be the week-long battery life. As a comparison, the best Android Wear watches manage three days, while the Apple Watch is expected to need a nightly recharge.Unlike those devices, though, the Pebble Time has no touchscreen. Instead, it will be controlled by three buttons on its side to scroll through text and activate functions.Pebble has sold more than 1m smartwatches since its first model in 2012, and now has over 6,500 third-party apps and watch faces available, including apps for music playback and controlling smart-home devices.
We all basically communicate in hieroglyphs now, so news thatApple is road-testing a range of new emoji charactersis a big deal. “The limits of my language are the limits of my world,” as Wittgenstein put it, meaning our world has been limited to creepy ballerina twins and smiling turds for a while.The new range, included in the next update, is a response to criticisms over lack of diversity – particularly ethnic. Current emoji users wanting to move beyond the default white characters can choose between an Indian sporting a turban (or possibly head injury) and a Chinese man in a skullcap, both of whom look more like Indiana Jones sidekicks than accurate racial representations. Some users have resorted to using the dark moon emoji as an alt black face. Creative, but not ideal.Hurrah then, for skin-tone modifiers! The broader palette is based onthe Fitzpatrick scale of colour, created by a Harvard dermatologist. There are five new skins, from dark brown at one end to Berocca-lemon at the other, which we can only pray isn’t meant to represent an Inuk, or anyone outsideSpringfield.Other new emojis include families with same-sex parents, who look as unhappy as any nuclear family.These laudable additions bring a tear to the eye, whether that eye is blue or brown or yellow like hepatitis. But do they go far enough? There are notable absences – redheads continue to be denied a place at the emoji table. Men with beards, likewise. There are no afro emojis.If we want cartoon pixels to speak for us, must they not speak the whole truth?One day – we have a dream – there will be an emoji for everyone. Hipster on a fixie emoji. Maverick politician emoji. Benedict Cumberbatch emoji, emo emoji. Where are the women with beards? The emoji for when you’re only eating because you’re bored? The “looking at your partner and seeing a stranger” emoji? We must push further.But before those identifications can begin, we all need to be in the room. These new faces we will hold in our hands are another step toward inclusiveness.Ideally there’ll be some sort of ramification in political representation, and equality of pay. Maybe that’s in the update after the next one.
A helicopter swoops over a palatial mansion as armed gunmen burst in, jamming cartridges into their shotguns, preparing for an epic firefight. Pretty soon bullets are tearing up the interior as bodies crash through glass walls, and grenades pass the camera in slow-motion arcs. Quickly, the action cuts to a high-speed car chase, with vehicles plummeting along LA’s iconic storm drains. The shooting never stops.This is Battlefield: Hardline, the latest game in Electronic Arts’ long-running series of frenetic first-person shooters. As in previous instalments, players team up online to capture control points or carry packages through a gauntlet of enemy fire. But this time something’s different.In the past, the battles were based around fictitious military conflicts; in Hardline, the bullet-riddled face-offs are between almost comically ruthless criminals and loose-cannon cops. Now, players aren’t fighting over territory in some vague Middle-Eastern setting, they’re clashing over stolen cars, bank vaults and methamphetamine production compounds. The rules of engagement are the same though: in Hardline, as in previous Battlefield titles, the firefights are often decided by who gets in the first accurate shot.Some context. On 31 January,charges of reckless use of a firearm were dropped against police officer Joseph Weekley. He faced charges for fatally shooting a sleeping seven-year-old girl during a May 2010 police raid on her home in Detroit. He previously faced involuntary manslaughter charges, which were dismissed in October 2014 for a lack of evidence. The raid was filmed for an A&amp;E reality television program.In Hardline, the tanks and planes of previous games have gone, replaced by heavily armed officers, armoured trucks and helicopters. Grenades and rocket launchers are still a large part of gameplay, but there are also new law enforcement-themed additions. Here, players get to break out the tasers and tear gas – or in the game’s excitable parlance, “non-lethal takedowns”.More context. On 12 December 2014,US district court judge Carol Jackson issued a restraining order against Missouri policeon behalf of demonstrators protesting the shooting of Michael Brown. The order required the police to warn protesters and allow them to disperse before using tear gas.So this is the problem. Battlefield: Hardline is a war game reskinned as a cops-and-robbers fantasy: the criminals are action-movie caricatures (they rob banks by blowing holes in the walls and steal sports cars to joyride around the city) and the cops are equally gung-ho.Yet the game is being marketed at a time in which we could turn on the news at any minute and see armoured cars full of police in riot gear rolling down major city streets. Now even elements clearly cribbed from action movies recall recent and all-too-familiar instances of police brutality.At the Gamescom festival last August, the Hardline developers showed a tutorial where the player sneaks up on a criminal to strangle him with his handcuffs; it was difficult not to think ofthe 17 July choking death of New York man Eric Garnerat the hands of police officer Daniel Pantaleo.The Battlefield series has always been known for a verisimilitudinous approach to war games, with realistic ballistics and lethality – even if you do get to rejoin the fight a few seconds after death. And it’s true that war games have always glorified the military and dehumanised their targets. Marry this approach to a game about police and thieves, though, and you get uncomfortably close to home. Hardline is a game about policing in a fantasy world where crooks are signposted and deadly force is always justified. But perhaps we need to juxtapose this with a real world where police officers who hold those attitudes are shooting innocent people.Officer Darren Wilson, who shot and killed Ferguson teenager Michael Brown on 9 August,described the teenager as having a face “like a demon” and the suburb of St. Louis as “not an area where you can take anything really lightly” and “a hostile environment”.Related:Battlefield: Hardline – hands-on with the cops and robbers shooterDeveloper Visceral Games (of Dead Space fame) or publisher EA could not have predicted Ferguson, or how it brought racial policing tensions in the United States to the forefront. EA seems to be aware of the problem, as itdelayed Hardline five months from its previously-planned October release. If the publisher had hoped to outlast police brutality tensions, it is out of luck. After three months of deliberations,a grand jury declined to indict officer Darren Wilsonlast November. Tempers remain high,in St. Louis, Missouriandacross the United States.It’s too late for significant change. Hardline is fundamentally a game about impossibly well-armed and capable supercriminals and how the police are justified in arming themselves to the teeth to deal with them, shooting first and asking questions later. At a time when US police appear to be doing just that, despite the absence of this game’s unambiguous enemies, is such unreconstructed entertainment really acceptable?
Google is banning public explicit photos and videos from its blogging service Blogger, and giving affected users just one month to comply.The new rules require any blog with “sexually explicit or graphic nude images or video” to take them down by 23 March, or the blog will be made private by Google. A private blog can only be seen by the owner or admins of the blog, and people who the owner has shared the blog with.Google promises that the majority of users of the service, which Google acquired from Twitter co-founder Evan Williams’ Pyra Labs in 2003, won’t see any change from the new rules. But many users are concerned that the new rules represent a huge about-turn from Google’s previously stated support of explicit material on its platform. The company’s previous policy said: “We do allow adult content on Blogger, including images or videos that contain nudity or sexual activity … All blogs marked as ‘adult’ will be placed behind an ‘adult content’ warning interstitial.” Its only exceptions were to ban illegal explicit content, explicit images shared without the subject’s consent (commonly known as “revenge porn”) and making money on adult content.Zoe Margolis, author of the Girl with a One Track Mind books and sex blog,joined Blogger in 2004. She says that “either Google believes in freedom of expression, or it doesn’t. Restricting blogs which contain explicit content to ‘private only’ effectively kills them off. This is like offering a library where all the books in it are invisible to the readers unless an author is standing there and personally hands each reader a copy of their book.”“Many blogs, mine included, have been on Blogger for well over a decade. These blogs are not just part of a community which offers an alternative, sex-positive, supportive network, but they also make up how the web functions: millions of interconnected links. By making these blogs invitation only, it immediately kills off all those connections, resulting in people visiting non-existent pages and all the links they click on being dead. A long-standing community will be killed off overnight.”Activist Lauren Weinstein wrote: “I find it disrespectful to users for Google to announce apparently with only 30 days notice that they are summarily banning most explicit materials from Blogger. It is utterly within their rights to do so, but the lack of longer notice (absent specific legal constraints), and a total lack of any explanation in the announcement for this change (only perfunctory operational details), are extremely disappointing.Google says it will still allow some forms of nudity on the service “if the content offers a substantial public benefit, for example in artistic, educational, documentary, or scientific contexts.” It also provides instructions for users who want to migrate elsewhere.Although the search firm isn’t known for taking a prudish attitude to content, explicit videos are also banned on YouTube, the biggest site Google has where it directly hosts user content.The site’s rules state: “YouTube is not for pornography or sexually explicit content. If this describes your video, even if it’s a video of yourself, don’t post it on YouTube.”Other Google services that host user-uploaded content have similar polices. Google Plus, the company’s social network,warns users: “Do not distribute content that contains nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit material.” Its rules for profile pictures are even stricter: “Do not use a photo that is a close-up of a person’s buttocks or cleavage.”
Volvo will test 100 of its autonomous cars on public roads driven in normal traffic by members of the public by 2017.The car manufacturer announced a collaboration with Swedish legislators and transport authorities to test the cars on 30 miles of roads around Gothenburg by 2017, marking Volvo’s first public pilot of fully autonomous vehicles.“We are entering uncharted territory in the field of autonomous driving,” said Peter Mertens, senior vice president of research and development for Volvo. “Taking the exciting step to a public pilot, with the ambition to enable ordinary people to sit behind the wheel in normal traffic on public roads, has never been done before.”Participants in the trial will have to be sober and competent to take over controls at any time. Volvo claims its Drive Me system is capable of handling a range of driving conditions including “smooth commuting to heavy traffic and emergency situations” although its test roads will be without pedestrians, cyclists or on-coming traffic.Related:'Driverless' Volvo S60 – car reviewWhether this kind of autonomous driving where the driver isn’t paying attention will ever be legal is up for debate.Photograph: VolvoThe pilot forms part of Volvo’s ambitious plan to make it so that no one is either seriously injured or killed in one of its cars from 2020, which the company says is only possible by integrating automated technology.Volvo has taken a slightly different approach to automated vehicles compared to most car manufacturers and technology companies, including Google. Its first tests were of road trains on motorways, where drivers could join a line of cars that would autonomously match speed and follow the lead car.But this new test will take the company’s full autonomous system out into the real world.Related:Driverless cars set to roll out for trials on UK roads“It is relatively easy to build and demonstrate a self-driving concept vehicle, but if you want to create an impact in the real world, you have to design and produce a complete system that will be safe, robust and affordable for ordinary customers,” said Erik Coelingh one of Volvo’s technical specialists. “Making this complex system 99% reliable is not good enough. You need to get much closer to 100% before you can let self-driving cars mix with other road users in real-life traffic.”Volvo is concentrating on cars made for a traditional ownership model. Other groups, includingprojects running in the UKand Google’s self-driving cars are looking at autonomous vehicles as a form of public transport.
In science fiction, robots are usually attempting to take over the world and kill us all. In real life, it turns out they can be rather useful for cleaning the lounge carpet. Terminator – of dust!The iRobot Roomba 880 is the current king of the robotic vacuums, but is it any good and how does it compare to a standard vacuum?What is that thing against the wall?The Roomba certainly doesn’t look like vacuum. The puck-shaped disc is approximately the size of a car’s steering wheel in diameter and the height of a mug.On the top are four buttons and a handle, with a big central “clean” power button and four other buttons with which to set the clock, cleaning schedule, return the robot to its dock, or concentrate on a single, troublesome spot. Hasta la vista, dog hair...ProgrammingScheduling is easy – just select the day, set the time and hit ok.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianProgramming the robot for a schedule is easy. Select the day, input a time and press “OK”. As long as the clock is set correctly, the Roomba will trundle off on a cleaning run and return to base when it has finished, or run out of battery.In testing, I experienced a couple of issues with the clock going wrong, once caused by a power surge, and once when the Roomba got trapped in a room and ran out of battery. It lost time when it was recharged and I failed to notice, which meant it turned on in the middle of the night and woke everyone up.The Roomba 880 is capable of cleaning several rooms on one charge, and will spend a maximum of 25 minutes in each room before moving on. Two “Virtual Wall Lighthouses” are included in the box. They simulate a wall in doorways, preventing the robot from passing into the next room until it has finished in the first, and then help it find its way back to the charging base.Once the robot has finished cleaning, or when the bin is full or the battery runs low, it will automatically return to the charging dock.CleaningThe Roomba cleans well, just not like a human, and with numerous little beeps and clicksDisappointingly, on its first outing the robot doesn’t clean as well as a human with a decent, ordinary vacuum cleaner. But Roomba is designed to clean once a day rather than once a week, which means the first run takes a while because the bin is small and has to be emptied several times.After a couple of days the bin only needs emptying once or twice a week, depending on the floor type and size of the cleaning area. In a medium-sized two-bedroom flat, I ended up emptying the bin and cleaning the filters once a week.The spinning bush and central suction band do a solid job of cleaning even the edges of a room. Some spots that Roomba can’t reach will need to be cleaned with a handheld vacuum – including stairs – but overall the cleaning is quite impressive.The 880 also comes with a remote control, which can be used to steer it towards a particularly dirty patch. It can also be used to steer the robot away if it gets stuck under something, though generally it can get under most furniture without an issue.If the brush gets tangled up with cables or loose paper, the main suction channel can be removed and cleaned by releasing a few screws or clips – a two minute job.The robot will have a go at pretty much anything left on the floor, including cables, but it can’t handle the stairsMaintenanceThe drop sensors, the bin, the air filters and the front wheel need regular maintenance: iRobot recommends once a week, but you can probably get away with less than that. The air filters need cleaning by just tapping on the side when the robot’s bin is emptied.Emptying the bin and cleaning the filter is a two-minute job.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe iRobot Roomba 880 costs £600, which is at least £300 more than most other normal vacuum cleaners.VerdictThe Roomba lives on its dock that needs to be placed against a wall clear of anything in front of it.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iRobot Roomba 880 is a much better vacuum cleaner than you’d expect. As a robot it does what it says on the tin – cleans the floor when you set it to and returns to base afterwards. It requires little in the way of maintenance and just gets on with the job.But it does take on a life of its own. I have become surprisingly attached to it, like a little robotic cleaning pet. When it has caught and screwed up bits of paper or got stuck somewhere, I’ve felt more sorry for it than annoyed. I’ve then made a special effort to keep things off the floor, which is all round a good thing.Related:Parrot Bebop drone review: bird's eye video without a sky-high priceWhether the 880 is worth the cost over a traditional vacuum cleaner comes down to how much you dislike vacuuming. Cheaper Roomba models are available which are more in line with the cost of a traditional cleaner, plus it probably works out cheaper than hiring a human cleaner.For those that are very tidy and constantly clean, the Roomba probably isn’t for you, but for the rest of us, robotic vacuum cleaners are finally worth buying. I’m even thinking about buying another one for upstairs.Pros:hassle-free cleaning, that just-vacuumed feeling without the effort every day, easy to maintain and programme, remote control, effective cleaningCons:expensive, will need another cleaner for the stairs and odd bits, needs filters changingThe underside of the robot including the sensors lining the edges and the central spinning brushes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
We may rely on computers, but we don’t notice what they’re telling us about online threats. Google recently had to redesign the security warnings in its Chrome web browser because most people were ignoring them. What’s even more worrying is that our brains may be hardwired to do so.Like most browsers, when Chrome visits a web site it checks the site’s online proof of identity, called an SSL certificate. This certificate come from a third party authority, which performs a background check on the site before issuing it.Checking PayPal’s certificate ensures that you’re visiting the right PayPal, rather than a fake version created by scammers. If something looks wrong, the browser warns the user about it.Unfortunately, fewer than one in four Chrome users follow these warnings, found its development team, whichpublished the results in a paper recently. Given that more than one in ten users surf the web with Chrome, that’s a frightening statistic.The problem goes beyond mere SSL certificate warnings, say experts. Many people seem to ignore more or less everything that their computers warn them about.“When you’re posting on an online social network, you need to make a decision about to whom your post will be visible,” explains Lujo Bauer, an associate research professor at Carnegie Mellon University’s Cylab security research centre. “It’s not a warning, but it’s a security-related configuration choice that you have to make at that moment.”Related:From Goblin Panda to Flying Kitten: the latest online security threatsSo, why is it so difficult for users to follow simple security and privacy messages? Maybe it’s because they’re not that simple.Often, warnings describe what the problem is (“this site’s SSL certificate has expired!”) rather than what the consequences of continuing might be (“if you visit this site, it might infect your computer with malware that steals your bank details!”).Lujo co-authored a paper on effective warning designthat featured several key guidelines. They included describing the risk comprehensively, being concise, and offering meaningful choices about how to proceed.Google’s team reached similar conclusions. They stripped out the technical terms (most users don’t know what a certificate is, they found), and reduced the reading level by simplifying the text. That included making the text as brief as possible, even if it meant sacrificing detail.The Chrome developers also added illustrations to suggest danger, and started using background colours to represent different kinds and severity of threat.Giving your browser an opinionPerhaps the most significant design element that the team introduced was the use of ”opinionated design”. Instead of presenting evenly-balanced choices to the user, opinionated browsers can decide what the safest choice is and steer users towards it. They can highlight that choice by making the button bigger or bolder, perhaps, or even hiding unsafe choices behind one or more screens.Making browsers more opinionated is an important design choice, says Andreas Gal, chief technology officer at Mozilla, which created the Firefox browser. “Even though we prefer that the user decides things, in some cases, it simply doesn’t make sense. It’s simply impossible to explain something as complex as cryptography to many users,” he says. “You start making specific recommendations or judgements for the user.”This is an important weapon against one of the biggest challenges for security usability, said Raluca Budiu, senior researcher at usability consulting firm Nielsen Norman Group. She explains that the user makes a cost-benefit analysis when deciding whether to dismiss a warning.“The immediate cost of heeding the warning is high, because I will not be able to achieve my immediate goal, which is to reach the site and complete the bill payment or the status update that I had in mind,” she says. “The immediate benefit is low and abstract. The chance of my information being stolen is smaller if I heed the warning, but that does not really change or improve in any way my current state.”In short, users will prioritise immediate gain, and tend to dismiss consequences with no immediate visible effect.Building an opinionated browser certainly helped Chrome’s design team. After testing the new warning design, users didn’t really understand the warnings much more, but they did follow them: the adherence rate climbed to 62%.Still, that means that almost four in every ten Chrome users still fail to heed these warnings. Why? One of the most worrying answers is that we’re simply designed that way.Hardwired not to noticeAnthony Vance, assistant professor of information systems at Utah’s Brigham Young University, works in the neurosecurity lab there. The lab spends its time exploring how the brain interacts with cybersecurity issues. His team put test subjects in a magnetic resonance imaging machine to see what happened inside their brains when faced with software security warnings.“We used a variety of 40 different warnings – common ones of all kinds, like anti-virus warnings, software updates, and SSL warnings from browsers of all kinds,” says Vance. The results showed thatthe visual processing part of the brain stopped analysing the warningsafter seeing them more than once.This is a concept that he calls “habituation” – in short, people stop paying attention to warnings, the more they see them, and Vance says there’s a biological reason for it. “The first time that your brain experiences a stimulus, it devotes attention to it, but then for subsequent exposures, it relies on memory, and the response is far less,” he says.When you walk into your room for the hundredth time, you’re not really looking at your wallpaper Vance explains. Instead, your brain is painting a picture of it for you from memory. This leaves your brain free to focus on other things.Related:Security researcher publishes 10m usernames and passwords onlineThat’s fine for wallpaper that doesn’t change, but it’s problematic for computer warnings which may change frequently and present different information. “Some people think that users are lazy and inattentive,” says Vance, “but this is simply fundamental to our own biology.”Bauer’s design guidelines suggest consistency in warnings to make them more understandable for the user. Paradoxically, Vance’s research suggests the opposite. He tried to make polymorphic warnings, which are inconsistent, to keep the brain engaged.Switching colours, adding images randomly and including animated graphics are all ways to stop the brain relying on memory and persuading it to pay attention, he said. One of the most successful polymorphic warnings in his test even jiggled slightly.Who needs users, anyway?There are other solutions, according to Sigbørn Vik, who works in the security group at browser developer Opera. In some cases, developers can make habituation work positively for them.“What does work is using habituation positively,” he said. “That means getting users to expect a certain pattern.” That could be checking for certain ambient indicators that suggest a site is valid – and noticing when they’re not displayed.Others suggest just cutting the user out of the equation altogether. Melih Abdulhayoglu is founder and chief executive of Comodo, a company that both issues digital certificates and also sells anti-virus software. “The technology must solve the problem by making the decision on behalf of the user, and not interrupting them,” he said.Like many anti-virus systems, Comodo’s software uses blacklists to filter out known bad software. It also checks for software signed with digital certificates to help determine if it’s known and trusted. If it can’t classify software as good or bad, it runs it in a container, designed to limit the effect of the software on the system. That stops the software having to interrupt the user with prompts, he concluded.Deciding for the user isn’t possible 100% of the time, though, across every application, says Candid Wueest, principal threat researcher at Symantec. His company also tries to make as many decisions for the user as possible, but there may be some decisions where it might be necessary to ask the user about it, he warned.“It might be something the user actually wants to do, like changing the user’s home page in the browser,” Wueest said, arguing that both spyware and legitimate software sometimes tries to do this, as do users, manually.Browser vendors must be particularly careful here. There will also always be an expert that wants to override a browser warning for good reason, and if a browser is too prohibitive, users may simply use a competitor’s software instead.“We want people to be safe by default when using Chrome, but we also want to give people control over their browsing experience,” the Chrome development team told the Guardian in a statement. Users can still override warnings in the browser.Smaller screens and more complex choicesThis is a big enough problem on desktop browsers, but the stakes increase as devices get smaller, and choices become more complex. “Now with gadgets that collect lots of data, we have to make decisions about who to share it with,” said Bauer.Android applications often ask users to give them permissions for everything from contact info through to control of their phone, for example. How many of us take notice, and how many simply click ”ok” so that we can get on with the task in hand?Related:How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015Mozilla has tried to mitigate this problem by making mobile apps ask for permissions when they’re about to carry out a task, rather than when they’re installed. Gal calls this ”pay as you go security”.All of these approaches may get us closer to waking users up, but nothing trumps good old-fashioned education, says David Emm, principal security researcher at security software vendor Kaspersky Lab. Browser vendors can redesign warnings all they want, he said, “but if this is done in isolation and if there’s no wider learning context for it, this will always be much less effective”.What we need is a drip-fed online safety education, akin to the drink-driving road safety campaigns of the past, Emm warns. He believes that drumming online safety into people repeatedly is a vital component.We all remember the road safety slogans of the past. “Think once. Think twice. Think bike,” was one. “Clunk click with every trip” graced our TV screens for years. But somehow, “use caution when visiting sites with apparent SSL certificate disparities” doesn’t roll off the tongue. Anyone got any better ideas?
Hey it’s Tuesday. And while I’m here, why not buy a ticket for our second ‘Meet the Guardian games writers’ evening on March 4 at the Guardian office.All the details are here.
On the afternoon of 5th April 2007, my 16-year-old cousin Shivam was doing what he did almost every day at that time, walking back from school. Though this particular day was to be his last. He was struck by a vehicle while crossing the road and left seriously injured. He managed to drag himself to the side of the road and for the next 30 minutes begged passers-by to help him. While hundreds stopped, not one person came forward to assist him or even call for help. He died of treatable injuries.The circumstances surrounding his death became unacceptable to me. I learnt soon after that his death was not an isolated incident and that thousands of road crash victims in India die every year of treatable injuries, by the side of the road. They never get any assistance. Bystanders, who would otherwise become first responders to victims of natural disasters and even terror attacks, remain mute spectators to victims of road crashes.They fear police harassment, detention at hospitals and prolonged court proceedings, as confirmed later in a national study conducted by an organisation I established to tackle the issue.SaveLIFE Foundation(SLF) was my response to the disaster that road crashes had become in India, having affected millions of families including mine.SLF began by training police to become medical first responders to road crash victims. Their existing personnel and infrastructure helped rush injured persons to hospitals with first-aid provided by police personnel en route. SLF then focused on training community volunteers, who would typically be closer to crash spots than police vehicles.In 2009 we built a system to connect volunteers, police officers and hospitals through a mobile phone-based technology. This model to train, connect and mobilise police personnel and citizen volunteers won the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2010 and was rapidly adopted by the Indian government. To date, 150,000 injured persons have been rushed to various hospitals under this model with a survival rate of over 98%.In parallel, SLF also secured a judgment from the Supreme Court of India, which ordered the Indian Government to take appropriate and immediate action to protect Good Samaritans who help injured persons. The idea is to ensure that any citizen can become a rescuer with a supportive institutional environment.Working closely with police, hospitals and road crash victims gave us a unique exposure to the “actual” causes of road crashes in India. For instance, a tendency to blame road crashes on the the Indian way of driving meant that most interventions led to spreading “awareness” among drivers. The actual problem, meanwhile, lay in the institutional process (or lack of it) that allowed untrained drivers to get on the streets without any credible testing. The entire filtration process was compromised.Another actual cause of crashes – faulty road design and engineering – was rarely looked at as an issue. I discovered that the law governing road safety in India was so deeply fractured that not only did it not address the causes of road crashes but contained statutes that would in fact lead to horrific crashes. No wonder in the past decade more than1.2 million people have been killed in road crashes in Indiaand over five million left seriously injured or permanently disabled.I soon established the Policy Advocacy practice at SLF and began to demand complete institutional change. SLF built a six-pronged strategy to campaign for this change. The elements of this strategy ranged from building public pressure around the issue to forming alliances with like-minded organisations and invoking the Supreme Court of India to bring seek interim relief and attention to the issues. During this period we faced tremendous difficulties – from official apathy and lack of funding to death threats issued to me by mafia involved in the transportation business who would get directly “affected” by our work.We pushed through, got enormous support from public and media, and in June 2014, the Government of India agreed to our demand to repeal the old road safety laws and replace them with a comprehensive legislation. The key element of this legislation would be the establishment of an independent, empowered lead agency, which would finally take ownership for road safety in India and create sustainable interventions in each of the root causes responsible for the high number of road crashes in India.SLF was invited to contribute to the drafting of the bill and the draft legislation was finalised for introduction in parliament in December 2014. The bill is expected to be passed by the Indian parliament shortly. The next challenge would be to ensure that it is enforced across India and institutional mechanisms established at local levels to achieve that.Today SLF’s model is clear – we will fight for long-term institutional change and build on-ground proofs of concept. Just like our on-ground model of emergency care has been adopted for replication, our other interventions too will be designed such that institutional replication becomes possible.The vision of SLF is not to become the largest NGO in India. It is to reach a stage where it will not be required to exist, having achieved its mission. The fight to get there through positive, deep and lasting impact continues.Piyush Tewariis CEO and founder of theSaveLIFE Foundation. He was made aRolex Awards for EnterpriseYoung Laureate in 2010 for his work in the field of science and health.
A selection of Apple’s new racially diverse emoji.Photograph: AppleApple’s racially diverse emoji have landed, and they come in five shades of skin.On Monday Apple released beta updates to its OS X operating system, including a redesigned emoji keyboard with long-awaited skin tone modifiers, as first reported in9to5mac.Complaints about the lack of racial diversity in the emoji characters impelled the Unicode Consortium, an industry body devoted to developing software standards, toadd skin tone options. The tones are modelled on the Fitzpatrick scale, a recognised standard used by dermatologists.Previously there were only three characters which appeared to represent non-western people: a man wearing a cossack hat, a man with brown skin wearing a turban, and another man wearing a traditional Chinese skull cap – with noticeably smaller and more slanted eyes.Like all the human characters, these three male emojis now come in a generic bright yellow as the default option – which some media outlets have dubbed “jaundiced” but also recalls the skin colour used in The Simpsons – along with tone modifiers. Notably the character wearing a Chinese-style cap now has eyes the same size and shape as the others.A selection of the new emoji, including the character with the Chinese-style cap whose eyes have been widened and some families with parents of the same gender, another new feature of the emoji.Photograph: AppleOther additions include new same-sex relationship emojis, such as families with two mothers and two fathers. There will be 300 new emoji characters added altogether.The updates are currently only available to testers but will have an official release at some point in the coming months.Guardian Australia has contacted Unicode Consortium to ask when redheads will finally be given an emoji presence.
YouTube is launching a separate app for children which will filter out inappropriate content, hide comments on videos and which will not allow them to register and log in to its service.The YouTube Kids app launches today in the USfor Androidandfor iOSdevices, and the company intends to roll it out elsewhere in the future. The app will be free and funded by advertising, although YouTube says it will be carefully screening ads to ensure they are appropriate for children.“Parents have been asking us for years to build a friendlier version of YouTube for families,” product manager Shimrit Ben-Yair told the Guardian, citing data showing that while YouTube’s overall viewing time grew by 50% in 2014, this rose to 200% for “family entertainment” content.Related:This woman's thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you've never heard ofYouTube Kids groups videos into four categories: shows, music, learning and explore. Shows focuses on videos from familiar children’s TV brands like Sesame Street and Thomas and Friends; Music includes videos from nursery-rhyme channels like Mother Goose Club; and Learning gathers educational videos.Explore, meanwhile, will collect videos from other children’s channels on YouTube, from Minecraft gamers like Stampy to cooking and loom-band tutorials. “All the content that kids know and love on YouTube is here,” said Ben-Yair.The app’s four sections take the form of scrolling carousels of new videos, although there is also a search function that supports text or voice entry – the latter for younger children who aren’t yet reading and/or typing.Children who search for terms like “sex” will not find any videos, but instead will be presented with a message encouraging them to search for something else. Parents will be able to disable the search function, and set limits on the amount of time children can use the app for.“Kids are excellent negotiators, so we always want to arm parents with more tools to help in this ongoing battle of wills!” said Ben-Yair. “The timer lets this app be the bad guy, with parents setting it to how little or much they prefer.”Given its parent company – Google – YouTube will inevitably face scrutiny over how it plans to make money from the YouTube kids app, and what data it will be collecting from usage of it.Ben-Yair confirmed that there will be ads. “It was really important for us to make the app free and available to everyone, therefore it’s ad-supported,” she said. “We are taking a similar approach with the ads as with the content: narrowing it to what is family-friendly.”A playlist of the 10 top children’s channels on YouTube from December 2014.The app’s “logged-out” nature means the selection of videos will not be customised according to children’s viewing habits, unlike the full YouTube service. Ben-Yair suggested that such recommendations could be added “in the longer term” but stressed that YouTube will be guided by children’s privacy and marketing laws in its development of the app.In its first country, the US, the app is already operating under the strictCOPPA[Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act] legislation regarding the “individually identifiable information” that can be collected by internet services on children aged under 13.In part, YouTube Kids is a response to the huge number of children already watching videos on the main YouTube service, where they may encounter inappropriate videos and ads.How big is that audience? Ben-Yair told the Guardian that “family entertainment” videos are currently being watched for “millions” of hours every day on YouTube.In the UK, meanwhile,communications regulator Ofcom’s latest researchsuggests that more than half of 8-11 year-olds and three quarters of 12-15 year-olds watch YouTube, with a growing proportion of them saying they prefer YouTube to traditional TV.Related:YouTube's top 10 games channels watched 2.2bn times in JanuaryThese habits are why children’s channels are some of the most popular on YouTube. Toy-unboxing channel DC Toys Collector was the service’s second biggest channel in 2014,watched 3.2bn times that year, while child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampy was the fourth biggest with 2.2bn views.Toys, Minecraft, animation and music are the key video categories being watched by kids on YouTube, with other popular channels including The Diamond Minecart (1.6bn views in 2014), Blu Toys (1.5bn), Masha and the Bear (1.4bn), and Disney Car Toys (1.4bn).As a comparison, all the channels listed above were more popular in 2014 than the official channels of One Direction, Rihanna and Justin Bieber, to name just three traditional stars who also have big fanbases on YouTube.The launch of YouTube Kids is likely to spark more new channels aimed at children. Games networkRooster Teeth has already launched a Game Kids spin-off, whileStampy is preparing to launch a second channel focused on education.In the meantime, Google is planning to launch more services for children, according to a blog post by Ben-Yair and vice president of engineering Pavni Diwanji. “This is just our first step – we’ll keep tinkering and hope to have more great products for your family soon,”they wrote.
Professionals in both the business and sporting worlds increasingly exploit data analysis to inform team selection. But how exactly does the technology work, and what does the future of data-led team selection look like?Bill Gerrard is professor of business and sports analytics at the University of Leeds. Coaches at both national and club level have a huge amount of data available on player performance, Gerrard says, including tactical data on player actions and fitness data: “This allows coaches not only to assess player performance in individual games but also to detect potential trends, like a loss of form.”This, of course, is integral in aiding team selection. But, explains Gerrard, this is far more useful for national coaches who have a bigger pool of players to select from: “Data analysis offers a first cut to identify potential national squad players whom the coaches should scrutinise in more detail.”In non-team sport, data analysis is used in a different way. Jonathan Leeder, physiologist at theEnglish Institute of Sport(EIS), describes how they use data and technology to “really pull apart what it takes to win an Olympic medal”. This intelligence is then used to craft the training and resourcing of that athlete “to better prepare them and increase their chance of winning”.Unlike in team sports where competitor analysis is key, single athletes use data in a different way. “You’re trying to get from A to B as fast as you possibly can, and aren’t too bothered about what other nations are doing – you just need to be the fastest.” In this instance, Leeder explains: “Historical data is used to predict the winning time for the next Olympics. You then invest resource into what it takes to do that time and train athletes appropriately. It’s you against the clock.”No sufficient algorithmUsing data to recruit high-performance teams in the business world is arguably less reliable.AtPropel London, a specialist recruitment database technology is used to segment candidates according to multiple factors, which allows high volumes of candidate profiles to be sorted in a timely manner. James Webb, the firm’s managing director, does counter that “relying solely on technology to pick out specific data points would run the risk of the exclusion of certain people who may not have presented the information in a specific way”, which is why the human element in recruiting frequently outweighs the data.Scott Ross, chief technology officer at global marketing and technology agency,DigitasLBi, describes how their recruitment team utilises commercial tools and proprietary extensions to simplify the process of candidate data aggregation, and to provide scoring on basic metrics such as skill proficiency, demand potential, and acquisition cost. “We also combine this data with tenure analysis, helping our recruitment team identify candidates who may not be actively searching, but are on the lookout for their next opportunity,” he explains.Ross admits that his use of data to recruit is largely limited to human-driven interpretation of candidate performance data. “Simply put, there is neither a sufficient quantity, nor more importantly quality, of data points to gain real benefit from an algorithmic analysis,” he states.Behind every computer is a humanThe importance of human-driven interpretation, as raised by Ross, is one not to be under-estimated, and it’s worth exploring how, even when relying on data analytics, human involvement is still required.“People are trying to make it so that a computer can do the analysis,” says Leeder, but “as soon as you lose the human interface, that’s where it falls down. You still need an expert to interpret the data, you need a detailed understanding to realise what the data needs.” It’s for this reason that Leeder maintains that the requirement for human interaction will never be lost.Coaches need to not just interpret the data, but also help identify where additional information is needed. It is the role of the technical teams and analysts to identify where additional information could come from and then identify patterns in that data that could be of use to the coaches.Harry Jones is the co-founder &amp; chief technology officer atTop10. As he looks to recruit a high-performance team, he places only finite value in algorithms. “They only tell you half the story. Humans will always be needed to analyse other humans for job suitability,” he explains. “No matter how technical recruitment gets, personality will always be important.”Alec Dent, partnership manager, atBlaBlaCar, explains that it’s impossible to replace the human element in recruitment. “It’s all about fit – and an algorithm just can’t predict that yet. Still, we’re optimistic that as they develop, algorithms could eventually play a bigger role in our recruitment process.”Moneyball: the futureBut Dent’s vision seems to be, at present, just that. Consensus suggests that data analytics in business team selection is still a fairly immature field. While many CTOs and recruiters are using technology and data metrics to identify relevant candidates, more in-depth candidate selection – and indeed, hiring decisions – remain very much an inherently human process.“In the future, I’d love to see a candidate equivalent of a slugging percentage, or combination of multiple discreet statistics that point us towards not just qualified candidates, but the right candidates for us,” Ross envisions.In sport, experts project that new technical advances will continue to increase the odds of success, and the influence of data in helping to define team selection will continue to grow.“The future of data-led analysis is sort of ‘Moneyball’; all done on probability,” predicts Leeder, who is quick to counter that this doesn’t work for everyone. “Mathematically minded people will love Moneyball-style stats and probability, whereas others will be more into changing the culture and knowing their art.”Love it or hate it, data is here to stay, and Seddon predicts that as wearable technologies become less intrusive to players, real-time team performance analysis will increasingly play an instrumental part in shaping tactics.Evidence-based coaching data analysis that supports the decision making of coaches is still in the early stages of development, says Gerrard. However, “coach-led analytics will grow, as will the quantity and quality of the data available to be analysed”.The future of data-led team selection, according to Joseph Turley, director of marketing and communications at real-time performance analysis vendor, Performa Sports, is in “encompassing a greater appreciation of the behavioural aspects of performance. An interesting dimension in this regard will be the ability to measure and assess player compatibility across a spectrum of key performance indicators to map out the optimum combination of individuals (by type) for the most effective team collective.”The final word must go to Angus McNab, head of rugby at sports data analytics organisation, OptaPro, who brings it back to the human element. “Selection isn’t quite like Championship Manager – these are people we are dealing with, and we are a long, long way from being able to factor certain elements into an algorithm.” The real advances in the future, he predicts, will be in injury prevention, player management, and welfare, to ensure the best team can get out on the pitch as often as possible.Eleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazineTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
With its evocative representation of Victorian London, its interesting steampunk narrative and its cinematic sense of scale and pace, The Order: 1886, looks very much the benchmark new-generation console title. There’s just one problem. It’s not much of a game.Developed by Ready at Dawn and Sony’s own Santa Monica studio, and released last week, the title has drawn criticism from game review sites for its overtly linear design, and the fact that it can be finished in around six to eight hours. There’s no multiplayer mode, so once the story of Arthurian knights protecting an alternate industrial-age London from hordes of beast people is over, that’s your lot.“It’s a technical showpiece, a graphical powerhouse that, in some ways, is almost without equal,” writes Giant Bomb in its review. “It’s also a short and disappointingly straightforward cover-based shooter.”This is a typical response to a game that has, pretty unapologetically it seems, set itself up as a graphical showcase for PlayStation 4. The Order: 1886, in fact, comes from a long tradition of early generation titles that seek to provide an experience that is like playing a game, but that’s really there to show off a machine’s new capabilities while demanding as little as possible from the player. There is cover-shooting, there is stealth, there are puzzles, but none are particularly deep or challenging, instead offering a grab bag of gaming conventions – a conveyor belt of vertical slice experiences, that hint at what games do, without actually getting in the way too much.Instead, these snippets of gameplay are present to service what the game is really about: allowing people to marvel at the detailed texture work, real-time light and shadowing, and the gorgeous particle effects that send sparks from flintlock rifles and slivers of burning debris from whirling fires. The game even includes “quick time events” – those heavily choreographed interactive moments in which players carry out seemingly complex moves by inputting quick button presses in response to screen prompts. These are a common tool, employed by games and game makers who just want you to stay awake for the story. See also the otherwise wonderful Shenmue, and the troubling and controversial Heavy Rain.Is this all bad? Well it depends. If you’re buying The Order: 1886 because you’re expecting an alternative history epic in the form of, say, Arkane’s brilliant Dishonored or Ubisoft’s Assassin’s Creed 4 – games with complex systems and oodles of content, then yes, you’re going to be disappointed. You are not going to get that.But it strikes me that, even though it has arrived a year after the launch of PlayStation 4, it’s really there for people who just want to marvel at what their new machine can do.If you look at the early histories of any console, you’ll find similar experiences. On PlayStation 3 there was the beautiful but ridiculous Genji: Days of the Blade, with its giant crab battles and not much else. On PS2 there was Sony’s own Ghosthunter, and the fireworks sim FantaVision, while the original playstation had Battle Arena Toshinden and Motor Toon GP. And of course, Xbox One has been here with Ryse, while Xbox 360 saw the likes of Dark Sector and Ninety-Nine Nights.The concept of the shallow graphical showcase goes back further though. It was there through the “interactive movie” phase in the early nineties, when consoles like the Sega Mega CD and 3DO churned out full-motion movie fests like Night Trap and Double Switch to evangelise the power of CD-rom-based systems. And it has been a constant in the arcades, where attracting the eyes – and wallets – of passing punters has always been as important as giving them something to do when they pop a coin in the slot. Just look at the longevity of laser disc classic Dragon’s Lair, the archetypal stye-over-substance experience, which has been reanimated for just about every platform since its debut in 1983.The Order has entered the UK games chart at number one this week, and though it’s not exactly up against huge amounts of competition,an online controversy over the game’s lengthdoesn’t seem to have scared gamers off. Sometimes, it seems, people just want to be dazzled by all the stuff that goes with modern games: lush environments, decent stories and voice actors who don’t sound like they have been dragged in from the street and told to deliver some badly written dialogue as lifelessly as possible or their pet gets it.For a lot of people, when they buy a new console – especially one that costs £350-400 – they need something uncomplicated that they can show off to their friends and say “that’swhy I am now in debt”. It needs to look like a game, sound like a game and have game-like stuff in it, but it needs to also be gorgeous and uncomplicated. For this experience they will have to pay £45, which is a lot of money – but it is also comparable to a nice meal, or a night at the cinema with some friends and a giant bucket of popcorn.In four years time, the people who bought The Order will dig around at the back of their games collections and they will find it again, covered in dust and long since forgotten. It will have been hugely surpassed by subsequent titles that have actually attached game mechanics to the cinematic set-pieces. Those people may wonder why they bought it.But the industry will always make those games, especially early on in a console lifecycle. And that’s because the industry knows us well, as purchasers of culture, and as human beings too. Sometimes we want to see beauty and just go through the motions of feeling something.
A report commissioned by the Belgian privacy commission has found that Facebook is acting in violation of European law, despite updating its privacy policy.Related:Seven things we learned from Facebook's latest financial resultsConducted by the Centre of Interdisciplinary Law and ICT at the University of Leuven in Belgium,the reportclaimed that Facebook’s privacy policy update in January had only expanded older policy and practices, and found that it still violates European consumer protection law.“Facebook’s Statement of Rights and Responsibilities (SRR) contains a number of provisions which do not comply with the Unfair Contract Terms Directive. These violations were already present in 2013, and they are set to persist in 2015,”wrote the authors.According to the report, Facebook’s policies around profiling for third-party advertising do not “meet the requirements for legally valid consent”, while the social network “fails to offer adequate control mechanisms” with regard to the use of user-generated content for commercial purposes.Related:Mark Zuckerberg 'not sure' about Internet.org advertising“Facebook places too much burden on its users. Users are expected to navigate Facebook’s complex web of settings in search of possible opt-outs,” wrote the authors. “Facebook’s default settings related to behavioural profiling or Social Ads, for example, are particularly problematic.”The report also points out that there is no way to stop Facebook from collecting location information on users via its smartphone app other than to stop location access on the smartphone at the level of the mobile operating system.“Users are offered no choice whatsoever with regard to their appearance in “sponsored stories” or the sharing of location data,” wrote the authors, stating that “users do not receive adequate information” to help them make informed choices where choices are available.The authors continue: “We argue that the collection or use of device information envisaged by the 2015 data use policy does not comply with the requirements of article 5(3) of the EUe-Privacy Directive, which requires free and informed prior consent before storing or accessing information on an individual’s device.”Related:Native American activist to sue Facebook over site's 'real name' policyFacebook met with Bart Tommelein, the Belgian privacy minister, to discuss the report. The company claims that its privacy policy does not break Belgian data protection laws,according to reports.Facebook is already being investigated by the Dutch data protection authority, which asked Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, and is being probed by the Article 29 working party formed of data regulators from individual countries across Europe, including the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office.“We recently updated our terms and policies to make them more clear andconcise, to reflect new product features and to highlight how we’reexpanding people’s control over advertising,” said a Facebook spokesperson. “We’re confident the updates comply with applicable laws. As a company with international headquarters in Dublin, we routinely review product and policy updates including this one­ with our regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, who oversees our compliance with the EU Data Protection Directive as implemented under Irish law.” ­
A serious security problem caused by advertising software installed on Lenovo laptops is more widespread than first thought, security researchers have warned.The ‘Superfish’ vulnerability affected dozens of laptops shipped between September and December 2014, exposing users to a hijacking technique that is also now thought to affect parental control tools and other adware programmes.The core of the vulnerability, which left owners of Lenovo laptops bought in late 2014 open to eavesdropping and “man-in-the-middle” attacks – even when using an encrypted connection – is a self-signed security certificate installed by the Superfish adware to let it inject adverts into search results and secure websites.But the technique, known as “SSL hijacking”, appears to be a framework bought in from a third company, Komodia,according to Facebook’s Matt Richardandindependent researcher Marc Rogers. And Komodia’s framework, sold as SSL Decoder, is present in numerous other products as well. Rogers cites products including parental control software and IP-cloaking technology as containing the weakness, while Richard says Facebook discovered the certificates being issued by a number of adware vendors disguised as games or search assistants.Related:Lenovo apologises for security-busting adware, offers 'incomplete' removal instructionsRogers says: “If you are a parent that has installed parental control software … I would check to see if your computer has been affected by this, as a matter of urgency.” Afree online check made by developer Filippo Valsordais able to identify the presence of the certificates, and Rogers recommends concerned users visit it.Facebook’s Richard says: “What all of these applications have in common is that they make people less secure through their use of an easily obtained root CA, they provide little information about the risks of the technology, and in some cases they are difficult to remove.“Furthermore, it is likely that these intercepting SSL proxies won’t keep up with the HTTPS features in browsers (e.g., certificate pinning and forward secrecy), meaning they could potentially expose private data to network attackers. Some of these deficiencies can be detected by anti-virus products as malware or adware, though from our research, detection successes are sporadic.”Related:Lenovo demonstrates that malware is big businessFacebook discovered the vulnerabilities as part of a wider project, started in 2012, to discover how prevalent SSL man-in-the-middle attacks are​. The project, carried out in conjunction with Carnegie Mellon University, found that 0.2% of SSL certificates, required to surf the web securely, had been tampered with, affecting 6,000 people in Facebook’s sample.In the wake of the revelations, Komodia is experiencing website outages, which the company blames on a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack on its servers. The company did not comment on Richard’s and Rogers’ allegations.
Card game Exploding Kittens has become the third biggest Kickstarter campaign of all-time, raising $8.8m (£5.7m) on the crowdfunding website.The game’s initial funding goal was just $10k, but itattracted 219,382 backersfor its promised mix of “kittens and explosions and laser beams and sometimes goats” during its 30-day campaign.That put Exploding Kittens behind only drinks coolerCoolestand smartwatchPebblein Kickstarter’s most-funded list, with those projects having raised $13.3m and $10.3m respectively.However, Exploding Kittens is the most popular project ever in terms of the number of backers, according to Kickstarter,more than doubling the previous recordof 105,857 backers held by children’s literacy project Reading Rainbow.The card game was created by former Xbox executives Elan Lee and Shane Small, and Matthew Inman, creator of popular online comics site The Oatmeal.“On the very first day of this campaign, we hit our funding goal. That was a big deal. But after that, the campaign stopped being about money, and started being about a community,” theywrote in an updateto backers as the crowdfunding campaign ended.“We decided that everything we did from that point on would be to celebrate you guys, and help you celebrate each other. In the last 30 days, you’ve broken a lot of records, but we wanted to highlight our favourite one: you made this the most fun Kickstarter to run of all time.”The first run of Exploding Kittens is due to ship in July, with 15,505 backers paying $20 or more for its basic deck, but 202,934 paying more than $35 for the “NSFW Deck” which includes bonus cards that aren’t “kid friendly”.“Exploding Kittens is a highly strategic kitty-powered version of Russian Roulette. Players take turns drawing cards until someone draws an exploding kitten and loses the game,” explained its Kickstarter pitch.“The deck is made up of cards that let you avoid exploding by peeking at cards before you draw, forcing your opponent to draw multiple cards, or shuffling the deck.The game gets more and more intense with each card you draw because fewer cards left in the deck means a greater chance of drawing the kitten and exploding in a fiery ball of feline hyperbole.”The Exploding Kittens team have been taking advice from the creators of Cards Against Humanity – a$15.6k Kickstarter success in 2011, whichwent on to sell more than 500,000 copiesby mid-2013 – to ensure that “no matter how many people pledge, everyone gets their Exploding Kittens quickly after the campaign ends”.
My son is 18 months old, and I’ve been reading books with him since he was born. I say “reading”, but I really mean “looking at” – not to mention grasping, dropping, throwing, cuddling, chewing, and everything else a tiny human being likes to do. Over the last six months, though, he has begun not simply to look but also to recognise a few letters and numbers. He calls a capital Y a “yak” after a picture on the door of his room; a capital H is “hedgehog”; a capital K, “kangaroo”; and so on.Reading, unlike speaking, is a young activity in evolutionary terms. Humans have been speaking in some form for hundreds of thousands of years; we are born with the ability to acquire speech etched into our neurones. The earliest writing, however, emerged only 6,000 years ago, and every act of reading remains a version of what my son is learning: identifying the special species of physical objects known as letters and words, using much the same neural circuits as we use to identify trees, cars, animals and telephone boxes.It’s not only words and letters that we process as objects. Texts themselves, so far as our brains are concerned, are physical landscapes. So it shouldn’t be surprising that we respond differently to words printed on a page compared to words appearing on a screen; or that the key to understanding these differences lies in the geography of words in the world.For her new book, Words Onscreen: The Fate of Reading in a Digital World, linguistics professor Naomi Baron conducted a survey of reading preferences among over 300 university students across the US, Japan, Slovakia and Germany. When given a choice between media ranging from printouts to smartphones, laptops, e-readers and desktops, 92% of respondents replied that it was hard copy that best allowed them to concentrate.This isn’t a result likely to surprise many editors, or anyone else who works closely with text. While writing this article, I gathered my thoughts through a version of the same principle: having collated my notes onscreen, I printed said notes, scribbled all over the resulting printout, argued with myself in the margins, placed exclamation marks next to key points, spread out the scrawled result – and from this landscape hewed a (hopefully) coherent argument.What exactly was going on here? Age and habit played their part. But there is also a growing scientific recognition that many of a screen’s unrivalled assets – search, boundless and bottomless capacity, links and leaps and seamless navigation – are either unhelpful or downright destructive when it comes to certain kinds of reading and writing.Across three experimentsin 2013, researchers Pam Mueller and Daniel Oppenheimer compared the effectiveness of students taking longhand notes versus typing onto laptops. Their conclusion: the relative slowness of writing by hand demands heavier “mental lifting”, forcing students to summarise rather than to quote verbatim – in turn tending to increase conceptual understanding, application and retention.In other words, friction is good – at least so far as the remembering brain is concerned. Moreover, the textured variety of physical writing can itself be significant. Ina 2012 study at Indiana University, psychologist Karin James tested five-year-old children who did not yet know how to read or write by asking them to reproduce a letter or shape in one of three ways: typed onto a computer, drawn onto a blank sheet, or traced over a dotted outline. When the children were drawing freehand, an MRI scan during the test showed activation across areas of the brain associated in adults with reading and writing. The other two methods showed no such activation.Similar effects have been found inothertests, suggesting not only a close link between reading and writing, but that the experience of reading itself differs between letters learned through handwriting and letters learned through typing. Add to this thehelp that the physical geographyof a printed page or the heft of a book can provide to memory, and you’ve got a conclusion neatly matching our embodied natures: the varied, demanding, motor-skill-activating physicality of objects tends to light up our brains brighter than the placeless, weightless scrolling of words on screens.In many ways, this is an unfair result, effectively comparing print at its best to digital at its worst. Spreading my scrawled-upon printouts across a desk, I’m not just accessing data; I’m reviewing the idiosyncratic geography of something I created, carried and adorned. But I researched my piece online, I’m going to type it up onscreen, and my readers will enjoy an onscreen environment expressly designed to gift resonance: a geography, a context. Screens are at their worst when they ape and mourn paper. At their best, they’re something free to engage and activate our wondering minds in ways undreamt of a century ago.Above all, it seems to me, we must abandon the notion that there is only one way of reading, or that technology and paper are engaged in some implacable war. We’re lucky enough to have both growing self-knowledge and an opportunity to make our options as fit for purpose as possible – as slippery and searchable or slow with friction as the occasion demands.I can’t imagine teaching my son to read in a house without any physical books, pens or paper. But I can’t imagine denying him the limitless words and worlds a screen can bring to him either. I hope I can help him learn to make the most of both – and to type/copy/paste/sketch/scribble precisely as much as he needs to make each idea his own.
Even before having used an Apple Watch, Daniel Breslan is pretty sure how people will use his app, Departure Board, on one. “When you’re waiting in a station cafe, pub, lounge, you have you own personal departure board and you do not have to move to keep checking the screens on the platform,” he explains. His new app, which is in the final stages of testing, is a simple concept: it finds the nearest rail station to you, and tells you the destination and time of the next 20 trains - though on a watchface, you’ll probably only see three or four without scrolling.Breslan is one of the many iPhone app developers who are hoping for a new bonanza when the Apple Watch hits the stores, and shortly afterwards the streets, in April. When Apple introduced the iPhone App Store in July 2008, it created an explosion of sales; even though Apple wasn’t first with an app store (Nokia and Palm had notably preceded it), the rapid growth of the smartphone market and the visibility of the iPhone guaranteed eager buyers – and, for some developers, sudden wealth.Now the impending arrival of the Apple Watch has driven a whole new round of app development, of which Breslan’s is only one. It’s effective on an iPhone (I’ve been testing it since January) but Breslan sees its potential being even greater on a smartwatch, because you wouldn’t have to unlock your phone and navigate to the app to get the information.As a user of the Pebble smartwatch, which still holds the record for the biggest Kickstarter at over $10m in 2012 and has so far sold a million, Breslan reckons that “the ideal use case for apps on a watch are small utilities that facilitate your daily life”. He uses his Pebble to control podcast playback, read messages, screen calls, check train times “and time my Aeropress brews”. All, he points out, are “little tasks that I can complete without having to pull out and hold my phone.” He thinks the Apple Watch will magnify those benefits through its extra experience in interface design.David Smith, another iPhone developerbased in Herndon, Virginiawho has written recipe and audiobook apps, reckons that by shifting interactions from your phone to your wrist, the Apple Watch will “create a much more fluid daily experience, with dozens of micro-interactions rather than the longer ones we have today”.For what, though? “Sending a text message, checking your next appointment, adding a reminder [to a list], suddenly [creating] a much lower barrier to action,” Smith says. “I think I’ll grow to rely on my watch for keeping me on track throughout my day.”Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces Apple’s new smartwatch in Cupertino, California in September 2014.Photograph: ZUMA/REXWith the formal unveiling of the Apple Watch now only weeks away (probably in March, given that chief executive Tim Cook said it would ship in April), Apple is reportedlyworking closely with some developersto finalise and test their apps, even inviting a few to its Cupertino headquarters for in-situ tests.With reports that the company has ordered five million for its first run, probably covering sales for one quarter, the chance to create a hit app for those precious square inches of wrist space looks ever more tantalising. Some analysts reckon Apple’s Watch could sell 1m in its first weekend on sale, and 20m by the end of 2015. Watch-app downloads will probably run in tandem. Goldrushes like that don’t come often.So what does a hit wrist-app look like? Try asking those writing for Google’s Android Wear platform. Data released by Canalys, and underscored by download data for the Android Wear app from the Google Play Store, says that 720,000 Android Wear devices, almost all smartwatches,were shipped in 2014.Among the most popular Android Wear apps on the Google Play store are watch faces – there are dozens – and asimple calculatorwritten by Wearable Software, a four-strong team based in Karlsruhe, Germany. Cedric Larrat, its founder, told me there have been over 357,000 downloads of the company’s Android Wear apps, of which 260,000 have put it on their smartwatch, while the calculator has had 170,000 downloads, of which 120,000 were installed. (He can’t track whether they’re still using it, though.) “I believe that the right time has come now to establish smartwatches on the market. In the past this has been tried, but the technology wasn’t advanced enough. [The arrival of] Bluetooth 4.0 [with its low energy demands], better and smaller batteries, as well as microelectronics, make it possible now.”On a less grand scale, there’sMini Dialer, which lets you dial a phone number via your smartwatch. Written by Lonnie Johnson, who lives in Phoenix, Arizona, it costs £1.27 ($1.99) and has had about 9,000 downloads – a good earner for something you might expect a smartwatch connected to a phone to do anyway.Director of engineering for Android David Singleton announces a new Samsung Android Wear smartwatch in June 2014.Photograph: Elijah Nouvelage/ReutersLimitationsInitially, Apple is limiting apps for its watch; they won’t run on the device itself, but on the owner’s phone, connected via Bluetooth. (Developers expect this to change with future Watch software and hardware.) Apple’s own page suggests uses are “timekeeping”, “new ways to connect” and “health and fitness”. The first and last have been staples of wearables for some time; it’s the middle one that developers hope to capitalise on. Apple has hinted at the possibilities with its system for sending the wearer’s heartbeat, or little pictograms drawn onscreen, to another Watch wearer.Breslan says designing for a tiny screen was “a daunting task” at first. However, “for the first release of watch apps, Apple has provided a very small library of controls that can be used to build app interfaces. This places a limit on the complexity and content of watch app user interfaces, which makes the job somewhat easier. Translating my phone application to a tiny screen whie maintaining the intuitive simplicity that I strive for is the most challenging part of watch-app development for me currently.” His Pebble experience – including installing apps such as Evernote, Foursquare’s Swarm and Twitter clients on it– has persuaded him that “a watch is not a sensible device to use when interacting with such complex applications”.He warns that apps with complex interfaces on the watch itself “will sit unused”, though the digital crown – a button on the side of the watch that can bring different apps to prominence – and the touchscreen “may ease this slightly”.But the Watch might even usher in new interfaces – as Howard Gutowitz and Dimitrios Hechagias, the duo behind an app calledLunate, hope.Named after a crescent-shaped bone in the wrist, Lunate is a keyboard designed for a watch face, but instead of a square array of keys, it arranges the letters around the face, between which the user swipes, while a T9-style prediction system produces words.“We’re solving a problem with [the] Apple Watch that people don’t yet realise they will have,” Lunate’s inventor Gutowitz, 57, explains. But its implementation must wait for ‘WatchKit’ that will allow apps to run on the watch itself– which he thinks might come this summer – or else port it to Android. “There’s a lot of scepticism that the Apple Watch will even happen in a big way, or whether the use cases will be particularly compelling,” says Gutowitz. “And even if they are, will they involve input as opposed to getting notifications?” He likens the forthcoming release to the first iPhone in 2007, which didn’t have 3G, couldn’t shoot video, and couldn’t forward MMS: “[It is] very, very limited in what you can do,” he says, “unless you’re Apple or one of its ‘partners’ – those with access to [a] real, full-featured WatchKit.”Smith thinks the most successful apps will change our focus, “like the shift we saw moving from [desktop] Mac to [mobile] iPhone. For better or worse having an iPhone in your pocket means that you are never really out of touch. At any moment you can pick up your phone and find something out or have someone reach out to you. Putting that on to your wrist means that you have that same capability but now without any hurdle to overcome. I’m expecting it will take quite some time to get used this mode and to find the happy medium between being overly connected and usefully connected.”He envisages two sorts of third-party apps rising to prominence: “informational” and “emotional”. He explains: “‘Informational’ services provide you with up-to-the-minute information – things like stock data, news, weather alerts. Bringing these within arm’s reach allows for you to never miss something you want to be informed of.“‘Emotional’ services let you connect with those you love. While some of that might come from things like messaging, I think things that will let you share what you are doing and see what those you care about are up to would be great. I look forward to having little glances into what my kids are up to each day appear on my wrist throughout the day.”How long will the battery last?That though raises the biggest question about smartwatches, and particularly the Apple Watch: how long will the battery last, and is that enough? Mark Gurman, who runs the 9to5Mac site and has a solid record with advance scoops on Apple products such as HealthKit,saysthe Watch is expected to get 19 hours of combined active and passive use, and perhaps two or three days in standby or low-power mode – but will almost surely need recharging every night.Keep on running … Questions are being asked of the Apple Watch’s battery life.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersIs that enough? “The thing Apple has in its favour is the positive reinforcement cycle driven by the device’s usefulness,” says Smith. “The more I use it, find it useful and make it part of my life ... the less likely I am to be annoyed that I have to charge it. Obviously there is a limit to that, but so long as the device can make the hassle of charging it balance out with its utility I think things will be fine.”Daniel Breslan is less sure: “I’m a power user who rises early, works hard and retires late, so if anyone will get stung for battery life shortages, it will be me.”Hechagias, the writer of Lunate, adds, “Apple maintaincomplete control until they are sure the experience comes out as they wish, and then they relax control as much as needed in order to monetize. So perhaps the battery issue is one aspect that is making them think ‘we will not let anyone make the watch look bad by doing things that might drain the battery and make us look bad’, and only allow such things when the watch is already accepted. In any case, Lunate would not be a power drain, it uses little CPU &amp; GPU, especially compared to such things as games.“But it might also be as simple as a matter of trying to enforce their current philosophy. Similar to how they would not release a large iPhone or a small iPad because “people did not want it”, untiltheydecided it is the next best thing.”What will happen to Android Wear?The launch of the Apple Watch could have a positive knock-on effect for other smartwatches, such as the Android Wear-powered Sony Smartwatch 3.Photograph: APThe other big question is: will the Apple Watch sweep away Android Wear, or help it? On this, there’s unanimity. Johnson, Mini Dialer’s author, thinks it will help Android Wear sales, “since it will increase the awareness and interest of users as they discover the capabilities that wearables provide”.Larrat agrees that the Apple Watch will provide a rising tide to float boats on other platforms: “[S]martwatches will become more attractive, and Apple is a specialist in marketing.”Russell Ivanovic, of the Australian app company Shifty Jelly, is an enthusiastic backer of Android Wear, which he says is “a far superior platform to the Apple Watch. It processes things locally, it has an always-on screen”– though not all Android Wear watches have their screens illuminated – “and the concept of Google Now-style cards on a watch just works. There are already watches that can track your runs via GPS without needing to be tethered to your phone, something the Apple watch won’t be able to do.”Even so, Ivanovic says: “The Apple watch will be more successful, chiefly because it’s made and marketed by Apple. People will find the smallest details and point to them as to why the Apple watch was more successful, but at the end of the day it will come down to the simple fact that Apple is better at launching products. They know how to build up anticipation for a product. They know how to limit supply of said product when it’s first available. They know how to market their product in such a way as to make it a ‘must have’.“Basically, they [Apple] are a product company at heart. Google seems to me like an engineering driven company that hasn’t yet learnt how to coordinate everyone to launch a product well.”• This article was amended on 25 February 2015 to clarify that Wearable Software has had 357,000 downloads of its Android Wear apps rather than its watch face app.
Russia’s competition watchdog has confirmed that it is investigating Google over allegedly abusing its domination of Android smartphone software on phones made by third party manufacturers.The watchdog opened the case to assess whether Google has violated Russian anti-monopoly laws after reviewing a complaint from Russia’s biggest search company Yandex. It has complained that Android’s default search is Google and that the mobile software includes a bundle of Google apps.“We have studied the complaint and decided to open proceedings regarding the violation of anti-monopoly regulation,” a spokeswoman for the Russian federal anti-monopoly service (FAS) watchdog said.“Device makers are free to install the apps they choose and consumers always have complete control over the apps on their devices,” said a Google spokesperson.Yandex has a 60% share of the Russian search market, and offers rival services to Google’s YouTube, Maps, Gmail, Chrome Browser and Translate. Three smartphone vendors in Russia – Prestige, Fly and Explay – were blocked from pre-installing Yandex services on their Android devices last year.Related:Google's new concessions on European search will put rivals' logos into resultsTerms of use for Google’s version of Android, which comes with access to its app store, place restrictions on what manufacturers can install by default on their devices, and conditions on placement of Google apps and services on the smartphones and tablets.Spokespeople from Google’s Russian office denied anti-competitive behaviour.Android held an 81.2% global market share in 2014 according to research firm Strategy Analytics, with Apple’s iOS securing 15% of the market and Microsoft’s Windows Phone 3%.Android is available in several versions. An open source version called the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) is available for anyone to use without restriction and forms the basis of Amazon’s Fire OS, Xiaomi’s Miui and many others, but it does not come with access to Google’s Play Store.Google’s version of Android is also based on AOSP, but comes integrated with Google’s services.The Russian investigation comes after European regulators assess a possible challenge to Google’s mobile software business.Related:Google facing European antitrust scrutiny of Android device dealsEuropean regulators are laying the groundwork for a case centred on whether Google abuses the 80% market share of Android to promote services from maps to search,two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.The European Commission has reportedly sent handset makers questionnaires asking whether there was a requirement set by Google that they should not pre-install apps, products or services on mobile devices that compete with Google software such as its search engine, app store and maps.Google is also under scrutiny in the US, although a judge said in December she would require consumers suing Google over Android to submit more factual details in order for an antitrust lawsuit to proceed.
Uh-oh, it’s Monday again.
The 10 most popular games channels on YouTube generated more than 2.2bn video views in January alone, led by Let’s Play gamer Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg with 417.9m views that month.PewDiePietopped thelatest monthly chart of YouTube games channelspublished by online video industry site Tubefilter, based on data from analytics firm OpenSlate.PewDiePie was joined in January’s top 10 byPopular MMOs(266.8m views);Stampy(252.9m);The Diamond Minecart(210.8m);Markiplier(208.1m);Jack Sceptic Eye(201.2m);Vanoss Gaming(183.8m);Vegetta(177.8m);Juega German(127.3m); andEl Rubius(108.8m).That’s nearly 2.2bn views between the 10 channels. How are they growing? You can gauge that by a comparison to Tubefilter and OpenSlate’s chart from six months ago,in July 2014, when the top 10 YouTube games channels generated 1.6bn views.Meanwhile, the 100 most popular channels in the chart’s collected views grew by nearly 40% from 4.3bn in July 2014 to nearly 6.1bn in January 2015.Related:YouTube: PewDiePie, DC Toys Collector and Katy Perry top in 2014Multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios accounted for four of the top five games channels in January – PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and Markiplier – while Popular MMOs is signed to rival Fullscreen.The chart is the latest reminder of just how big games has become as a category on YouTube, rivalling music and children’s videos as its most popular content.There’s a crossover with the latter and games in channels like Stampy and The Diamond Minecart, which are aimed at the huge audience of young Minecraft fans. Both are likely to benefit fromthis week’s launch of a dedicated YouTube Kids app.YouTube gamers have also become powerful influencers within the games industry, with developers and publishers jostling to persuade the most popular channels to feature their games inLet’s Play videos– often paying for the privilege.
Advertising is not a “near term” priority for Facebook’s Internet.org initiative to get more people online in the developing world, according to chief executive Mark Zuckerberg.Facebook launched the scheme in 2013 with fellow technology firms including Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson and Nokia as its effort to connect “the next few billion people” to the internet.The social network has since worked with mobile operators in countries like Indonesia, the Philippines, Zambia and Kenya to provide free access to basic internet services from their mobile phones.This being Facebook, though, its motivations have been frequently questioned – as they have been for Google in its separate push to get people online in countries where internet access is currently limited.In aninterview with Bloomberg, Zuckerberg denied that growing his company’s advertising business is on the Internet.org agenda for now.“I’m not sure it’s a big part of the solution in the near term, to be honest. What we need to do is work out a model with operators and governments and local partners that is profitable for them so we can continue growing the Internet,” he said.According to Zuckerberg, the Internet.org model is based around persuading telecoms firms to invest in internet infrastructure and buy in to Facebook’s vision of free basic services, which in turn will persuade more people to start paying for mobile data plans once they’re online.“Originally, we thought that maybe working with other kinds of partners would be important, but at this point, we think we have a sustainable model that is working in multiple countries now, and there’s a lot of momentum and a lot of countries coming online now,” said Zuckerberg, although he admitted advertising may be a factor in the longer term.“In a lot of these countries, there isn’t a very big ad market yet. So it’s not that we won’t do it eventually, but for right now and our business, the main thing that we need to continue to do is focus on the quality of the ads,” he said.“And doing that in the developed world – in the U.S. and Europe and Asia and a lot of places that are actually going to be the driver of our own profitability and revenue – not trying to make ad markets out of countries that are just coming online.”In the interview, Zuckerberg said that the biggest challenge for Internet.org is not people being unable to get online or unable to afford it, but rather that “they don’t know what they would want to use the Internet for”.Related:Thank you, Facebook Inc, but what developing nations need is net freedom | Dan GillmorHe added that while Facebook and Google’s initiatives are separate, the two companies talk regularly about how they can work together: for example, by adding Google as one of the services in the Internet.org app in Zambia.Zuckerberg also defended Internet.org fromcriticisms voiced by former Microsoft boss (and now philanthropist) Bill Gatesof Google’s Project Loon initiative: that in many countries, better healthcare is a more urgent need than better internet access.“The reality is that it’s not an either-or. People need to be healthy and be able to have the Internet as a backbone to connect them to the whole economy. The Internet creates jobs. It actually is one of the things that facilitates health,” said Zuckerberg, citing Facebook’s work on connecting up Ebola treatment units.“I’m certainly not here saying connectivity is more important than health. I mean, that would be ridiculous, but I hope that we can help out with all of these things over time.”
The undead outbreak survival fantasy genre’s hold on game-makers shows no sign of ending, and it’s a theme that developer Techland returns to withDying Light, four years after the studio created its charismatic but flawed zombie titleDead Island.Like its predecessor,Dying Light(pictured) is a first-person game presented as an open world devastated by an outbreak, charging the player with surviving, using crude weapons. This time, the protagonist is an undercover operative from beyond the infection zone. The action largely blends somewhat clunky parkour, panicked close-quarters combat and fetch quests spread across a vast, engrossing city loosely based on Istanbul. Within this, a day-and-night cycle changes the setting considerably, presenting alternating realms different in both atmosphere and gameplay style.While the scripting is cliched, glitches rip through generally impressive visuals and the missions’ pacing can feel protracted, the gameplay mechanics do complement an absorbing emphasis on survival through evasion.Dying Lightdefinitely doesn’t dazzle, then, and can feel unpleasantly dark, but it does enthral.
Snapchat chief executive Evan Spiegel has hinted at plans to do more with music in his company’s popular messaging app, describing it as “a really interesting opportunity”“Music is really appealing to us right now because it has some of the same attributes that communication had when we were working on Snapchat in the beginning,” said Spiegel during an on-stage interview at the University of Southern California,reported by Daily Trojan.Snapchat’s main features involve sharing photos and videos with friends that disappear either as soon as they’re viewed, or after 24 hours. However, the app has added several music features in recent months.They include major labelWarner Music Group signing on as one of the launch partnersfor the app’s Snapchat Discover feature;Madonna debuting her new music videowithin the same section of the app; and most recently a feature enabling people touse the music playing on their smartphone as the soundtrack for their videos.Judging by Spiegel’s comments, Snapchat is mulling more music-related features. “Right now on your mobile phone, music is largely non-differentiated, so you usually search for a song and you can play it. It plays from four of five different places, they roughly cost the same, but it’s also high frequency,” he said.Related:Ten things you need to know about Snapchat“After communication, [music is] the highest frequency behaviour on your phone and so that in our view, makes it a really interesting opportunity and it’s something that we are thinking about.”Emails leaked as part of the Sony Pictures hackin December suggested that Snapchat – and Spiegel – has been thinking about music for some time:“He thinks every music service in the market is shit and he wants to be a curator. He doesn’t want to build a music service but he would like to have a record label so he could focus on the artists that he wants to use the platform to promote.”Snapchat also held talks with music videos service Vevo about it becoming a launch partner in Snapchat Discover, but they broke down after the two companies couldn’t agree on how to split advertising revenues from the deal.
The two latest offshoots from the ever-malleable Kirby franchise will be recognisable toKirby Triple Deluxeplayers – both of these new eShop titles were mini-games in the excellent 2014 3DS game.Dedede’s Drum Dash Deluxeis a rhythm action/platformer hybrid that sees you jump and bounce your way through seven songs from the Kirby series, all the while avoiding enemies and racking up point bonuses.Kirby Fighters Deluxeis essentially aSuper Smash Bros-lite fighting game, starring Kirby as the sole playable character. Players can pick one of 10 different abilities (each with its own move set) and then fight their way through the other nine Kirbys and two bosses. There’s a new four-player mode for this release, but don’t go expecting anything as sophisticated asSmash. While both were perfect as bite-size bonuses in their source game, neither is compelling enough to really warrant a solo outing. Unlike the exceptionalCaptain Toad, which made the similar jump from bonus to standalone release, the additional content here is minimal and the core concepts haven’t been expanded on in any significant way.
Every morning as Carla Astudillo gets ready for work, she puts on the news. But instead of turning on the TV, Astudillo’s headlines come to her from her computer. Astudillo is a cord cutter and she’s not the only one.About 7.6m US households no longer get cable. From 2010 to 2014, the number of cord cutters – those who have decided to forgo life with cable and opted to get their TV and news on the internet –increased by 44%.It is a seismic shift that has helped trigger the largest cable merger in history, Comcast’s proposed takeover of Time Warner, and is at the heart of the fierce row being fought out in Washington over new rules to protect net neutrality – the concept that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet.Related:FCC's net neutrality proposal to treat high-speed internet like public utilityMany cable cutters are paying little attention to the clash of the titans. For them it’s about cost and convenience. But you can bet that the titans are paying attention to them.Astudillo, a 27-year-old data journalist forNJ Advance Media, canceled her cable in 2012. Back then, even with cable channels at her disposal, she increasingly found herself watching shows on Hulu and Netflix. The two services made the transition easier. Of course, the $30 to $40 that she now saves each month didn’t hurt either.Right now, she pays $59 a month for her Optimum internet connection and $7.99 a month for a Netflix account she was paying for anyway. She is considering upgrading to Hulu Plus, which would cost her an additional $7.99.She says she has given little thought to how an end to net neutrality will affect her internet and TV-watching habits. She is, however, worried about the future of open internet and innovation that brought us services such as Netflix. “I feel like it would be the end of wild wild west of the internet, innovation and all of these good things,” she said.Most consumers have remained blissfully unaware of the net neutrality debate or how its outcome might affect them. Broadband’s regulator the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) received a record 4m comments on its open internet proposal spurred on internet activistsand aided by John Oliver. But in 2013, 74.4% ofall US householdstold the Census bureau thatthey had internet. Four million is just a small fraction of that.Related:'Awe-inspiring' FCC internet protections could alter landscape for net neutrality“I don’t pay enough attention to [the net neutrality debate], honestly,” says Lauren Pavin, a 32-year-old coffee shop manager in Baltimore.She and her boyfriend are on the cusp of cutting the cord. This past Christmas, Pavin received Apple TV as a present. They already subscribe to Netflix and are just waiting for HBO to provide a stand alone service, before their do away with their cable bill. “Between [HBO] and Netflix, that’s all we watch,” she said.Her cable and internet subscription with Comcast costs Pavin about $140 a month. Even after cutting the cable, she might have to stay with Comcast, as that’s the company that services the majority of the Baltimore area.Pavin has little hope that net neutrality will fix her internet troubles.“I wish the connection was faster but ... it’s Comcast. It’s a terrible internet service in general,” she says. In the six months that she has lived in Baltimore, she has experienced monthly internet outages.Comcast: not exactly a favorite among consumers.Photograph: Matt Rourke/APCutting the cord may sound like you’re hurting Big Cable but the money they lose on one end they make back at the other. Time Warner’s cable subscriptions have been declining for years and its revenue from video subscriptions drops millions of dollars a month. The upside is that the company’s high speed internet subscriptions are going up faster than its cable subscription was going down – making up for all the losses.After intense lobbying by proponents net neutrality rules likely to be voted through this week will mean the cable firms can not slow online services or offer fast lanes to others. The regulations are meant to maintain a level playing field that should allow new video services to woo cable cutters just as Netflix and Hulu have in the past.But those rules are already under attack from some Republicans and will be subject to an immediate challenge from the cable industry, which argues the FCC has gone too far.cable map promoAnd in the meantime cable cutters bemoaning their lack of choice face an even more consolidated market. If the Comcast/Time Warner deals goes through, according to the FCC’s measures some 63% of US consumers will only have one choice of broadband provider.Proponents of net neutrality like Neil Hunt, chief product officer at Netflix, have previouslybemoaned the lack of competitionamong internet service providers.“The reality in this country is that we don’t really have competition for which cable provider you really get your broadband from,” Hunttold the Guardianlast year. And as such, if companies like Netflix want to reach consumers in all parts of the US, they have to find a way to work with the particular providers servicing those individual areas.The net neutrality debate will enter a new phase this week – but it won’t end here. Not long from now the FCC will decide whether or not to allow Comcast to takeover Time Warner. While cable cutters may feel they are reshaping an industry, close inspection suggests the industry is still very much in control.Cable companies are “absolutely worried about the changing environment”, says Bruce Leichtman, president and principal analyst at Leichtman Research Group. “But – for the cable specifically – while they are worried about losing TV subscribers, they also are the providers of broadband service. So, if someone is going to get Netflix or Hulu, they are going to need broadband service and that, in the majority of places, is the cable company.”
CableRelated:Map: How much are Americans paying for cable?
Q: What is net neutrality?Net neutrality is the principle that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet, without being favored or blocked by internet service providers.Q: Why is it in the news?On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will vote on new rules to regulate broadband that have proved to be thehottest issuethe regulator has ever faced. More than 4 million people – a new record – submitted comments to the FCC as it considered its options and Barack Obama called on the regulator to impose the “strongest rules possible”. Activists are calling Thursday’s meeting “the most important FCC vote of our lifetime”.Q: What is the FCC proposing?Tom Wheeler, chairman of the FCC, isproposing to protect net neutralityby imposing strict new rules on internet service providers under Title II of the communications act. The FCC would be given the legal muscle to:Prevent broadband providers from banning any legal service or website.Outlaw “paid prioritization” – fees for faster service.Ban “throttling” – impairing or degrading internet traffic.The rules will apply to wireless and wired services and dramatically expand the FCC’s power to regulate the industry.Q: What is wrong with the current system?There isn’t one. Internet service providers have sued the FCC on a number of occasions, challenging its regulating authority. In January, Verizon successfully challenged the FCC’s authority to prevent the company from creating “fast lanes” or slowing or blocking selected web traffic. Broadband has been effectively unregulated for over a year.Q: Will it pass?Almost certainly. Wheeler is one of three Democrats on the five-member commission, all of whom support his proposals. The two Republican commissioners will object but will be overruled.Q: Who supports the proposals?Alongside Obama, a broadcoalition of internet activistsand tech companies including Google, Facebook, Netflix, Mozilla, Etsy and Reddit have backed Title II regulation.They argue that without strong regulation, cable companies could “pick the winners” online, providing better service for their own offerings or those of preferred clients than for rivals. Such a move would stifle innovation online, they argue.Q: Who objects?Verizon, obviously, AT&amp;T andthe cable industry, and the Republican Party. Republican senator John Thune has accused the FCC of giving in to “bully tactics” and called its proposals “terrible”. Both critics and proponents argue that Title II is akin to regulating the internet like a utility such as water or electricity. The objectors argue the burden of regulation will hamper innovation and discourage investment. Wheeler has sought to assuage their fears by proposing to “forbear” more stringent utility rules. The FCC says it will not, for example, impose price restrictions or force cable companies to share their networks. Cable companies say there isno guaranteethat a future FCC will abide by those forbearances.Q: What happens next?Broadband providers are lining up to sue the FCC as they have in the past. FCC officials have said they are confident they can defeat a legal challenge, but their opponents will not give up without a fight.Meanwhile Thune is drawing up legislation that, while it would enforce most of what the FCC is proposing, would limit the regulator’s authority over the broadband industry. The battle over net neutrality is far from finished.
By its own boss’s admission,Twitter “suck at dealing with abuse and trolls”. Now Dick Costolo has shed a little more light on how the company plans to change that.Twitter is planning to shift “the cost of dealing with harassment” on to the people accused of that harassment, not on the people who endure it, said Costolo in aninterview with the New York Times.“Some people believe that Twitter hasn’t taken the issue seriously because harassment isn’t a form of physical harm – they’re just tweets. No, that’s not true at all. We’ve always taken it seriously,” he said.“We’ve drawn a line on what constitutes harassment and abuse. I believe that we haven’t yet drawn that line to put the cost of dealing with harassment on those doing the harassing. It shouldn’t be the person who’s being harassed who has to do a lot of work.”The firm has not yet given any details of how it plans to accomplish this.‘Wake-up call’Costolo admitted that the internal “we suck” memo had been uncharacteristically blunt, but claimed it reflected his determination to tackle the abuse that has fuelled growing criticism of Twitter’s policies in this area.“I meant what I said. One of the reasons I was so blunt about it was that I wanted to really send a wake-up call to the company that we’re going to get a lot more aggressive about it, and it’s going to start right now,” he said.Related:Twitter unveils new system for reporting abuseShifting the cost of dealing with harassment onto the accused harassers will be welcomed bypeople who have been targetedfor such abuse. Even so, it is fraught with pitfalls for Twitter, if its new policy is not well thought out.For example, an overly-automated process might be open to groups of people ganging together to report someone whose views they disagree with in an effort to get their account suspended; a barrage of harassment reports could become a new form of harassment.Avoiding this will require Twitter to continue increasing its investment in human moderation – more costs for the company, but vital for the overall health of its community.Costolo’s comments indicate his company hopes to draw the line fairly between harassment and spirited disagreements.“I may have a right to say something, but I don’t have a right to stand in your living room and scream it into your ear five times in a row,” he said, while warning that some reports of harassment turn out to be “fairly rational political discourse”, which Twitter is keen to protect.
Net neutralityis the principle of making sure that your internet service provider doesn’t make it easier for you to access one service over another – the Guardian over the Telegraph, say – or otherwise distorting your use of internet services just because someone dropped a few extra quid in their pocket.Yet in many ways, the current battle over net neutrality is less a question of broad, public-interest internet values, and more a parochial telecommunications policy war between US cable and content companies, waged on a global stage.After more than a decade of wrangling, on 26 February an executive board of US telecommunications regulator the FCC will vote on a 322-page proposal, titled Preserving the Open Internet. Matters of deep principle are claimed to be at stake, but agreement on what those principles are is less forthcoming.Related:Only net neutrality can protect the internet from becoming like TV: white, middle-class and exclusiveThe internet is not unlimitedNobody can object to aspirations such as neutrality, equality and openness. But each of these terms is also a conceit. The internet is not unlimited. Traffic management, in some form or another, is obligatory in shipping digital packets.When you make a phone call, your voice is sampled maybe 50 times a second, and then reconstituted at the receiving end, with a minuscule delay to account for any network failings.When you call up an internet application or website, that site or service is hurled at you, progressively increasing as many packets as the network can carry, unless something else gets in the way. If voice gets in the way, the application adapts. If it’s the other way around, voice drops out.Related:Net neutrality battle pitches activists and FCC against Big Cable and GOPNetwork engineerFred Bakeruses this distinction between voice and web, or between “real-time” and “elastic” applications, to demonstrate one of the consequences of a rigid application of net neutrality rules. If everything must be treated equally, he argues, then nothing can be done about your voice line dropping. You are subject to the internet service provider’s best efforts – “passing your traffic to the enemy, and hoping for the best”. With voice, this is usually fine – we can cope with some small delay. With video and other data-rich streaming, it becomes more complicated.Is there only one form of net neutrality?In the first order, net neutrality is the Telegraph/Guardian example: ensuring that internet service companies don’t intentionally block or degrade access to legal content or services. At this level, there is little controversy. Rules against such practices are welcome, even if there is little evidence that it is a market problem requiring fixing.One of the damaging side-effects, nevertheless, is that a crude assessment of legality could unfairly prevent the bulk of upstream traffic and a significant proportion of downstream traffic in many parts of the world that is comprised of peer-to-peer file sharing.Second-order net neutrality is about the voice/web challenge – the detail of traffic management – and it’s much harder. In particular, there is a heated debate over paid prioritisation, or “fast lanes”, negotiated between ISPs and content providers. Here, the market is already active.Streaming companies such as Netflix have complex “peering” arrangements with cable companies to fund good service and make up for some of the vast percentage of the cable traffic Netflix uses.Another area where such arrangements are manifold is mobile, and the meat of the FCC proposal focuses on these issues. But it is not clear whether it is just about ensuring public-interest oversight of peering arrangements, or actually interfering with the arrangements that can be made. Either way, the US now seems to recognise that public regulation of bandwidth, to ensure the public interest is met, is the appropriate foundation for such regulation, bringing it into line with the rest of the world.Related:Cord cutters on net neutrality:  'It would be the end of wild wild west of the internet'What this debate doesn’t solveNet neutrality has been the central campaign point for a grassroots movement of internet activists in the US. It has an obviousbad guyin the fat cat cable companies, but it’s as much about the incredibly consolidated and monopolistic US telco landscape, and the geoeconomic aversion to internet regulation, as it is about wider, public interest internet issues.The rather extraordinary thing is that over-the-top services – the content providers – have come off as the white knights. Just like artists and struggling musicians are the frontmen of the industry copyright lobby, here, start-ups and bloggers are the frontmen to the internet giants. In the end, however, we’re all small fish to Facebook, Google, Amazon and their kin.Net neutrality is no panacea to walled gardens, tethering, transit providers that exploit exchange-point congestion, and content-delivery networks that outpace the speed of light in giving me access to Google and Amazon quicker than the Guardian or the Greek national library. Your access to a small newspaper or voice application, is slow not because of shady service provider deals, but because of the enormous network infrastructure and network entrenchment of its competitors.We citizens, often derogated as “users” or “consumers”, have much to win in a global communication space. That is much more than simply a “neutral network”. Instead, it is a truly open, distributed network where everyone’s fundamental rights are respected. Not having our access providers acting as interested gatekeepers may be a step in the right direction, but it is by no means an end. Many other distortive factors remain and we will not have an open space until we get rid of them all.
Google is changing the the structure of its European business as it anticipates further regulatory scrutiny across the continent.Related:European commission reopens Google antitrust investigationFacing investigations and complaints driven by politicians and commercial rivals across Germany, France, Russia and other European countries, Google has merged its disparate European businesses into one, continent-wide operation.The new European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) arm will be overseen from London by Matt Brittin, previously head of Google’s northern and western Europe businesses. Individual country managers will report directly to Brittin in a bid to unify the company’s actions across European nations.The reorganisation is in response to failures to deal with escalating challenges in individual European countries.The so-called “right to be forgotten” ruling in May 2014 arose from a local issue in Spain, but became a Europe-wide ruling after being promoted to Europe’s highest court in Strasbourg.Google’s newly elevated European boss Matt Brittin.Regulatory scrutiny and political ill-willGoogle also faces potentially serious consequences for its business operations in search and advertising from a recentlyre-opened anti-trust investigationby the European Commission.The European parliament’sapproval of a motioncalling for a break-up of Google’s search and other businesses in November was a demonstration of the political ill-will felt for Google. It is regarded by some as the tip of the spear of US control of the European technology market.A plan by chancellor George Osborne to introduce a new tax on multinational corporations accused of diverting profits –dubbed the “Google tax”and announced in the autumn statement – also underlines a key challenge to Google’s business in Europe.Related:European parliament votes yes on ‘Google breakup’ motionClosely watched by other countries across Europe, Osborne’s plans mean that from April companies face a 25% tax rate on profits from economic activity that is “artificially shifted” abroad.It will target companies that employ complex structures to divert profits to low-tax nations such as Luxembourg and Ireland, where Google’s European operations are headquartered.Commercial rivals have also put pressure on Google’s core business, with Facebook and Twitter growing as a source of news, for instance.Meanwhile, companies such as Russia’s Yandex have lodgedcomplaints with regulatorsover abuse of Google’s monopoly over its Android smartphone and tablet operating system, instigating further regulatory scrutiny.Google is likely to use its new pan-European structure to consolidate power and attempt to appease politicians and regulators to avoid potentially damaging disruption.Related:Autumn statement 2014: Osborne to introduce ‘Google tax’In a bid to win over skeptics, the company has pledged to train one million Europeans in digital skills and invest a further €25m in skills initiatives.But Google’s support of a single European digital market – a proposal put forward by EC president Jean-Claude Juncker – is likely to be its biggest push.Brittin will tell officials in Brussels on Thursday: “For Europe to reach its full potential, we need to clear the way for companies online. We need a single market in the digital world that reflects the single market we enjoy in the physical world already. With over two dozen regulatory and frameworks to contend with, businesses stumble when they seek to sell, grow or hire across borders.”
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) looks set to pass strict new rules to govern broadband internet in the US on Thursday, following one of the most intense –and bizarre– lobbying battles Washington has ever seen.The FCC’s five commissioners will meet on Thursday morning to approve a plan to regulate broadband like a public utility, giving the regulator the greatest power over the cable industry it has had since the internet went mainstream.Related:Net neutrality: FCC votes on the future of the internet – livePresident Obama gave his support to the rules last year, following an online campaign that pitched internet activists and companies including Netflix and Reddit, I Can Has Cheezburger? – weblog home of the Lolcats meme – and online craft market Etsy against Republican leaders and the cable and telecom lobbies.Activists and tech companies are keen to protect the principle of net neutrality – the idea that all information and services should have equal access to the internet.Protesters gathered outside the FCC’s Washington headquarters before the meeting, in celebration of their success in lobbying for a dramatic U-turn in regulation.“We need to send another signal that you can’t mess with the internet,” said Evan Greer, campaign manager for net advocates Fight for the Future. Open Media, another of the protest groups, parked a Jumbotron giant screen close to the FCC’s offices, broadcasting messages from supporters of the new rules.At the meeting the commission’s two Democrat members, Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel, are expected to approve the plan put forward by the Democratic chairman, Tom Wheeler, with some objections. They will overrule the two Republican commissioners who have already lambasted the plan and will hold their own press conference later in the day.One of the Republican commissioners, Ajit Pai, has called the plan “a solution that won’t work to a problem that doesn’t exist”. He is backed by senior Republicans and most of the cable and telecoms industry, who are working on plans to overturn the decision even before the details are published.Wheeler has made clear he plans to regulate broadband under Title II of the communications act – the strongest legal authority the regulator has. Obama called on the independent regulator to implement Title II last year, leading to charges that he unduly influenced Wheeler’s decision that are now being investigated in Congress.Related:Net neutrality: Republicans to strike back against Obama's 'internet grab'The act gives the FCC the power to ban so-called paid prioritisation – or fast lanes – for willing content providers. It would also would ban broadband providers from slowing traffic for competitive reasons. The regulator would also have the authority to challenge unforeseen barriers broadband providers might create as the internet develops.Related:Net neutrality: what's the latest controversy? Your questions answeredThe regulator will vote on two proposals. The first, which has been eclipsed by the net neutrality debate, will allow municipal broadband companies to compete more freely with established cable firms.Municipal broadband companies inChattanooga,Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, are seeking to overturn bans on their expansion plans which have beenlobbied forby private cable and telecom rivals. Twenty states currently have limits or bans on local governments building, owning or partnering with others to give local businesses and residents a choice in high-speed internet access. That vote too is expected to fall along party lines, potentially opening many US cities to wider competition.Christopher Mitchell, director of community broadband networks at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance said the vote could set “an historic precedent” that could “profoundly impact the lives of three-quarters of Americans who are without broadband or a choice in their service because of big cable underinvestment in their towns.”The FCC was forced to rewrite its broadband rules after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to stop it creating fast lanes or to more broadly regulate the industry under its last set of regulations, the Open Internet Order of 2010. Legal challenges for the new rules are also inevitable.Republican FCC commissioners Pai and Michael O’Rielly will hold a press conference after the meeting to detail their objections to the orders, which as yet have been seen by only a few dozen people. Their objections will be taken up by Republican politicians who are alreadyworking on plans to circumvent the orders.
When I started working abroad about three months ago, my company provided me with a new Lenovo laptop. Should I be worried?AnthonyEveryone should be worried, but not for the obvious reason.The good news is that you probably do not have Superfish installed, and if you did, your anti-virus software may already have removed it: Microsoft released removal code in Windows Defender within about 24 hours of the news.The bad news is that the “magic ingredient” in Superfish was an “SSL hijacker” and a root certificate provided by Komodia. This has beenused by many other programs, including ones designed to provide parental controls. Worse, several other companies are trying the same idea.You should therefore check to see if you have Superfish or any other untrustworthy certificates installed.The Lenovo problemThe furore blew up because Lenovo installed Superfish adware on consumer laptops sold between September 2014 and January 2015. All these laptops were running Microsoft Windows 8.1. Your laptop fits the time frame, but you may have escaped for two reasons.Related:'Superfish'-style vulnerability found in games and parental control softwareFirst, Superfish was not installed on Lenovo’s business machines, such as ThinkPads. Second, it was not installed on laptops running Windows 7, which is still the business standard.Unfortunately, Lenovo’s attractive Yoga laptops – including the Yoga Pro models – are classed as consumer laptops. This may have caught some who wanted a smaller screen and/or cheaper device than the ThinkPad Carbon X1. Either way, Lenovo has listed the models that may have been affected in itssecurity advisory.Lenovo says “user feedback was not positive” so it disabled Superfish in January, and stopped preloading it.On itsSuperfish uninstallweb page, Lenovo has now provided an automatic removal tool (including source code) and illustrated manual instructions for removing Superfish and its certificate from laptops running Windows 8.1.Removal is extremely simple via Windows’ standard add/remove programs utility, which most people know from the control panel. Find Superfish Inc VisualDiscovery, tick it, and click uninstall.As mentioned, Superfish may already have been removed by Windows Defender, McAfee’s anti-virus software, and possibly by similar programs. However, with every version of Windows, you should still check that the certificate has been removed from your PC, and from Firefox’s certificate store. Why? There’s more …The Komodia problemAs you will have gathered, Superfish on its own was no big deal. The problem was that Superfish used an “SSL hijacker” – Komodia Redirector with SSL Digestor – bought from a small Israeli company calledKomodia. This opened a very large security hole. In fact, your PC may have this security hole even if it is not made by Lenovo and has never been near Superfish, because Komodia sold its kit to other companies as well.These companies include Atom Security, Infoweise, Komodia (KeepMyFamilySecure), Kurupira (Webfilter), Lavasoft (Ad-Aware Web Companion), Qustodio, and Websecure Ltd (Easy Hide IP Classic), according to the officialUS vulnerability note.A still from a Komodia video on its website.Photograph: KomodiaFacebook adds: “We’ve observed more than a dozen other software applications using the Komodia library.” Itsreportnames the certificate providers: CartCrunch Israel, WiredTools, Say Media Group, Over the Rainbow Tech, System Alert, ArcadeGiant, Objectify Media Inc, Catalytix Web Services and OptimizerMonitor. There will be others as well.You probably do not think any of these have been installed on your PC. That is exactly what Lenovo laptop owners thought until last week.Go to theSuperfish, Komodia, PrivDog vulnerability testweb page, and it will try to find any SSL-disabling software on your PC. The site was built and is being updated by Filippo Valsorda, who created theHeartbleed test sitelast year. (Heartbleed was a very serious vulnerability in the OpenSSL cryptographic software library.)The certificate problemWe always advise people to use secure https:// websites, where traffic is protected using SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) encryption. This is particularly important for banking transactions and online shopping. Komodia’s SSL Digestor provided a way to subvert SSL to insert advertisements, and included its own certificate.Briefly, a secure web server sends your browser its certificate and its public encryption key, so your browser can check that the certificate was issued by a trusted party. The certificate provides information about its owner, possibly including their name, email address and website address, and the identity of the certificate supplier – essentially a signature.If the certificate is accepted, your browser and the website can use encrypted communications both ways. If the certificate is not accepted, the user gets a message to that effect – you have probably seen examples.What Komodia did was interpose its own certificate without alerting the user. Worse, each product seems to have used the same certificate, and so far, it seems the password is always Komodia. As a result,many people– and almost any malware writer – could use this certificate to exploit your PC.Uninstalling Superfish and other Komodia-type programs does not remove the root certificates, so you need to do this separately. Lenovo provides instructions, mentioned above. However, the quick way to do so is typing certmgr.msc into the Windows search box, right click on the program’s name, and select “run as administrator” from the pop-up menu.When the certification manager program runs, click the action menu item and select “find certificates”. Type Superfish (etc) into the search box and click the “find now” button. If you find an unwanted certificate, right-click and select delete.But wait: it gets worse….Komodia is a problem, but it is far from the only company doing so. Apost at How-To Geeksays that adware programs such as Wajam, Geniusbox and Content Explorer are “all doing the exact same thing, installing their own certificates and forcing all your browsing (including https encrypted browsing sessions) to go through their proxy server”.If you have installed software fromunsafe placessuch as CNet’s Download.com or from Google search ads, you could have installed one of these without knowing it. How-To Geek suggests deleting certificates from Sendori, Purelead, Rocket Tab, Superfish, Lookthisup, Pando, Wajam, WajaNEnhance, System Alerts, and CE_UmbrellaCert. Given the number of certificates on the average PC, weeding out any bad ones will not be fun.As How-To Geek points out,Microsoft has a web pagethat, at the click of a FixIt button, will delete “the certificates folder and everything inside it” and update it to “the list that is accepted by Microsoft as part of the Windows root certificate program”. This sounds like a good solution. But, it adds, “we really don’t recommend it until somebody tests this out”. Let me know if you do.I reckon there is now a market for good certificate-checking software.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Lenovo, the PC maker at the centre of the Superfish controversy, suffered its own security breach on Wednesday when its main website was defaced, redirecting users to a slideshow of pictures of bored-looking teens (apparently the hackers themselves) set to the songBreaking FreefromHigh School Musical.Clicking on the slideshow sends users to the Twitter account of hacking collective the Lizard Squad, while viewing the source of the page reveals a note reading “the new and improved rebranded Lenovo website featuring Ryan King and Rory Andrew Godfrey” – two people previously named by security reporter Brian Krebsas being members of the group.Related:How can I find and remove Superfish and similar malware?Lizard Squad tweeted hours before the attack to expect “more mischief”.Expect more lizard mischief soon.&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardCircle)February 25, 2015The hack was apparently carried out through a “DNS hijack”, an increasingly common method whereby domain name system server, which translates a human-readable web address such as google.cominto a machine-readable IP address such as “8.8.8.8”, redirects visitors to another website – in this case, one controlled by Lizard Squad.The hijack closely resembles another Lizard Squad attack, on Google’s Vietnamese website, which was carried out this week, according to Andrew Hay, director of security research at OpenDNS. Both sites used the same domain name registrar, Webnic.cc.“Two defacements in a single week is normally nothing, but two extremely high-profile defacements from the same registrar in the same week is a definite trend,” Hay said. “We may see more redirections of domains that were registered with Webnic.cc in the coming days.”Following the hack, Lizard Squad has been posting screenshotsof emails allegedly sent to Lenovo.com addresses, includingone discussing Superfish. A DNS hijack can potentially gain access to emails sent during the period the site is taken over, by redirecting the email in the same way as the website. But this would not grant access to the full database of emails.In a statement, Lenovo said: “Unfortunately, Lenovo has been the victim of a cyber attack. One effect of this attack was to redirect traffic from the Lenovo website. We are also actively investigating other aspects. We are responding and have already restored certain functionality to our public facing website.“We are actively reviewing our network security and will take appropriate steps to bolster our site and to protect the integrity of our users’ information and experience.“We are also working proactively with 3rd parties to address this attack and we will provide additional information as it becomes available.”Related:What will happen to the Lizard Squad hackers?Lenovo’s reputation in the information security community was already rock-bottom after it emerged that the company sold laptops infected with pre- installed malware named Superfish, which broke users’ encrypted connections in order deliver the firm’s own adverts into search pages.The company initially denied the reports, saying that it was “satisfied” that user security was never at risk. A day later it recanted and apologised for its error.Peter Hortensius, Lenovo’s chief technology officer,told the New York Times that“we did not do a thorough enough job understanding how Superfish would find and provide their info. That’s on us. That’s a mistake that we made.”He added: “This week we begin the plan to make sure this never happens again. We’ll release that plan by the end of the week.”
With the majorGame Developers Conferencetaking place in San Francisco, and a whole range of recent controversies to discuss, March is a pretty good time to meet our games writing team. And the good news is, you can.After January’s successful “meet the Guardian games writers” night, we’re hosting a follow-up on 4 March at the Guardian office in Kings Cross.Related:Guardian Live event: on games, augmented reality and trucking simulatorsHosted by games editor Keith Stuart, the evening will feature PC Gamer’s Andy Kelly, Rock Paper Shotgun’s Philippa Warr, Official Xbox Magazine writer Kate Gray, and freelancers Jordan Erica Webber and Rich Stanton. We’ll be discussing the latest news and trends, and the games we are looking forward too – and there will be plenty of time for audience questions.The event runs from 7pm to 830pm and afterwards, we’ll wander down to the Rotunda bar beneath Guardian HQ.Just head tothe Guardian Live page for booking details.Guardian Liveis our series of debates, interviews and festivals exclusively for Guardian Members. Find out more about membership andhow to sign up.
So a computer program has learned how to play classic Atari games. Big deal. I mean, they’re just big blocks of pixels pushing smaller blocks of pixels around a screen, right?Yet somehow, the UK artificial intelligence specialist Deep Mind, bought last year by Google for £240m, is extremely excited about the fact that it has developed an AI agent capable of learning how to play Space Invaders. I learned how to play Space Invaders in a cafe in Blackpool when I was six. But Google hasn’t acquiredme. What’s going on?Related:Google develops computer program capable of learning tasks independentlyThe thing is, classic Atari games such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout were, despite their visual limitations, much more complex than our modern minds give them credit for. Indeed, many of these games set in place the fundamental mechanics that modern titles are still utilising – and they are deceptively deep, even for a Deep Mind AI gamer.It turns out the Deep Mind program fared very well against titles that allowed it to learn systems through simple trial and error such as Video Pinball and Breakout. However, it failed spectacularly at games that required the participants to build a mental map of the level and develop long-term strategies, or that required the mastery of different skillsets, such as the more complex shooters Zaxxon and Gravitar.However, learning to play and master any of these games is a significant feat, despite their chunky aesthetics. Here are four classic Atari titles and why they’re not quite as basic as they appear.PongDesigned by electrical engineer Al Alcorn and launched as an arcade machine in 1972, Atari’s legendary bat and ball simulation, is widely considered the most basic interactive electronic game possible. Indeed, Atari founder Nolan Bushnell once said to Alcorn: “I want to make a game that any drunk in any bar can play.”But Pong is actually a very important early example of game physics - the ball reacting to surfaces in different ways. When it hits a wall, it simply rebounds at a mirror-opposite angle.However, each of the bats is actually divided into eight sections, each providing a slighting different angle of return. Therefore players are able to develop strategies, planning the return gradient so that the opponent is unable to quickly guess where the ball will return to, leaving them stranded in the wrong part of the screen. Consequently, players – or indeed computer programs – with a knowledge of projectile displacement physics have a distinct advantage.BreakoutCreated as a single-player version of Pong, Atari’s wall-breaking classic was designed by Bushnell, with help from Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs who would, of course, later go on to found Apple. Players simply use a bat at the bottom of the screen to knock a ball into rows of coloured bricks, smashing anything it hits. Once again, the bat has different impact zones that affect the angle of the bounce.Extra depth comes from the fact that the ball speeds up when the player reaches the upper layers of the walls, and then the bat shrinks to half its size when the ball finally hits the top wall. This is an early example of gameplay balance, with a system that increases the level of challenge as the player begins to excel. The fiendishly compulsive “tidying up” format of the game would later become a staple of the puzzle genre (see Tetris).Space InvadersOriginally devised by Tomohiro Nishikado, a designer at Japanese arcade company Taito, Space Invaders is - alongside Pac-Man - one of the best-known video games of all time. Players shoot at waves of aliens as they descend to Earth, occasionally blasting a UFO as it whizzes across the top of the display.Seemingly simple, the game was one of the first to introduce a smooth difficulty curve, the invaders speeding up as they get closer. Incredibly, this was actually a bug: the archaic processor was able to handle the movement more efficiently when there were fewer objects on screen. But Nishikado kept it.Alongside the cowboy shoot-’em-up Gun Fight, Space Invaders (which was later ported to the Atari 2600 console) also popularised the “cover” mechanic, providing a row of destructible barriers for the player to hide behind. It is a feature that would later be brought to more complex action adventures such as Grand Theft Auto and Gears of War.Indeed, Hideo Kojima, the creator of the multimillion-selling Metal Gear Solid series credited Space Invaders with inventing the “stealth” game genre, as players could sneak from barrier to barrier evading the attention – and bullets – of the extraterrestrial enemies.AsteroidsCreated using monochrome “vector” graphics by Atari coders Ed Logg and Lyle Rains, Asteroids has players controlling a tiny ship as it blasts passing space rocks. Once again, however, the basic set-up hides a complex challenge. The ship itself is piloted using thrust and inertia, an intricate physics system, that adds a significant skill factor to the multi-directional movement.The game also exhibits a clever difficulty curve: when larger asteroids are blasted they split up into faster moving rocks, considerably increasing the challenge. And it experiments with contrasting AI enemies. Two different flying saucers can appear on screen – a large one that fires inaccurately, and a smaller one that is much more deadly.Released in 1979, Asteroids was a smash hit, selling more than 70,000 arcade machines. Players were so addicted to its merging of simple visuals with intense action that they began to work out and exploit its systemic features. A good Asteroids player knows that leaving a single slow moving rock on screen and using it as a barrier from which to blast saucers is the way to huge high scores. It’s a technique known as “lurking” and its one of the earliest example of players gaming the system for tactical advantage.
“Pinterest is not a social network. Really. It’s not about your friends! The last thing I need is another messaging app, y’know?” says Evan Sharp, thumping his fist on the table for emphasis. “It’s really this different kind of unique thing.”Sharp should know: he co-founded it. And since its launch in 2009, Pinterest has reached a large audience – 47.1 million active users in the US alone this yearaccording to eMarketer– raising a startling $764m of funding along the way.So what is it, if not a social network? Many people who aren’t on Pinterest have a hazy idea that it is something to do with online mood boards for planning weddings and house redecorations, used mainly by women.The company is keen to scotch those perceptions: men are its fastest-growing demographic, and it’s being used for a lot more than ogling wedding dresses and furniture (although, yes, those too).“It’s really this great tool for discovering creative ideas and saving them for later,” is how Sharp boils it down, sitting down with the Guardian as part of a visit to the UK, where Pinterest usage has, he claims, more than doubled in the last year as the company’s local team grows.“Part of the reason I’m on this trip is to try to understand how is this working here. Does Pinterest in the UK feel like an American service ported over, or does it feel authentically British?” says Sharp, a self-confessed anglophile.“A lot of that goes back to who do we feature, who do we connect you to when you sign up, who’s driving the tastes on our platform in Britain, and who are the sources of the stuff that people are saving and discovering?”Getting more Brits using the service is a big part of that process: hence Sharp’s desire to explain exactly what Pinterest is (and what it’s not) and how people are using it.Evan Sharp, Pinterest’s co-founder.‘Pins are things’That includes emphasising that Pinterest is much more than an image-focused digital mood board in 2015, in terms of the more than 30bn “pins” – from products and fashion to apps and music videos – that its users have created and shared.“We like to say pins are things. Hopefully they’re not just images: there’s a link behind them, and that small difference makes a world of difference in terms of usefulness and utility,” says Sharp.“We’re very recommendations and search-focused. It’s a service that should become more valuable the more you use it, and more specific to your taste or your interests.”Related:Pinterest promises 'smarter search' including manly pins for menPinterest as a search engine rather than a social network? “People don’t think of Pinterest as search, necessarily, and that’s partly the design of the service: the way it’s laid out, but we’re a huge search engine. A massive search engine, and it’s very different type of search to Google or Yahoo,” he says.How? Sharp suggests that while Google is good at answering specific “objective” questions like how far it is from one place to another, it struggles at more subjective questions like what sofa to buy or what to cook for dinner. “Those are harder, more subjective things to get through a [traditional] search engine.”Like many other internet services, Pinterest is increasingly driven by mobile, with 80% of its usage coming from smartphones and tablets, and Android and iPhone its lead platforms for almost all new features.“There’s a fundamentally different mindset on the phone. It’s partly about the user interface, the inputs that come with the phone, and it’s partly the fact that phones are about apps not websites, and the way you refer traffic is very different,” says Sharp.“We’re in the middle of that transition. In the next five years, so many people are going to come online in the world who’ve never had a smartphone before. It’s a fascinating time.”Pinterest’s first smartwatch app for Android Wear.Pinterest on the wristThere’s another mobile device on Pinterest’s agenda: the smartwatch. The companystarted supporting Android Wear devices in June 2014, with an app that alerts people on their smartwatches when they’re near a place that they’ve pinned. Pinterest is also a launch partner for the upcoming Apple Watch.Sharp describes the geo-location feature as “interesting, but a bit of a distraction”, suggesting that Pinterest sees smartwatches as a way to be more useful in day-to-day life.“One of our company goals is to get you offline, unlike a social network. We’re not just about engagement and time spent. We aspire to be more about helping you with your life and getting you offline and doing things,” he says.“What’s great about the watch is that it will be with you when you’re doing things … you can imagine, you’d be cooking a recipe, and rather than having to pull it [your smartphone] out, just seeing it quickly on your wrist.”Pinterest is also working hard on its advertising strategy for “promoted pins”, which wasfirst announced in September 2013, thentested with a few US advertisers from May 2014, andfinally opened up to all brands in that country in January 2015.Inserting ads into people’s Pinterest feeds hasn’t led to a backlash so far, which Sharp sees as proof that the company’s softly-softly approach has worked.“They’re not really even ads. If you show someone a version of the homefeed without the promoted pins label, and one with it, people might be hard-pressed to pick out which one is an ad,” he says.“It just gets back to the nature of Pinterest: brands happen to create a decent percentage of the stuff you find, and as long as we keep the format native to the experience, and as long as the type of content feels relevant... It’s not a service about your friends, so brand stuff doesn’t feel like a jarring disconnect.”Pinterest has rolled out its promoted pins ads slowlyNo eyeball-frying uglyfestOne of the creative challenges facing Pinterest in 2015 is the growing amount of gifs and videos being pinned, rather than just images. Boards are becoming animated rather than static.“I think in the next few years we’ll see a kind of breaking down of the barriers that we have today between images and video and gifs. Motion can be incredibly compelling: this real cinematic narrative story through video. Or it can be very similar to an image, just with a bit more life behind it,” says Sharp.“That Harry Potter thing where everything on the wall moves? That’s not far away! At least in a digital way. And it’s going to be better for everyone, I think.”The idea of digital walls where everything moves doesn’t just bring Harry Potter to mind: it also sparks more troubling flashbacks to the worst, garish and flashing excesses of MySpace profile pages back in the day.How does Pinterest avoid turning into a similar eyeball-frying uglyfest? “It has to be tasteful!” says Sharp. “One of my favourite things about Pinterest is that everything was put there by a human being – all 30-plus billion pins – and there is a level of quality to the things that tend to get popular.“There are lots of flashing banner-ad style things: it’s not that this stuff isn’t on the internet. But that’s not what gets saved. What gets saved is useful or inspiring, and even better, a combination of the two. Done the right way, that sort of motion media points into this other world of possibilities that can be really positive for the experience.”Services like Pinterest help trends zip from country to country faster.Connecting the curatorsCuration can be an overused buzzword in the internet industry, but in Pinterest’s case, it really is at the heart of what the company does: encouraging people to create and collaborate on boards about their passions, and then tackling that Sharp admits is the “non-trivial” challenge of connecting people to those curators, so that Pinterest becomes more useful to them.(In the streaming music world, Spotify is facing a similar challenge in helping people find new music that they’ll love by connecting them to curators – playlist creators – whose tastes chime with theirs.Related:Ben Silbermann: the modest genius behind Pinterest“It’s really about trying to connect you to the right person. I mean, I’m going to come back to London in a few weeks, and figure out what I’m going to do in a three-day period. And that’s going to be me on Pinterest looking at the boards of London, for people who live here who’ve got great taste,” says Sharp.“It’s about connecting to the right curator: about finding that person who’s got the same tastes as you, and has already done the work for you. But connecting you to that person is non-trivial [as a challenge]. We think about that a lot.”This leads on to a discussion about the way the internet – from services like Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram to street-fashion and coolhunting blogs – are vastly increasing the speed at which trends and culture zips across the world. Not just in terms of hipsters in Tokyo, Shoreditch or New York cribbing one another’s style, but also in reducing the time it takes trends to trickle down from those early adopters to everyone else: the mainstream.“I do think hipster culture in particular comes out of the internet: it comes out of exposure to a generation of imagery and music and fashion and so hipster culture tends to be – from what I can tell – more international, more so than other movements,” says Sharp, addressing the first of those points.“But there’s always a nuance. I was in Japan last year, and there was a hipster culture there but it’s definitely a Japanese hipster culture. And it’s the same thing here [in Shoreditch] as well, from what I can tell.”Catching the hipstersWhat about that second point, though: cultural trends hitting the mainstream faster than ever. If I follow the right people, blogs, boards and playlists, it certainly doesn’t make me the tastemaker, but it does – with a minimum of mediation – mean their recommendations reach me much faster.“One of the beautiful things, hopefully, about the internet, is that it’s no longer as simple to generalise: ‘Oh, you’re a mod’ or you’re whatever it is, ‘a punk’. The movements are much more… maybe not even movements any more. Much more nuanced,” says Sharp.“There hasn’t really been an art movement in, like, two decades, which I really think is the beautiful thing about the time. No one sees it yet or talks about it, but it is a new world. One of the big changes is this access, this exposure that Pinterest and other services give you to that world of culture.“It allows people to more personally curate their own culture: their own food, their own fashion, their own travel… That idea of ‘developing taste’ in something sounds elitist to me, almost. It’s this process of being exposed to the possibilities and then deciding what your own preference is.”How it fuels that process is, I think, a much more interesting question about Pinterest than “will it start making money?” (yes) or “will it get bought by Google or Apple?” (quite possibly, yes).It’s certainly more than a glorified scrapbook. Or, indeed, just another social network.
Australian researchers have created the world’s first 3D-printed jet engines, a breakthrough that could change the way aircraft are constructed.Researchers from Monash University, aided by staff from the CSIRO and Deakin University, have printed two engines and put one of them on display at the International Air Show in Avalon, Victoria.Monash and its spin-off company Amaero Engineering have registered interest from Airbus, Boeing and Raytheon, the defence manufacturer.Researchers were given an old gas turbine engine by French firm Safran to copy, printing out two versions. The year-long process was led by Prof Xinhua Wu, the director of the Monash centre for additive manufacturing.The aerospace industry is interested in the process of printing parts because of the reduced lead time, the lighter weight of parts and lower production costs.Monash created the parts of the engine using printers that spread a very thin layer of metal powder across a base plate. A laser then formed the required shape using a computer-generated outline. This process was repeated over and over again until the part was completed.“The project is a spectacular proof of concept that’s leading to significant contracts with aerospace companies,” said Ben Batagol, of Amaero Engineering.“It was a challenge for the team and pushed the technology to new heights of success – no one has printed an entire engine commercially yet.”Although 3D printing has been around since the 1980s, in recent years it has developed to produce a wide array of items,most controversially guns.Other items created by 3D printing have included bikinis, houses and models of unborn children.
The firmallegedly hacked by the NSA and GCHQhas stated that it cannot find any evidence that the US and UK security services breached and stole the encryption keys billions of Sim cards.The alleged hack was revealed by documents from the NSA files provided by Edward Snowden, which detailed attacks on Gemalto – the world’s largest Sim card manufacturer – which allegedly saw them steal encryption keys that allowed them to secretly monitor voice calls and data from billions of mobile phones around the world.But after an investigation, the Dutch security company, which supplies Sim cards to all of the major UK mobile phone networks and 450 operators globally, has said that no evidence of a theft of Sim card security details has been found.“No breaches were found in the infrastructure running our SIM activity or in other parts of the secure network which manage our other products such as banking cards, ID cards or electronic passports,”said the company. “Each of these networks is isolated from one another and they are not connected to external networks.”Gemalto confirmed that two “particularly sophisticated intrusions” into the company’s office network that deals with external communications were detected in 2010.Related:Mobile phones hacked: can the NSA and GCHQ listen to all our phone calls?“At the time, we were unable to identify the perpetrators but we now think that they could be related to the NSA and GCHQ operation,” said Gemalto. “These intrusions only affected the outer parts of our networks – our office networks – which are in contact with the outside world. The SIM encryption keys and other customer data in general, are not stored on these networks.”According to the Snowden documents, Gemalto was targeted by the joint NSA and GCHQ Mobile Handset Exploitation Team (MHET) and that the British intelligence agency had planted malware – malignant software – on several of Gemalto’s computers, giving GHCQ access to “their entire network”.Gemalto claims that it didn’t sell Sim cards to four of the 12 mobile phone operators listed by the NSA files and that its Sim card production facilities listed as being in Japan, Colombia and Italy were not in operation at the time of the hacks.Other Sim card manufacturers including Giesecke &amp; Devrient, which supplies 350 mobile operators globally, launched investigations into their operations, implementing tougher security measures.
Google scientists have developed the first computer program capable of learning a wide variety of tasks independently, in what has been hailed as a significant step towards true artificial intelligence.The same program, or “agent” as its creators call it, learnt to play 49 different retro computer games, and came up with its own strategies for winning. In the future, the same approach could be used to power self-driving cars, personal assistants in smartphones or conduct scientific research in fields from climate change to cosmology.The research was carried out by DeepMind, the British company bought by Google last year for £400m, whose stated aim is to build “smart machines”.Related:Those classic Atari games were harder than you thinkDemis Hassabis, the company’s founder said: “This is the first significant rung of the ladder towards proving a general learning system can work. It can work on a challenging task that even humans find difficult. It’s the very first baby step towards that grander goal ... but an important one.”The work is seen as a fundamental departure from previous attempts to create AI, such as the program Deep Blue, which famously beat Gary Kasparov at chess in 1997 or IBM’s Watson, which won the quiz show Jeopardy! in 2011.In both these cases, computers were pre-programmed with the rules of the game and specific strategies and overcame human performance through sheer number-crunching power.“With Deep Blue, it was team of programmers and grand masters that distilled the knowledge into a program,” said Hassabis. “We’ve built algorithms that learn from the ground up.”The DeepMind agent is simply given a raw input, in this case the pixels making up the display on Atari games, and provided with a running score.When the agent begins to play, it simply watches the frames of the game and makes random button presses to see what happens. “A bit like a baby opening their eyes and seeing the world for the first time,” said Hassabis.The agent uses a method called “deep learning” to turn the basic visual input into meaningful concepts, mirroring the way the human brain takes raw sensory information and transforms it into a rich understanding of the world. The agent is programmed to work out what is meaningful through “reinforcement learning”, the basic notion that scoring points is good and losing them is bad.Tim Behrens, a professor of cognitive neuroscience at University College London, said: “What they’ve done is really impressive, there’s no question. They’ve got agents to learn concepts based on just rewards and punishment. No one’s ever done that before.”In videos provided by Deep Mind, the agent is shown making random and largely unsuccessful movements at the start, but after 600 hundred rounds of training (two weeks of computer time) it has figured out what many of the games are about.In some cases, the agent came up with winning strategies that the researchers themselves had never considered, such as tunnelling through the sides of the wall in Breakout or, in one submarine-based game, staying deeply submerged at all times.Vlad Mnih, one of the Google team behind the work, said: “It’s definitely fun to see computers discover things you haven’t figured out yourself.”Hassabis stops short of calling this a “creative step”, but said it proves computers can “figure things out for themselves” in a way that is normally thought of as uniquely human. “One day machines will be capable of some form of creativity, but we’re not there yet,” he said.Behrens said that watching the agent learn leaves the impression that “there’s something human about it” – probably because it is borrowing the concept of trial and error, one of the main methods by which humans learn.The study, published in the journal Nature, showed that the agent performed at 75% of the level of a professional games tester or better on half of the games tested, which ranged from side-scrolling shooters to boxing to 3D car-racing. On some games, such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout, the algorithm significantly outperformed humans, while on others it fared far worse.The researchers said this was mostly because the algorithm, as yet, has no real memory meaning that it is unable to commit to long-term strategies that require planning. With some of the games, this meant the agent got stuck in a rut, where it had learnt one basic way to score a few points, but never really grasped the game’s overall objective. The team is now trying to build in a memory component to the system and apply it to more realistic 3D computer games.Last year, the American entrepreneur, Elon Musk, one of Deep Mind’s early investors, described AI as humanity’s greatest existential threat. “Unless you have direct exposure to groups like Deepmind, you have no idea how fast [AI] is growing,” he said. “The risk of something seriously dangerous happening is in the five year timeframe. Ten years at most.”However, the Google team played down the concerns. “We agree with him there are risks that need to be borne in mind, but we’re decades away from any sort of technology that we need to worry about,” Hassabis said.
Motorola has launched a 4G update to its bargain-basement Moto E Android smartphone, which is faster but more expensive than its predecessor.The Moto E was launched last year providing asolid, basic Android smartphonefor under £90. The new Moto E launches with 4G and faster quad-core processor, but costs £109.Related:Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90?The new Moto E has larger 4.5-inch qHD display, a front-facing camera for selfies and a 5-megapixel rear camera, with auto-focus. The smartphone also runs Google’s latest Android 5 Lollipopsoftware, but without the usual modifications that manufacturers such as Samsung make to the standard Android OS.“We don’t see any reason to hide or slow down Android – the world’s best mobile operating system. There’s no bloatware or skins to slow things down,” said Seang Chau of Motorola’s software engineering team. “That allows us to update the software as quickly as possible.”The new Moto E weighs 145g and has 8GB or 16GB of storage with a microSD card slot accessible from under a removable, customisable coloured band. The battery is not removable, however.Motorola claims the low-cost smartphone will last a full day’s mixed use on a single charge and includes features such as a scratch-resistant face and a water-resistant coating often found on smartphones costing twice the price.Related:Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphoneMotorola gained momentum with its original budget smartphone, the Moto G, which secured the company a6% share of the smartphone marketin the UK in the first quarter of 2014 from prior, negligible levels. The Moto E followed the Moto G but cost around £40 less, with software features and a frustration-free interface that set it well ahead of its similarly priced competition.Available in the UK from the 26 February, the Moto E builds on a solid foundation. But its increased price could reduce its appeal for the budget-conscious with intense competition from Microsoft, Chinese and local smartphone manufacturers in India, the UK and other emerging markets.Now owned by China’s Lenovo, recent revelations that its parent companyinstalled malware on its PCscould damage consumer confidence in Motorola, which is branded as “a Lenovo company”.
A cybercrime ring that used millions of hacked computers in Britain to steal banking information has been shut down by European police and technology companies.Europol’s European cybercrime centre coordinated the operation from its headquarters in The Hague, targeting the so-called Ramnitbotnet– a network of computers infected with malware.It worked with investigators from Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands and was assisted by companies AnubisNetworks, Microsoft and Symantec, which said 3.2m computers were hacked.‘The criminals have lost control’Computers around the world have been infected by the botnet, but most users have been infected in Britain, said Paul Gillen, head of operations at the cybercrime centre. Ramnit has been infecting computers since 2012.“We worked together to shut down the command-and-control servers for the network in various countries across the European Union. The criminals have lost control of the infrastructure they were using,” Gillen said.Wil van Gemert, Europol deputy director of operations, said the operation underlined the importance of law enforcement agencies working with the private industry to tackle cybercrime.“We will continue our efforts in taking down botnets and disrupting the core infrastructures used by criminals to conduct a variety of cybercrimes … our aim is to protect people around the world against these criminal activities,” he said.Seven servers used by the cybercriminals were shut down overnight.Related:Hackers steal $1bn  in series of online bank thefts says reportThe malware, installed through links on spam email or infected websites, enabled culprits to take control of the PCs and use them for criminal activities. Online banking details, passwords, cookies and personal files were harvested from victims.Symantec said that the Ramnit network had “evolved into a major criminal enterprise” that defrauded large numbers of victims. The online security companyreleased a free toolto let users remove Ramnit infections from a computer.The British-led investigation was continuing and Gillen declined to comment on any possible arrests. Europol, the European police agency, has been coordinating cross-border efforts to take down criminal infrastructure on the internet and prosecute offenders.
Better start exercising those fingers and rehearsing your rock stances: the hugely popular music game Guitar Hero could be about to tune up and hit the stage again.Gaming news site Kotakureportsthat Activision could announce a new title at the giant E3 games convention in Los Angeles in June.Launched in 2005 and originally developed by music specialist Harmonix, the Guitar Hero series became a major entertainment phenomenon, selling more than 25m copies and kickstarting a huge industry trend for audio gaming.Players used a plastic guitar controller to strum along with a series of licensed rock tracks, using a combination of buttons and a slider control to emulate the instrument.The first title was an instant hit, inspiring four major sequels as well as a range of spin-offs and add-ons, including the turntable-based DJ Hero.After the Activision purchase, Harmonix was bought by MTV Networks for $175m and later launched a new music series, Rock Band, which added drums to the familiar gameplay.Activision axed the Guitar Hero series in 2011, after poor sales of the 2010 instalment Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock. By this time, the market was saturated, and gamers were tired of constantly purchasing and updating new titles and controllers.“I think the road to rejuvenating that category goes through innovation,” said Activision chief executive Eric Hirshbergat the time. “The premise of Guitar Hero – that everyone has an inner rock star – it’s something that we’ve all done forever. Some version of singing into a hairbrush, or holding a tennis racket like a guitar, or singing karaoke, or singing into the bathroom mirror – we all do that.”According to Kotaku, the new Guitar Hero, which is likely to premiere on Xbox One and PlayStation 4, is set to feature a more realistic look in contrast to the exaggerated cartoonish visuals of previous instalments.It is not clear which studio will be working on the comeback title, though Activision has closed both Neversoft, the team that took over the series after the departure of Harmonix, and RedOctane, the original publisher of the games.It is unlikely, though, that Guitar Hero will have the stage to itself. There is alsospeculationthat Electronic Arts has plans to rejuvenate its rival Rock Band series, again for the current consoles.
There have been myriad attempts to marry television and games into “holistic transmedia experiences” – and the results have often been as bad as the phrase itself.All that could be about to change following a decision by film and television studio Lionsgate to make a “significant” investment in Telltale Games, the developer of episodic adventure games based on The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones.The two are to collaborate on what the companies are calling a “super show” – a drama series that features both television and game elements.Telltale chief executive Kevin Brunertold Entertainment Weeklythat the linear and interactive elements will work together in an episodic format. “Each super show episode [the interactive game and the scripted episode] will be released as a package designed so that you can consume the interactive portion or watch the scripted show portion in any order you’d like,” he said.Lionsgate diversifies“For instance, if you play the interactive episode first, certain elements of the scripted episode portion will be tailored to reflect some choices made in your interactive play-through. If you watch the show before playing, some elements in the interactive portions may be presented differently than if you played first.”Lionsgate has been looking to diversify its entertainment business. The studio best known for the Hunger Games franchise and acclaimed TV dramas such as Mad Men and Orange Is The New Black,set up its own game development studiolast April.Meanwhile, Telltale Games has carved out a niche as a specialist developer of episodic narrative dramas, based around well-known TV and game brands.The company’s Walking Dead titles have sold 8.5m copies and it has just announced a new series based in the Minecraft universe.Related:Minecraft: Story Mode spin-off game announced by MojangThis is not the first tie-in between television and interactive gaming content. Some experiments have sought to slot TV content into narrative gaps between gaming instalments. The Halo: Nightfall live-action TV series for example, takes place between the games Halo 4 and Halo: Guardians.Other projects have tried to combine interactive and linear components – US sci-fi series Defiance is accompanied by a massively-multiplayer role-playing game, with battles in the latter originally planned to have ramifications for the television plotline. However, the interconnectivity between the two hasproved limiteddue to differences in production schedules.Meanwhile, Microsoft is yet to release Quantum Break, the combined game and digital television series, which was announced with much hype at the launch of the Xbox One console.In May 2013, Microsoft promised that player actions in the game would have an effect on the live-action TV series, and vice versa. The game is expected to released later this year. However, last July Microsoft hasclosed its Xbox Entertainment Studios arm, which was created to work on transmedia projects.Telltale told Entertainment Weekly that it still planned to work on traditional narrative games alongside its super show plans. There was also the possibility of adventure games based around Lionsgate properties.“We have a ton of respect for the IP [intellectual property] they own and control,” said Bruner. “We will continue to explore how we can work together on some of their IP just as we have been doing for some time, but there’s nothing to announce right now.”Certainly the prospect of an Orange is the New Black adventure game would be an intriguing one, with its large cast of female prison inmates and challenging, adult themes – though Hunger Games: the Adventure is probably more likely.
It’s Wednesday! And don’t forget, there are still tickets available to our‘meet the game writers’ event on March 4. Come along and ask why I never get Chatterbox ready on time!
Apple has been ordered to pay more than $530m after a federal jury in Texas found its iTunes software infringed three patents owned by a patent licensing company called Smartflash.AlthoughSmartflashhad been asking for $852m in damages, the verdict handed down on Tuesday night was still a blow to Apple.The jury, which deliberated for eight hours, determined Apple had not only used Smartflash’s patents without permission, but did so wilfully.The patents concerned digital rights management, data storage and payment systems.Apple, which said it would appeal, said the outcome was another reason that reform was needed in the patent system to curb litigation by companies that do not make products themselves.“Smartflash makes no products, has no employees, creates no jobs, has no US presence, and is exploiting our patent system to seek royalties for technology Apple invented,” said Apple’s Kristin Huguet. “We refused to pay off this company for the ideas our employees spent years innovating, and unfortunately we have been left with no choice but to take this fight up through the court system.”‘Very happy’Smartflash sued Apple in May 2013, alleging its iTunes software infringed its patents related to accessing and storing downloaded songs, videos and games.“Smartflash is very happy with the jury’s verdict, which recognises Apple’s longstanding wilful infringement,” said Brad Caldwell, a lawyer for Smartflash.The trial was held in Tyler, Texas, which over the past decade has become a focus for patent litigation. Smartflash’s registered office is also located in Tyler.Related:New Apple patents seek total dominance of selfie marketIt was also in Tyler federal court that a jury in 2012ordered Apple to pay $368mto VirnetX for patent infringement. A federal appeals court later rejected that damages figure, saying it was wrongly calculated.Apple tried to avoid a trial by having the lawsuit thrown out. However, US district judge Rodney Gilstrap, who presided over the case, ruled earlier this month that Smartflash’s technology was not too basic to deserve the patents.Apple had asked the jury to find Smartflash’s patents invalid because previously patented inventions covered the same technology.Smartflash’s suit said that about 2000, the co-inventor of its patents, Patrick Racz, had met with executives of what is now European SIM card maker Gemalto, including Augustin Farrugia, who is now a senior director at Apple.Smartflash has also filed patent infringement lawsuits against Samsung, HTC and Google.
Can you really detect the melanoma type of skin cancer by taking a photograph of a mole using your smartphone? The US Federal Trade Commission’s latest action provides strong encouragement to be wary of such claims.The FTC hasreached settlementswith two firms marketing melanoma detection apps MelApp and Mole Detective, and plans to file claims against another company that did not agree to settle.Both apps involved people taking photos of suspicious moles, then providing a risk assessment of how likely they were to be melanoma, with the aim of helping users decide whether to visit their doctor.“The FTC alleged that the marketers deceptively claimed the apps accurately analysed melanoma risk and could assess such risk in early stages,” explained the regulator. “The marketers lacked adequate evidence to support such claims.”Mole Detective’s initial marketer, New Consumer Solutions, has been fined $3,930, while MelApp’s maker Health Discovery Corporation has been fined $17,963, with both barred from making “misleading or unsubstantiated health claims” about products in the future.According to the FTC’s complaints, MelApp was released in 2011, with the $1.99 app for iOS and Androidgoing on to make more than $17k of revenuesbetween January 2011 and July 2013. The Mole Detective suite of apps, meanwhile,generated more than $50k of salesbetween January 2012 and December 2013 in the US alone.Related:FTC in talks with Apple over health data protection – Open Thread“Truth in advertising laws apply in the mobile marketplace,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. “App developers and marketers must have scientific evidence to support any health or disease claims that they make for their apps.”Scrutiny of apps claiming to provide early detection of melanoma is not a new thing. In January 2013, aresearch paper published in the Archives of Dermatologyexamined four apps, and found that their accuracy in identifying lesions that were melanomas varied between 6.8% and 98.1%.Those that performed best involved sending the mole photos to qualified dermatologists to study, rather than trying to detect melanoma using an algorithm.
BlackBerry will have fewer than 1 million users outside businesses in the UK by the end of the year, a radical slump from a peak of nearly 8 million in June 2012, according to new research from two companies.The dramatic fall from grace of the iconic mobile phones, which wereblamed for spreading unrest during the London riots of summer 2011, follows a series of high-profile and expensive flops – first with its PlayBook tablet and then with the touchscreen Z10 phone, as it tried to catch rivals such as Samsung and Apple.The firm has also plunged into operating losses and seen revenues dwindle for 11 of the past 12 quarters. In a bid to cut costs, it has fired thousands of staff.Now new research from eMarketer provided exclusively to the Guardian paints a bleak picture for the company. It says it may have as few as 700,000 non-business users in the UK, and that by 2017 the figure could fall to 400,000.These latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in drovesBill Fisher, eMarketerSeparately, another research company, Kantar Worldpanel, told the Guardian that although BlackBerry’s data currently shows 1.4 million non-business users, it is losing 56,000 users every month to other platforms such as Apple’s iPhone, Google’s Android and Microsoft’s Windows Phone. “I’d expect we would see fewer than a million people with a BlackBerry as their primary handset around September 2015,” Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at Kantar, said.The UK used to be one of BlackBerry’s biggest and most loyal markets – but the collapse in consumer base will create financial problems for the company, which under its new chief executive John Chen has retrenched to its original corporate and government roots, where it is prized for its levels of security. But both Apple and Samsung have begun to make inroads there, winning approval from the US and UK governments for their handsets to be used in low-level security work.BlackBerry’s revenues rely heavily on handset sales: Chen has said that it needs to sell 10m per year to be profitable. But falling user numbers mean fewer sales and a spiralling problem for the company.“BlackBerry’s fall from grace has been spectacular, but these latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in droves,” said Bill Fisher, UK analyst at eMarketer. “Its market share has been decimated by Android and iOS, and more recently by Windows Phone, which is slowly gaining a foothold in the UK market.”The company has not been helped by high-profile missteps, such as a software update last Thursday that left LadyTanni Grey-Thompson, the paralympic medallist and parliamentarian, bemoaning the random shuffling of her contacts book. She has threatened to dump BlackBerry for another maker.@O2software upgrade... vast maj on contacts are muddled.  so phone calls to husband Ian are listed as Rod.  wrong email add and random job&mdash; Tanni Grey-Thompson (@Tanni_GT)February 23, 2015BlackBerry had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.Among UK smartphone users, Google’s Android makes up 56.2%, comprising 21.5 million owners, says eMarketer, while Apple’s iPhone has 12.3 million users, or 32.2%. Microsoft’s Windows Phone has 3.3 million users, or 8.5%, and BlackBerry’s sub-1 million users make up just 1.9%. Kantar puts Apple’s figure higher, at 13.4 million (38.1%) and Android’s lower, at 17.4 million (49.6%), with Windows Phone users totalling 2.3 million (6.5%).Sunnebo said the shift pointed to wider challenges in the phone market. “What this does mean is that ‘easy wins’ in the UK market are coming to an abrupt end. With only 2.1 million customers of old platforms like BlackBerry, Palm, [Nokia] Symbian and [Samsung] Bada left, brands can only really win significant numbers of new customers from consumers already using modern, competitive platforms.”
Longstanding allegations that women are routinely discriminated against in Silicon Valley were being aired in open court on Tuesday when a former venture capital executive began a $16m sexual discrimination lawsuit against top tech investor Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Ellen Pao, 45, who worked for Kleiner Perkins between 2005 and 2012, claimed the firm held back her career and excluded her from meetings after she complained about harassment by a married male colleague with whom she claimed she was pressured into having an affair. She has accused Kleiner Perkins of treating her “despicably, maliciously, fraudulently and oppressively”.Among Pao’s claims was the allegation that she, and other women, were excluded from an important Kleiner Perkins dinner because they would “kill the buzz”. She also claims that women were barred from work trips on private jets to ski resorts, and were regularly excluded from important meetings or ignored and asked to take notes.Kleiner Perkins denies all the allegations. It said Pao, who is now interim chief executive of Reddit, failed at the company because she could not lead others and was not a team player. The firm, which was an early investor in Google and Amazon, also pointed out that 20% of its senior partners are women and said it invests in startups run by women at four times the rate of the wider industry.While there have been many claims of sexual harassment and discrimination in Silicon Valley, this is the first high-profile case not to have been settled out of court before trial.On Tuesday Pao’s attorney, Alan Exelrod, told the jury at San Francisco Superior Court that “Kleiner Perkins had promoted just one woman to senior investing partner by 2011, despite being in business for about 40 years.“Was there a level playing field for Ellen Pao at Kleiner Perkins?” Exelrod said. “We will prove to you in this case that there was not.“She [Pao], like the men, has a science background. An engineering degree from Princeton. She, like the men, has a business degree. A business degree from Harvard.”“Kleiner Perkins used Ellen Pao’s talents for six years, but when it came time to choose the next generation of leaders at Kleiner Perkins, Kleiner only chose men,” according tothe San Jose Mercury News’s liveblog of the opening statementsfrom inside the courtroom.Exelrod said Ajit Nazre, the Kleiner Perkins with whom Pao had an affair, wanted to “punish” her after she ended the relationship. He claimed Pao was excluded from meetings and emails. The couple first had sex at a work event, according to court papers.In another instance, Exelrod claimed that on Valentine’s Day in 2007 senior Kleiner Perkins partner Randy Komisar gave Pao a signed copy ofLeonard Cohen’s The Book of Longingwhich she took as sexual advance. “The problem was the book had very erotic poetry in it and Cohen’s many sketches of naked women,” the attorney said.In court papers, Kosimar has said that the book was a return gift after Pao gave him a statue of a Buddha. Kosimar said his wife picked out the Cohen book as the appropriate gift.Lynne Hermle, attonery for Kleiner Perkins, accused Pao of twisting the facts. “There is an entirely different explanation for Ellen Pao’s clear failure to succeed as a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins,” she said in the defence’s opening statement, according to the Mercury’s liveblog. “Ellen Pao fails to meet her burden of proof even though she repeatedly and consistently seeks to twist facts, circumstances and events.“Pao did not succeed at Kleiner Perkins as an investing professional because she didn’t have the necessary skills for the job. She did not come close. Despite her own belief that she was outstanding in those areas, the evidence will show that just isn’t true.”The defence said Kleiner Perkins founder John Doerr had made it his “mission” to increase the number of women in venture capital.Women hold 11% of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies compared to 16% across the top 100 Standard &amp; Poor’s firms, according to a report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. Silicon Valley firms board’s are on average 15.7% female compared with 20.9% in the S&amp;P 100.“Most of the companies that released data publicly acknowledged that the numbers reveal ample room for improvement, and many of them committed to increasing the number of women and minorities in the workplace,” the report said.Venture capital firms are even less diverse than the technology companies in which they invest. Babson College’sDiana Report, a research initiative working to increase the number of female entrepreneurs, found that the number of female partners in VC firms decreased from 10% in 1999 to 6% in 2014.The report found that 97% of VC-funded businesses had male chief executives, and businesses with all-male teams are more than four times more likely to receive VC funding as teams with one or more women.Several technology workers were excused from the jury, which is made up of five men and seven women and includes a physical therapist, a male prison nurse, a Genentech manager, a painter and a teacher’s assistant.The case continues.
Later this week, a Jumbotron will arrive outside the Washington DC offices of the Federal Communications Commission. The giant screen being erected by internet activists at OpenMedia will broadcast messages calling on the regulator to keep standing up for strong rules to protect an open internet. But this is not so much a protest as an early celebration, complete with a gif, a Lolcat and a proclamation:WE CAN HAZ NET NEUTRALITY?The animated cats have almost certainly won this round. But as net-neutrality activists know, it won’t be long before the Republicans strike back.On Wednesday, the most vocal congressional committee will start to investigate claims the FCC has been railroaded into voting through new rules governing the broadband industry after undue pressure from the president. The hearing of the House oversight committee will begin before the regulators’ landmark vote on Thursday because, by now, the result is a foregone conclusion:the FCC is now committed to protecting net neutrality– the concept that all information and services should be entitled to a level playing field online.But hearings are just the beginning of a series of attacks on the FCC’s proposals likely to build momentum ahead of the 2016 election. Republicans are convinced that Democrats aim to paint them as enemies of a free internet – and having lost ground, they are launching an early campaign of their own to win back the debate.According to Greg Walden, the Republican chairman of the House communications and technology subcommittee, the FCC has been bullied into supporting the open regulations by an Obama administration intent on using a hot-button issue for political gain.Walden’s investigation followsreports in the Wall Street Journalthat the White House set up a “shadow FCC” (codename:Obamanet) in the months leading up to Thursday’s vote. This secret task force was charged with building a case to regulate broadband under Title II of the Communications Act – the toughest set of rules available to the FCC that give the regulators utility-like jurisdiction over broadband in the future.“The closer we get to the FCC rubber-stamping President Obama’s internet grab, the more disturbing it becomes,” Walden said in a statement announcing the hearing.A generaloutline of the new net-neutrality planshas been disclosed, but so far just a handful of Washington insiders have seen the details. By Friday, the FCC’s two Republican commissioners will be free to give their detailed objections to the proposals. They are preparing to blow holes in the outline, highlighting legal issues that will be seized on instantly by Title II’s vociferous opponents.The two commissioners, Ajit Pai and Michael O’Rielly, have fought to have the released ahead of the vote. “With the future of the entire internet at stake, it is imperative that the FCC get this right. And to do that, we must live up to the highest standards of transparency,” they wrote in a statement.Their internet-activist opponents support the transparency, but critics charge the move is an attempt at further delaying the long-anticipated FCC vote.In the meantime, Republican senator John Thune is working on a bill that would trump the FCC’s plans, with the broadband industry lining up to sue.Michael Powell, the chairman of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, has called Title II a “fatal step”, and pushed back onObama’s call in November for the FCC to make the “strongest rules possible”in protecting net neutrality. Powell’s powerful lobby group has intimated likely action after it sees the more specific FCC new rules.Activists lobbied against the plans to create ‘fast lanes’ for customers who could pay more.Photograph: Free Press/flickrFor some on the right, however, this Thursday’s FCC vote is more about the 2016 election than net neutrality. They charge politics was the real reason that Obama stepped into a debate that has consumed potential voters that may not fall into typical Democrat or Republican territory.“There’s never been an issue like this where the president has taken such an active roll,” said Berin Szoka, president of the thinktank TechFreedom. “They are making this an issue that they can keep milking politically.”Szoka was one of the panelists at an Lincoln Labs’s Reboot Congress conference earlier this month in Washington. Lincoln Labs, a libertarian technology lobby group, pulled in an all-star gathering of Republicans – including likely presidential candidates Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Carly Fiorina – for the conference at the US Chamber of Commerce. At the meeting, Senator Thune said Title II is a“terrible”idea.On stage, Szoka won a round of applause after he told Nick Grossman, the general manager of tech investor Union Square Ventures that Title II was the last thing his industry needed. “We could resolve all of these issues in Congress,” said Szoka. “If your community had spent a fraction of the time pushing for a legislative solution or had the president asked for one, we’d be done.”With the current timing, a court case – or a congressional battle – could be reaching a peak just as the 2016 midterms campaigns begin in earnest. So farRepublicans have fared badlyin the net neutrality debate.There is a whiff of sour grapes. One telecoms lobbyist, speaking anonymously, said the net neutrality debate had been hijacked by the left and Democrats smarting after their midterm election defeat. The White House has made “a cynical political calculation that this is an opportunity to reinvigorate the net roots base”, the lobbyist told the Guardian.“They lost them on Snowden. This is an easy call.”But Republicans – and their supporters in the business community – believe they have a fighting chance on net neutrality. Outside the Chamber of Commerce’s imposing Hall of Flags this month, Garrett Johnson – a Lincoln Labs founder and a former special assistant to another presidential candidate, Florida governor Jeb Bush – said that once the details of the orders were out, opponents would have more to work with and he was confident of winning support in the tech community.“I don’t think the tech community is fully on board with the idea of giving a Washington bureaucracy a blank cheque to decide how the internet is managed,” Johnson said. “The end result will be more regulation and less innovation.”It’s been over a year since the courts effectively overthrew the FCC’s authority to regulate broadband internet. The case, brought by Verizon, came after a series of skirmishes with broadband providers, but left a deep a split in the industry. Many cable operators were happy (enough) with the old regulatory regime – the Open Internet Order of 2010 – and feared that vacating the old rules could pave the way for tougher ones.And so it came to pass. While the FCC licked its wounds and worked on new rules, internet activists organised a mesmerisingly effective lobbying campaign in support of Title II. The campaign spurred president Obama into action and triggered a U-turn from the FCC, which only last May was proposing a “hybrid” solution that would have allowed the broadband companies to create high speed fast lanes for some paying clients.That proposal elicitedhowls of protestacross the internet and from companies including Etsy, Netflix, Reddit and others which charged that it would end net neutrality and make it impossible for new companies, without access to fast lanes, to compete.Senator Ted Cruz summed up what appeared to be the Republican position on the debate with a tweet late last year:&quot;Net Neutrality&quot; is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.&mdash; Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz)November 10, 2014What a difference a few months make. Most of Cruz’s colleagues are now on board for “net neutrality”. Thune’s proposals would also ban fast lanes and prevent broadband firm’s from “throttling” – slowing down – services. Now they have to convince a sceptical public.Republicans face an uphill battle, Szoka insisted, beginning Thursday.“Most of all because net neutrality sounds like mom and apple pie. Nobody can be against it,” he said. “The real fight has become about legal authority, which is what it always has been.”
Pebble, the company that ignited the smartwatch market with its $10.3m (£6.7m) crowdfunding campaign in 2012, has returned to Kickstarter with a new device calledPebble Time.The new version has a colour e-ink screen, a claimed battery life of seven days, and is 20% thinner than Pebble’s previous smartwatches. It can also track its wearer’s activity with a built-in accelerometer like a fitness band.Pebble Time’s crowdfunding campaign went live at 3pm GMT, and hit its $500k funding goal 17 minutes later. It then became the fastest Kickstarter campaign to hit $1m in 30 minutes and $2m in 58 minutes. It will cost $159 (£103) for 5,000 “early bird” backers, although its regular price once it launches in May will be $199 (£129).Related:2015 gears up to be the year of wearable techPebble Time on Kickstarter.The device is one of only very few smartwatches that will work with multiple smartphones, rather than just being restricted to Android or iPhone, such as, respectively, Android Wear smartwatches or the upcoming Apple Watch.While Pebble’s new device also includes a microphone for dictating voice replies to messages, its key feature – if it delivers on its promise – will be the week-long battery life. As a comparison, the best Android Wear watches manage three days, while the Apple Watch is expected to need a nightly recharge.Unlike those devices, though, the Pebble Time has no touchscreen. Instead, it will be controlled by three buttons on its side to scroll through text and activate functions.Pebble has sold more than 1m smartwatches since its first model in 2012, and now has over 6,500 third-party apps and watch faces available, including apps for music playback and controlling smart-home devices.
We all basically communicate in hieroglyphs now, so news thatApple is road-testing a range of new emoji charactersis a big deal. “The limits of my language are the limits of my world,” as Wittgenstein put it, meaning our world has been limited to creepy ballerina twins and smiling turds for a while.The new range, included in the next update, is a response to criticisms over lack of diversity – particularly ethnic. Current emoji users wanting to move beyond the default white characters can choose between an Indian sporting a turban (or possibly head injury) and a Chinese man in a skullcap, both of whom look more like Indiana Jones sidekicks than accurate racial representations. Some users have resorted to using the dark moon emoji as an alt black face. Creative, but not ideal.Hurrah then, for skin-tone modifiers! The broader palette is based onthe Fitzpatrick scale of colour, created by a Harvard dermatologist. There are five new skins, from dark brown at one end to Berocca-lemon at the other, which we can only pray isn’t meant to represent an Inuk, or anyone outsideSpringfield.Other new emojis include families with same-sex parents, who look as unhappy as any nuclear family.These laudable additions bring a tear to the eye, whether that eye is blue or brown or yellow like hepatitis. But do they go far enough? There are notable absences – redheads continue to be denied a place at the emoji table. Men with beards, likewise. There are no afro emojis.If we want cartoon pixels to speak for us, must they not speak the whole truth?One day – we have a dream – there will be an emoji for everyone. Hipster on a fixie emoji. Maverick politician emoji. Benedict Cumberbatch emoji, emo emoji. Where are the women with beards? The emoji for when you’re only eating because you’re bored? The “looking at your partner and seeing a stranger” emoji? We must push further.But before those identifications can begin, we all need to be in the room. These new faces we will hold in our hands are another step toward inclusiveness.Ideally there’ll be some sort of ramification in political representation, and equality of pay. Maybe that’s in the update after the next one.
A helicopter swoops over a palatial mansion as armed gunmen burst in, jamming cartridges into their shotguns, preparing for an epic firefight. Pretty soon bullets are tearing up the interior as bodies crash through glass walls, and grenades pass the camera in slow-motion arcs. Quickly, the action cuts to a high-speed car chase, with vehicles plummeting along LA’s iconic storm drains. The shooting never stops.This is Battlefield: Hardline, the latest game in Electronic Arts’ long-running series of frenetic first-person shooters. As in previous instalments, players team up online to capture control points or carry packages through a gauntlet of enemy fire. But this time something’s different.In the past, the battles were based around fictitious military conflicts; in Hardline, the bullet-riddled face-offs are between almost comically ruthless criminals and loose-cannon cops. Now, players aren’t fighting over territory in some vague Middle-Eastern setting, they’re clashing over stolen cars, bank vaults and methamphetamine production compounds. The rules of engagement are the same though: in Hardline, as in previous Battlefield titles, the firefights are often decided by who gets in the first accurate shot.Some context. On 31 January,charges of reckless use of a firearm were dropped against police officer Joseph Weekley. He faced charges for fatally shooting a sleeping seven-year-old girl during a May 2010 police raid on her home in Detroit. He previously faced involuntary manslaughter charges, which were dismissed in October 2014 for a lack of evidence. The raid was filmed for an A&amp;E reality television program.In Hardline, the tanks and planes of previous games have gone, replaced by heavily armed officers, armoured trucks and helicopters. Grenades and rocket launchers are still a large part of gameplay, but there are also new law enforcement-themed additions. Here, players get to break out the tasers and tear gas – or in the game’s excitable parlance, “non-lethal takedowns”.More context. On 12 December 2014,US district court judge Carol Jackson issued a restraining order against Missouri policeon behalf of demonstrators protesting the shooting of Michael Brown. The order required the police to warn protesters and allow them to disperse before using tear gas.So this is the problem. Battlefield: Hardline is a war game reskinned as a cops-and-robbers fantasy: the criminals are action-movie caricatures (they rob banks by blowing holes in the walls and steal sports cars to joyride around the city) and the cops are equally gung-ho.Yet the game is being marketed at a time in which we could turn on the news at any minute and see armoured cars full of police in riot gear rolling down major city streets. Now even elements clearly cribbed from action movies recall recent and all-too-familiar instances of police brutality.At the Gamescom festival last August, the Hardline developers showed a tutorial where the player sneaks up on a criminal to strangle him with his handcuffs; it was difficult not to think ofthe 17 July choking death of New York man Eric Garnerat the hands of police officer Daniel Pantaleo.The Battlefield series has always been known for a verisimilitudinous approach to war games, with realistic ballistics and lethality – even if you do get to rejoin the fight a few seconds after death. And it’s true that war games have always glorified the military and dehumanised their targets. Marry this approach to a game about police and thieves, though, and you get uncomfortably close to home. Hardline is a game about policing in a fantasy world where crooks are signposted and deadly force is always justified. But perhaps we need to juxtapose this with a real world where police officers who hold those attitudes are shooting innocent people.Officer Darren Wilson, who shot and killed Ferguson teenager Michael Brown on 9 August,described the teenager as having a face “like a demon” and the suburb of St. Louis as “not an area where you can take anything really lightly” and “a hostile environment”.Related:Battlefield: Hardline – hands-on with the cops and robbers shooterDeveloper Visceral Games (of Dead Space fame) or publisher EA could not have predicted Ferguson, or how it brought racial policing tensions in the United States to the forefront. EA seems to be aware of the problem, as itdelayed Hardline five months from its previously-planned October release. If the publisher had hoped to outlast police brutality tensions, it is out of luck. After three months of deliberations,a grand jury declined to indict officer Darren Wilsonlast November. Tempers remain high,in St. Louis, Missouriandacross the United States.It’s too late for significant change. Hardline is fundamentally a game about impossibly well-armed and capable supercriminals and how the police are justified in arming themselves to the teeth to deal with them, shooting first and asking questions later. At a time when US police appear to be doing just that, despite the absence of this game’s unambiguous enemies, is such unreconstructed entertainment really acceptable?
Google is banning public explicit photos and videos from its blogging service Blogger, and giving affected users just one month to comply.The new rules require any blog with “sexually explicit or graphic nude images or video” to take them down by 23 March, or the blog will be made private by Google. A private blog can only be seen by the owner or admins of the blog, and people who the owner has shared the blog with.Google promises that the majority of users of the service, which Google acquired from Twitter co-founder Evan Williams’ Pyra Labs in 2003, won’t see any change from the new rules. But many users are concerned that the new rules represent a huge about-turn from Google’s previously stated support of explicit material on its platform. The company’s previous policy said: “We do allow adult content on Blogger, including images or videos that contain nudity or sexual activity … All blogs marked as ‘adult’ will be placed behind an ‘adult content’ warning interstitial.” Its only exceptions were to ban illegal explicit content, explicit images shared without the subject’s consent (commonly known as “revenge porn”) and making money on adult content.Zoe Margolis, author of the Girl with a One Track Mind books and sex blog,joined Blogger in 2004. She says that “either Google believes in freedom of expression, or it doesn’t. Restricting blogs which contain explicit content to ‘private only’ effectively kills them off. This is like offering a library where all the books in it are invisible to the readers unless an author is standing there and personally hands each reader a copy of their book.”“Many blogs, mine included, have been on Blogger for well over a decade. These blogs are not just part of a community which offers an alternative, sex-positive, supportive network, but they also make up how the web functions: millions of interconnected links. By making these blogs invitation only, it immediately kills off all those connections, resulting in people visiting non-existent pages and all the links they click on being dead. A long-standing community will be killed off overnight.”Activist Lauren Weinstein wrote: “I find it disrespectful to users for Google to announce apparently with only 30 days notice that they are summarily banning most explicit materials from Blogger. It is utterly within their rights to do so, but the lack of longer notice (absent specific legal constraints), and a total lack of any explanation in the announcement for this change (only perfunctory operational details), are extremely disappointing.Google says it will still allow some forms of nudity on the service “if the content offers a substantial public benefit, for example in artistic, educational, documentary, or scientific contexts.” It also provides instructions for users who want to migrate elsewhere.Although the search firm isn’t known for taking a prudish attitude to content, explicit videos are also banned on YouTube, the biggest site Google has where it directly hosts user content.The site’s rules state: “YouTube is not for pornography or sexually explicit content. If this describes your video, even if it’s a video of yourself, don’t post it on YouTube.”Other Google services that host user-uploaded content have similar polices. Google Plus, the company’s social network,warns users: “Do not distribute content that contains nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit material.” Its rules for profile pictures are even stricter: “Do not use a photo that is a close-up of a person’s buttocks or cleavage.”
Volvo will test 100 of its autonomous cars on public roads driven in normal traffic by members of the public by 2017.The car manufacturer announced a collaboration with Swedish legislators and transport authorities to test the cars on 30 miles of roads around Gothenburg by 2017, marking Volvo’s first public pilot of fully autonomous vehicles.“We are entering uncharted territory in the field of autonomous driving,” said Peter Mertens, senior vice president of research and development for Volvo. “Taking the exciting step to a public pilot, with the ambition to enable ordinary people to sit behind the wheel in normal traffic on public roads, has never been done before.”Participants in the trial will have to be sober and competent to take over controls at any time. Volvo claims its Drive Me system is capable of handling a range of driving conditions including “smooth commuting to heavy traffic and emergency situations” although its test roads will be without pedestrians, cyclists or on-coming traffic.Related:'Driverless' Volvo S60 – car reviewWhether this kind of autonomous driving where the driver isn’t paying attention will ever be legal is up for debate.Photograph: VolvoThe pilot forms part of Volvo’s ambitious plan to make it so that no one is either seriously injured or killed in one of its cars from 2020, which the company says is only possible by integrating automated technology.Volvo has taken a slightly different approach to automated vehicles compared to most car manufacturers and technology companies, including Google. Its first tests were of road trains on motorways, where drivers could join a line of cars that would autonomously match speed and follow the lead car.But this new test will take the company’s full autonomous system out into the real world.Related:Driverless cars set to roll out for trials on UK roads“It is relatively easy to build and demonstrate a self-driving concept vehicle, but if you want to create an impact in the real world, you have to design and produce a complete system that will be safe, robust and affordable for ordinary customers,” said Erik Coelingh one of Volvo’s technical specialists. “Making this complex system 99% reliable is not good enough. You need to get much closer to 100% before you can let self-driving cars mix with other road users in real-life traffic.”Volvo is concentrating on cars made for a traditional ownership model. Other groups, includingprojects running in the UKand Google’s self-driving cars are looking at autonomous vehicles as a form of public transport.
In science fiction, robots are usually attempting to take over the world and kill us all. In real life, it turns out they can be rather useful for cleaning the lounge carpet. Terminator – of dust!The iRobot Roomba 880 is the current king of the robotic vacuums, but is it any good and how does it compare to a standard vacuum?What is that thing against the wall?The Roomba certainly doesn’t look like vacuum. The puck-shaped disc is approximately the size of a car’s steering wheel in diameter and the height of a mug.On the top are four buttons and a handle, with a big central “clean” power button and four other buttons with which to set the clock, cleaning schedule, return the robot to its dock, or concentrate on a single, troublesome spot. Hasta la vista, dog hair...ProgrammingScheduling is easy – just select the day, set the time and hit ok.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianProgramming the robot for a schedule is easy. Select the day, input a time and press “OK”. As long as the clock is set correctly, the Roomba will trundle off on a cleaning run and return to base when it has finished, or run out of battery.In testing, I experienced a couple of issues with the clock going wrong, once caused by a power surge, and once when the Roomba got trapped in a room and ran out of battery. It lost time when it was recharged and I failed to notice, which meant it turned on in the middle of the night and woke everyone up.The Roomba 880 is capable of cleaning several rooms on one charge, and will spend a maximum of 25 minutes in each room before moving on. Two “Virtual Wall Lighthouses” are included in the box. They simulate a wall in doorways, preventing the robot from passing into the next room until it has finished in the first, and then help it find its way back to the charging base.Once the robot has finished cleaning, or when the bin is full or the battery runs low, it will automatically return to the charging dock.CleaningThe Roomba cleans well, just not like a human, and with numerous little beeps and clicksDisappointingly, on its first outing the robot doesn’t clean as well as a human with a decent, ordinary vacuum cleaner. But Roomba is designed to clean once a day rather than once a week, which means the first run takes a while because the bin is small and has to be emptied several times.After a couple of days the bin only needs emptying once or twice a week, depending on the floor type and size of the cleaning area. In a medium-sized two-bedroom flat, I ended up emptying the bin and cleaning the filters once a week.The spinning bush and central suction band do a solid job of cleaning even the edges of a room. Some spots that Roomba can’t reach will need to be cleaned with a handheld vacuum – including stairs – but overall the cleaning is quite impressive.The 880 also comes with a remote control, which can be used to steer it towards a particularly dirty patch. It can also be used to steer the robot away if it gets stuck under something, though generally it can get under most furniture without an issue.If the brush gets tangled up with cables or loose paper, the main suction channel can be removed and cleaned by releasing a few screws or clips – a two minute job.The robot will have a go at pretty much anything left on the floor, including cables, but it can’t handle the stairsMaintenanceThe drop sensors, the bin, the air filters and the front wheel need regular maintenance: iRobot recommends once a week, but you can probably get away with less than that. The air filters need cleaning by just tapping on the side when the robot’s bin is emptied.Emptying the bin and cleaning the filter is a two-minute job.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe iRobot Roomba 880 costs £600, which is at least £300 more than most other normal vacuum cleaners.VerdictThe Roomba lives on its dock that needs to be placed against a wall clear of anything in front of it.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iRobot Roomba 880 is a much better vacuum cleaner than you’d expect. As a robot it does what it says on the tin – cleans the floor when you set it to and returns to base afterwards. It requires little in the way of maintenance and just gets on with the job.But it does take on a life of its own. I have become surprisingly attached to it, like a little robotic cleaning pet. When it has caught and screwed up bits of paper or got stuck somewhere, I’ve felt more sorry for it than annoyed. I’ve then made a special effort to keep things off the floor, which is all round a good thing.Related:Parrot Bebop drone review: bird's eye video without a sky-high priceWhether the 880 is worth the cost over a traditional vacuum cleaner comes down to how much you dislike vacuuming. Cheaper Roomba models are available which are more in line with the cost of a traditional cleaner, plus it probably works out cheaper than hiring a human cleaner.For those that are very tidy and constantly clean, the Roomba probably isn’t for you, but for the rest of us, robotic vacuum cleaners are finally worth buying. I’m even thinking about buying another one for upstairs.Pros:hassle-free cleaning, that just-vacuumed feeling without the effort every day, easy to maintain and programme, remote control, effective cleaningCons:expensive, will need another cleaner for the stairs and odd bits, needs filters changingThe underside of the robot including the sensors lining the edges and the central spinning brushes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
We may rely on computers, but we don’t notice what they’re telling us about online threats. Google recently had to redesign the security warnings in its Chrome web browser because most people were ignoring them. What’s even more worrying is that our brains may be hardwired to do so.Like most browsers, when Chrome visits a web site it checks the site’s online proof of identity, called an SSL certificate. This certificate come from a third party authority, which performs a background check on the site before issuing it.Checking PayPal’s certificate ensures that you’re visiting the right PayPal, rather than a fake version created by scammers. If something looks wrong, the browser warns the user about it.Unfortunately, fewer than one in four Chrome users follow these warnings, found its development team, whichpublished the results in a paper recently. Given that more than one in ten users surf the web with Chrome, that’s a frightening statistic.The problem goes beyond mere SSL certificate warnings, say experts. Many people seem to ignore more or less everything that their computers warn them about.“When you’re posting on an online social network, you need to make a decision about to whom your post will be visible,” explains Lujo Bauer, an associate research professor at Carnegie Mellon University’s Cylab security research centre. “It’s not a warning, but it’s a security-related configuration choice that you have to make at that moment.”Related:From Goblin Panda to Flying Kitten: the latest online security threatsSo, why is it so difficult for users to follow simple security and privacy messages? Maybe it’s because they’re not that simple.Often, warnings describe what the problem is (“this site’s SSL certificate has expired!”) rather than what the consequences of continuing might be (“if you visit this site, it might infect your computer with malware that steals your bank details!”).Lujo co-authored a paper on effective warning designthat featured several key guidelines. They included describing the risk comprehensively, being concise, and offering meaningful choices about how to proceed.Google’s team reached similar conclusions. They stripped out the technical terms (most users don’t know what a certificate is, they found), and reduced the reading level by simplifying the text. That included making the text as brief as possible, even if it meant sacrificing detail.The Chrome developers also added illustrations to suggest danger, and started using background colours to represent different kinds and severity of threat.Giving your browser an opinionPerhaps the most significant design element that the team introduced was the use of ”opinionated design”. Instead of presenting evenly-balanced choices to the user, opinionated browsers can decide what the safest choice is and steer users towards it. They can highlight that choice by making the button bigger or bolder, perhaps, or even hiding unsafe choices behind one or more screens.Making browsers more opinionated is an important design choice, says Andreas Gal, chief technology officer at Mozilla, which created the Firefox browser. “Even though we prefer that the user decides things, in some cases, it simply doesn’t make sense. It’s simply impossible to explain something as complex as cryptography to many users,” he says. “You start making specific recommendations or judgements for the user.”This is an important weapon against one of the biggest challenges for security usability, said Raluca Budiu, senior researcher at usability consulting firm Nielsen Norman Group. She explains that the user makes a cost-benefit analysis when deciding whether to dismiss a warning.“The immediate cost of heeding the warning is high, because I will not be able to achieve my immediate goal, which is to reach the site and complete the bill payment or the status update that I had in mind,” she says. “The immediate benefit is low and abstract. The chance of my information being stolen is smaller if I heed the warning, but that does not really change or improve in any way my current state.”In short, users will prioritise immediate gain, and tend to dismiss consequences with no immediate visible effect.Building an opinionated browser certainly helped Chrome’s design team. After testing the new warning design, users didn’t really understand the warnings much more, but they did follow them: the adherence rate climbed to 62%.Still, that means that almost four in every ten Chrome users still fail to heed these warnings. Why? One of the most worrying answers is that we’re simply designed that way.Hardwired not to noticeAnthony Vance, assistant professor of information systems at Utah’s Brigham Young University, works in the neurosecurity lab there. The lab spends its time exploring how the brain interacts with cybersecurity issues. His team put test subjects in a magnetic resonance imaging machine to see what happened inside their brains when faced with software security warnings.“We used a variety of 40 different warnings – common ones of all kinds, like anti-virus warnings, software updates, and SSL warnings from browsers of all kinds,” says Vance. The results showed thatthe visual processing part of the brain stopped analysing the warningsafter seeing them more than once.This is a concept that he calls “habituation” – in short, people stop paying attention to warnings, the more they see them, and Vance says there’s a biological reason for it. “The first time that your brain experiences a stimulus, it devotes attention to it, but then for subsequent exposures, it relies on memory, and the response is far less,” he says.When you walk into your room for the hundredth time, you’re not really looking at your wallpaper Vance explains. Instead, your brain is painting a picture of it for you from memory. This leaves your brain free to focus on other things.Related:Security researcher publishes 10m usernames and passwords onlineThat’s fine for wallpaper that doesn’t change, but it’s problematic for computer warnings which may change frequently and present different information. “Some people think that users are lazy and inattentive,” says Vance, “but this is simply fundamental to our own biology.”Bauer’s design guidelines suggest consistency in warnings to make them more understandable for the user. Paradoxically, Vance’s research suggests the opposite. He tried to make polymorphic warnings, which are inconsistent, to keep the brain engaged.Switching colours, adding images randomly and including animated graphics are all ways to stop the brain relying on memory and persuading it to pay attention, he said. One of the most successful polymorphic warnings in his test even jiggled slightly.Who needs users, anyway?There are other solutions, according to Sigbørn Vik, who works in the security group at browser developer Opera. In some cases, developers can make habituation work positively for them.“What does work is using habituation positively,” he said. “That means getting users to expect a certain pattern.” That could be checking for certain ambient indicators that suggest a site is valid – and noticing when they’re not displayed.Others suggest just cutting the user out of the equation altogether. Melih Abdulhayoglu is founder and chief executive of Comodo, a company that both issues digital certificates and also sells anti-virus software. “The technology must solve the problem by making the decision on behalf of the user, and not interrupting them,” he said.Like many anti-virus systems, Comodo’s software uses blacklists to filter out known bad software. It also checks for software signed with digital certificates to help determine if it’s known and trusted. If it can’t classify software as good or bad, it runs it in a container, designed to limit the effect of the software on the system. That stops the software having to interrupt the user with prompts, he concluded.Deciding for the user isn’t possible 100% of the time, though, across every application, says Candid Wueest, principal threat researcher at Symantec. His company also tries to make as many decisions for the user as possible, but there may be some decisions where it might be necessary to ask the user about it, he warned.“It might be something the user actually wants to do, like changing the user’s home page in the browser,” Wueest said, arguing that both spyware and legitimate software sometimes tries to do this, as do users, manually.Browser vendors must be particularly careful here. There will also always be an expert that wants to override a browser warning for good reason, and if a browser is too prohibitive, users may simply use a competitor’s software instead.“We want people to be safe by default when using Chrome, but we also want to give people control over their browsing experience,” the Chrome development team told the Guardian in a statement. Users can still override warnings in the browser.Smaller screens and more complex choicesThis is a big enough problem on desktop browsers, but the stakes increase as devices get smaller, and choices become more complex. “Now with gadgets that collect lots of data, we have to make decisions about who to share it with,” said Bauer.Android applications often ask users to give them permissions for everything from contact info through to control of their phone, for example. How many of us take notice, and how many simply click ”ok” so that we can get on with the task in hand?Related:How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015Mozilla has tried to mitigate this problem by making mobile apps ask for permissions when they’re about to carry out a task, rather than when they’re installed. Gal calls this ”pay as you go security”.All of these approaches may get us closer to waking users up, but nothing trumps good old-fashioned education, says David Emm, principal security researcher at security software vendor Kaspersky Lab. Browser vendors can redesign warnings all they want, he said, “but if this is done in isolation and if there’s no wider learning context for it, this will always be much less effective”.What we need is a drip-fed online safety education, akin to the drink-driving road safety campaigns of the past, Emm warns. He believes that drumming online safety into people repeatedly is a vital component.We all remember the road safety slogans of the past. “Think once. Think twice. Think bike,” was one. “Clunk click with every trip” graced our TV screens for years. But somehow, “use caution when visiting sites with apparent SSL certificate disparities” doesn’t roll off the tongue. Anyone got any better ideas?
Hey it’s Tuesday. And while I’m here, why not buy a ticket for our second ‘Meet the Guardian games writers’ evening on March 4 at the Guardian office.All the details are here.
On the afternoon of 5th April 2007, my 16-year-old cousin Shivam was doing what he did almost every day at that time, walking back from school. Though this particular day was to be his last. He was struck by a vehicle while crossing the road and left seriously injured. He managed to drag himself to the side of the road and for the next 30 minutes begged passers-by to help him. While hundreds stopped, not one person came forward to assist him or even call for help. He died of treatable injuries.The circumstances surrounding his death became unacceptable to me. I learnt soon after that his death was not an isolated incident and that thousands of road crash victims in India die every year of treatable injuries, by the side of the road. They never get any assistance. Bystanders, who would otherwise become first responders to victims of natural disasters and even terror attacks, remain mute spectators to victims of road crashes.They fear police harassment, detention at hospitals and prolonged court proceedings, as confirmed later in a national study conducted by an organisation I established to tackle the issue.SaveLIFE Foundation(SLF) was my response to the disaster that road crashes had become in India, having affected millions of families including mine.SLF began by training police to become medical first responders to road crash victims. Their existing personnel and infrastructure helped rush injured persons to hospitals with first-aid provided by police personnel en route. SLF then focused on training community volunteers, who would typically be closer to crash spots than police vehicles.In 2009 we built a system to connect volunteers, police officers and hospitals through a mobile phone-based technology. This model to train, connect and mobilise police personnel and citizen volunteers won the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2010 and was rapidly adopted by the Indian government. To date, 150,000 injured persons have been rushed to various hospitals under this model with a survival rate of over 98%.In parallel, SLF also secured a judgment from the Supreme Court of India, which ordered the Indian Government to take appropriate and immediate action to protect Good Samaritans who help injured persons. The idea is to ensure that any citizen can become a rescuer with a supportive institutional environment.Working closely with police, hospitals and road crash victims gave us a unique exposure to the “actual” causes of road crashes in India. For instance, a tendency to blame road crashes on the the Indian way of driving meant that most interventions led to spreading “awareness” among drivers. The actual problem, meanwhile, lay in the institutional process (or lack of it) that allowed untrained drivers to get on the streets without any credible testing. The entire filtration process was compromised.Another actual cause of crashes – faulty road design and engineering – was rarely looked at as an issue. I discovered that the law governing road safety in India was so deeply fractured that not only did it not address the causes of road crashes but contained statutes that would in fact lead to horrific crashes. No wonder in the past decade more than1.2 million people have been killed in road crashes in Indiaand over five million left seriously injured or permanently disabled.I soon established the Policy Advocacy practice at SLF and began to demand complete institutional change. SLF built a six-pronged strategy to campaign for this change. The elements of this strategy ranged from building public pressure around the issue to forming alliances with like-minded organisations and invoking the Supreme Court of India to bring seek interim relief and attention to the issues. During this period we faced tremendous difficulties – from official apathy and lack of funding to death threats issued to me by mafia involved in the transportation business who would get directly “affected” by our work.We pushed through, got enormous support from public and media, and in June 2014, the Government of India agreed to our demand to repeal the old road safety laws and replace them with a comprehensive legislation. The key element of this legislation would be the establishment of an independent, empowered lead agency, which would finally take ownership for road safety in India and create sustainable interventions in each of the root causes responsible for the high number of road crashes in India.SLF was invited to contribute to the drafting of the bill and the draft legislation was finalised for introduction in parliament in December 2014. The bill is expected to be passed by the Indian parliament shortly. The next challenge would be to ensure that it is enforced across India and institutional mechanisms established at local levels to achieve that.Today SLF’s model is clear – we will fight for long-term institutional change and build on-ground proofs of concept. Just like our on-ground model of emergency care has been adopted for replication, our other interventions too will be designed such that institutional replication becomes possible.The vision of SLF is not to become the largest NGO in India. It is to reach a stage where it will not be required to exist, having achieved its mission. The fight to get there through positive, deep and lasting impact continues.Piyush Tewariis CEO and founder of theSaveLIFE Foundation. He was made aRolex Awards for EnterpriseYoung Laureate in 2010 for his work in the field of science and health.
A selection of Apple’s new racially diverse emoji.Photograph: AppleApple’s racially diverse emoji have landed, and they come in five shades of skin.On Monday Apple released beta updates to its OS X operating system, including a redesigned emoji keyboard with long-awaited skin tone modifiers, as first reported in9to5mac.Complaints about the lack of racial diversity in the emoji characters impelled the Unicode Consortium, an industry body devoted to developing software standards, toadd skin tone options. The tones are modelled on the Fitzpatrick scale, a recognised standard used by dermatologists.Previously there were only three characters which appeared to represent non-western people: a man wearing a cossack hat, a man with brown skin wearing a turban, and another man wearing a traditional Chinese skull cap – with noticeably smaller and more slanted eyes.Like all the human characters, these three male emojis now come in a generic bright yellow as the default option – which some media outlets have dubbed “jaundiced” but also recalls the skin colour used in The Simpsons – along with tone modifiers. Notably the character wearing a Chinese-style cap now has eyes the same size and shape as the others.A selection of the new emoji, including the character with the Chinese-style cap whose eyes have been widened and some families with parents of the same gender, another new feature of the emoji.Photograph: AppleOther additions include new same-sex relationship emojis, such as families with two mothers and two fathers. There will be 300 new emoji characters added altogether.The updates are currently only available to testers but will have an official release at some point in the coming months.Guardian Australia has contacted Unicode Consortium to ask when redheads will finally be given an emoji presence.
YouTube is launching a separate app for children which will filter out inappropriate content, hide comments on videos and which will not allow them to register and log in to its service.The YouTube Kids app launches today in the USfor Androidandfor iOSdevices, and the company intends to roll it out elsewhere in the future. The app will be free and funded by advertising, although YouTube says it will be carefully screening ads to ensure they are appropriate for children.“Parents have been asking us for years to build a friendlier version of YouTube for families,” product manager Shimrit Ben-Yair told the Guardian, citing data showing that while YouTube’s overall viewing time grew by 50% in 2014, this rose to 200% for “family entertainment” content.Related:This woman's thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you've never heard ofYouTube Kids groups videos into four categories: shows, music, learning and explore. Shows focuses on videos from familiar children’s TV brands like Sesame Street and Thomas and Friends; Music includes videos from nursery-rhyme channels like Mother Goose Club; and Learning gathers educational videos.Explore, meanwhile, will collect videos from other children’s channels on YouTube, from Minecraft gamers like Stampy to cooking and loom-band tutorials. “All the content that kids know and love on YouTube is here,” said Ben-Yair.The app’s four sections take the form of scrolling carousels of new videos, although there is also a search function that supports text or voice entry – the latter for younger children who aren’t yet reading and/or typing.Children who search for terms like “sex” will not find any videos, but instead will be presented with a message encouraging them to search for something else. Parents will be able to disable the search function, and set limits on the amount of time children can use the app for.“Kids are excellent negotiators, so we always want to arm parents with more tools to help in this ongoing battle of wills!” said Ben-Yair. “The timer lets this app be the bad guy, with parents setting it to how little or much they prefer.”Given its parent company – Google – YouTube will inevitably face scrutiny over how it plans to make money from the YouTube kids app, and what data it will be collecting from usage of it.Ben-Yair confirmed that there will be ads. “It was really important for us to make the app free and available to everyone, therefore it’s ad-supported,” she said. “We are taking a similar approach with the ads as with the content: narrowing it to what is family-friendly.”A playlist of the 10 top children’s channels on YouTube from December 2014.The app’s “logged-out” nature means the selection of videos will not be customised according to children’s viewing habits, unlike the full YouTube service. Ben-Yair suggested that such recommendations could be added “in the longer term” but stressed that YouTube will be guided by children’s privacy and marketing laws in its development of the app.In its first country, the US, the app is already operating under the strictCOPPA[Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act] legislation regarding the “individually identifiable information” that can be collected by internet services on children aged under 13.In part, YouTube Kids is a response to the huge number of children already watching videos on the main YouTube service, where they may encounter inappropriate videos and ads.How big is that audience? Ben-Yair told the Guardian that “family entertainment” videos are currently being watched for “millions” of hours every day on YouTube.In the UK, meanwhile,communications regulator Ofcom’s latest researchsuggests that more than half of 8-11 year-olds and three quarters of 12-15 year-olds watch YouTube, with a growing proportion of them saying they prefer YouTube to traditional TV.Related:YouTube's top 10 games channels watched 2.2bn times in JanuaryThese habits are why children’s channels are some of the most popular on YouTube. Toy-unboxing channel DC Toys Collector was the service’s second biggest channel in 2014,watched 3.2bn times that year, while child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampy was the fourth biggest with 2.2bn views.Toys, Minecraft, animation and music are the key video categories being watched by kids on YouTube, with other popular channels including The Diamond Minecart (1.6bn views in 2014), Blu Toys (1.5bn), Masha and the Bear (1.4bn), and Disney Car Toys (1.4bn).As a comparison, all the channels listed above were more popular in 2014 than the official channels of One Direction, Rihanna and Justin Bieber, to name just three traditional stars who also have big fanbases on YouTube.The launch of YouTube Kids is likely to spark more new channels aimed at children. Games networkRooster Teeth has already launched a Game Kids spin-off, whileStampy is preparing to launch a second channel focused on education.In the meantime, Google is planning to launch more services for children, according to a blog post by Ben-Yair and vice president of engineering Pavni Diwanji. “This is just our first step – we’ll keep tinkering and hope to have more great products for your family soon,”they wrote.
Professionals in both the business and sporting worlds increasingly exploit data analysis to inform team selection. But how exactly does the technology work, and what does the future of data-led team selection look like?Bill Gerrard is professor of business and sports analytics at the University of Leeds. Coaches at both national and club level have a huge amount of data available on player performance, Gerrard says, including tactical data on player actions and fitness data: “This allows coaches not only to assess player performance in individual games but also to detect potential trends, like a loss of form.”This, of course, is integral in aiding team selection. But, explains Gerrard, this is far more useful for national coaches who have a bigger pool of players to select from: “Data analysis offers a first cut to identify potential national squad players whom the coaches should scrutinise in more detail.”In non-team sport, data analysis is used in a different way. Jonathan Leeder, physiologist at theEnglish Institute of Sport(EIS), describes how they use data and technology to “really pull apart what it takes to win an Olympic medal”. This intelligence is then used to craft the training and resourcing of that athlete “to better prepare them and increase their chance of winning”.Unlike in team sports where competitor analysis is key, single athletes use data in a different way. “You’re trying to get from A to B as fast as you possibly can, and aren’t too bothered about what other nations are doing – you just need to be the fastest.” In this instance, Leeder explains: “Historical data is used to predict the winning time for the next Olympics. You then invest resource into what it takes to do that time and train athletes appropriately. It’s you against the clock.”No sufficient algorithmUsing data to recruit high-performance teams in the business world is arguably less reliable.AtPropel London, a specialist recruitment database technology is used to segment candidates according to multiple factors, which allows high volumes of candidate profiles to be sorted in a timely manner. James Webb, the firm’s managing director, does counter that “relying solely on technology to pick out specific data points would run the risk of the exclusion of certain people who may not have presented the information in a specific way”, which is why the human element in recruiting frequently outweighs the data.Scott Ross, chief technology officer at global marketing and technology agency,DigitasLBi, describes how their recruitment team utilises commercial tools and proprietary extensions to simplify the process of candidate data aggregation, and to provide scoring on basic metrics such as skill proficiency, demand potential, and acquisition cost. “We also combine this data with tenure analysis, helping our recruitment team identify candidates who may not be actively searching, but are on the lookout for their next opportunity,” he explains.Ross admits that his use of data to recruit is largely limited to human-driven interpretation of candidate performance data. “Simply put, there is neither a sufficient quantity, nor more importantly quality, of data points to gain real benefit from an algorithmic analysis,” he states.Behind every computer is a humanThe importance of human-driven interpretation, as raised by Ross, is one not to be under-estimated, and it’s worth exploring how, even when relying on data analytics, human involvement is still required.“People are trying to make it so that a computer can do the analysis,” says Leeder, but “as soon as you lose the human interface, that’s where it falls down. You still need an expert to interpret the data, you need a detailed understanding to realise what the data needs.” It’s for this reason that Leeder maintains that the requirement for human interaction will never be lost.Coaches need to not just interpret the data, but also help identify where additional information is needed. It is the role of the technical teams and analysts to identify where additional information could come from and then identify patterns in that data that could be of use to the coaches.Harry Jones is the co-founder &amp; chief technology officer atTop10. As he looks to recruit a high-performance team, he places only finite value in algorithms. “They only tell you half the story. Humans will always be needed to analyse other humans for job suitability,” he explains. “No matter how technical recruitment gets, personality will always be important.”Alec Dent, partnership manager, atBlaBlaCar, explains that it’s impossible to replace the human element in recruitment. “It’s all about fit – and an algorithm just can’t predict that yet. Still, we’re optimistic that as they develop, algorithms could eventually play a bigger role in our recruitment process.”Moneyball: the futureBut Dent’s vision seems to be, at present, just that. Consensus suggests that data analytics in business team selection is still a fairly immature field. While many CTOs and recruiters are using technology and data metrics to identify relevant candidates, more in-depth candidate selection – and indeed, hiring decisions – remain very much an inherently human process.“In the future, I’d love to see a candidate equivalent of a slugging percentage, or combination of multiple discreet statistics that point us towards not just qualified candidates, but the right candidates for us,” Ross envisions.In sport, experts project that new technical advances will continue to increase the odds of success, and the influence of data in helping to define team selection will continue to grow.“The future of data-led analysis is sort of ‘Moneyball’; all done on probability,” predicts Leeder, who is quick to counter that this doesn’t work for everyone. “Mathematically minded people will love Moneyball-style stats and probability, whereas others will be more into changing the culture and knowing their art.”Love it or hate it, data is here to stay, and Seddon predicts that as wearable technologies become less intrusive to players, real-time team performance analysis will increasingly play an instrumental part in shaping tactics.Evidence-based coaching data analysis that supports the decision making of coaches is still in the early stages of development, says Gerrard. However, “coach-led analytics will grow, as will the quantity and quality of the data available to be analysed”.The future of data-led team selection, according to Joseph Turley, director of marketing and communications at real-time performance analysis vendor, Performa Sports, is in “encompassing a greater appreciation of the behavioural aspects of performance. An interesting dimension in this regard will be the ability to measure and assess player compatibility across a spectrum of key performance indicators to map out the optimum combination of individuals (by type) for the most effective team collective.”The final word must go to Angus McNab, head of rugby at sports data analytics organisation, OptaPro, who brings it back to the human element. “Selection isn’t quite like Championship Manager – these are people we are dealing with, and we are a long, long way from being able to factor certain elements into an algorithm.” The real advances in the future, he predicts, will be in injury prevention, player management, and welfare, to ensure the best team can get out on the pitch as often as possible.Eleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazineTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
With its evocative representation of Victorian London, its interesting steampunk narrative and its cinematic sense of scale and pace, The Order: 1886, looks very much the benchmark new-generation console title. There’s just one problem. It’s not much of a game.Developed by Ready at Dawn and Sony’s own Santa Monica studio, and released last week, the title has drawn criticism from game review sites for its overtly linear design, and the fact that it can be finished in around six to eight hours. There’s no multiplayer mode, so once the story of Arthurian knights protecting an alternate industrial-age London from hordes of beast people is over, that’s your lot.“It’s a technical showpiece, a graphical powerhouse that, in some ways, is almost without equal,” writes Giant Bomb in its review. “It’s also a short and disappointingly straightforward cover-based shooter.”This is a typical response to a game that has, pretty unapologetically it seems, set itself up as a graphical showcase for PlayStation 4. The Order: 1886, in fact, comes from a long tradition of early generation titles that seek to provide an experience that is like playing a game, but that’s really there to show off a machine’s new capabilities while demanding as little as possible from the player. There is cover-shooting, there is stealth, there are puzzles, but none are particularly deep or challenging, instead offering a grab bag of gaming conventions – a conveyor belt of vertical slice experiences, that hint at what games do, without actually getting in the way too much.Instead, these snippets of gameplay are present to service what the game is really about: allowing people to marvel at the detailed texture work, real-time light and shadowing, and the gorgeous particle effects that send sparks from flintlock rifles and slivers of burning debris from whirling fires. The game even includes “quick time events” – those heavily choreographed interactive moments in which players carry out seemingly complex moves by inputting quick button presses in response to screen prompts. These are a common tool, employed by games and game makers who just want you to stay awake for the story. See also the otherwise wonderful Shenmue, and the troubling and controversial Heavy Rain.Is this all bad? Well it depends. If you’re buying The Order: 1886 because you’re expecting an alternative history epic in the form of, say, Arkane’s brilliant Dishonored or Ubisoft’s Assassin’s Creed 4 – games with complex systems and oodles of content, then yes, you’re going to be disappointed. You are not going to get that.But it strikes me that, even though it has arrived a year after the launch of PlayStation 4, it’s really there for people who just want to marvel at what their new machine can do.If you look at the early histories of any console, you’ll find similar experiences. On PlayStation 3 there was the beautiful but ridiculous Genji: Days of the Blade, with its giant crab battles and not much else. On PS2 there was Sony’s own Ghosthunter, and the fireworks sim FantaVision, while the original playstation had Battle Arena Toshinden and Motor Toon GP. And of course, Xbox One has been here with Ryse, while Xbox 360 saw the likes of Dark Sector and Ninety-Nine Nights.The concept of the shallow graphical showcase goes back further though. It was there through the “interactive movie” phase in the early nineties, when consoles like the Sega Mega CD and 3DO churned out full-motion movie fests like Night Trap and Double Switch to evangelise the power of CD-rom-based systems. And it has been a constant in the arcades, where attracting the eyes – and wallets – of passing punters has always been as important as giving them something to do when they pop a coin in the slot. Just look at the longevity of laser disc classic Dragon’s Lair, the archetypal stye-over-substance experience, which has been reanimated for just about every platform since its debut in 1983.The Order has entered the UK games chart at number one this week, and though it’s not exactly up against huge amounts of competition,an online controversy over the game’s lengthdoesn’t seem to have scared gamers off. Sometimes, it seems, people just want to be dazzled by all the stuff that goes with modern games: lush environments, decent stories and voice actors who don’t sound like they have been dragged in from the street and told to deliver some badly written dialogue as lifelessly as possible or their pet gets it.For a lot of people, when they buy a new console – especially one that costs £350-400 – they need something uncomplicated that they can show off to their friends and say “that’swhy I am now in debt”. It needs to look like a game, sound like a game and have game-like stuff in it, but it needs to also be gorgeous and uncomplicated. For this experience they will have to pay £45, which is a lot of money – but it is also comparable to a nice meal, or a night at the cinema with some friends and a giant bucket of popcorn.In four years time, the people who bought The Order will dig around at the back of their games collections and they will find it again, covered in dust and long since forgotten. It will have been hugely surpassed by subsequent titles that have actually attached game mechanics to the cinematic set-pieces. Those people may wonder why they bought it.But the industry will always make those games, especially early on in a console lifecycle. And that’s because the industry knows us well, as purchasers of culture, and as human beings too. Sometimes we want to see beauty and just go through the motions of feeling something.
A report commissioned by the Belgian privacy commission has found that Facebook is acting in violation of European law, despite updating its privacy policy.Related:Seven things we learned from Facebook's latest financial resultsConducted by the Centre of Interdisciplinary Law and ICT at the University of Leuven in Belgium,the reportclaimed that Facebook’s privacy policy update in January had only expanded older policy and practices, and found that it still violates European consumer protection law.“Facebook’s Statement of Rights and Responsibilities (SRR) contains a number of provisions which do not comply with the Unfair Contract Terms Directive. These violations were already present in 2013, and they are set to persist in 2015,”wrote the authors.According to the report, Facebook’s policies around profiling for third-party advertising do not “meet the requirements for legally valid consent”, while the social network “fails to offer adequate control mechanisms” with regard to the use of user-generated content for commercial purposes.Related:Mark Zuckerberg 'not sure' about Internet.org advertising“Facebook places too much burden on its users. Users are expected to navigate Facebook’s complex web of settings in search of possible opt-outs,” wrote the authors. “Facebook’s default settings related to behavioural profiling or Social Ads, for example, are particularly problematic.”The report also points out that there is no way to stop Facebook from collecting location information on users via its smartphone app other than to stop location access on the smartphone at the level of the mobile operating system.“Users are offered no choice whatsoever with regard to their appearance in “sponsored stories” or the sharing of location data,” wrote the authors, stating that “users do not receive adequate information” to help them make informed choices where choices are available.The authors continue: “We argue that the collection or use of device information envisaged by the 2015 data use policy does not comply with the requirements of article 5(3) of the EUe-Privacy Directive, which requires free and informed prior consent before storing or accessing information on an individual’s device.”Related:Native American activist to sue Facebook over site's 'real name' policyFacebook met with Bart Tommelein, the Belgian privacy minister, to discuss the report. The company claims that its privacy policy does not break Belgian data protection laws,according to reports.Facebook is already being investigated by the Dutch data protection authority, which asked Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, and is being probed by the Article 29 working party formed of data regulators from individual countries across Europe, including the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office.“We recently updated our terms and policies to make them more clear andconcise, to reflect new product features and to highlight how we’reexpanding people’s control over advertising,” said a Facebook spokesperson. “We’re confident the updates comply with applicable laws. As a company with international headquarters in Dublin, we routinely review product and policy updates including this one­ with our regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, who oversees our compliance with the EU Data Protection Directive as implemented under Irish law.” ­
A serious security problem caused by advertising software installed on Lenovo laptops is more widespread than first thought, security researchers have warned.The ‘Superfish’ vulnerability affected dozens of laptops shipped between September and December 2014, exposing users to a hijacking technique that is also now thought to affect parental control tools and other adware programmes.The core of the vulnerability, which left owners of Lenovo laptops bought in late 2014 open to eavesdropping and “man-in-the-middle” attacks – even when using an encrypted connection – is a self-signed security certificate installed by the Superfish adware to let it inject adverts into search results and secure websites.But the technique, known as “SSL hijacking”, appears to be a framework bought in from a third company, Komodia,according to Facebook’s Matt Richardandindependent researcher Marc Rogers. And Komodia’s framework, sold as SSL Decoder, is present in numerous other products as well. Rogers cites products including parental control software and IP-cloaking technology as containing the weakness, while Richard says Facebook discovered the certificates being issued by a number of adware vendors disguised as games or search assistants.Related:Lenovo apologises for security-busting adware, offers 'incomplete' removal instructionsRogers says: “If you are a parent that has installed parental control software … I would check to see if your computer has been affected by this, as a matter of urgency.” Afree online check made by developer Filippo Valsordais able to identify the presence of the certificates, and Rogers recommends concerned users visit it.Facebook’s Richard says: “What all of these applications have in common is that they make people less secure through their use of an easily obtained root CA, they provide little information about the risks of the technology, and in some cases they are difficult to remove.“Furthermore, it is likely that these intercepting SSL proxies won’t keep up with the HTTPS features in browsers (e.g., certificate pinning and forward secrecy), meaning they could potentially expose private data to network attackers. Some of these deficiencies can be detected by anti-virus products as malware or adware, though from our research, detection successes are sporadic.”Related:Lenovo demonstrates that malware is big businessFacebook discovered the vulnerabilities as part of a wider project, started in 2012, to discover how prevalent SSL man-in-the-middle attacks are​. The project, carried out in conjunction with Carnegie Mellon University, found that 0.2% of SSL certificates, required to surf the web securely, had been tampered with, affecting 6,000 people in Facebook’s sample.In the wake of the revelations, Komodia is experiencing website outages, which the company blames on a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack on its servers. The company did not comment on Richard’s and Rogers’ allegations.
Card game Exploding Kittens has become the third biggest Kickstarter campaign of all-time, raising $8.8m (£5.7m) on the crowdfunding website.The game’s initial funding goal was just $10k, but itattracted 219,382 backersfor its promised mix of “kittens and explosions and laser beams and sometimes goats” during its 30-day campaign.That put Exploding Kittens behind only drinks coolerCoolestand smartwatchPebblein Kickstarter’s most-funded list, with those projects having raised $13.3m and $10.3m respectively.However, Exploding Kittens is the most popular project ever in terms of the number of backers, according to Kickstarter,more than doubling the previous recordof 105,857 backers held by children’s literacy project Reading Rainbow.The card game was created by former Xbox executives Elan Lee and Shane Small, and Matthew Inman, creator of popular online comics site The Oatmeal.“On the very first day of this campaign, we hit our funding goal. That was a big deal. But after that, the campaign stopped being about money, and started being about a community,” theywrote in an updateto backers as the crowdfunding campaign ended.“We decided that everything we did from that point on would be to celebrate you guys, and help you celebrate each other. In the last 30 days, you’ve broken a lot of records, but we wanted to highlight our favourite one: you made this the most fun Kickstarter to run of all time.”The first run of Exploding Kittens is due to ship in July, with 15,505 backers paying $20 or more for its basic deck, but 202,934 paying more than $35 for the “NSFW Deck” which includes bonus cards that aren’t “kid friendly”.“Exploding Kittens is a highly strategic kitty-powered version of Russian Roulette. Players take turns drawing cards until someone draws an exploding kitten and loses the game,” explained its Kickstarter pitch.“The deck is made up of cards that let you avoid exploding by peeking at cards before you draw, forcing your opponent to draw multiple cards, or shuffling the deck.The game gets more and more intense with each card you draw because fewer cards left in the deck means a greater chance of drawing the kitten and exploding in a fiery ball of feline hyperbole.”The Exploding Kittens team have been taking advice from the creators of Cards Against Humanity – a$15.6k Kickstarter success in 2011, whichwent on to sell more than 500,000 copiesby mid-2013 – to ensure that “no matter how many people pledge, everyone gets their Exploding Kittens quickly after the campaign ends”.
My son is 18 months old, and I’ve been reading books with him since he was born. I say “reading”, but I really mean “looking at” – not to mention grasping, dropping, throwing, cuddling, chewing, and everything else a tiny human being likes to do. Over the last six months, though, he has begun not simply to look but also to recognise a few letters and numbers. He calls a capital Y a “yak” after a picture on the door of his room; a capital H is “hedgehog”; a capital K, “kangaroo”; and so on.Reading, unlike speaking, is a young activity in evolutionary terms. Humans have been speaking in some form for hundreds of thousands of years; we are born with the ability to acquire speech etched into our neurones. The earliest writing, however, emerged only 6,000 years ago, and every act of reading remains a version of what my son is learning: identifying the special species of physical objects known as letters and words, using much the same neural circuits as we use to identify trees, cars, animals and telephone boxes.It’s not only words and letters that we process as objects. Texts themselves, so far as our brains are concerned, are physical landscapes. So it shouldn’t be surprising that we respond differently to words printed on a page compared to words appearing on a screen; or that the key to understanding these differences lies in the geography of words in the world.For her new book, Words Onscreen: The Fate of Reading in a Digital World, linguistics professor Naomi Baron conducted a survey of reading preferences among over 300 university students across the US, Japan, Slovakia and Germany. When given a choice between media ranging from printouts to smartphones, laptops, e-readers and desktops, 92% of respondents replied that it was hard copy that best allowed them to concentrate.This isn’t a result likely to surprise many editors, or anyone else who works closely with text. While writing this article, I gathered my thoughts through a version of the same principle: having collated my notes onscreen, I printed said notes, scribbled all over the resulting printout, argued with myself in the margins, placed exclamation marks next to key points, spread out the scrawled result – and from this landscape hewed a (hopefully) coherent argument.What exactly was going on here? Age and habit played their part. But there is also a growing scientific recognition that many of a screen’s unrivalled assets – search, boundless and bottomless capacity, links and leaps and seamless navigation – are either unhelpful or downright destructive when it comes to certain kinds of reading and writing.Across three experimentsin 2013, researchers Pam Mueller and Daniel Oppenheimer compared the effectiveness of students taking longhand notes versus typing onto laptops. Their conclusion: the relative slowness of writing by hand demands heavier “mental lifting”, forcing students to summarise rather than to quote verbatim – in turn tending to increase conceptual understanding, application and retention.In other words, friction is good – at least so far as the remembering brain is concerned. Moreover, the textured variety of physical writing can itself be significant. Ina 2012 study at Indiana University, psychologist Karin James tested five-year-old children who did not yet know how to read or write by asking them to reproduce a letter or shape in one of three ways: typed onto a computer, drawn onto a blank sheet, or traced over a dotted outline. When the children were drawing freehand, an MRI scan during the test showed activation across areas of the brain associated in adults with reading and writing. The other two methods showed no such activation.Similar effects have been found inothertests, suggesting not only a close link between reading and writing, but that the experience of reading itself differs between letters learned through handwriting and letters learned through typing. Add to this thehelp that the physical geographyof a printed page or the heft of a book can provide to memory, and you’ve got a conclusion neatly matching our embodied natures: the varied, demanding, motor-skill-activating physicality of objects tends to light up our brains brighter than the placeless, weightless scrolling of words on screens.In many ways, this is an unfair result, effectively comparing print at its best to digital at its worst. Spreading my scrawled-upon printouts across a desk, I’m not just accessing data; I’m reviewing the idiosyncratic geography of something I created, carried and adorned. But I researched my piece online, I’m going to type it up onscreen, and my readers will enjoy an onscreen environment expressly designed to gift resonance: a geography, a context. Screens are at their worst when they ape and mourn paper. At their best, they’re something free to engage and activate our wondering minds in ways undreamt of a century ago.Above all, it seems to me, we must abandon the notion that there is only one way of reading, or that technology and paper are engaged in some implacable war. We’re lucky enough to have both growing self-knowledge and an opportunity to make our options as fit for purpose as possible – as slippery and searchable or slow with friction as the occasion demands.I can’t imagine teaching my son to read in a house without any physical books, pens or paper. But I can’t imagine denying him the limitless words and worlds a screen can bring to him either. I hope I can help him learn to make the most of both – and to type/copy/paste/sketch/scribble precisely as much as he needs to make each idea his own.
Even before having used an Apple Watch, Daniel Breslan is pretty sure how people will use his app, Departure Board, on one. “When you’re waiting in a station cafe, pub, lounge, you have you own personal departure board and you do not have to move to keep checking the screens on the platform,” he explains. His new app, which is in the final stages of testing, is a simple concept: it finds the nearest rail station to you, and tells you the destination and time of the next 20 trains - though on a watchface, you’ll probably only see three or four without scrolling.Breslan is one of the many iPhone app developers who are hoping for a new bonanza when the Apple Watch hits the stores, and shortly afterwards the streets, in April. When Apple introduced the iPhone App Store in July 2008, it created an explosion of sales; even though Apple wasn’t first with an app store (Nokia and Palm had notably preceded it), the rapid growth of the smartphone market and the visibility of the iPhone guaranteed eager buyers – and, for some developers, sudden wealth.Now the impending arrival of the Apple Watch has driven a whole new round of app development, of which Breslan’s is only one. It’s effective on an iPhone (I’ve been testing it since January) but Breslan sees its potential being even greater on a smartwatch, because you wouldn’t have to unlock your phone and navigate to the app to get the information.As a user of the Pebble smartwatch, which still holds the record for the biggest Kickstarter at over $10m in 2012 and has so far sold a million, Breslan reckons that “the ideal use case for apps on a watch are small utilities that facilitate your daily life”. He uses his Pebble to control podcast playback, read messages, screen calls, check train times “and time my Aeropress brews”. All, he points out, are “little tasks that I can complete without having to pull out and hold my phone.” He thinks the Apple Watch will magnify those benefits through its extra experience in interface design.David Smith, another iPhone developerbased in Herndon, Virginiawho has written recipe and audiobook apps, reckons that by shifting interactions from your phone to your wrist, the Apple Watch will “create a much more fluid daily experience, with dozens of micro-interactions rather than the longer ones we have today”.For what, though? “Sending a text message, checking your next appointment, adding a reminder [to a list], suddenly [creating] a much lower barrier to action,” Smith says. “I think I’ll grow to rely on my watch for keeping me on track throughout my day.”Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces Apple’s new smartwatch in Cupertino, California in September 2014.Photograph: ZUMA/REXWith the formal unveiling of the Apple Watch now only weeks away (probably in March, given that chief executive Tim Cook said it would ship in April), Apple is reportedlyworking closely with some developersto finalise and test their apps, even inviting a few to its Cupertino headquarters for in-situ tests.With reports that the company has ordered five million for its first run, probably covering sales for one quarter, the chance to create a hit app for those precious square inches of wrist space looks ever more tantalising. Some analysts reckon Apple’s Watch could sell 1m in its first weekend on sale, and 20m by the end of 2015. Watch-app downloads will probably run in tandem. Goldrushes like that don’t come often.So what does a hit wrist-app look like? Try asking those writing for Google’s Android Wear platform. Data released by Canalys, and underscored by download data for the Android Wear app from the Google Play Store, says that 720,000 Android Wear devices, almost all smartwatches,were shipped in 2014.Among the most popular Android Wear apps on the Google Play store are watch faces – there are dozens – and asimple calculatorwritten by Wearable Software, a four-strong team based in Karlsruhe, Germany. Cedric Larrat, its founder, told me there have been over 357,000 downloads of the company’s Android Wear apps, of which 260,000 have put it on their smartwatch, while the calculator has had 170,000 downloads, of which 120,000 were installed. (He can’t track whether they’re still using it, though.) “I believe that the right time has come now to establish smartwatches on the market. In the past this has been tried, but the technology wasn’t advanced enough. [The arrival of] Bluetooth 4.0 [with its low energy demands], better and smaller batteries, as well as microelectronics, make it possible now.”On a less grand scale, there’sMini Dialer, which lets you dial a phone number via your smartwatch. Written by Lonnie Johnson, who lives in Phoenix, Arizona, it costs £1.27 ($1.99) and has had about 9,000 downloads – a good earner for something you might expect a smartwatch connected to a phone to do anyway.Director of engineering for Android David Singleton announces a new Samsung Android Wear smartwatch in June 2014.Photograph: Elijah Nouvelage/ReutersLimitationsInitially, Apple is limiting apps for its watch; they won’t run on the device itself, but on the owner’s phone, connected via Bluetooth. (Developers expect this to change with future Watch software and hardware.) Apple’s own page suggests uses are “timekeeping”, “new ways to connect” and “health and fitness”. The first and last have been staples of wearables for some time; it’s the middle one that developers hope to capitalise on. Apple has hinted at the possibilities with its system for sending the wearer’s heartbeat, or little pictograms drawn onscreen, to another Watch wearer.Breslan says designing for a tiny screen was “a daunting task” at first. However, “for the first release of watch apps, Apple has provided a very small library of controls that can be used to build app interfaces. This places a limit on the complexity and content of watch app user interfaces, which makes the job somewhat easier. Translating my phone application to a tiny screen whie maintaining the intuitive simplicity that I strive for is the most challenging part of watch-app development for me currently.” His Pebble experience – including installing apps such as Evernote, Foursquare’s Swarm and Twitter clients on it– has persuaded him that “a watch is not a sensible device to use when interacting with such complex applications”.He warns that apps with complex interfaces on the watch itself “will sit unused”, though the digital crown – a button on the side of the watch that can bring different apps to prominence – and the touchscreen “may ease this slightly”.But the Watch might even usher in new interfaces – as Howard Gutowitz and Dimitrios Hechagias, the duo behind an app calledLunate, hope.Named after a crescent-shaped bone in the wrist, Lunate is a keyboard designed for a watch face, but instead of a square array of keys, it arranges the letters around the face, between which the user swipes, while a T9-style prediction system produces words.“We’re solving a problem with [the] Apple Watch that people don’t yet realise they will have,” Lunate’s inventor Gutowitz, 57, explains. But its implementation must wait for ‘WatchKit’ that will allow apps to run on the watch itself– which he thinks might come this summer – or else port it to Android. “There’s a lot of scepticism that the Apple Watch will even happen in a big way, or whether the use cases will be particularly compelling,” says Gutowitz. “And even if they are, will they involve input as opposed to getting notifications?” He likens the forthcoming release to the first iPhone in 2007, which didn’t have 3G, couldn’t shoot video, and couldn’t forward MMS: “[It is] very, very limited in what you can do,” he says, “unless you’re Apple or one of its ‘partners’ – those with access to [a] real, full-featured WatchKit.”Smith thinks the most successful apps will change our focus, “like the shift we saw moving from [desktop] Mac to [mobile] iPhone. For better or worse having an iPhone in your pocket means that you are never really out of touch. At any moment you can pick up your phone and find something out or have someone reach out to you. Putting that on to your wrist means that you have that same capability but now without any hurdle to overcome. I’m expecting it will take quite some time to get used this mode and to find the happy medium between being overly connected and usefully connected.”He envisages two sorts of third-party apps rising to prominence: “informational” and “emotional”. He explains: “‘Informational’ services provide you with up-to-the-minute information – things like stock data, news, weather alerts. Bringing these within arm’s reach allows for you to never miss something you want to be informed of.“‘Emotional’ services let you connect with those you love. While some of that might come from things like messaging, I think things that will let you share what you are doing and see what those you care about are up to would be great. I look forward to having little glances into what my kids are up to each day appear on my wrist throughout the day.”How long will the battery last?That though raises the biggest question about smartwatches, and particularly the Apple Watch: how long will the battery last, and is that enough? Mark Gurman, who runs the 9to5Mac site and has a solid record with advance scoops on Apple products such as HealthKit,saysthe Watch is expected to get 19 hours of combined active and passive use, and perhaps two or three days in standby or low-power mode – but will almost surely need recharging every night.Keep on running … Questions are being asked of the Apple Watch’s battery life.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersIs that enough? “The thing Apple has in its favour is the positive reinforcement cycle driven by the device’s usefulness,” says Smith. “The more I use it, find it useful and make it part of my life ... the less likely I am to be annoyed that I have to charge it. Obviously there is a limit to that, but so long as the device can make the hassle of charging it balance out with its utility I think things will be fine.”Daniel Breslan is less sure: “I’m a power user who rises early, works hard and retires late, so if anyone will get stung for battery life shortages, it will be me.”Hechagias, the writer of Lunate, adds, “Apple maintaincomplete control until they are sure the experience comes out as they wish, and then they relax control as much as needed in order to monetize. So perhaps the battery issue is one aspect that is making them think ‘we will not let anyone make the watch look bad by doing things that might drain the battery and make us look bad’, and only allow such things when the watch is already accepted. In any case, Lunate would not be a power drain, it uses little CPU &amp; GPU, especially compared to such things as games.“But it might also be as simple as a matter of trying to enforce their current philosophy. Similar to how they would not release a large iPhone or a small iPad because “people did not want it”, untiltheydecided it is the next best thing.”What will happen to Android Wear?The launch of the Apple Watch could have a positive knock-on effect for other smartwatches, such as the Android Wear-powered Sony Smartwatch 3.Photograph: APThe other big question is: will the Apple Watch sweep away Android Wear, or help it? On this, there’s unanimity. Johnson, Mini Dialer’s author, thinks it will help Android Wear sales, “since it will increase the awareness and interest of users as they discover the capabilities that wearables provide”.Larrat agrees that the Apple Watch will provide a rising tide to float boats on other platforms: “[S]martwatches will become more attractive, and Apple is a specialist in marketing.”Russell Ivanovic, of the Australian app company Shifty Jelly, is an enthusiastic backer of Android Wear, which he says is “a far superior platform to the Apple Watch. It processes things locally, it has an always-on screen”– though not all Android Wear watches have their screens illuminated – “and the concept of Google Now-style cards on a watch just works. There are already watches that can track your runs via GPS without needing to be tethered to your phone, something the Apple watch won’t be able to do.”Even so, Ivanovic says: “The Apple watch will be more successful, chiefly because it’s made and marketed by Apple. People will find the smallest details and point to them as to why the Apple watch was more successful, but at the end of the day it will come down to the simple fact that Apple is better at launching products. They know how to build up anticipation for a product. They know how to limit supply of said product when it’s first available. They know how to market their product in such a way as to make it a ‘must have’.“Basically, they [Apple] are a product company at heart. Google seems to me like an engineering driven company that hasn’t yet learnt how to coordinate everyone to launch a product well.”• This article was amended on 25 February 2015 to clarify that Wearable Software has had 357,000 downloads of its Android Wear apps rather than its watch face app.
Russia’s competition watchdog has confirmed that it is investigating Google over allegedly abusing its domination of Android smartphone software on phones made by third party manufacturers.The watchdog opened the case to assess whether Google has violated Russian anti-monopoly laws after reviewing a complaint from Russia’s biggest search company Yandex. It has complained that Android’s default search is Google and that the mobile software includes a bundle of Google apps.“We have studied the complaint and decided to open proceedings regarding the violation of anti-monopoly regulation,” a spokeswoman for the Russian federal anti-monopoly service (FAS) watchdog said.“Device makers are free to install the apps they choose and consumers always have complete control over the apps on their devices,” said a Google spokesperson.Yandex has a 60% share of the Russian search market, and offers rival services to Google’s YouTube, Maps, Gmail, Chrome Browser and Translate. Three smartphone vendors in Russia – Prestige, Fly and Explay – were blocked from pre-installing Yandex services on their Android devices last year.Related:Google's new concessions on European search will put rivals' logos into resultsTerms of use for Google’s version of Android, which comes with access to its app store, place restrictions on what manufacturers can install by default on their devices, and conditions on placement of Google apps and services on the smartphones and tablets.Spokespeople from Google’s Russian office denied anti-competitive behaviour.Android held an 81.2% global market share in 2014 according to research firm Strategy Analytics, with Apple’s iOS securing 15% of the market and Microsoft’s Windows Phone 3%.Android is available in several versions. An open source version called the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) is available for anyone to use without restriction and forms the basis of Amazon’s Fire OS, Xiaomi’s Miui and many others, but it does not come with access to Google’s Play Store.Google’s version of Android is also based on AOSP, but comes integrated with Google’s services.The Russian investigation comes after European regulators assess a possible challenge to Google’s mobile software business.Related:Google facing European antitrust scrutiny of Android device dealsEuropean regulators are laying the groundwork for a case centred on whether Google abuses the 80% market share of Android to promote services from maps to search,two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.The European Commission has reportedly sent handset makers questionnaires asking whether there was a requirement set by Google that they should not pre-install apps, products or services on mobile devices that compete with Google software such as its search engine, app store and maps.Google is also under scrutiny in the US, although a judge said in December she would require consumers suing Google over Android to submit more factual details in order for an antitrust lawsuit to proceed.
Uh-oh, it’s Monday again.
The 10 most popular games channels on YouTube generated more than 2.2bn video views in January alone, led by Let’s Play gamer Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg with 417.9m views that month.PewDiePietopped thelatest monthly chart of YouTube games channelspublished by online video industry site Tubefilter, based on data from analytics firm OpenSlate.PewDiePie was joined in January’s top 10 byPopular MMOs(266.8m views);Stampy(252.9m);The Diamond Minecart(210.8m);Markiplier(208.1m);Jack Sceptic Eye(201.2m);Vanoss Gaming(183.8m);Vegetta(177.8m);Juega German(127.3m); andEl Rubius(108.8m).That’s nearly 2.2bn views between the 10 channels. How are they growing? You can gauge that by a comparison to Tubefilter and OpenSlate’s chart from six months ago,in July 2014, when the top 10 YouTube games channels generated 1.6bn views.Meanwhile, the 100 most popular channels in the chart’s collected views grew by nearly 40% from 4.3bn in July 2014 to nearly 6.1bn in January 2015.Related:YouTube: PewDiePie, DC Toys Collector and Katy Perry top in 2014Multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios accounted for four of the top five games channels in January – PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and Markiplier – while Popular MMOs is signed to rival Fullscreen.The chart is the latest reminder of just how big games has become as a category on YouTube, rivalling music and children’s videos as its most popular content.There’s a crossover with the latter and games in channels like Stampy and The Diamond Minecart, which are aimed at the huge audience of young Minecraft fans. Both are likely to benefit fromthis week’s launch of a dedicated YouTube Kids app.YouTube gamers have also become powerful influencers within the games industry, with developers and publishers jostling to persuade the most popular channels to feature their games inLet’s Play videos– often paying for the privilege.
Advertising is not a “near term” priority for Facebook’s Internet.org initiative to get more people online in the developing world, according to chief executive Mark Zuckerberg.Facebook launched the scheme in 2013 with fellow technology firms including Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson and Nokia as its effort to connect “the next few billion people” to the internet.The social network has since worked with mobile operators in countries like Indonesia, the Philippines, Zambia and Kenya to provide free access to basic internet services from their mobile phones.This being Facebook, though, its motivations have been frequently questioned – as they have been for Google in its separate push to get people online in countries where internet access is currently limited.In aninterview with Bloomberg, Zuckerberg denied that growing his company’s advertising business is on the Internet.org agenda for now.“I’m not sure it’s a big part of the solution in the near term, to be honest. What we need to do is work out a model with operators and governments and local partners that is profitable for them so we can continue growing the Internet,” he said.According to Zuckerberg, the Internet.org model is based around persuading telecoms firms to invest in internet infrastructure and buy in to Facebook’s vision of free basic services, which in turn will persuade more people to start paying for mobile data plans once they’re online.“Originally, we thought that maybe working with other kinds of partners would be important, but at this point, we think we have a sustainable model that is working in multiple countries now, and there’s a lot of momentum and a lot of countries coming online now,” said Zuckerberg, although he admitted advertising may be a factor in the longer term.“In a lot of these countries, there isn’t a very big ad market yet. So it’s not that we won’t do it eventually, but for right now and our business, the main thing that we need to continue to do is focus on the quality of the ads,” he said.“And doing that in the developed world – in the U.S. and Europe and Asia and a lot of places that are actually going to be the driver of our own profitability and revenue – not trying to make ad markets out of countries that are just coming online.”In the interview, Zuckerberg said that the biggest challenge for Internet.org is not people being unable to get online or unable to afford it, but rather that “they don’t know what they would want to use the Internet for”.Related:Thank you, Facebook Inc, but what developing nations need is net freedom | Dan GillmorHe added that while Facebook and Google’s initiatives are separate, the two companies talk regularly about how they can work together: for example, by adding Google as one of the services in the Internet.org app in Zambia.Zuckerberg also defended Internet.org fromcriticisms voiced by former Microsoft boss (and now philanthropist) Bill Gatesof Google’s Project Loon initiative: that in many countries, better healthcare is a more urgent need than better internet access.“The reality is that it’s not an either-or. People need to be healthy and be able to have the Internet as a backbone to connect them to the whole economy. The Internet creates jobs. It actually is one of the things that facilitates health,” said Zuckerberg, citing Facebook’s work on connecting up Ebola treatment units.“I’m certainly not here saying connectivity is more important than health. I mean, that would be ridiculous, but I hope that we can help out with all of these things over time.”
The undead outbreak survival fantasy genre’s hold on game-makers shows no sign of ending, and it’s a theme that developer Techland returns to withDying Light, four years after the studio created its charismatic but flawed zombie titleDead Island.Like its predecessor,Dying Light(pictured) is a first-person game presented as an open world devastated by an outbreak, charging the player with surviving, using crude weapons. This time, the protagonist is an undercover operative from beyond the infection zone. The action largely blends somewhat clunky parkour, panicked close-quarters combat and fetch quests spread across a vast, engrossing city loosely based on Istanbul. Within this, a day-and-night cycle changes the setting considerably, presenting alternating realms different in both atmosphere and gameplay style.While the scripting is cliched, glitches rip through generally impressive visuals and the missions’ pacing can feel protracted, the gameplay mechanics do complement an absorbing emphasis on survival through evasion.Dying Lightdefinitely doesn’t dazzle, then, and can feel unpleasantly dark, but it does enthral.
Snapchat chief executive Evan Spiegel has hinted at plans to do more with music in his company’s popular messaging app, describing it as “a really interesting opportunity”“Music is really appealing to us right now because it has some of the same attributes that communication had when we were working on Snapchat in the beginning,” said Spiegel during an on-stage interview at the University of Southern California,reported by Daily Trojan.Snapchat’s main features involve sharing photos and videos with friends that disappear either as soon as they’re viewed, or after 24 hours. However, the app has added several music features in recent months.They include major labelWarner Music Group signing on as one of the launch partnersfor the app’s Snapchat Discover feature;Madonna debuting her new music videowithin the same section of the app; and most recently a feature enabling people touse the music playing on their smartphone as the soundtrack for their videos.Judging by Spiegel’s comments, Snapchat is mulling more music-related features. “Right now on your mobile phone, music is largely non-differentiated, so you usually search for a song and you can play it. It plays from four of five different places, they roughly cost the same, but it’s also high frequency,” he said.Related:Ten things you need to know about Snapchat“After communication, [music is] the highest frequency behaviour on your phone and so that in our view, makes it a really interesting opportunity and it’s something that we are thinking about.”Emails leaked as part of the Sony Pictures hackin December suggested that Snapchat – and Spiegel – has been thinking about music for some time:“He thinks every music service in the market is shit and he wants to be a curator. He doesn’t want to build a music service but he would like to have a record label so he could focus on the artists that he wants to use the platform to promote.”Snapchat also held talks with music videos service Vevo about it becoming a launch partner in Snapchat Discover, but they broke down after the two companies couldn’t agree on how to split advertising revenues from the deal.
The two latest offshoots from the ever-malleable Kirby franchise will be recognisable toKirby Triple Deluxeplayers – both of these new eShop titles were mini-games in the excellent 2014 3DS game.Dedede’s Drum Dash Deluxeis a rhythm action/platformer hybrid that sees you jump and bounce your way through seven songs from the Kirby series, all the while avoiding enemies and racking up point bonuses.Kirby Fighters Deluxeis essentially aSuper Smash Bros-lite fighting game, starring Kirby as the sole playable character. Players can pick one of 10 different abilities (each with its own move set) and then fight their way through the other nine Kirbys and two bosses. There’s a new four-player mode for this release, but don’t go expecting anything as sophisticated asSmash. While both were perfect as bite-size bonuses in their source game, neither is compelling enough to really warrant a solo outing. Unlike the exceptionalCaptain Toad, which made the similar jump from bonus to standalone release, the additional content here is minimal and the core concepts haven’t been expanded on in any significant way.
Every morning as Carla Astudillo gets ready for work, she puts on the news. But instead of turning on the TV, Astudillo’s headlines come to her from her computer. Astudillo is a cord cutter and she’s not the only one.About 7.6m US households no longer get cable. From 2010 to 2014, the number of cord cutters – those who have decided to forgo life with cable and opted to get their TV and news on the internet –increased by 44%.It is a seismic shift that has helped trigger the largest cable merger in history, Comcast’s proposed takeover of Time Warner, and is at the heart of the fierce row being fought out in Washington over new rules to protect net neutrality – the concept that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet.Related:FCC's net neutrality proposal to treat high-speed internet like public utilityMany cable cutters are paying little attention to the clash of the titans. For them it’s about cost and convenience. But you can bet that the titans are paying attention to them.Astudillo, a 27-year-old data journalist forNJ Advance Media, canceled her cable in 2012. Back then, even with cable channels at her disposal, she increasingly found herself watching shows on Hulu and Netflix. The two services made the transition easier. Of course, the $30 to $40 that she now saves each month didn’t hurt either.Right now, she pays $59 a month for her Optimum internet connection and $7.99 a month for a Netflix account she was paying for anyway. She is considering upgrading to Hulu Plus, which would cost her an additional $7.99.She says she has given little thought to how an end to net neutrality will affect her internet and TV-watching habits. She is, however, worried about the future of open internet and innovation that brought us services such as Netflix. “I feel like it would be the end of wild wild west of the internet, innovation and all of these good things,” she said.Most consumers have remained blissfully unaware of the net neutrality debate or how its outcome might affect them. Broadband’s regulator the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) received a record 4m comments on its open internet proposal spurred on internet activistsand aided by John Oliver. But in 2013, 74.4% ofall US householdstold the Census bureau thatthey had internet. Four million is just a small fraction of that.Related:'Awe-inspiring' FCC internet protections could alter landscape for net neutrality“I don’t pay enough attention to [the net neutrality debate], honestly,” says Lauren Pavin, a 32-year-old coffee shop manager in Baltimore.She and her boyfriend are on the cusp of cutting the cord. This past Christmas, Pavin received Apple TV as a present. They already subscribe to Netflix and are just waiting for HBO to provide a stand alone service, before their do away with their cable bill. “Between [HBO] and Netflix, that’s all we watch,” she said.Her cable and internet subscription with Comcast costs Pavin about $140 a month. Even after cutting the cable, she might have to stay with Comcast, as that’s the company that services the majority of the Baltimore area.Pavin has little hope that net neutrality will fix her internet troubles.“I wish the connection was faster but ... it’s Comcast. It’s a terrible internet service in general,” she says. In the six months that she has lived in Baltimore, she has experienced monthly internet outages.Comcast: not exactly a favorite among consumers.Photograph: Matt Rourke/APCutting the cord may sound like you’re hurting Big Cable but the money they lose on one end they make back at the other. Time Warner’s cable subscriptions have been declining for years and its revenue from video subscriptions drops millions of dollars a month. The upside is that the company’s high speed internet subscriptions are going up faster than its cable subscription was going down – making up for all the losses.After intense lobbying by proponents net neutrality rules likely to be voted through this week will mean the cable firms can not slow online services or offer fast lanes to others. The regulations are meant to maintain a level playing field that should allow new video services to woo cable cutters just as Netflix and Hulu have in the past.But those rules are already under attack from some Republicans and will be subject to an immediate challenge from the cable industry, which argues the FCC has gone too far.cable map promoAnd in the meantime cable cutters bemoaning their lack of choice face an even more consolidated market. If the Comcast/Time Warner deals goes through, according to the FCC’s measures some 63% of US consumers will only have one choice of broadband provider.Proponents of net neutrality like Neil Hunt, chief product officer at Netflix, have previouslybemoaned the lack of competitionamong internet service providers.“The reality in this country is that we don’t really have competition for which cable provider you really get your broadband from,” Hunttold the Guardianlast year. And as such, if companies like Netflix want to reach consumers in all parts of the US, they have to find a way to work with the particular providers servicing those individual areas.The net neutrality debate will enter a new phase this week – but it won’t end here. Not long from now the FCC will decide whether or not to allow Comcast to takeover Time Warner. While cable cutters may feel they are reshaping an industry, close inspection suggests the industry is still very much in control.Cable companies are “absolutely worried about the changing environment”, says Bruce Leichtman, president and principal analyst at Leichtman Research Group. “But – for the cable specifically – while they are worried about losing TV subscribers, they also are the providers of broadband service. So, if someone is going to get Netflix or Hulu, they are going to need broadband service and that, in the majority of places, is the cable company.”
CableRelated:Map: How much are Americans paying for cable?
Q: What is net neutrality?Net neutrality is the principle that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet, without being favored or blocked by internet service providers.Q: Why is it in the news?On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will vote on new rules to regulate broadband that have proved to be thehottest issuethe regulator has ever faced. More than 4 million people – a new record – submitted comments to the FCC as it considered its options and Barack Obama called on the regulator to impose the “strongest rules possible”. Activists are calling Thursday’s meeting “the most important FCC vote of our lifetime”.Q: What is the FCC proposing?Tom Wheeler, chairman of the FCC, isproposing to protect net neutralityby imposing strict new rules on internet service providers under Title II of the communications act. The FCC would be given the legal muscle to:Prevent broadband providers from banning any legal service or website.Outlaw “paid prioritization” – fees for faster service.Ban “throttling” – impairing or degrading internet traffic.The rules will apply to wireless and wired services and dramatically expand the FCC’s power to regulate the industry.Q: What is wrong with the current system?There isn’t one. Internet service providers have sued the FCC on a number of occasions, challenging its regulating authority. In January, Verizon successfully challenged the FCC’s authority to prevent the company from creating “fast lanes” or slowing or blocking selected web traffic. Broadband has been effectively unregulated for over a year.Q: Will it pass?Almost certainly. Wheeler is one of three Democrats on the five-member commission, all of whom support his proposals. The two Republican commissioners will object but will be overruled.Q: Who supports the proposals?Alongside Obama, a broadcoalition of internet activistsand tech companies including Google, Facebook, Netflix, Mozilla, Etsy and Reddit have backed Title II regulation.They argue that without strong regulation, cable companies could “pick the winners” online, providing better service for their own offerings or those of preferred clients than for rivals. Such a move would stifle innovation online, they argue.Q: Who objects?Verizon, obviously, AT&amp;T andthe cable industry, and the Republican Party. Republican senator John Thune has accused the FCC of giving in to “bully tactics” and called its proposals “terrible”. Both critics and proponents argue that Title II is akin to regulating the internet like a utility such as water or electricity. The objectors argue the burden of regulation will hamper innovation and discourage investment. Wheeler has sought to assuage their fears by proposing to “forbear” more stringent utility rules. The FCC says it will not, for example, impose price restrictions or force cable companies to share their networks. Cable companies say there isno guaranteethat a future FCC will abide by those forbearances.Q: What happens next?Broadband providers are lining up to sue the FCC as they have in the past. FCC officials have said they are confident they can defeat a legal challenge, but their opponents will not give up without a fight.Meanwhile Thune is drawing up legislation that, while it would enforce most of what the FCC is proposing, would limit the regulator’s authority over the broadband industry. The battle over net neutrality is far from finished.
By its own boss’s admission,Twitter “suck at dealing with abuse and trolls”. Now Dick Costolo has shed a little more light on how the company plans to change that.Twitter is planning to shift “the cost of dealing with harassment” on to the people accused of that harassment, not on the people who endure it, said Costolo in aninterview with the New York Times.“Some people believe that Twitter hasn’t taken the issue seriously because harassment isn’t a form of physical harm – they’re just tweets. No, that’s not true at all. We’ve always taken it seriously,” he said.“We’ve drawn a line on what constitutes harassment and abuse. I believe that we haven’t yet drawn that line to put the cost of dealing with harassment on those doing the harassing. It shouldn’t be the person who’s being harassed who has to do a lot of work.”The firm has not yet given any details of how it plans to accomplish this.‘Wake-up call’Costolo admitted that the internal “we suck” memo had been uncharacteristically blunt, but claimed it reflected his determination to tackle the abuse that has fuelled growing criticism of Twitter’s policies in this area.“I meant what I said. One of the reasons I was so blunt about it was that I wanted to really send a wake-up call to the company that we’re going to get a lot more aggressive about it, and it’s going to start right now,” he said.Related:Twitter unveils new system for reporting abuseShifting the cost of dealing with harassment onto the accused harassers will be welcomed bypeople who have been targetedfor such abuse. Even so, it is fraught with pitfalls for Twitter, if its new policy is not well thought out.For example, an overly-automated process might be open to groups of people ganging together to report someone whose views they disagree with in an effort to get their account suspended; a barrage of harassment reports could become a new form of harassment.Avoiding this will require Twitter to continue increasing its investment in human moderation – more costs for the company, but vital for the overall health of its community.Costolo’s comments indicate his company hopes to draw the line fairly between harassment and spirited disagreements.“I may have a right to say something, but I don’t have a right to stand in your living room and scream it into your ear five times in a row,” he said, while warning that some reports of harassment turn out to be “fairly rational political discourse”, which Twitter is keen to protect.
Net neutralityis the principle of making sure that your internet service provider doesn’t make it easier for you to access one service over another – the Guardian over the Telegraph, say – or otherwise distorting your use of internet services just because someone dropped a few extra quid in their pocket.Yet in many ways, the current battle over net neutrality is less a question of broad, public-interest internet values, and more a parochial telecommunications policy war between US cable and content companies, waged on a global stage.After more than a decade of wrangling, on 26 February an executive board of US telecommunications regulator the FCC will vote on a 322-page proposal, titled Preserving the Open Internet. Matters of deep principle are claimed to be at stake, but agreement on what those principles are is less forthcoming.Related:Only net neutrality can protect the internet from becoming like TV: white, middle-class and exclusiveThe internet is not unlimitedNobody can object to aspirations such as neutrality, equality and openness. But each of these terms is also a conceit. The internet is not unlimited. Traffic management, in some form or another, is obligatory in shipping digital packets.When you make a phone call, your voice is sampled maybe 50 times a second, and then reconstituted at the receiving end, with a minuscule delay to account for any network failings.When you call up an internet application or website, that site or service is hurled at you, progressively increasing as many packets as the network can carry, unless something else gets in the way. If voice gets in the way, the application adapts. If it’s the other way around, voice drops out.Related:Net neutrality battle pitches activists and FCC against Big Cable and GOPNetwork engineerFred Bakeruses this distinction between voice and web, or between “real-time” and “elastic” applications, to demonstrate one of the consequences of a rigid application of net neutrality rules. If everything must be treated equally, he argues, then nothing can be done about your voice line dropping. You are subject to the internet service provider’s best efforts – “passing your traffic to the enemy, and hoping for the best”. With voice, this is usually fine – we can cope with some small delay. With video and other data-rich streaming, it becomes more complicated.Is there only one form of net neutrality?In the first order, net neutrality is the Telegraph/Guardian example: ensuring that internet service companies don’t intentionally block or degrade access to legal content or services. At this level, there is little controversy. Rules against such practices are welcome, even if there is little evidence that it is a market problem requiring fixing.One of the damaging side-effects, nevertheless, is that a crude assessment of legality could unfairly prevent the bulk of upstream traffic and a significant proportion of downstream traffic in many parts of the world that is comprised of peer-to-peer file sharing.Second-order net neutrality is about the voice/web challenge – the detail of traffic management – and it’s much harder. In particular, there is a heated debate over paid prioritisation, or “fast lanes”, negotiated between ISPs and content providers. Here, the market is already active.Streaming companies such as Netflix have complex “peering” arrangements with cable companies to fund good service and make up for some of the vast percentage of the cable traffic Netflix uses.Another area where such arrangements are manifold is mobile, and the meat of the FCC proposal focuses on these issues. But it is not clear whether it is just about ensuring public-interest oversight of peering arrangements, or actually interfering with the arrangements that can be made. Either way, the US now seems to recognise that public regulation of bandwidth, to ensure the public interest is met, is the appropriate foundation for such regulation, bringing it into line with the rest of the world.Related:Cord cutters on net neutrality:  'It would be the end of wild wild west of the internet'What this debate doesn’t solveNet neutrality has been the central campaign point for a grassroots movement of internet activists in the US. It has an obviousbad guyin the fat cat cable companies, but it’s as much about the incredibly consolidated and monopolistic US telco landscape, and the geoeconomic aversion to internet regulation, as it is about wider, public interest internet issues.The rather extraordinary thing is that over-the-top services – the content providers – have come off as the white knights. Just like artists and struggling musicians are the frontmen of the industry copyright lobby, here, start-ups and bloggers are the frontmen to the internet giants. In the end, however, we’re all small fish to Facebook, Google, Amazon and their kin.Net neutrality is no panacea to walled gardens, tethering, transit providers that exploit exchange-point congestion, and content-delivery networks that outpace the speed of light in giving me access to Google and Amazon quicker than the Guardian or the Greek national library. Your access to a small newspaper or voice application, is slow not because of shady service provider deals, but because of the enormous network infrastructure and network entrenchment of its competitors.We citizens, often derogated as “users” or “consumers”, have much to win in a global communication space. That is much more than simply a “neutral network”. Instead, it is a truly open, distributed network where everyone’s fundamental rights are respected. Not having our access providers acting as interested gatekeepers may be a step in the right direction, but it is by no means an end. Many other distortive factors remain and we will not have an open space until we get rid of them all.
Google is changing the the structure of its European business as it anticipates further regulatory scrutiny across the continent.Related:European commission reopens Google antitrust investigationFacing investigations and complaints driven by politicians and commercial rivals across Germany, France, Russia and other European countries, Google has merged its disparate European businesses into one, continent-wide operation.The new European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) arm will be overseen from London by Matt Brittin, previously head of Google’s northern and western Europe businesses. Individual country managers will report directly to Brittin in a bid to unify the company’s actions across European nations.The reorganisation is in response to failures to deal with escalating challenges in individual European countries.The so-called “right to be forgotten” ruling in May 2014 arose from a local issue in Spain, but became a Europe-wide ruling after being promoted to Europe’s highest court in Strasbourg.Google’s newly elevated European boss Matt Brittin.Regulatory scrutiny and political ill-willGoogle also faces potentially serious consequences for its business operations in search and advertising from a recentlyre-opened anti-trust investigationby the European Commission.The European parliament’sapproval of a motioncalling for a break-up of Google’s search and other businesses in November was a demonstration of the political ill-will felt for Google. It is regarded by some as the tip of the spear of US control of the European technology market.A plan by chancellor George Osborne to introduce a new tax on multinational corporations accused of diverting profits –dubbed the “Google tax”and announced in the autumn statement – also underlines a key challenge to Google’s business in Europe.Related:European parliament votes yes on ‘Google breakup’ motionClosely watched by other countries across Europe, Osborne’s plans mean that from April companies face a 25% tax rate on profits from economic activity that is “artificially shifted” abroad.It will target companies that employ complex structures to divert profits to low-tax nations such as Luxembourg and Ireland, where Google’s European operations are headquartered.Commercial rivals have also put pressure on Google’s core business, with Facebook and Twitter growing as a source of news, for instance.Meanwhile, companies such as Russia’s Yandex have lodgedcomplaints with regulatorsover abuse of Google’s monopoly over its Android smartphone and tablet operating system, instigating further regulatory scrutiny.Google is likely to use its new pan-European structure to consolidate power and attempt to appease politicians and regulators to avoid potentially damaging disruption.Related:Autumn statement 2014: Osborne to introduce ‘Google tax’In a bid to win over skeptics, the company has pledged to train one million Europeans in digital skills and invest a further €25m in skills initiatives.But Google’s support of a single European digital market – a proposal put forward by EC president Jean-Claude Juncker – is likely to be its biggest push.Brittin will tell officials in Brussels on Thursday: “For Europe to reach its full potential, we need to clear the way for companies online. We need a single market in the digital world that reflects the single market we enjoy in the physical world already. With over two dozen regulatory and frameworks to contend with, businesses stumble when they seek to sell, grow or hire across borders.”
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) looks set to pass strict new rules to govern broadband internet in the US on Thursday, following one of the most intense –and bizarre– lobbying battles Washington has ever seen.The FCC’s five commissioners will meet on Thursday morning to approve a plan to regulate broadband like a public utility, giving the regulator the greatest power over the cable industry it has had since the internet went mainstream.Related:Net neutrality: FCC votes on the future of the internet – livePresident Obama gave his support to the rules last year, following an online campaign that pitched internet activists and companies including Netflix and Reddit, I Can Has Cheezburger? – weblog home of the Lolcats meme – and online craft market Etsy against Republican leaders and the cable and telecom lobbies.Activists and tech companies are keen to protect the principle of net neutrality – the idea that all information and services should have equal access to the internet.Protesters gathered outside the FCC’s Washington headquarters before the meeting, in celebration of their success in lobbying for a dramatic U-turn in regulation.“We need to send another signal that you can’t mess with the internet,” said Evan Greer, campaign manager for net advocates Fight for the Future. Open Media, another of the protest groups, parked a Jumbotron giant screen close to the FCC’s offices, broadcasting messages from supporters of the new rules.At the meeting the commission’s two Democrat members, Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel, are expected to approve the plan put forward by the Democratic chairman, Tom Wheeler, with some objections. They will overrule the two Republican commissioners who have already lambasted the plan and will hold their own press conference later in the day.One of the Republican commissioners, Ajit Pai, has called the plan “a solution that won’t work to a problem that doesn’t exist”. He is backed by senior Republicans and most of the cable and telecoms industry, who are working on plans to overturn the decision even before the details are published.Wheeler has made clear he plans to regulate broadband under Title II of the communications act – the strongest legal authority the regulator has. Obama called on the independent regulator to implement Title II last year, leading to charges that he unduly influenced Wheeler’s decision that are now being investigated in Congress.Related:Net neutrality: Republicans to strike back against Obama's 'internet grab'The act gives the FCC the power to ban so-called paid prioritisation – or fast lanes – for willing content providers. It would also would ban broadband providers from slowing traffic for competitive reasons. The regulator would also have the authority to challenge unforeseen barriers broadband providers might create as the internet develops.Related:Net neutrality: what's the latest controversy? Your questions answeredThe regulator will vote on two proposals. The first, which has been eclipsed by the net neutrality debate, will allow municipal broadband companies to compete more freely with established cable firms.Municipal broadband companies inChattanooga,Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, are seeking to overturn bans on their expansion plans which have beenlobbied forby private cable and telecom rivals. Twenty states currently have limits or bans on local governments building, owning or partnering with others to give local businesses and residents a choice in high-speed internet access. That vote too is expected to fall along party lines, potentially opening many US cities to wider competition.Christopher Mitchell, director of community broadband networks at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance said the vote could set “an historic precedent” that could “profoundly impact the lives of three-quarters of Americans who are without broadband or a choice in their service because of big cable underinvestment in their towns.”The FCC was forced to rewrite its broadband rules after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to stop it creating fast lanes or to more broadly regulate the industry under its last set of regulations, the Open Internet Order of 2010. Legal challenges for the new rules are also inevitable.Republican FCC commissioners Pai and Michael O’Rielly will hold a press conference after the meeting to detail their objections to the orders, which as yet have been seen by only a few dozen people. Their objections will be taken up by Republican politicians who are alreadyworking on plans to circumvent the orders.
When I started working abroad about three months ago, my company provided me with a new Lenovo laptop. Should I be worried?AnthonyEveryone should be worried, but not for the obvious reason.The good news is that you probably do not have Superfish installed, and if you did, your anti-virus software may already have removed it: Microsoft released removal code in Windows Defender within about 24 hours of the news.The bad news is that the “magic ingredient” in Superfish was an “SSL hijacker” and a root certificate provided by Komodia. This has beenused by many other programs, including ones designed to provide parental controls. Worse, several other companies are trying the same idea.You should therefore check to see if you have Superfish or any other untrustworthy certificates installed.The Lenovo problemThe furore blew up because Lenovo installed Superfish adware on consumer laptops sold between September 2014 and January 2015. All these laptops were running Microsoft Windows 8.1. Your laptop fits the time frame, but you may have escaped for two reasons.Related:'Superfish'-style vulnerability found in games and parental control softwareFirst, Superfish was not installed on Lenovo’s business machines, such as ThinkPads. Second, it was not installed on laptops running Windows 7, which is still the business standard.Unfortunately, Lenovo’s attractive Yoga laptops – including the Yoga Pro models – are classed as consumer laptops. This may have caught some who wanted a smaller screen and/or cheaper device than the ThinkPad Carbon X1. Either way, Lenovo has listed the models that may have been affected in itssecurity advisory.Lenovo says “user feedback was not positive” so it disabled Superfish in January, and stopped preloading it.On itsSuperfish uninstallweb page, Lenovo has now provided an automatic removal tool (including source code) and illustrated manual instructions for removing Superfish and its certificate from laptops running Windows 8.1.Removal is extremely simple via Windows’ standard add/remove programs utility, which most people know from the control panel. Find Superfish Inc VisualDiscovery, tick it, and click uninstall.As mentioned, Superfish may already have been removed by Windows Defender, McAfee’s anti-virus software, and possibly by similar programs. However, with every version of Windows, you should still check that the certificate has been removed from your PC, and from Firefox’s certificate store. Why? There’s more …The Komodia problemAs you will have gathered, Superfish on its own was no big deal. The problem was that Superfish used an “SSL hijacker” – Komodia Redirector with SSL Digestor – bought from a small Israeli company calledKomodia. This opened a very large security hole. In fact, your PC may have this security hole even if it is not made by Lenovo and has never been near Superfish, because Komodia sold its kit to other companies as well.These companies include Atom Security, Infoweise, Komodia (KeepMyFamilySecure), Kurupira (Webfilter), Lavasoft (Ad-Aware Web Companion), Qustodio, and Websecure Ltd (Easy Hide IP Classic), according to the officialUS vulnerability note.A still from a Komodia video on its website.Photograph: KomodiaFacebook adds: “We’ve observed more than a dozen other software applications using the Komodia library.” Itsreportnames the certificate providers: CartCrunch Israel, WiredTools, Say Media Group, Over the Rainbow Tech, System Alert, ArcadeGiant, Objectify Media Inc, Catalytix Web Services and OptimizerMonitor. There will be others as well.You probably do not think any of these have been installed on your PC. That is exactly what Lenovo laptop owners thought until last week.Go to theSuperfish, Komodia, PrivDog vulnerability testweb page, and it will try to find any SSL-disabling software on your PC. The site was built and is being updated by Filippo Valsorda, who created theHeartbleed test sitelast year. (Heartbleed was a very serious vulnerability in the OpenSSL cryptographic software library.)The certificate problemWe always advise people to use secure https:// websites, where traffic is protected using SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) encryption. This is particularly important for banking transactions and online shopping. Komodia’s SSL Digestor provided a way to subvert SSL to insert advertisements, and included its own certificate.Briefly, a secure web server sends your browser its certificate and its public encryption key, so your browser can check that the certificate was issued by a trusted party. The certificate provides information about its owner, possibly including their name, email address and website address, and the identity of the certificate supplier – essentially a signature.If the certificate is accepted, your browser and the website can use encrypted communications both ways. If the certificate is not accepted, the user gets a message to that effect – you have probably seen examples.What Komodia did was interpose its own certificate without alerting the user. Worse, each product seems to have used the same certificate, and so far, it seems the password is always Komodia. As a result,many people– and almost any malware writer – could use this certificate to exploit your PC.Uninstalling Superfish and other Komodia-type programs does not remove the root certificates, so you need to do this separately. Lenovo provides instructions, mentioned above. However, the quick way to do so is typing certmgr.msc into the Windows search box, right click on the program’s name, and select “run as administrator” from the pop-up menu.When the certification manager program runs, click the action menu item and select “find certificates”. Type Superfish (etc) into the search box and click the “find now” button. If you find an unwanted certificate, right-click and select delete.But wait: it gets worse….Komodia is a problem, but it is far from the only company doing so. Apost at How-To Geeksays that adware programs such as Wajam, Geniusbox and Content Explorer are “all doing the exact same thing, installing their own certificates and forcing all your browsing (including https encrypted browsing sessions) to go through their proxy server”.If you have installed software fromunsafe placessuch as CNet’s Download.com or from Google search ads, you could have installed one of these without knowing it. How-To Geek suggests deleting certificates from Sendori, Purelead, Rocket Tab, Superfish, Lookthisup, Pando, Wajam, WajaNEnhance, System Alerts, and CE_UmbrellaCert. Given the number of certificates on the average PC, weeding out any bad ones will not be fun.As How-To Geek points out,Microsoft has a web pagethat, at the click of a FixIt button, will delete “the certificates folder and everything inside it” and update it to “the list that is accepted by Microsoft as part of the Windows root certificate program”. This sounds like a good solution. But, it adds, “we really don’t recommend it until somebody tests this out”. Let me know if you do.I reckon there is now a market for good certificate-checking software.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Lenovo, the PC maker at the centre of the Superfish controversy, suffered its own security breach on Wednesday when its main website was defaced, redirecting users to a slideshow of pictures of bored-looking teens (apparently the hackers themselves) set to the songBreaking FreefromHigh School Musical.Clicking on the slideshow sends users to the Twitter account of hacking collective the Lizard Squad, while viewing the source of the page reveals a note reading “the new and improved rebranded Lenovo website featuring Ryan King and Rory Andrew Godfrey” – two people previously named by security reporter Brian Krebsas being members of the group.Related:How can I find and remove Superfish and similar malware?Lizard Squad tweeted hours before the attack to expect “more mischief”.Expect more lizard mischief soon.&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardCircle)February 25, 2015The hack was apparently carried out through a “DNS hijack”, an increasingly common method whereby domain name system server, which translates a human-readable web address such as google.cominto a machine-readable IP address such as “8.8.8.8”, redirects visitors to another website – in this case, one controlled by Lizard Squad.The hijack closely resembles another Lizard Squad attack, on Google’s Vietnamese website, which was carried out this week, according to Andrew Hay, director of security research at OpenDNS. Both sites used the same domain name registrar, Webnic.cc.“Two defacements in a single week is normally nothing, but two extremely high-profile defacements from the same registrar in the same week is a definite trend,” Hay said. “We may see more redirections of domains that were registered with Webnic.cc in the coming days.”Following the hack, Lizard Squad has been posting screenshotsof emails allegedly sent to Lenovo.com addresses, includingone discussing Superfish. A DNS hijack can potentially gain access to emails sent during the period the site is taken over, by redirecting the email in the same way as the website. But this would not grant access to the full database of emails.In a statement, Lenovo said: “Unfortunately, Lenovo has been the victim of a cyber attack. One effect of this attack was to redirect traffic from the Lenovo website. We are also actively investigating other aspects. We are responding and have already restored certain functionality to our public facing website.“We are actively reviewing our network security and will take appropriate steps to bolster our site and to protect the integrity of our users’ information and experience.“We are also working proactively with 3rd parties to address this attack and we will provide additional information as it becomes available.”Related:What will happen to the Lizard Squad hackers?Lenovo’s reputation in the information security community was already rock-bottom after it emerged that the company sold laptops infected with pre- installed malware named Superfish, which broke users’ encrypted connections in order deliver the firm’s own adverts into search pages.The company initially denied the reports, saying that it was “satisfied” that user security was never at risk. A day later it recanted and apologised for its error.Peter Hortensius, Lenovo’s chief technology officer,told the New York Times that“we did not do a thorough enough job understanding how Superfish would find and provide their info. That’s on us. That’s a mistake that we made.”He added: “This week we begin the plan to make sure this never happens again. We’ll release that plan by the end of the week.”
With the majorGame Developers Conferencetaking place in San Francisco, and a whole range of recent controversies to discuss, March is a pretty good time to meet our games writing team. And the good news is, you can.After January’s successful “meet the Guardian games writers” night, we’re hosting a follow-up on 4 March at the Guardian office in Kings Cross.Related:Guardian Live event: on games, augmented reality and trucking simulatorsHosted by games editor Keith Stuart, the evening will feature PC Gamer’s Andy Kelly, Rock Paper Shotgun’s Philippa Warr, Official Xbox Magazine writer Kate Gray, and freelancers Jordan Erica Webber and Rich Stanton. We’ll be discussing the latest news and trends, and the games we are looking forward too – and there will be plenty of time for audience questions.The event runs from 7pm to 830pm and afterwards, we’ll wander down to the Rotunda bar beneath Guardian HQ.Just head tothe Guardian Live page for booking details.Guardian Liveis our series of debates, interviews and festivals exclusively for Guardian Members. Find out more about membership andhow to sign up.
So a computer program has learned how to play classic Atari games. Big deal. I mean, they’re just big blocks of pixels pushing smaller blocks of pixels around a screen, right?Yet somehow, the UK artificial intelligence specialist Deep Mind, bought last year by Google for £240m, is extremely excited about the fact that it has developed an AI agent capable of learning how to play Space Invaders. I learned how to play Space Invaders in a cafe in Blackpool when I was six. But Google hasn’t acquiredme. What’s going on?Related:Google develops computer program capable of learning tasks independentlyThe thing is, classic Atari games such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout were, despite their visual limitations, much more complex than our modern minds give them credit for. Indeed, many of these games set in place the fundamental mechanics that modern titles are still utilising – and they are deceptively deep, even for a Deep Mind AI gamer.It turns out the Deep Mind program fared very well against titles that allowed it to learn systems through simple trial and error such as Video Pinball and Breakout. However, it failed spectacularly at games that required the participants to build a mental map of the level and develop long-term strategies, or that required the mastery of different skillsets, such as the more complex shooters Zaxxon and Gravitar.However, learning to play and master any of these games is a significant feat, despite their chunky aesthetics. Here are four classic Atari titles and why they’re not quite as basic as they appear.PongDesigned by electrical engineer Al Alcorn and launched as an arcade machine in 1972, Atari’s legendary bat and ball simulation, is widely considered the most basic interactive electronic game possible. Indeed, Atari founder Nolan Bushnell once said to Alcorn: “I want to make a game that any drunk in any bar can play.”But Pong is actually a very important early example of game physics - the ball reacting to surfaces in different ways. When it hits a wall, it simply rebounds at a mirror-opposite angle.However, each of the bats is actually divided into eight sections, each providing a slighting different angle of return. Therefore players are able to develop strategies, planning the return gradient so that the opponent is unable to quickly guess where the ball will return to, leaving them stranded in the wrong part of the screen. Consequently, players – or indeed computer programs – with a knowledge of projectile displacement physics have a distinct advantage.BreakoutCreated as a single-player version of Pong, Atari’s wall-breaking classic was designed by Bushnell, with help from Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs who would, of course, later go on to found Apple. Players simply use a bat at the bottom of the screen to knock a ball into rows of coloured bricks, smashing anything it hits. Once again, the bat has different impact zones that affect the angle of the bounce.Extra depth comes from the fact that the ball speeds up when the player reaches the upper layers of the walls, and then the bat shrinks to half its size when the ball finally hits the top wall. This is an early example of gameplay balance, with a system that increases the level of challenge as the player begins to excel. The fiendishly compulsive “tidying up” format of the game would later become a staple of the puzzle genre (see Tetris).Space InvadersOriginally devised by Tomohiro Nishikado, a designer at Japanese arcade company Taito, Space Invaders is - alongside Pac-Man - one of the best-known video games of all time. Players shoot at waves of aliens as they descend to Earth, occasionally blasting a UFO as it whizzes across the top of the display.Seemingly simple, the game was one of the first to introduce a smooth difficulty curve, the invaders speeding up as they get closer. Incredibly, this was actually a bug: the archaic processor was able to handle the movement more efficiently when there were fewer objects on screen. But Nishikado kept it.Alongside the cowboy shoot-’em-up Gun Fight, Space Invaders (which was later ported to the Atari 2600 console) also popularised the “cover” mechanic, providing a row of destructible barriers for the player to hide behind. It is a feature that would later be brought to more complex action adventures such as Grand Theft Auto and Gears of War.Indeed, Hideo Kojima, the creator of the multimillion-selling Metal Gear Solid series credited Space Invaders with inventing the “stealth” game genre, as players could sneak from barrier to barrier evading the attention – and bullets – of the extraterrestrial enemies.AsteroidsCreated using monochrome “vector” graphics by Atari coders Ed Logg and Lyle Rains, Asteroids has players controlling a tiny ship as it blasts passing space rocks. Once again, however, the basic set-up hides a complex challenge. The ship itself is piloted using thrust and inertia, an intricate physics system, that adds a significant skill factor to the multi-directional movement.The game also exhibits a clever difficulty curve: when larger asteroids are blasted they split up into faster moving rocks, considerably increasing the challenge. And it experiments with contrasting AI enemies. Two different flying saucers can appear on screen – a large one that fires inaccurately, and a smaller one that is much more deadly.Released in 1979, Asteroids was a smash hit, selling more than 70,000 arcade machines. Players were so addicted to its merging of simple visuals with intense action that they began to work out and exploit its systemic features. A good Asteroids player knows that leaving a single slow moving rock on screen and using it as a barrier from which to blast saucers is the way to huge high scores. It’s a technique known as “lurking” and its one of the earliest example of players gaming the system for tactical advantage.
“Pinterest is not a social network. Really. It’s not about your friends! The last thing I need is another messaging app, y’know?” says Evan Sharp, thumping his fist on the table for emphasis. “It’s really this different kind of unique thing.”Sharp should know: he co-founded it. And since its launch in 2009, Pinterest has reached a large audience – 47.1 million active users in the US alone this yearaccording to eMarketer– raising a startling $764m of funding along the way.So what is it, if not a social network? Many people who aren’t on Pinterest have a hazy idea that it is something to do with online mood boards for planning weddings and house redecorations, used mainly by women.The company is keen to scotch those perceptions: men are its fastest-growing demographic, and it’s being used for a lot more than ogling wedding dresses and furniture (although, yes, those too).“It’s really this great tool for discovering creative ideas and saving them for later,” is how Sharp boils it down, sitting down with the Guardian as part of a visit to the UK, where Pinterest usage has, he claims, more than doubled in the last year as the company’s local team grows.“Part of the reason I’m on this trip is to try to understand how is this working here. Does Pinterest in the UK feel like an American service ported over, or does it feel authentically British?” says Sharp, a self-confessed anglophile.“A lot of that goes back to who do we feature, who do we connect you to when you sign up, who’s driving the tastes on our platform in Britain, and who are the sources of the stuff that people are saving and discovering?”Getting more Brits using the service is a big part of that process: hence Sharp’s desire to explain exactly what Pinterest is (and what it’s not) and how people are using it.Evan Sharp, Pinterest’s co-founder.‘Pins are things’That includes emphasising that Pinterest is much more than an image-focused digital mood board in 2015, in terms of the more than 30bn “pins” – from products and fashion to apps and music videos – that its users have created and shared.“We like to say pins are things. Hopefully they’re not just images: there’s a link behind them, and that small difference makes a world of difference in terms of usefulness and utility,” says Sharp.“We’re very recommendations and search-focused. It’s a service that should become more valuable the more you use it, and more specific to your taste or your interests.”Related:Pinterest promises 'smarter search' including manly pins for menPinterest as a search engine rather than a social network? “People don’t think of Pinterest as search, necessarily, and that’s partly the design of the service: the way it’s laid out, but we’re a huge search engine. A massive search engine, and it’s very different type of search to Google or Yahoo,” he says.How? Sharp suggests that while Google is good at answering specific “objective” questions like how far it is from one place to another, it struggles at more subjective questions like what sofa to buy or what to cook for dinner. “Those are harder, more subjective things to get through a [traditional] search engine.”Like many other internet services, Pinterest is increasingly driven by mobile, with 80% of its usage coming from smartphones and tablets, and Android and iPhone its lead platforms for almost all new features.“There’s a fundamentally different mindset on the phone. It’s partly about the user interface, the inputs that come with the phone, and it’s partly the fact that phones are about apps not websites, and the way you refer traffic is very different,” says Sharp.“We’re in the middle of that transition. In the next five years, so many people are going to come online in the world who’ve never had a smartphone before. It’s a fascinating time.”Pinterest’s first smartwatch app for Android Wear.Pinterest on the wristThere’s another mobile device on Pinterest’s agenda: the smartwatch. The companystarted supporting Android Wear devices in June 2014, with an app that alerts people on their smartwatches when they’re near a place that they’ve pinned. Pinterest is also a launch partner for the upcoming Apple Watch.Sharp describes the geo-location feature as “interesting, but a bit of a distraction”, suggesting that Pinterest sees smartwatches as a way to be more useful in day-to-day life.“One of our company goals is to get you offline, unlike a social network. We’re not just about engagement and time spent. We aspire to be more about helping you with your life and getting you offline and doing things,” he says.“What’s great about the watch is that it will be with you when you’re doing things … you can imagine, you’d be cooking a recipe, and rather than having to pull it [your smartphone] out, just seeing it quickly on your wrist.”Pinterest is also working hard on its advertising strategy for “promoted pins”, which wasfirst announced in September 2013, thentested with a few US advertisers from May 2014, andfinally opened up to all brands in that country in January 2015.Inserting ads into people’s Pinterest feeds hasn’t led to a backlash so far, which Sharp sees as proof that the company’s softly-softly approach has worked.“They’re not really even ads. If you show someone a version of the homefeed without the promoted pins label, and one with it, people might be hard-pressed to pick out which one is an ad,” he says.“It just gets back to the nature of Pinterest: brands happen to create a decent percentage of the stuff you find, and as long as we keep the format native to the experience, and as long as the type of content feels relevant... It’s not a service about your friends, so brand stuff doesn’t feel like a jarring disconnect.”Pinterest has rolled out its promoted pins ads slowlyNo eyeball-frying uglyfestOne of the creative challenges facing Pinterest in 2015 is the growing amount of gifs and videos being pinned, rather than just images. Boards are becoming animated rather than static.“I think in the next few years we’ll see a kind of breaking down of the barriers that we have today between images and video and gifs. Motion can be incredibly compelling: this real cinematic narrative story through video. Or it can be very similar to an image, just with a bit more life behind it,” says Sharp.“That Harry Potter thing where everything on the wall moves? That’s not far away! At least in a digital way. And it’s going to be better for everyone, I think.”The idea of digital walls where everything moves doesn’t just bring Harry Potter to mind: it also sparks more troubling flashbacks to the worst, garish and flashing excesses of MySpace profile pages back in the day.How does Pinterest avoid turning into a similar eyeball-frying uglyfest? “It has to be tasteful!” says Sharp. “One of my favourite things about Pinterest is that everything was put there by a human being – all 30-plus billion pins – and there is a level of quality to the things that tend to get popular.“There are lots of flashing banner-ad style things: it’s not that this stuff isn’t on the internet. But that’s not what gets saved. What gets saved is useful or inspiring, and even better, a combination of the two. Done the right way, that sort of motion media points into this other world of possibilities that can be really positive for the experience.”Services like Pinterest help trends zip from country to country faster.Connecting the curatorsCuration can be an overused buzzword in the internet industry, but in Pinterest’s case, it really is at the heart of what the company does: encouraging people to create and collaborate on boards about their passions, and then tackling that Sharp admits is the “non-trivial” challenge of connecting people to those curators, so that Pinterest becomes more useful to them.(In the streaming music world, Spotify is facing a similar challenge in helping people find new music that they’ll love by connecting them to curators – playlist creators – whose tastes chime with theirs.Related:Ben Silbermann: the modest genius behind Pinterest“It’s really about trying to connect you to the right person. I mean, I’m going to come back to London in a few weeks, and figure out what I’m going to do in a three-day period. And that’s going to be me on Pinterest looking at the boards of London, for people who live here who’ve got great taste,” says Sharp.“It’s about connecting to the right curator: about finding that person who’s got the same tastes as you, and has already done the work for you. But connecting you to that person is non-trivial [as a challenge]. We think about that a lot.”This leads on to a discussion about the way the internet – from services like Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram to street-fashion and coolhunting blogs – are vastly increasing the speed at which trends and culture zips across the world. Not just in terms of hipsters in Tokyo, Shoreditch or New York cribbing one another’s style, but also in reducing the time it takes trends to trickle down from those early adopters to everyone else: the mainstream.“I do think hipster culture in particular comes out of the internet: it comes out of exposure to a generation of imagery and music and fashion and so hipster culture tends to be – from what I can tell – more international, more so than other movements,” says Sharp, addressing the first of those points.“But there’s always a nuance. I was in Japan last year, and there was a hipster culture there but it’s definitely a Japanese hipster culture. And it’s the same thing here [in Shoreditch] as well, from what I can tell.”Catching the hipstersWhat about that second point, though: cultural trends hitting the mainstream faster than ever. If I follow the right people, blogs, boards and playlists, it certainly doesn’t make me the tastemaker, but it does – with a minimum of mediation – mean their recommendations reach me much faster.“One of the beautiful things, hopefully, about the internet, is that it’s no longer as simple to generalise: ‘Oh, you’re a mod’ or you’re whatever it is, ‘a punk’. The movements are much more… maybe not even movements any more. Much more nuanced,” says Sharp.“There hasn’t really been an art movement in, like, two decades, which I really think is the beautiful thing about the time. No one sees it yet or talks about it, but it is a new world. One of the big changes is this access, this exposure that Pinterest and other services give you to that world of culture.“It allows people to more personally curate their own culture: their own food, their own fashion, their own travel… That idea of ‘developing taste’ in something sounds elitist to me, almost. It’s this process of being exposed to the possibilities and then deciding what your own preference is.”How it fuels that process is, I think, a much more interesting question about Pinterest than “will it start making money?” (yes) or “will it get bought by Google or Apple?” (quite possibly, yes).It’s certainly more than a glorified scrapbook. Or, indeed, just another social network.
Australian researchers have created the world’s first 3D-printed jet engines, a breakthrough that could change the way aircraft are constructed.Researchers from Monash University, aided by staff from the CSIRO and Deakin University, have printed two engines and put one of them on display at the International Air Show in Avalon, Victoria.Monash and its spin-off company Amaero Engineering have registered interest from Airbus, Boeing and Raytheon, the defence manufacturer.Researchers were given an old gas turbine engine by French firm Safran to copy, printing out two versions. The year-long process was led by Prof Xinhua Wu, the director of the Monash centre for additive manufacturing.The aerospace industry is interested in the process of printing parts because of the reduced lead time, the lighter weight of parts and lower production costs.Monash created the parts of the engine using printers that spread a very thin layer of metal powder across a base plate. A laser then formed the required shape using a computer-generated outline. This process was repeated over and over again until the part was completed.“The project is a spectacular proof of concept that’s leading to significant contracts with aerospace companies,” said Ben Batagol, of Amaero Engineering.“It was a challenge for the team and pushed the technology to new heights of success – no one has printed an entire engine commercially yet.”Although 3D printing has been around since the 1980s, in recent years it has developed to produce a wide array of items,most controversially guns.Other items created by 3D printing have included bikinis, houses and models of unborn children.
The firmallegedly hacked by the NSA and GCHQhas stated that it cannot find any evidence that the US and UK security services breached and stole the encryption keys billions of Sim cards.The alleged hack was revealed by documents from the NSA files provided by Edward Snowden, which detailed attacks on Gemalto – the world’s largest Sim card manufacturer – which allegedly saw them steal encryption keys that allowed them to secretly monitor voice calls and data from billions of mobile phones around the world.But after an investigation, the Dutch security company, which supplies Sim cards to all of the major UK mobile phone networks and 450 operators globally, has said that no evidence of a theft of Sim card security details has been found.“No breaches were found in the infrastructure running our SIM activity or in other parts of the secure network which manage our other products such as banking cards, ID cards or electronic passports,”said the company. “Each of these networks is isolated from one another and they are not connected to external networks.”Gemalto confirmed that two “particularly sophisticated intrusions” into the company’s office network that deals with external communications were detected in 2010.Related:Mobile phones hacked: can the NSA and GCHQ listen to all our phone calls?“At the time, we were unable to identify the perpetrators but we now think that they could be related to the NSA and GCHQ operation,” said Gemalto. “These intrusions only affected the outer parts of our networks – our office networks – which are in contact with the outside world. The SIM encryption keys and other customer data in general, are not stored on these networks.”According to the Snowden documents, Gemalto was targeted by the joint NSA and GCHQ Mobile Handset Exploitation Team (MHET) and that the British intelligence agency had planted malware – malignant software – on several of Gemalto’s computers, giving GHCQ access to “their entire network”.Gemalto claims that it didn’t sell Sim cards to four of the 12 mobile phone operators listed by the NSA files and that its Sim card production facilities listed as being in Japan, Colombia and Italy were not in operation at the time of the hacks.Other Sim card manufacturers including Giesecke &amp; Devrient, which supplies 350 mobile operators globally, launched investigations into their operations, implementing tougher security measures.
Google scientists have developed the first computer program capable of learning a wide variety of tasks independently, in what has been hailed as a significant step towards true artificial intelligence.The same program, or “agent” as its creators call it, learnt to play 49 different retro computer games, and came up with its own strategies for winning. In the future, the same approach could be used to power self-driving cars, personal assistants in smartphones or conduct scientific research in fields from climate change to cosmology.The research was carried out by DeepMind, the British company bought by Google last year for £400m, whose stated aim is to build “smart machines”.Related:Those classic Atari games were harder than you thinkDemis Hassabis, the company’s founder said: “This is the first significant rung of the ladder towards proving a general learning system can work. It can work on a challenging task that even humans find difficult. It’s the very first baby step towards that grander goal ... but an important one.”The work is seen as a fundamental departure from previous attempts to create AI, such as the program Deep Blue, which famously beat Gary Kasparov at chess in 1997 or IBM’s Watson, which won the quiz show Jeopardy! in 2011.In both these cases, computers were pre-programmed with the rules of the game and specific strategies and overcame human performance through sheer number-crunching power.“With Deep Blue, it was team of programmers and grand masters that distilled the knowledge into a program,” said Hassabis. “We’ve built algorithms that learn from the ground up.”The DeepMind agent is simply given a raw input, in this case the pixels making up the display on Atari games, and provided with a running score.When the agent begins to play, it simply watches the frames of the game and makes random button presses to see what happens. “A bit like a baby opening their eyes and seeing the world for the first time,” said Hassabis.The agent uses a method called “deep learning” to turn the basic visual input into meaningful concepts, mirroring the way the human brain takes raw sensory information and transforms it into a rich understanding of the world. The agent is programmed to work out what is meaningful through “reinforcement learning”, the basic notion that scoring points is good and losing them is bad.Tim Behrens, a professor of cognitive neuroscience at University College London, said: “What they’ve done is really impressive, there’s no question. They’ve got agents to learn concepts based on just rewards and punishment. No one’s ever done that before.”In videos provided by Deep Mind, the agent is shown making random and largely unsuccessful movements at the start, but after 600 hundred rounds of training (two weeks of computer time) it has figured out what many of the games are about.In some cases, the agent came up with winning strategies that the researchers themselves had never considered, such as tunnelling through the sides of the wall in Breakout or, in one submarine-based game, staying deeply submerged at all times.Vlad Mnih, one of the Google team behind the work, said: “It’s definitely fun to see computers discover things you haven’t figured out yourself.”Hassabis stops short of calling this a “creative step”, but said it proves computers can “figure things out for themselves” in a way that is normally thought of as uniquely human. “One day machines will be capable of some form of creativity, but we’re not there yet,” he said.Behrens said that watching the agent learn leaves the impression that “there’s something human about it” – probably because it is borrowing the concept of trial and error, one of the main methods by which humans learn.The study, published in the journal Nature, showed that the agent performed at 75% of the level of a professional games tester or better on half of the games tested, which ranged from side-scrolling shooters to boxing to 3D car-racing. On some games, such as Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout, the algorithm significantly outperformed humans, while on others it fared far worse.The researchers said this was mostly because the algorithm, as yet, has no real memory meaning that it is unable to commit to long-term strategies that require planning. With some of the games, this meant the agent got stuck in a rut, where it had learnt one basic way to score a few points, but never really grasped the game’s overall objective. The team is now trying to build in a memory component to the system and apply it to more realistic 3D computer games.Last year, the American entrepreneur, Elon Musk, one of Deep Mind’s early investors, described AI as humanity’s greatest existential threat. “Unless you have direct exposure to groups like Deepmind, you have no idea how fast [AI] is growing,” he said. “The risk of something seriously dangerous happening is in the five year timeframe. Ten years at most.”However, the Google team played down the concerns. “We agree with him there are risks that need to be borne in mind, but we’re decades away from any sort of technology that we need to worry about,” Hassabis said.
Motorola has launched a 4G update to its bargain-basement Moto E Android smartphone, which is faster but more expensive than its predecessor.The Moto E was launched last year providing asolid, basic Android smartphonefor under £90. The new Moto E launches with 4G and faster quad-core processor, but costs £109.Related:Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90?The new Moto E has larger 4.5-inch qHD display, a front-facing camera for selfies and a 5-megapixel rear camera, with auto-focus. The smartphone also runs Google’s latest Android 5 Lollipopsoftware, but without the usual modifications that manufacturers such as Samsung make to the standard Android OS.“We don’t see any reason to hide or slow down Android – the world’s best mobile operating system. There’s no bloatware or skins to slow things down,” said Seang Chau of Motorola’s software engineering team. “That allows us to update the software as quickly as possible.”The new Moto E weighs 145g and has 8GB or 16GB of storage with a microSD card slot accessible from under a removable, customisable coloured band. The battery is not removable, however.Motorola claims the low-cost smartphone will last a full day’s mixed use on a single charge and includes features such as a scratch-resistant face and a water-resistant coating often found on smartphones costing twice the price.Related:Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphoneMotorola gained momentum with its original budget smartphone, the Moto G, which secured the company a6% share of the smartphone marketin the UK in the first quarter of 2014 from prior, negligible levels. The Moto E followed the Moto G but cost around £40 less, with software features and a frustration-free interface that set it well ahead of its similarly priced competition.Available in the UK from the 26 February, the Moto E builds on a solid foundation. But its increased price could reduce its appeal for the budget-conscious with intense competition from Microsoft, Chinese and local smartphone manufacturers in India, the UK and other emerging markets.Now owned by China’s Lenovo, recent revelations that its parent companyinstalled malware on its PCscould damage consumer confidence in Motorola, which is branded as “a Lenovo company”.
A cybercrime ring that used millions of hacked computers in Britain to steal banking information has been shut down by European police and technology companies.Europol’s European cybercrime centre coordinated the operation from its headquarters in The Hague, targeting the so-called Ramnitbotnet– a network of computers infected with malware.It worked with investigators from Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands and was assisted by companies AnubisNetworks, Microsoft and Symantec, which said 3.2m computers were hacked.‘The criminals have lost control’Computers around the world have been infected by the botnet, but most users have been infected in Britain, said Paul Gillen, head of operations at the cybercrime centre. Ramnit has been infecting computers since 2012.“We worked together to shut down the command-and-control servers for the network in various countries across the European Union. The criminals have lost control of the infrastructure they were using,” Gillen said.Wil van Gemert, Europol deputy director of operations, said the operation underlined the importance of law enforcement agencies working with the private industry to tackle cybercrime.“We will continue our efforts in taking down botnets and disrupting the core infrastructures used by criminals to conduct a variety of cybercrimes … our aim is to protect people around the world against these criminal activities,” he said.Seven servers used by the cybercriminals were shut down overnight.Related:Hackers steal $1bn  in series of online bank thefts says reportThe malware, installed through links on spam email or infected websites, enabled culprits to take control of the PCs and use them for criminal activities. Online banking details, passwords, cookies and personal files were harvested from victims.Symantec said that the Ramnit network had “evolved into a major criminal enterprise” that defrauded large numbers of victims. The online security companyreleased a free toolto let users remove Ramnit infections from a computer.The British-led investigation was continuing and Gillen declined to comment on any possible arrests. Europol, the European police agency, has been coordinating cross-border efforts to take down criminal infrastructure on the internet and prosecute offenders.
Better start exercising those fingers and rehearsing your rock stances: the hugely popular music game Guitar Hero could be about to tune up and hit the stage again.Gaming news site Kotakureportsthat Activision could announce a new title at the giant E3 games convention in Los Angeles in June.Launched in 2005 and originally developed by music specialist Harmonix, the Guitar Hero series became a major entertainment phenomenon, selling more than 25m copies and kickstarting a huge industry trend for audio gaming.Players used a plastic guitar controller to strum along with a series of licensed rock tracks, using a combination of buttons and a slider control to emulate the instrument.The first title was an instant hit, inspiring four major sequels as well as a range of spin-offs and add-ons, including the turntable-based DJ Hero.After the Activision purchase, Harmonix was bought by MTV Networks for $175m and later launched a new music series, Rock Band, which added drums to the familiar gameplay.Activision axed the Guitar Hero series in 2011, after poor sales of the 2010 instalment Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock. By this time, the market was saturated, and gamers were tired of constantly purchasing and updating new titles and controllers.“I think the road to rejuvenating that category goes through innovation,” said Activision chief executive Eric Hirshbergat the time. “The premise of Guitar Hero – that everyone has an inner rock star – it’s something that we’ve all done forever. Some version of singing into a hairbrush, or holding a tennis racket like a guitar, or singing karaoke, or singing into the bathroom mirror – we all do that.”According to Kotaku, the new Guitar Hero, which is likely to premiere on Xbox One and PlayStation 4, is set to feature a more realistic look in contrast to the exaggerated cartoonish visuals of previous instalments.It is not clear which studio will be working on the comeback title, though Activision has closed both Neversoft, the team that took over the series after the departure of Harmonix, and RedOctane, the original publisher of the games.It is unlikely, though, that Guitar Hero will have the stage to itself. There is alsospeculationthat Electronic Arts has plans to rejuvenate its rival Rock Band series, again for the current consoles.
There have been myriad attempts to marry television and games into “holistic transmedia experiences” – and the results have often been as bad as the phrase itself.All that could be about to change following a decision by film and television studio Lionsgate to make a “significant” investment in Telltale Games, the developer of episodic adventure games based on The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones.The two are to collaborate on what the companies are calling a “super show” – a drama series that features both television and game elements.Telltale chief executive Kevin Brunertold Entertainment Weeklythat the linear and interactive elements will work together in an episodic format. “Each super show episode [the interactive game and the scripted episode] will be released as a package designed so that you can consume the interactive portion or watch the scripted show portion in any order you’d like,” he said.Lionsgate diversifies“For instance, if you play the interactive episode first, certain elements of the scripted episode portion will be tailored to reflect some choices made in your interactive play-through. If you watch the show before playing, some elements in the interactive portions may be presented differently than if you played first.”Lionsgate has been looking to diversify its entertainment business. The studio best known for the Hunger Games franchise and acclaimed TV dramas such as Mad Men and Orange Is The New Black,set up its own game development studiolast April.Meanwhile, Telltale Games has carved out a niche as a specialist developer of episodic narrative dramas, based around well-known TV and game brands.The company’s Walking Dead titles have sold 8.5m copies and it has just announced a new series based in the Minecraft universe.Related:Minecraft: Story Mode spin-off game announced by MojangThis is not the first tie-in between television and interactive gaming content. Some experiments have sought to slot TV content into narrative gaps between gaming instalments. The Halo: Nightfall live-action TV series for example, takes place between the games Halo 4 and Halo: Guardians.Other projects have tried to combine interactive and linear components – US sci-fi series Defiance is accompanied by a massively-multiplayer role-playing game, with battles in the latter originally planned to have ramifications for the television plotline. However, the interconnectivity between the two hasproved limiteddue to differences in production schedules.Meanwhile, Microsoft is yet to release Quantum Break, the combined game and digital television series, which was announced with much hype at the launch of the Xbox One console.In May 2013, Microsoft promised that player actions in the game would have an effect on the live-action TV series, and vice versa. The game is expected to released later this year. However, last July Microsoft hasclosed its Xbox Entertainment Studios arm, which was created to work on transmedia projects.Telltale told Entertainment Weekly that it still planned to work on traditional narrative games alongside its super show plans. There was also the possibility of adventure games based around Lionsgate properties.“We have a ton of respect for the IP [intellectual property] they own and control,” said Bruner. “We will continue to explore how we can work together on some of their IP just as we have been doing for some time, but there’s nothing to announce right now.”Certainly the prospect of an Orange is the New Black adventure game would be an intriguing one, with its large cast of female prison inmates and challenging, adult themes – though Hunger Games: the Adventure is probably more likely.
It’s Wednesday! And don’t forget, there are still tickets available to our‘meet the game writers’ event on March 4. Come along and ask why I never get Chatterbox ready on time!
Apple has been ordered to pay more than $530m after a federal jury in Texas found its iTunes software infringed three patents owned by a patent licensing company called Smartflash.AlthoughSmartflashhad been asking for $852m in damages, the verdict handed down on Tuesday night was still a blow to Apple.The jury, which deliberated for eight hours, determined Apple had not only used Smartflash’s patents without permission, but did so wilfully.The patents concerned digital rights management, data storage and payment systems.Apple, which said it would appeal, said the outcome was another reason that reform was needed in the patent system to curb litigation by companies that do not make products themselves.“Smartflash makes no products, has no employees, creates no jobs, has no US presence, and is exploiting our patent system to seek royalties for technology Apple invented,” said Apple’s Kristin Huguet. “We refused to pay off this company for the ideas our employees spent years innovating, and unfortunately we have been left with no choice but to take this fight up through the court system.”‘Very happy’Smartflash sued Apple in May 2013, alleging its iTunes software infringed its patents related to accessing and storing downloaded songs, videos and games.“Smartflash is very happy with the jury’s verdict, which recognises Apple’s longstanding wilful infringement,” said Brad Caldwell, a lawyer for Smartflash.The trial was held in Tyler, Texas, which over the past decade has become a focus for patent litigation. Smartflash’s registered office is also located in Tyler.Related:New Apple patents seek total dominance of selfie marketIt was also in Tyler federal court that a jury in 2012ordered Apple to pay $368mto VirnetX for patent infringement. A federal appeals court later rejected that damages figure, saying it was wrongly calculated.Apple tried to avoid a trial by having the lawsuit thrown out. However, US district judge Rodney Gilstrap, who presided over the case, ruled earlier this month that Smartflash’s technology was not too basic to deserve the patents.Apple had asked the jury to find Smartflash’s patents invalid because previously patented inventions covered the same technology.Smartflash’s suit said that about 2000, the co-inventor of its patents, Patrick Racz, had met with executives of what is now European SIM card maker Gemalto, including Augustin Farrugia, who is now a senior director at Apple.Smartflash has also filed patent infringement lawsuits against Samsung, HTC and Google.
Can you really detect the melanoma type of skin cancer by taking a photograph of a mole using your smartphone? The US Federal Trade Commission’s latest action provides strong encouragement to be wary of such claims.The FTC hasreached settlementswith two firms marketing melanoma detection apps MelApp and Mole Detective, and plans to file claims against another company that did not agree to settle.Both apps involved people taking photos of suspicious moles, then providing a risk assessment of how likely they were to be melanoma, with the aim of helping users decide whether to visit their doctor.“The FTC alleged that the marketers deceptively claimed the apps accurately analysed melanoma risk and could assess such risk in early stages,” explained the regulator. “The marketers lacked adequate evidence to support such claims.”Mole Detective’s initial marketer, New Consumer Solutions, has been fined $3,930, while MelApp’s maker Health Discovery Corporation has been fined $17,963, with both barred from making “misleading or unsubstantiated health claims” about products in the future.According to the FTC’s complaints, MelApp was released in 2011, with the $1.99 app for iOS and Androidgoing on to make more than $17k of revenuesbetween January 2011 and July 2013. The Mole Detective suite of apps, meanwhile,generated more than $50k of salesbetween January 2012 and December 2013 in the US alone.Related:FTC in talks with Apple over health data protection – Open Thread“Truth in advertising laws apply in the mobile marketplace,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. “App developers and marketers must have scientific evidence to support any health or disease claims that they make for their apps.”Scrutiny of apps claiming to provide early detection of melanoma is not a new thing. In January 2013, aresearch paper published in the Archives of Dermatologyexamined four apps, and found that their accuracy in identifying lesions that were melanomas varied between 6.8% and 98.1%.Those that performed best involved sending the mole photos to qualified dermatologists to study, rather than trying to detect melanoma using an algorithm.
BlackBerry will have fewer than 1 million users outside businesses in the UK by the end of the year, a radical slump from a peak of nearly 8 million in June 2012, according to new research from two companies.The dramatic fall from grace of the iconic mobile phones, which wereblamed for spreading unrest during the London riots of summer 2011, follows a series of high-profile and expensive flops – first with its PlayBook tablet and then with the touchscreen Z10 phone, as it tried to catch rivals such as Samsung and Apple.The firm has also plunged into operating losses and seen revenues dwindle for 11 of the past 12 quarters. In a bid to cut costs, it has fired thousands of staff.Now new research from eMarketer provided exclusively to the Guardian paints a bleak picture for the company. It says it may have as few as 700,000 non-business users in the UK, and that by 2017 the figure could fall to 400,000.These latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in drovesBill Fisher, eMarketerSeparately, another research company, Kantar Worldpanel, told the Guardian that although BlackBerry’s data currently shows 1.4 million non-business users, it is losing 56,000 users every month to other platforms such as Apple’s iPhone, Google’s Android and Microsoft’s Windows Phone. “I’d expect we would see fewer than a million people with a BlackBerry as their primary handset around September 2015,” Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at Kantar, said.The UK used to be one of BlackBerry’s biggest and most loyal markets – but the collapse in consumer base will create financial problems for the company, which under its new chief executive John Chen has retrenched to its original corporate and government roots, where it is prized for its levels of security. But both Apple and Samsung have begun to make inroads there, winning approval from the US and UK governments for their handsets to be used in low-level security work.BlackBerry’s revenues rely heavily on handset sales: Chen has said that it needs to sell 10m per year to be profitable. But falling user numbers mean fewer sales and a spiralling problem for the company.“BlackBerry’s fall from grace has been spectacular, but these latest figures show that even its previously loyal core seems to be leaving in droves,” said Bill Fisher, UK analyst at eMarketer. “Its market share has been decimated by Android and iOS, and more recently by Windows Phone, which is slowly gaining a foothold in the UK market.”The company has not been helped by high-profile missteps, such as a software update last Thursday that left LadyTanni Grey-Thompson, the paralympic medallist and parliamentarian, bemoaning the random shuffling of her contacts book. She has threatened to dump BlackBerry for another maker.@O2software upgrade... vast maj on contacts are muddled.  so phone calls to husband Ian are listed as Rod.  wrong email add and random job&mdash; Tanni Grey-Thompson (@Tanni_GT)February 23, 2015BlackBerry had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.Among UK smartphone users, Google’s Android makes up 56.2%, comprising 21.5 million owners, says eMarketer, while Apple’s iPhone has 12.3 million users, or 32.2%. Microsoft’s Windows Phone has 3.3 million users, or 8.5%, and BlackBerry’s sub-1 million users make up just 1.9%. Kantar puts Apple’s figure higher, at 13.4 million (38.1%) and Android’s lower, at 17.4 million (49.6%), with Windows Phone users totalling 2.3 million (6.5%).Sunnebo said the shift pointed to wider challenges in the phone market. “What this does mean is that ‘easy wins’ in the UK market are coming to an abrupt end. With only 2.1 million customers of old platforms like BlackBerry, Palm, [Nokia] Symbian and [Samsung] Bada left, brands can only really win significant numbers of new customers from consumers already using modern, competitive platforms.”
Longstanding allegations that women are routinely discriminated against in Silicon Valley were being aired in open court on Tuesday when a former venture capital executive began a $16m sexual discrimination lawsuit against top tech investor Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Ellen Pao, 45, who worked for Kleiner Perkins between 2005 and 2012, claimed the firm held back her career and excluded her from meetings after she complained about harassment by a married male colleague with whom she claimed she was pressured into having an affair. She has accused Kleiner Perkins of treating her “despicably, maliciously, fraudulently and oppressively”.Among Pao’s claims was the allegation that she, and other women, were excluded from an important Kleiner Perkins dinner because they would “kill the buzz”. She also claims that women were barred from work trips on private jets to ski resorts, and were regularly excluded from important meetings or ignored and asked to take notes.Kleiner Perkins denies all the allegations. It said Pao, who is now interim chief executive of Reddit, failed at the company because she could not lead others and was not a team player. The firm, which was an early investor in Google and Amazon, also pointed out that 20% of its senior partners are women and said it invests in startups run by women at four times the rate of the wider industry.While there have been many claims of sexual harassment and discrimination in Silicon Valley, this is the first high-profile case not to have been settled out of court before trial.On Tuesday Pao’s attorney, Alan Exelrod, told the jury at San Francisco Superior Court that “Kleiner Perkins had promoted just one woman to senior investing partner by 2011, despite being in business for about 40 years.“Was there a level playing field for Ellen Pao at Kleiner Perkins?” Exelrod said. “We will prove to you in this case that there was not.“She [Pao], like the men, has a science background. An engineering degree from Princeton. She, like the men, has a business degree. A business degree from Harvard.”“Kleiner Perkins used Ellen Pao’s talents for six years, but when it came time to choose the next generation of leaders at Kleiner Perkins, Kleiner only chose men,” according tothe San Jose Mercury News’s liveblog of the opening statementsfrom inside the courtroom.Exelrod said Ajit Nazre, the Kleiner Perkins with whom Pao had an affair, wanted to “punish” her after she ended the relationship. He claimed Pao was excluded from meetings and emails. The couple first had sex at a work event, according to court papers.In another instance, Exelrod claimed that on Valentine’s Day in 2007 senior Kleiner Perkins partner Randy Komisar gave Pao a signed copy ofLeonard Cohen’s The Book of Longingwhich she took as sexual advance. “The problem was the book had very erotic poetry in it and Cohen’s many sketches of naked women,” the attorney said.In court papers, Kosimar has said that the book was a return gift after Pao gave him a statue of a Buddha. Kosimar said his wife picked out the Cohen book as the appropriate gift.Lynne Hermle, attonery for Kleiner Perkins, accused Pao of twisting the facts. “There is an entirely different explanation for Ellen Pao’s clear failure to succeed as a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins,” she said in the defence’s opening statement, according to the Mercury’s liveblog. “Ellen Pao fails to meet her burden of proof even though she repeatedly and consistently seeks to twist facts, circumstances and events.“Pao did not succeed at Kleiner Perkins as an investing professional because she didn’t have the necessary skills for the job. She did not come close. Despite her own belief that she was outstanding in those areas, the evidence will show that just isn’t true.”The defence said Kleiner Perkins founder John Doerr had made it his “mission” to increase the number of women in venture capital.Women hold 11% of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies compared to 16% across the top 100 Standard &amp; Poor’s firms, according to a report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. Silicon Valley firms board’s are on average 15.7% female compared with 20.9% in the S&amp;P 100.“Most of the companies that released data publicly acknowledged that the numbers reveal ample room for improvement, and many of them committed to increasing the number of women and minorities in the workplace,” the report said.Venture capital firms are even less diverse than the technology companies in which they invest. Babson College’sDiana Report, a research initiative working to increase the number of female entrepreneurs, found that the number of female partners in VC firms decreased from 10% in 1999 to 6% in 2014.The report found that 97% of VC-funded businesses had male chief executives, and businesses with all-male teams are more than four times more likely to receive VC funding as teams with one or more women.Several technology workers were excused from the jury, which is made up of five men and seven women and includes a physical therapist, a male prison nurse, a Genentech manager, a painter and a teacher’s assistant.The case continues.
Later this week, a Jumbotron will arrive outside the Washington DC offices of the Federal Communications Commission. The giant screen being erected by internet activists at OpenMedia will broadcast messages calling on the regulator to keep standing up for strong rules to protect an open internet. But this is not so much a protest as an early celebration, complete with a gif, a Lolcat and a proclamation:WE CAN HAZ NET NEUTRALITY?The animated cats have almost certainly won this round. But as net-neutrality activists know, it won’t be long before the Republicans strike back.On Wednesday, the most vocal congressional committee will start to investigate claims the FCC has been railroaded into voting through new rules governing the broadband industry after undue pressure from the president. The hearing of the House oversight committee will begin before the regulators’ landmark vote on Thursday because, by now, the result is a foregone conclusion:the FCC is now committed to protecting net neutrality– the concept that all information and services should be entitled to a level playing field online.But hearings are just the beginning of a series of attacks on the FCC’s proposals likely to build momentum ahead of the 2016 election. Republicans are convinced that Democrats aim to paint them as enemies of a free internet – and having lost ground, they are launching an early campaign of their own to win back the debate.According to Greg Walden, the Republican chairman of the House communications and technology subcommittee, the FCC has been bullied into supporting the open regulations by an Obama administration intent on using a hot-button issue for political gain.Walden’s investigation followsreports in the Wall Street Journalthat the White House set up a “shadow FCC” (codename:Obamanet) in the months leading up to Thursday’s vote. This secret task force was charged with building a case to regulate broadband under Title II of the Communications Act – the toughest set of rules available to the FCC that give the regulators utility-like jurisdiction over broadband in the future.“The closer we get to the FCC rubber-stamping President Obama’s internet grab, the more disturbing it becomes,” Walden said in a statement announcing the hearing.A generaloutline of the new net-neutrality planshas been disclosed, but so far just a handful of Washington insiders have seen the details. By Friday, the FCC’s two Republican commissioners will be free to give their detailed objections to the proposals. They are preparing to blow holes in the outline, highlighting legal issues that will be seized on instantly by Title II’s vociferous opponents.The two commissioners, Ajit Pai and Michael O’Rielly, have fought to have the released ahead of the vote. “With the future of the entire internet at stake, it is imperative that the FCC get this right. And to do that, we must live up to the highest standards of transparency,” they wrote in a statement.Their internet-activist opponents support the transparency, but critics charge the move is an attempt at further delaying the long-anticipated FCC vote.In the meantime, Republican senator John Thune is working on a bill that would trump the FCC’s plans, with the broadband industry lining up to sue.Michael Powell, the chairman of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, has called Title II a “fatal step”, and pushed back onObama’s call in November for the FCC to make the “strongest rules possible”in protecting net neutrality. Powell’s powerful lobby group has intimated likely action after it sees the more specific FCC new rules.Activists lobbied against the plans to create ‘fast lanes’ for customers who could pay more.Photograph: Free Press/flickrFor some on the right, however, this Thursday’s FCC vote is more about the 2016 election than net neutrality. They charge politics was the real reason that Obama stepped into a debate that has consumed potential voters that may not fall into typical Democrat or Republican territory.“There’s never been an issue like this where the president has taken such an active roll,” said Berin Szoka, president of the thinktank TechFreedom. “They are making this an issue that they can keep milking politically.”Szoka was one of the panelists at an Lincoln Labs’s Reboot Congress conference earlier this month in Washington. Lincoln Labs, a libertarian technology lobby group, pulled in an all-star gathering of Republicans – including likely presidential candidates Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Carly Fiorina – for the conference at the US Chamber of Commerce. At the meeting, Senator Thune said Title II is a“terrible”idea.On stage, Szoka won a round of applause after he told Nick Grossman, the general manager of tech investor Union Square Ventures that Title II was the last thing his industry needed. “We could resolve all of these issues in Congress,” said Szoka. “If your community had spent a fraction of the time pushing for a legislative solution or had the president asked for one, we’d be done.”With the current timing, a court case – or a congressional battle – could be reaching a peak just as the 2016 midterms campaigns begin in earnest. So farRepublicans have fared badlyin the net neutrality debate.There is a whiff of sour grapes. One telecoms lobbyist, speaking anonymously, said the net neutrality debate had been hijacked by the left and Democrats smarting after their midterm election defeat. The White House has made “a cynical political calculation that this is an opportunity to reinvigorate the net roots base”, the lobbyist told the Guardian.“They lost them on Snowden. This is an easy call.”But Republicans – and their supporters in the business community – believe they have a fighting chance on net neutrality. Outside the Chamber of Commerce’s imposing Hall of Flags this month, Garrett Johnson – a Lincoln Labs founder and a former special assistant to another presidential candidate, Florida governor Jeb Bush – said that once the details of the orders were out, opponents would have more to work with and he was confident of winning support in the tech community.“I don’t think the tech community is fully on board with the idea of giving a Washington bureaucracy a blank cheque to decide how the internet is managed,” Johnson said. “The end result will be more regulation and less innovation.”It’s been over a year since the courts effectively overthrew the FCC’s authority to regulate broadband internet. The case, brought by Verizon, came after a series of skirmishes with broadband providers, but left a deep a split in the industry. Many cable operators were happy (enough) with the old regulatory regime – the Open Internet Order of 2010 – and feared that vacating the old rules could pave the way for tougher ones.And so it came to pass. While the FCC licked its wounds and worked on new rules, internet activists organised a mesmerisingly effective lobbying campaign in support of Title II. The campaign spurred president Obama into action and triggered a U-turn from the FCC, which only last May was proposing a “hybrid” solution that would have allowed the broadband companies to create high speed fast lanes for some paying clients.That proposal elicitedhowls of protestacross the internet and from companies including Etsy, Netflix, Reddit and others which charged that it would end net neutrality and make it impossible for new companies, without access to fast lanes, to compete.Senator Ted Cruz summed up what appeared to be the Republican position on the debate with a tweet late last year:&quot;Net Neutrality&quot; is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.&mdash; Senator Ted Cruz (@SenTedCruz)November 10, 2014What a difference a few months make. Most of Cruz’s colleagues are now on board for “net neutrality”. Thune’s proposals would also ban fast lanes and prevent broadband firm’s from “throttling” – slowing down – services. Now they have to convince a sceptical public.Republicans face an uphill battle, Szoka insisted, beginning Thursday.“Most of all because net neutrality sounds like mom and apple pie. Nobody can be against it,” he said. “The real fight has become about legal authority, which is what it always has been.”
Pebble, the company that ignited the smartwatch market with its $10.3m (£6.7m) crowdfunding campaign in 2012, has returned to Kickstarter with a new device calledPebble Time.The new version has a colour e-ink screen, a claimed battery life of seven days, and is 20% thinner than Pebble’s previous smartwatches. It can also track its wearer’s activity with a built-in accelerometer like a fitness band.Pebble Time’s crowdfunding campaign went live at 3pm GMT, and hit its $500k funding goal 17 minutes later. It then became the fastest Kickstarter campaign to hit $1m in 30 minutes and $2m in 58 minutes. It will cost $159 (£103) for 5,000 “early bird” backers, although its regular price once it launches in May will be $199 (£129).Related:2015 gears up to be the year of wearable techPebble Time on Kickstarter.The device is one of only very few smartwatches that will work with multiple smartphones, rather than just being restricted to Android or iPhone, such as, respectively, Android Wear smartwatches or the upcoming Apple Watch.While Pebble’s new device also includes a microphone for dictating voice replies to messages, its key feature – if it delivers on its promise – will be the week-long battery life. As a comparison, the best Android Wear watches manage three days, while the Apple Watch is expected to need a nightly recharge.Unlike those devices, though, the Pebble Time has no touchscreen. Instead, it will be controlled by three buttons on its side to scroll through text and activate functions.Pebble has sold more than 1m smartwatches since its first model in 2012, and now has over 6,500 third-party apps and watch faces available, including apps for music playback and controlling smart-home devices.
We all basically communicate in hieroglyphs now, so news thatApple is road-testing a range of new emoji charactersis a big deal. “The limits of my language are the limits of my world,” as Wittgenstein put it, meaning our world has been limited to creepy ballerina twins and smiling turds for a while.The new range, included in the next update, is a response to criticisms over lack of diversity – particularly ethnic. Current emoji users wanting to move beyond the default white characters can choose between an Indian sporting a turban (or possibly head injury) and a Chinese man in a skullcap, both of whom look more like Indiana Jones sidekicks than accurate racial representations. Some users have resorted to using the dark moon emoji as an alt black face. Creative, but not ideal.Hurrah then, for skin-tone modifiers! The broader palette is based onthe Fitzpatrick scale of colour, created by a Harvard dermatologist. There are five new skins, from dark brown at one end to Berocca-lemon at the other, which we can only pray isn’t meant to represent an Inuk, or anyone outsideSpringfield.Other new emojis include families with same-sex parents, who look as unhappy as any nuclear family.These laudable additions bring a tear to the eye, whether that eye is blue or brown or yellow like hepatitis. But do they go far enough? There are notable absences – redheads continue to be denied a place at the emoji table. Men with beards, likewise. There are no afro emojis.If we want cartoon pixels to speak for us, must they not speak the whole truth?One day – we have a dream – there will be an emoji for everyone. Hipster on a fixie emoji. Maverick politician emoji. Benedict Cumberbatch emoji, emo emoji. Where are the women with beards? The emoji for when you’re only eating because you’re bored? The “looking at your partner and seeing a stranger” emoji? We must push further.But before those identifications can begin, we all need to be in the room. These new faces we will hold in our hands are another step toward inclusiveness.Ideally there’ll be some sort of ramification in political representation, and equality of pay. Maybe that’s in the update after the next one.
A helicopter swoops over a palatial mansion as armed gunmen burst in, jamming cartridges into their shotguns, preparing for an epic firefight. Pretty soon bullets are tearing up the interior as bodies crash through glass walls, and grenades pass the camera in slow-motion arcs. Quickly, the action cuts to a high-speed car chase, with vehicles plummeting along LA’s iconic storm drains. The shooting never stops.This is Battlefield: Hardline, the latest game in Electronic Arts’ long-running series of frenetic first-person shooters. As in previous instalments, players team up online to capture control points or carry packages through a gauntlet of enemy fire. But this time something’s different.In the past, the battles were based around fictitious military conflicts; in Hardline, the bullet-riddled face-offs are between almost comically ruthless criminals and loose-cannon cops. Now, players aren’t fighting over territory in some vague Middle-Eastern setting, they’re clashing over stolen cars, bank vaults and methamphetamine production compounds. The rules of engagement are the same though: in Hardline, as in previous Battlefield titles, the firefights are often decided by who gets in the first accurate shot.Some context. On 31 January,charges of reckless use of a firearm were dropped against police officer Joseph Weekley. He faced charges for fatally shooting a sleeping seven-year-old girl during a May 2010 police raid on her home in Detroit. He previously faced involuntary manslaughter charges, which were dismissed in October 2014 for a lack of evidence. The raid was filmed for an A&amp;E reality television program.In Hardline, the tanks and planes of previous games have gone, replaced by heavily armed officers, armoured trucks and helicopters. Grenades and rocket launchers are still a large part of gameplay, but there are also new law enforcement-themed additions. Here, players get to break out the tasers and tear gas – or in the game’s excitable parlance, “non-lethal takedowns”.More context. On 12 December 2014,US district court judge Carol Jackson issued a restraining order against Missouri policeon behalf of demonstrators protesting the shooting of Michael Brown. The order required the police to warn protesters and allow them to disperse before using tear gas.So this is the problem. Battlefield: Hardline is a war game reskinned as a cops-and-robbers fantasy: the criminals are action-movie caricatures (they rob banks by blowing holes in the walls and steal sports cars to joyride around the city) and the cops are equally gung-ho.Yet the game is being marketed at a time in which we could turn on the news at any minute and see armoured cars full of police in riot gear rolling down major city streets. Now even elements clearly cribbed from action movies recall recent and all-too-familiar instances of police brutality.At the Gamescom festival last August, the Hardline developers showed a tutorial where the player sneaks up on a criminal to strangle him with his handcuffs; it was difficult not to think ofthe 17 July choking death of New York man Eric Garnerat the hands of police officer Daniel Pantaleo.The Battlefield series has always been known for a verisimilitudinous approach to war games, with realistic ballistics and lethality – even if you do get to rejoin the fight a few seconds after death. And it’s true that war games have always glorified the military and dehumanised their targets. Marry this approach to a game about police and thieves, though, and you get uncomfortably close to home. Hardline is a game about policing in a fantasy world where crooks are signposted and deadly force is always justified. But perhaps we need to juxtapose this with a real world where police officers who hold those attitudes are shooting innocent people.Officer Darren Wilson, who shot and killed Ferguson teenager Michael Brown on 9 August,described the teenager as having a face “like a demon” and the suburb of St. Louis as “not an area where you can take anything really lightly” and “a hostile environment”.Related:Battlefield: Hardline – hands-on with the cops and robbers shooterDeveloper Visceral Games (of Dead Space fame) or publisher EA could not have predicted Ferguson, or how it brought racial policing tensions in the United States to the forefront. EA seems to be aware of the problem, as itdelayed Hardline five months from its previously-planned October release. If the publisher had hoped to outlast police brutality tensions, it is out of luck. After three months of deliberations,a grand jury declined to indict officer Darren Wilsonlast November. Tempers remain high,in St. Louis, Missouriandacross the United States.It’s too late for significant change. Hardline is fundamentally a game about impossibly well-armed and capable supercriminals and how the police are justified in arming themselves to the teeth to deal with them, shooting first and asking questions later. At a time when US police appear to be doing just that, despite the absence of this game’s unambiguous enemies, is such unreconstructed entertainment really acceptable?
Google is banning public explicit photos and videos from its blogging service Blogger, and giving affected users just one month to comply.The new rules require any blog with “sexually explicit or graphic nude images or video” to take them down by 23 March, or the blog will be made private by Google. A private blog can only be seen by the owner or admins of the blog, and people who the owner has shared the blog with.Google promises that the majority of users of the service, which Google acquired from Twitter co-founder Evan Williams’ Pyra Labs in 2003, won’t see any change from the new rules. But many users are concerned that the new rules represent a huge about-turn from Google’s previously stated support of explicit material on its platform. The company’s previous policy said: “We do allow adult content on Blogger, including images or videos that contain nudity or sexual activity … All blogs marked as ‘adult’ will be placed behind an ‘adult content’ warning interstitial.” Its only exceptions were to ban illegal explicit content, explicit images shared without the subject’s consent (commonly known as “revenge porn”) and making money on adult content.Zoe Margolis, author of the Girl with a One Track Mind books and sex blog,joined Blogger in 2004. She says that “either Google believes in freedom of expression, or it doesn’t. Restricting blogs which contain explicit content to ‘private only’ effectively kills them off. This is like offering a library where all the books in it are invisible to the readers unless an author is standing there and personally hands each reader a copy of their book.”“Many blogs, mine included, have been on Blogger for well over a decade. These blogs are not just part of a community which offers an alternative, sex-positive, supportive network, but they also make up how the web functions: millions of interconnected links. By making these blogs invitation only, it immediately kills off all those connections, resulting in people visiting non-existent pages and all the links they click on being dead. A long-standing community will be killed off overnight.”Activist Lauren Weinstein wrote: “I find it disrespectful to users for Google to announce apparently with only 30 days notice that they are summarily banning most explicit materials from Blogger. It is utterly within their rights to do so, but the lack of longer notice (absent specific legal constraints), and a total lack of any explanation in the announcement for this change (only perfunctory operational details), are extremely disappointing.Google says it will still allow some forms of nudity on the service “if the content offers a substantial public benefit, for example in artistic, educational, documentary, or scientific contexts.” It also provides instructions for users who want to migrate elsewhere.Although the search firm isn’t known for taking a prudish attitude to content, explicit videos are also banned on YouTube, the biggest site Google has where it directly hosts user content.The site’s rules state: “YouTube is not for pornography or sexually explicit content. If this describes your video, even if it’s a video of yourself, don’t post it on YouTube.”Other Google services that host user-uploaded content have similar polices. Google Plus, the company’s social network,warns users: “Do not distribute content that contains nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit material.” Its rules for profile pictures are even stricter: “Do not use a photo that is a close-up of a person’s buttocks or cleavage.”
Volvo will test 100 of its autonomous cars on public roads driven in normal traffic by members of the public by 2017.The car manufacturer announced a collaboration with Swedish legislators and transport authorities to test the cars on 30 miles of roads around Gothenburg by 2017, marking Volvo’s first public pilot of fully autonomous vehicles.“We are entering uncharted territory in the field of autonomous driving,” said Peter Mertens, senior vice president of research and development for Volvo. “Taking the exciting step to a public pilot, with the ambition to enable ordinary people to sit behind the wheel in normal traffic on public roads, has never been done before.”Participants in the trial will have to be sober and competent to take over controls at any time. Volvo claims its Drive Me system is capable of handling a range of driving conditions including “smooth commuting to heavy traffic and emergency situations” although its test roads will be without pedestrians, cyclists or on-coming traffic.Related:'Driverless' Volvo S60 – car reviewWhether this kind of autonomous driving where the driver isn’t paying attention will ever be legal is up for debate.Photograph: VolvoThe pilot forms part of Volvo’s ambitious plan to make it so that no one is either seriously injured or killed in one of its cars from 2020, which the company says is only possible by integrating automated technology.Volvo has taken a slightly different approach to automated vehicles compared to most car manufacturers and technology companies, including Google. Its first tests were of road trains on motorways, where drivers could join a line of cars that would autonomously match speed and follow the lead car.But this new test will take the company’s full autonomous system out into the real world.Related:Driverless cars set to roll out for trials on UK roads“It is relatively easy to build and demonstrate a self-driving concept vehicle, but if you want to create an impact in the real world, you have to design and produce a complete system that will be safe, robust and affordable for ordinary customers,” said Erik Coelingh one of Volvo’s technical specialists. “Making this complex system 99% reliable is not good enough. You need to get much closer to 100% before you can let self-driving cars mix with other road users in real-life traffic.”Volvo is concentrating on cars made for a traditional ownership model. Other groups, includingprojects running in the UKand Google’s self-driving cars are looking at autonomous vehicles as a form of public transport.
In science fiction, robots are usually attempting to take over the world and kill us all. In real life, it turns out they can be rather useful for cleaning the lounge carpet. Terminator – of dust!The iRobot Roomba 880 is the current king of the robotic vacuums, but is it any good and how does it compare to a standard vacuum?What is that thing against the wall?The Roomba certainly doesn’t look like vacuum. The puck-shaped disc is approximately the size of a car’s steering wheel in diameter and the height of a mug.On the top are four buttons and a handle, with a big central “clean” power button and four other buttons with which to set the clock, cleaning schedule, return the robot to its dock, or concentrate on a single, troublesome spot. Hasta la vista, dog hair...ProgrammingScheduling is easy – just select the day, set the time and hit ok.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianProgramming the robot for a schedule is easy. Select the day, input a time and press “OK”. As long as the clock is set correctly, the Roomba will trundle off on a cleaning run and return to base when it has finished, or run out of battery.In testing, I experienced a couple of issues with the clock going wrong, once caused by a power surge, and once when the Roomba got trapped in a room and ran out of battery. It lost time when it was recharged and I failed to notice, which meant it turned on in the middle of the night and woke everyone up.The Roomba 880 is capable of cleaning several rooms on one charge, and will spend a maximum of 25 minutes in each room before moving on. Two “Virtual Wall Lighthouses” are included in the box. They simulate a wall in doorways, preventing the robot from passing into the next room until it has finished in the first, and then help it find its way back to the charging base.Once the robot has finished cleaning, or when the bin is full or the battery runs low, it will automatically return to the charging dock.CleaningThe Roomba cleans well, just not like a human, and with numerous little beeps and clicksDisappointingly, on its first outing the robot doesn’t clean as well as a human with a decent, ordinary vacuum cleaner. But Roomba is designed to clean once a day rather than once a week, which means the first run takes a while because the bin is small and has to be emptied several times.After a couple of days the bin only needs emptying once or twice a week, depending on the floor type and size of the cleaning area. In a medium-sized two-bedroom flat, I ended up emptying the bin and cleaning the filters once a week.The spinning bush and central suction band do a solid job of cleaning even the edges of a room. Some spots that Roomba can’t reach will need to be cleaned with a handheld vacuum – including stairs – but overall the cleaning is quite impressive.The 880 also comes with a remote control, which can be used to steer it towards a particularly dirty patch. It can also be used to steer the robot away if it gets stuck under something, though generally it can get under most furniture without an issue.If the brush gets tangled up with cables or loose paper, the main suction channel can be removed and cleaned by releasing a few screws or clips – a two minute job.The robot will have a go at pretty much anything left on the floor, including cables, but it can’t handle the stairsMaintenanceThe drop sensors, the bin, the air filters and the front wheel need regular maintenance: iRobot recommends once a week, but you can probably get away with less than that. The air filters need cleaning by just tapping on the side when the robot’s bin is emptied.Emptying the bin and cleaning the filter is a two-minute job.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe iRobot Roomba 880 costs £600, which is at least £300 more than most other normal vacuum cleaners.VerdictThe Roomba lives on its dock that needs to be placed against a wall clear of anything in front of it.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iRobot Roomba 880 is a much better vacuum cleaner than you’d expect. As a robot it does what it says on the tin – cleans the floor when you set it to and returns to base afterwards. It requires little in the way of maintenance and just gets on with the job.But it does take on a life of its own. I have become surprisingly attached to it, like a little robotic cleaning pet. When it has caught and screwed up bits of paper or got stuck somewhere, I’ve felt more sorry for it than annoyed. I’ve then made a special effort to keep things off the floor, which is all round a good thing.Related:Parrot Bebop drone review: bird's eye video without a sky-high priceWhether the 880 is worth the cost over a traditional vacuum cleaner comes down to how much you dislike vacuuming. Cheaper Roomba models are available which are more in line with the cost of a traditional cleaner, plus it probably works out cheaper than hiring a human cleaner.For those that are very tidy and constantly clean, the Roomba probably isn’t for you, but for the rest of us, robotic vacuum cleaners are finally worth buying. I’m even thinking about buying another one for upstairs.Pros:hassle-free cleaning, that just-vacuumed feeling without the effort every day, easy to maintain and programme, remote control, effective cleaningCons:expensive, will need another cleaner for the stairs and odd bits, needs filters changingThe underside of the robot including the sensors lining the edges and the central spinning brushes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
We may rely on computers, but we don’t notice what they’re telling us about online threats. Google recently had to redesign the security warnings in its Chrome web browser because most people were ignoring them. What’s even more worrying is that our brains may be hardwired to do so.Like most browsers, when Chrome visits a web site it checks the site’s online proof of identity, called an SSL certificate. This certificate come from a third party authority, which performs a background check on the site before issuing it.Checking PayPal’s certificate ensures that you’re visiting the right PayPal, rather than a fake version created by scammers. If something looks wrong, the browser warns the user about it.Unfortunately, fewer than one in four Chrome users follow these warnings, found its development team, whichpublished the results in a paper recently. Given that more than one in ten users surf the web with Chrome, that’s a frightening statistic.The problem goes beyond mere SSL certificate warnings, say experts. Many people seem to ignore more or less everything that their computers warn them about.“When you’re posting on an online social network, you need to make a decision about to whom your post will be visible,” explains Lujo Bauer, an associate research professor at Carnegie Mellon University’s Cylab security research centre. “It’s not a warning, but it’s a security-related configuration choice that you have to make at that moment.”Related:From Goblin Panda to Flying Kitten: the latest online security threatsSo, why is it so difficult for users to follow simple security and privacy messages? Maybe it’s because they’re not that simple.Often, warnings describe what the problem is (“this site’s SSL certificate has expired!”) rather than what the consequences of continuing might be (“if you visit this site, it might infect your computer with malware that steals your bank details!”).Lujo co-authored a paper on effective warning designthat featured several key guidelines. They included describing the risk comprehensively, being concise, and offering meaningful choices about how to proceed.Google’s team reached similar conclusions. They stripped out the technical terms (most users don’t know what a certificate is, they found), and reduced the reading level by simplifying the text. That included making the text as brief as possible, even if it meant sacrificing detail.The Chrome developers also added illustrations to suggest danger, and started using background colours to represent different kinds and severity of threat.Giving your browser an opinionPerhaps the most significant design element that the team introduced was the use of ”opinionated design”. Instead of presenting evenly-balanced choices to the user, opinionated browsers can decide what the safest choice is and steer users towards it. They can highlight that choice by making the button bigger or bolder, perhaps, or even hiding unsafe choices behind one or more screens.Making browsers more opinionated is an important design choice, says Andreas Gal, chief technology officer at Mozilla, which created the Firefox browser. “Even though we prefer that the user decides things, in some cases, it simply doesn’t make sense. It’s simply impossible to explain something as complex as cryptography to many users,” he says. “You start making specific recommendations or judgements for the user.”This is an important weapon against one of the biggest challenges for security usability, said Raluca Budiu, senior researcher at usability consulting firm Nielsen Norman Group. She explains that the user makes a cost-benefit analysis when deciding whether to dismiss a warning.“The immediate cost of heeding the warning is high, because I will not be able to achieve my immediate goal, which is to reach the site and complete the bill payment or the status update that I had in mind,” she says. “The immediate benefit is low and abstract. The chance of my information being stolen is smaller if I heed the warning, but that does not really change or improve in any way my current state.”In short, users will prioritise immediate gain, and tend to dismiss consequences with no immediate visible effect.Building an opinionated browser certainly helped Chrome’s design team. After testing the new warning design, users didn’t really understand the warnings much more, but they did follow them: the adherence rate climbed to 62%.Still, that means that almost four in every ten Chrome users still fail to heed these warnings. Why? One of the most worrying answers is that we’re simply designed that way.Hardwired not to noticeAnthony Vance, assistant professor of information systems at Utah’s Brigham Young University, works in the neurosecurity lab there. The lab spends its time exploring how the brain interacts with cybersecurity issues. His team put test subjects in a magnetic resonance imaging machine to see what happened inside their brains when faced with software security warnings.“We used a variety of 40 different warnings – common ones of all kinds, like anti-virus warnings, software updates, and SSL warnings from browsers of all kinds,” says Vance. The results showed thatthe visual processing part of the brain stopped analysing the warningsafter seeing them more than once.This is a concept that he calls “habituation” – in short, people stop paying attention to warnings, the more they see them, and Vance says there’s a biological reason for it. “The first time that your brain experiences a stimulus, it devotes attention to it, but then for subsequent exposures, it relies on memory, and the response is far less,” he says.When you walk into your room for the hundredth time, you’re not really looking at your wallpaper Vance explains. Instead, your brain is painting a picture of it for you from memory. This leaves your brain free to focus on other things.Related:Security researcher publishes 10m usernames and passwords onlineThat’s fine for wallpaper that doesn’t change, but it’s problematic for computer warnings which may change frequently and present different information. “Some people think that users are lazy and inattentive,” says Vance, “but this is simply fundamental to our own biology.”Bauer’s design guidelines suggest consistency in warnings to make them more understandable for the user. Paradoxically, Vance’s research suggests the opposite. He tried to make polymorphic warnings, which are inconsistent, to keep the brain engaged.Switching colours, adding images randomly and including animated graphics are all ways to stop the brain relying on memory and persuading it to pay attention, he said. One of the most successful polymorphic warnings in his test even jiggled slightly.Who needs users, anyway?There are other solutions, according to Sigbørn Vik, who works in the security group at browser developer Opera. In some cases, developers can make habituation work positively for them.“What does work is using habituation positively,” he said. “That means getting users to expect a certain pattern.” That could be checking for certain ambient indicators that suggest a site is valid – and noticing when they’re not displayed.Others suggest just cutting the user out of the equation altogether. Melih Abdulhayoglu is founder and chief executive of Comodo, a company that both issues digital certificates and also sells anti-virus software. “The technology must solve the problem by making the decision on behalf of the user, and not interrupting them,” he said.Like many anti-virus systems, Comodo’s software uses blacklists to filter out known bad software. It also checks for software signed with digital certificates to help determine if it’s known and trusted. If it can’t classify software as good or bad, it runs it in a container, designed to limit the effect of the software on the system. That stops the software having to interrupt the user with prompts, he concluded.Deciding for the user isn’t possible 100% of the time, though, across every application, says Candid Wueest, principal threat researcher at Symantec. His company also tries to make as many decisions for the user as possible, but there may be some decisions where it might be necessary to ask the user about it, he warned.“It might be something the user actually wants to do, like changing the user’s home page in the browser,” Wueest said, arguing that both spyware and legitimate software sometimes tries to do this, as do users, manually.Browser vendors must be particularly careful here. There will also always be an expert that wants to override a browser warning for good reason, and if a browser is too prohibitive, users may simply use a competitor’s software instead.“We want people to be safe by default when using Chrome, but we also want to give people control over their browsing experience,” the Chrome development team told the Guardian in a statement. Users can still override warnings in the browser.Smaller screens and more complex choicesThis is a big enough problem on desktop browsers, but the stakes increase as devices get smaller, and choices become more complex. “Now with gadgets that collect lots of data, we have to make decisions about who to share it with,” said Bauer.Android applications often ask users to give them permissions for everything from contact info through to control of their phone, for example. How many of us take notice, and how many simply click ”ok” so that we can get on with the task in hand?Related:How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015Mozilla has tried to mitigate this problem by making mobile apps ask for permissions when they’re about to carry out a task, rather than when they’re installed. Gal calls this ”pay as you go security”.All of these approaches may get us closer to waking users up, but nothing trumps good old-fashioned education, says David Emm, principal security researcher at security software vendor Kaspersky Lab. Browser vendors can redesign warnings all they want, he said, “but if this is done in isolation and if there’s no wider learning context for it, this will always be much less effective”.What we need is a drip-fed online safety education, akin to the drink-driving road safety campaigns of the past, Emm warns. He believes that drumming online safety into people repeatedly is a vital component.We all remember the road safety slogans of the past. “Think once. Think twice. Think bike,” was one. “Clunk click with every trip” graced our TV screens for years. But somehow, “use caution when visiting sites with apparent SSL certificate disparities” doesn’t roll off the tongue. Anyone got any better ideas?
Hey it’s Tuesday. And while I’m here, why not buy a ticket for our second ‘Meet the Guardian games writers’ evening on March 4 at the Guardian office.All the details are here.
On the afternoon of 5th April 2007, my 16-year-old cousin Shivam was doing what he did almost every day at that time, walking back from school. Though this particular day was to be his last. He was struck by a vehicle while crossing the road and left seriously injured. He managed to drag himself to the side of the road and for the next 30 minutes begged passers-by to help him. While hundreds stopped, not one person came forward to assist him or even call for help. He died of treatable injuries.The circumstances surrounding his death became unacceptable to me. I learnt soon after that his death was not an isolated incident and that thousands of road crash victims in India die every year of treatable injuries, by the side of the road. They never get any assistance. Bystanders, who would otherwise become first responders to victims of natural disasters and even terror attacks, remain mute spectators to victims of road crashes.They fear police harassment, detention at hospitals and prolonged court proceedings, as confirmed later in a national study conducted by an organisation I established to tackle the issue.SaveLIFE Foundation(SLF) was my response to the disaster that road crashes had become in India, having affected millions of families including mine.SLF began by training police to become medical first responders to road crash victims. Their existing personnel and infrastructure helped rush injured persons to hospitals with first-aid provided by police personnel en route. SLF then focused on training community volunteers, who would typically be closer to crash spots than police vehicles.In 2009 we built a system to connect volunteers, police officers and hospitals through a mobile phone-based technology. This model to train, connect and mobilise police personnel and citizen volunteers won the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2010 and was rapidly adopted by the Indian government. To date, 150,000 injured persons have been rushed to various hospitals under this model with a survival rate of over 98%.In parallel, SLF also secured a judgment from the Supreme Court of India, which ordered the Indian Government to take appropriate and immediate action to protect Good Samaritans who help injured persons. The idea is to ensure that any citizen can become a rescuer with a supportive institutional environment.Working closely with police, hospitals and road crash victims gave us a unique exposure to the “actual” causes of road crashes in India. For instance, a tendency to blame road crashes on the the Indian way of driving meant that most interventions led to spreading “awareness” among drivers. The actual problem, meanwhile, lay in the institutional process (or lack of it) that allowed untrained drivers to get on the streets without any credible testing. The entire filtration process was compromised.Another actual cause of crashes – faulty road design and engineering – was rarely looked at as an issue. I discovered that the law governing road safety in India was so deeply fractured that not only did it not address the causes of road crashes but contained statutes that would in fact lead to horrific crashes. No wonder in the past decade more than1.2 million people have been killed in road crashes in Indiaand over five million left seriously injured or permanently disabled.I soon established the Policy Advocacy practice at SLF and began to demand complete institutional change. SLF built a six-pronged strategy to campaign for this change. The elements of this strategy ranged from building public pressure around the issue to forming alliances with like-minded organisations and invoking the Supreme Court of India to bring seek interim relief and attention to the issues. During this period we faced tremendous difficulties – from official apathy and lack of funding to death threats issued to me by mafia involved in the transportation business who would get directly “affected” by our work.We pushed through, got enormous support from public and media, and in June 2014, the Government of India agreed to our demand to repeal the old road safety laws and replace them with a comprehensive legislation. The key element of this legislation would be the establishment of an independent, empowered lead agency, which would finally take ownership for road safety in India and create sustainable interventions in each of the root causes responsible for the high number of road crashes in India.SLF was invited to contribute to the drafting of the bill and the draft legislation was finalised for introduction in parliament in December 2014. The bill is expected to be passed by the Indian parliament shortly. The next challenge would be to ensure that it is enforced across India and institutional mechanisms established at local levels to achieve that.Today SLF’s model is clear – we will fight for long-term institutional change and build on-ground proofs of concept. Just like our on-ground model of emergency care has been adopted for replication, our other interventions too will be designed such that institutional replication becomes possible.The vision of SLF is not to become the largest NGO in India. It is to reach a stage where it will not be required to exist, having achieved its mission. The fight to get there through positive, deep and lasting impact continues.Piyush Tewariis CEO and founder of theSaveLIFE Foundation. He was made aRolex Awards for EnterpriseYoung Laureate in 2010 for his work in the field of science and health.
A selection of Apple’s new racially diverse emoji.Photograph: AppleApple’s racially diverse emoji have landed, and they come in five shades of skin.On Monday Apple released beta updates to its OS X operating system, including a redesigned emoji keyboard with long-awaited skin tone modifiers, as first reported in9to5mac.Complaints about the lack of racial diversity in the emoji characters impelled the Unicode Consortium, an industry body devoted to developing software standards, toadd skin tone options. The tones are modelled on the Fitzpatrick scale, a recognised standard used by dermatologists.Previously there were only three characters which appeared to represent non-western people: a man wearing a cossack hat, a man with brown skin wearing a turban, and another man wearing a traditional Chinese skull cap – with noticeably smaller and more slanted eyes.Like all the human characters, these three male emojis now come in a generic bright yellow as the default option – which some media outlets have dubbed “jaundiced” but also recalls the skin colour used in The Simpsons – along with tone modifiers. Notably the character wearing a Chinese-style cap now has eyes the same size and shape as the others.A selection of the new emoji, including the character with the Chinese-style cap whose eyes have been widened and some families with parents of the same gender, another new feature of the emoji.Photograph: AppleOther additions include new same-sex relationship emojis, such as families with two mothers and two fathers. There will be 300 new emoji characters added altogether.The updates are currently only available to testers but will have an official release at some point in the coming months.Guardian Australia has contacted Unicode Consortium to ask when redheads will finally be given an emoji presence.
YouTube is launching a separate app for children which will filter out inappropriate content, hide comments on videos and which will not allow them to register and log in to its service.The YouTube Kids app launches today in the USfor Androidandfor iOSdevices, and the company intends to roll it out elsewhere in the future. The app will be free and funded by advertising, although YouTube says it will be carefully screening ads to ensure they are appropriate for children.“Parents have been asking us for years to build a friendlier version of YouTube for families,” product manager Shimrit Ben-Yair told the Guardian, citing data showing that while YouTube’s overall viewing time grew by 50% in 2014, this rose to 200% for “family entertainment” content.Related:This woman's thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you've never heard ofYouTube Kids groups videos into four categories: shows, music, learning and explore. Shows focuses on videos from familiar children’s TV brands like Sesame Street and Thomas and Friends; Music includes videos from nursery-rhyme channels like Mother Goose Club; and Learning gathers educational videos.Explore, meanwhile, will collect videos from other children’s channels on YouTube, from Minecraft gamers like Stampy to cooking and loom-band tutorials. “All the content that kids know and love on YouTube is here,” said Ben-Yair.The app’s four sections take the form of scrolling carousels of new videos, although there is also a search function that supports text or voice entry – the latter for younger children who aren’t yet reading and/or typing.Children who search for terms like “sex” will not find any videos, but instead will be presented with a message encouraging them to search for something else. Parents will be able to disable the search function, and set limits on the amount of time children can use the app for.“Kids are excellent negotiators, so we always want to arm parents with more tools to help in this ongoing battle of wills!” said Ben-Yair. “The timer lets this app be the bad guy, with parents setting it to how little or much they prefer.”Given its parent company – Google – YouTube will inevitably face scrutiny over how it plans to make money from the YouTube kids app, and what data it will be collecting from usage of it.Ben-Yair confirmed that there will be ads. “It was really important for us to make the app free and available to everyone, therefore it’s ad-supported,” she said. “We are taking a similar approach with the ads as with the content: narrowing it to what is family-friendly.”A playlist of the 10 top children’s channels on YouTube from December 2014.The app’s “logged-out” nature means the selection of videos will not be customised according to children’s viewing habits, unlike the full YouTube service. Ben-Yair suggested that such recommendations could be added “in the longer term” but stressed that YouTube will be guided by children’s privacy and marketing laws in its development of the app.In its first country, the US, the app is already operating under the strictCOPPA[Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act] legislation regarding the “individually identifiable information” that can be collected by internet services on children aged under 13.In part, YouTube Kids is a response to the huge number of children already watching videos on the main YouTube service, where they may encounter inappropriate videos and ads.How big is that audience? Ben-Yair told the Guardian that “family entertainment” videos are currently being watched for “millions” of hours every day on YouTube.In the UK, meanwhile,communications regulator Ofcom’s latest researchsuggests that more than half of 8-11 year-olds and three quarters of 12-15 year-olds watch YouTube, with a growing proportion of them saying they prefer YouTube to traditional TV.Related:YouTube's top 10 games channels watched 2.2bn times in JanuaryThese habits are why children’s channels are some of the most popular on YouTube. Toy-unboxing channel DC Toys Collector was the service’s second biggest channel in 2014,watched 3.2bn times that year, while child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampy was the fourth biggest with 2.2bn views.Toys, Minecraft, animation and music are the key video categories being watched by kids on YouTube, with other popular channels including The Diamond Minecart (1.6bn views in 2014), Blu Toys (1.5bn), Masha and the Bear (1.4bn), and Disney Car Toys (1.4bn).As a comparison, all the channels listed above were more popular in 2014 than the official channels of One Direction, Rihanna and Justin Bieber, to name just three traditional stars who also have big fanbases on YouTube.The launch of YouTube Kids is likely to spark more new channels aimed at children. Games networkRooster Teeth has already launched a Game Kids spin-off, whileStampy is preparing to launch a second channel focused on education.In the meantime, Google is planning to launch more services for children, according to a blog post by Ben-Yair and vice president of engineering Pavni Diwanji. “This is just our first step – we’ll keep tinkering and hope to have more great products for your family soon,”they wrote.
Professionals in both the business and sporting worlds increasingly exploit data analysis to inform team selection. But how exactly does the technology work, and what does the future of data-led team selection look like?Bill Gerrard is professor of business and sports analytics at the University of Leeds. Coaches at both national and club level have a huge amount of data available on player performance, Gerrard says, including tactical data on player actions and fitness data: “This allows coaches not only to assess player performance in individual games but also to detect potential trends, like a loss of form.”This, of course, is integral in aiding team selection. But, explains Gerrard, this is far more useful for national coaches who have a bigger pool of players to select from: “Data analysis offers a first cut to identify potential national squad players whom the coaches should scrutinise in more detail.”In non-team sport, data analysis is used in a different way. Jonathan Leeder, physiologist at theEnglish Institute of Sport(EIS), describes how they use data and technology to “really pull apart what it takes to win an Olympic medal”. This intelligence is then used to craft the training and resourcing of that athlete “to better prepare them and increase their chance of winning”.Unlike in team sports where competitor analysis is key, single athletes use data in a different way. “You’re trying to get from A to B as fast as you possibly can, and aren’t too bothered about what other nations are doing – you just need to be the fastest.” In this instance, Leeder explains: “Historical data is used to predict the winning time for the next Olympics. You then invest resource into what it takes to do that time and train athletes appropriately. It’s you against the clock.”No sufficient algorithmUsing data to recruit high-performance teams in the business world is arguably less reliable.AtPropel London, a specialist recruitment database technology is used to segment candidates according to multiple factors, which allows high volumes of candidate profiles to be sorted in a timely manner. James Webb, the firm’s managing director, does counter that “relying solely on technology to pick out specific data points would run the risk of the exclusion of certain people who may not have presented the information in a specific way”, which is why the human element in recruiting frequently outweighs the data.Scott Ross, chief technology officer at global marketing and technology agency,DigitasLBi, describes how their recruitment team utilises commercial tools and proprietary extensions to simplify the process of candidate data aggregation, and to provide scoring on basic metrics such as skill proficiency, demand potential, and acquisition cost. “We also combine this data with tenure analysis, helping our recruitment team identify candidates who may not be actively searching, but are on the lookout for their next opportunity,” he explains.Ross admits that his use of data to recruit is largely limited to human-driven interpretation of candidate performance data. “Simply put, there is neither a sufficient quantity, nor more importantly quality, of data points to gain real benefit from an algorithmic analysis,” he states.Behind every computer is a humanThe importance of human-driven interpretation, as raised by Ross, is one not to be under-estimated, and it’s worth exploring how, even when relying on data analytics, human involvement is still required.“People are trying to make it so that a computer can do the analysis,” says Leeder, but “as soon as you lose the human interface, that’s where it falls down. You still need an expert to interpret the data, you need a detailed understanding to realise what the data needs.” It’s for this reason that Leeder maintains that the requirement for human interaction will never be lost.Coaches need to not just interpret the data, but also help identify where additional information is needed. It is the role of the technical teams and analysts to identify where additional information could come from and then identify patterns in that data that could be of use to the coaches.Harry Jones is the co-founder &amp; chief technology officer atTop10. As he looks to recruit a high-performance team, he places only finite value in algorithms. “They only tell you half the story. Humans will always be needed to analyse other humans for job suitability,” he explains. “No matter how technical recruitment gets, personality will always be important.”Alec Dent, partnership manager, atBlaBlaCar, explains that it’s impossible to replace the human element in recruitment. “It’s all about fit – and an algorithm just can’t predict that yet. Still, we’re optimistic that as they develop, algorithms could eventually play a bigger role in our recruitment process.”Moneyball: the futureBut Dent’s vision seems to be, at present, just that. Consensus suggests that data analytics in business team selection is still a fairly immature field. While many CTOs and recruiters are using technology and data metrics to identify relevant candidates, more in-depth candidate selection – and indeed, hiring decisions – remain very much an inherently human process.“In the future, I’d love to see a candidate equivalent of a slugging percentage, or combination of multiple discreet statistics that point us towards not just qualified candidates, but the right candidates for us,” Ross envisions.In sport, experts project that new technical advances will continue to increase the odds of success, and the influence of data in helping to define team selection will continue to grow.“The future of data-led analysis is sort of ‘Moneyball’; all done on probability,” predicts Leeder, who is quick to counter that this doesn’t work for everyone. “Mathematically minded people will love Moneyball-style stats and probability, whereas others will be more into changing the culture and knowing their art.”Love it or hate it, data is here to stay, and Seddon predicts that as wearable technologies become less intrusive to players, real-time team performance analysis will increasingly play an instrumental part in shaping tactics.Evidence-based coaching data analysis that supports the decision making of coaches is still in the early stages of development, says Gerrard. However, “coach-led analytics will grow, as will the quantity and quality of the data available to be analysed”.The future of data-led team selection, according to Joseph Turley, director of marketing and communications at real-time performance analysis vendor, Performa Sports, is in “encompassing a greater appreciation of the behavioural aspects of performance. An interesting dimension in this regard will be the ability to measure and assess player compatibility across a spectrum of key performance indicators to map out the optimum combination of individuals (by type) for the most effective team collective.”The final word must go to Angus McNab, head of rugby at sports data analytics organisation, OptaPro, who brings it back to the human element. “Selection isn’t quite like Championship Manager – these are people we are dealing with, and we are a long, long way from being able to factor certain elements into an algorithm.” The real advances in the future, he predicts, will be in injury prevention, player management, and welfare, to ensure the best team can get out on the pitch as often as possible.Eleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazineTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
With its evocative representation of Victorian London, its interesting steampunk narrative and its cinematic sense of scale and pace, The Order: 1886, looks very much the benchmark new-generation console title. There’s just one problem. It’s not much of a game.Developed by Ready at Dawn and Sony’s own Santa Monica studio, and released last week, the title has drawn criticism from game review sites for its overtly linear design, and the fact that it can be finished in around six to eight hours. There’s no multiplayer mode, so once the story of Arthurian knights protecting an alternate industrial-age London from hordes of beast people is over, that’s your lot.“It’s a technical showpiece, a graphical powerhouse that, in some ways, is almost without equal,” writes Giant Bomb in its review. “It’s also a short and disappointingly straightforward cover-based shooter.”This is a typical response to a game that has, pretty unapologetically it seems, set itself up as a graphical showcase for PlayStation 4. The Order: 1886, in fact, comes from a long tradition of early generation titles that seek to provide an experience that is like playing a game, but that’s really there to show off a machine’s new capabilities while demanding as little as possible from the player. There is cover-shooting, there is stealth, there are puzzles, but none are particularly deep or challenging, instead offering a grab bag of gaming conventions – a conveyor belt of vertical slice experiences, that hint at what games do, without actually getting in the way too much.Instead, these snippets of gameplay are present to service what the game is really about: allowing people to marvel at the detailed texture work, real-time light and shadowing, and the gorgeous particle effects that send sparks from flintlock rifles and slivers of burning debris from whirling fires. The game even includes “quick time events” – those heavily choreographed interactive moments in which players carry out seemingly complex moves by inputting quick button presses in response to screen prompts. These are a common tool, employed by games and game makers who just want you to stay awake for the story. See also the otherwise wonderful Shenmue, and the troubling and controversial Heavy Rain.Is this all bad? Well it depends. If you’re buying The Order: 1886 because you’re expecting an alternative history epic in the form of, say, Arkane’s brilliant Dishonored or Ubisoft’s Assassin’s Creed 4 – games with complex systems and oodles of content, then yes, you’re going to be disappointed. You are not going to get that.But it strikes me that, even though it has arrived a year after the launch of PlayStation 4, it’s really there for people who just want to marvel at what their new machine can do.If you look at the early histories of any console, you’ll find similar experiences. On PlayStation 3 there was the beautiful but ridiculous Genji: Days of the Blade, with its giant crab battles and not much else. On PS2 there was Sony’s own Ghosthunter, and the fireworks sim FantaVision, while the original playstation had Battle Arena Toshinden and Motor Toon GP. And of course, Xbox One has been here with Ryse, while Xbox 360 saw the likes of Dark Sector and Ninety-Nine Nights.The concept of the shallow graphical showcase goes back further though. It was there through the “interactive movie” phase in the early nineties, when consoles like the Sega Mega CD and 3DO churned out full-motion movie fests like Night Trap and Double Switch to evangelise the power of CD-rom-based systems. And it has been a constant in the arcades, where attracting the eyes – and wallets – of passing punters has always been as important as giving them something to do when they pop a coin in the slot. Just look at the longevity of laser disc classic Dragon’s Lair, the archetypal stye-over-substance experience, which has been reanimated for just about every platform since its debut in 1983.The Order has entered the UK games chart at number one this week, and though it’s not exactly up against huge amounts of competition,an online controversy over the game’s lengthdoesn’t seem to have scared gamers off. Sometimes, it seems, people just want to be dazzled by all the stuff that goes with modern games: lush environments, decent stories and voice actors who don’t sound like they have been dragged in from the street and told to deliver some badly written dialogue as lifelessly as possible or their pet gets it.For a lot of people, when they buy a new console – especially one that costs £350-400 – they need something uncomplicated that they can show off to their friends and say “that’swhy I am now in debt”. It needs to look like a game, sound like a game and have game-like stuff in it, but it needs to also be gorgeous and uncomplicated. For this experience they will have to pay £45, which is a lot of money – but it is also comparable to a nice meal, or a night at the cinema with some friends and a giant bucket of popcorn.In four years time, the people who bought The Order will dig around at the back of their games collections and they will find it again, covered in dust and long since forgotten. It will have been hugely surpassed by subsequent titles that have actually attached game mechanics to the cinematic set-pieces. Those people may wonder why they bought it.But the industry will always make those games, especially early on in a console lifecycle. And that’s because the industry knows us well, as purchasers of culture, and as human beings too. Sometimes we want to see beauty and just go through the motions of feeling something.
A report commissioned by the Belgian privacy commission has found that Facebook is acting in violation of European law, despite updating its privacy policy.Related:Seven things we learned from Facebook's latest financial resultsConducted by the Centre of Interdisciplinary Law and ICT at the University of Leuven in Belgium,the reportclaimed that Facebook’s privacy policy update in January had only expanded older policy and practices, and found that it still violates European consumer protection law.“Facebook’s Statement of Rights and Responsibilities (SRR) contains a number of provisions which do not comply with the Unfair Contract Terms Directive. These violations were already present in 2013, and they are set to persist in 2015,”wrote the authors.According to the report, Facebook’s policies around profiling for third-party advertising do not “meet the requirements for legally valid consent”, while the social network “fails to offer adequate control mechanisms” with regard to the use of user-generated content for commercial purposes.Related:Mark Zuckerberg 'not sure' about Internet.org advertising“Facebook places too much burden on its users. Users are expected to navigate Facebook’s complex web of settings in search of possible opt-outs,” wrote the authors. “Facebook’s default settings related to behavioural profiling or Social Ads, for example, are particularly problematic.”The report also points out that there is no way to stop Facebook from collecting location information on users via its smartphone app other than to stop location access on the smartphone at the level of the mobile operating system.“Users are offered no choice whatsoever with regard to their appearance in “sponsored stories” or the sharing of location data,” wrote the authors, stating that “users do not receive adequate information” to help them make informed choices where choices are available.The authors continue: “We argue that the collection or use of device information envisaged by the 2015 data use policy does not comply with the requirements of article 5(3) of the EUe-Privacy Directive, which requires free and informed prior consent before storing or accessing information on an individual’s device.”Related:Native American activist to sue Facebook over site's 'real name' policyFacebook met with Bart Tommelein, the Belgian privacy minister, to discuss the report. The company claims that its privacy policy does not break Belgian data protection laws,according to reports.Facebook is already being investigated by the Dutch data protection authority, which asked Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, and is being probed by the Article 29 working party formed of data regulators from individual countries across Europe, including the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office.“We recently updated our terms and policies to make them more clear andconcise, to reflect new product features and to highlight how we’reexpanding people’s control over advertising,” said a Facebook spokesperson. “We’re confident the updates comply with applicable laws. As a company with international headquarters in Dublin, we routinely review product and policy updates including this one­ with our regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, who oversees our compliance with the EU Data Protection Directive as implemented under Irish law.” ­
A serious security problem caused by advertising software installed on Lenovo laptops is more widespread than first thought, security researchers have warned.The ‘Superfish’ vulnerability affected dozens of laptops shipped between September and December 2014, exposing users to a hijacking technique that is also now thought to affect parental control tools and other adware programmes.The core of the vulnerability, which left owners of Lenovo laptops bought in late 2014 open to eavesdropping and “man-in-the-middle” attacks – even when using an encrypted connection – is a self-signed security certificate installed by the Superfish adware to let it inject adverts into search results and secure websites.But the technique, known as “SSL hijacking”, appears to be a framework bought in from a third company, Komodia,according to Facebook’s Matt Richardandindependent researcher Marc Rogers. And Komodia’s framework, sold as SSL Decoder, is present in numerous other products as well. Rogers cites products including parental control software and IP-cloaking technology as containing the weakness, while Richard says Facebook discovered the certificates being issued by a number of adware vendors disguised as games or search assistants.Related:Lenovo apologises for security-busting adware, offers 'incomplete' removal instructionsRogers says: “If you are a parent that has installed parental control software … I would check to see if your computer has been affected by this, as a matter of urgency.” Afree online check made by developer Filippo Valsordais able to identify the presence of the certificates, and Rogers recommends concerned users visit it.Facebook’s Richard says: “What all of these applications have in common is that they make people less secure through their use of an easily obtained root CA, they provide little information about the risks of the technology, and in some cases they are difficult to remove.“Furthermore, it is likely that these intercepting SSL proxies won’t keep up with the HTTPS features in browsers (e.g., certificate pinning and forward secrecy), meaning they could potentially expose private data to network attackers. Some of these deficiencies can be detected by anti-virus products as malware or adware, though from our research, detection successes are sporadic.”Related:Lenovo demonstrates that malware is big businessFacebook discovered the vulnerabilities as part of a wider project, started in 2012, to discover how prevalent SSL man-in-the-middle attacks are​. The project, carried out in conjunction with Carnegie Mellon University, found that 0.2% of SSL certificates, required to surf the web securely, had been tampered with, affecting 6,000 people in Facebook’s sample.In the wake of the revelations, Komodia is experiencing website outages, which the company blames on a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack on its servers. The company did not comment on Richard’s and Rogers’ allegations.
Card game Exploding Kittens has become the third biggest Kickstarter campaign of all-time, raising $8.8m (£5.7m) on the crowdfunding website.The game’s initial funding goal was just $10k, but itattracted 219,382 backersfor its promised mix of “kittens and explosions and laser beams and sometimes goats” during its 30-day campaign.That put Exploding Kittens behind only drinks coolerCoolestand smartwatchPebblein Kickstarter’s most-funded list, with those projects having raised $13.3m and $10.3m respectively.However, Exploding Kittens is the most popular project ever in terms of the number of backers, according to Kickstarter,more than doubling the previous recordof 105,857 backers held by children’s literacy project Reading Rainbow.The card game was created by former Xbox executives Elan Lee and Shane Small, and Matthew Inman, creator of popular online comics site The Oatmeal.“On the very first day of this campaign, we hit our funding goal. That was a big deal. But after that, the campaign stopped being about money, and started being about a community,” theywrote in an updateto backers as the crowdfunding campaign ended.“We decided that everything we did from that point on would be to celebrate you guys, and help you celebrate each other. In the last 30 days, you’ve broken a lot of records, but we wanted to highlight our favourite one: you made this the most fun Kickstarter to run of all time.”The first run of Exploding Kittens is due to ship in July, with 15,505 backers paying $20 or more for its basic deck, but 202,934 paying more than $35 for the “NSFW Deck” which includes bonus cards that aren’t “kid friendly”.“Exploding Kittens is a highly strategic kitty-powered version of Russian Roulette. Players take turns drawing cards until someone draws an exploding kitten and loses the game,” explained its Kickstarter pitch.“The deck is made up of cards that let you avoid exploding by peeking at cards before you draw, forcing your opponent to draw multiple cards, or shuffling the deck.The game gets more and more intense with each card you draw because fewer cards left in the deck means a greater chance of drawing the kitten and exploding in a fiery ball of feline hyperbole.”The Exploding Kittens team have been taking advice from the creators of Cards Against Humanity – a$15.6k Kickstarter success in 2011, whichwent on to sell more than 500,000 copiesby mid-2013 – to ensure that “no matter how many people pledge, everyone gets their Exploding Kittens quickly after the campaign ends”.
My son is 18 months old, and I’ve been reading books with him since he was born. I say “reading”, but I really mean “looking at” – not to mention grasping, dropping, throwing, cuddling, chewing, and everything else a tiny human being likes to do. Over the last six months, though, he has begun not simply to look but also to recognise a few letters and numbers. He calls a capital Y a “yak” after a picture on the door of his room; a capital H is “hedgehog”; a capital K, “kangaroo”; and so on.Reading, unlike speaking, is a young activity in evolutionary terms. Humans have been speaking in some form for hundreds of thousands of years; we are born with the ability to acquire speech etched into our neurones. The earliest writing, however, emerged only 6,000 years ago, and every act of reading remains a version of what my son is learning: identifying the special species of physical objects known as letters and words, using much the same neural circuits as we use to identify trees, cars, animals and telephone boxes.It’s not only words and letters that we process as objects. Texts themselves, so far as our brains are concerned, are physical landscapes. So it shouldn’t be surprising that we respond differently to words printed on a page compared to words appearing on a screen; or that the key to understanding these differences lies in the geography of words in the world.For her new book, Words Onscreen: The Fate of Reading in a Digital World, linguistics professor Naomi Baron conducted a survey of reading preferences among over 300 university students across the US, Japan, Slovakia and Germany. When given a choice between media ranging from printouts to smartphones, laptops, e-readers and desktops, 92% of respondents replied that it was hard copy that best allowed them to concentrate.This isn’t a result likely to surprise many editors, or anyone else who works closely with text. While writing this article, I gathered my thoughts through a version of the same principle: having collated my notes onscreen, I printed said notes, scribbled all over the resulting printout, argued with myself in the margins, placed exclamation marks next to key points, spread out the scrawled result – and from this landscape hewed a (hopefully) coherent argument.What exactly was going on here? Age and habit played their part. But there is also a growing scientific recognition that many of a screen’s unrivalled assets – search, boundless and bottomless capacity, links and leaps and seamless navigation – are either unhelpful or downright destructive when it comes to certain kinds of reading and writing.Across three experimentsin 2013, researchers Pam Mueller and Daniel Oppenheimer compared the effectiveness of students taking longhand notes versus typing onto laptops. Their conclusion: the relative slowness of writing by hand demands heavier “mental lifting”, forcing students to summarise rather than to quote verbatim – in turn tending to increase conceptual understanding, application and retention.In other words, friction is good – at least so far as the remembering brain is concerned. Moreover, the textured variety of physical writing can itself be significant. Ina 2012 study at Indiana University, psychologist Karin James tested five-year-old children who did not yet know how to read or write by asking them to reproduce a letter or shape in one of three ways: typed onto a computer, drawn onto a blank sheet, or traced over a dotted outline. When the children were drawing freehand, an MRI scan during the test showed activation across areas of the brain associated in adults with reading and writing. The other two methods showed no such activation.Similar effects have been found inothertests, suggesting not only a close link between reading and writing, but that the experience of reading itself differs between letters learned through handwriting and letters learned through typing. Add to this thehelp that the physical geographyof a printed page or the heft of a book can provide to memory, and you’ve got a conclusion neatly matching our embodied natures: the varied, demanding, motor-skill-activating physicality of objects tends to light up our brains brighter than the placeless, weightless scrolling of words on screens.In many ways, this is an unfair result, effectively comparing print at its best to digital at its worst. Spreading my scrawled-upon printouts across a desk, I’m not just accessing data; I’m reviewing the idiosyncratic geography of something I created, carried and adorned. But I researched my piece online, I’m going to type it up onscreen, and my readers will enjoy an onscreen environment expressly designed to gift resonance: a geography, a context. Screens are at their worst when they ape and mourn paper. At their best, they’re something free to engage and activate our wondering minds in ways undreamt of a century ago.Above all, it seems to me, we must abandon the notion that there is only one way of reading, or that technology and paper are engaged in some implacable war. We’re lucky enough to have both growing self-knowledge and an opportunity to make our options as fit for purpose as possible – as slippery and searchable or slow with friction as the occasion demands.I can’t imagine teaching my son to read in a house without any physical books, pens or paper. But I can’t imagine denying him the limitless words and worlds a screen can bring to him either. I hope I can help him learn to make the most of both – and to type/copy/paste/sketch/scribble precisely as much as he needs to make each idea his own.
Even before having used an Apple Watch, Daniel Breslan is pretty sure how people will use his app, Departure Board, on one. “When you’re waiting in a station cafe, pub, lounge, you have you own personal departure board and you do not have to move to keep checking the screens on the platform,” he explains. His new app, which is in the final stages of testing, is a simple concept: it finds the nearest rail station to you, and tells you the destination and time of the next 20 trains - though on a watchface, you’ll probably only see three or four without scrolling.Breslan is one of the many iPhone app developers who are hoping for a new bonanza when the Apple Watch hits the stores, and shortly afterwards the streets, in April. When Apple introduced the iPhone App Store in July 2008, it created an explosion of sales; even though Apple wasn’t first with an app store (Nokia and Palm had notably preceded it), the rapid growth of the smartphone market and the visibility of the iPhone guaranteed eager buyers – and, for some developers, sudden wealth.Now the impending arrival of the Apple Watch has driven a whole new round of app development, of which Breslan’s is only one. It’s effective on an iPhone (I’ve been testing it since January) but Breslan sees its potential being even greater on a smartwatch, because you wouldn’t have to unlock your phone and navigate to the app to get the information.As a user of the Pebble smartwatch, which still holds the record for the biggest Kickstarter at over $10m in 2012 and has so far sold a million, Breslan reckons that “the ideal use case for apps on a watch are small utilities that facilitate your daily life”. He uses his Pebble to control podcast playback, read messages, screen calls, check train times “and time my Aeropress brews”. All, he points out, are “little tasks that I can complete without having to pull out and hold my phone.” He thinks the Apple Watch will magnify those benefits through its extra experience in interface design.David Smith, another iPhone developerbased in Herndon, Virginiawho has written recipe and audiobook apps, reckons that by shifting interactions from your phone to your wrist, the Apple Watch will “create a much more fluid daily experience, with dozens of micro-interactions rather than the longer ones we have today”.For what, though? “Sending a text message, checking your next appointment, adding a reminder [to a list], suddenly [creating] a much lower barrier to action,” Smith says. “I think I’ll grow to rely on my watch for keeping me on track throughout my day.”Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces Apple’s new smartwatch in Cupertino, California in September 2014.Photograph: ZUMA/REXWith the formal unveiling of the Apple Watch now only weeks away (probably in March, given that chief executive Tim Cook said it would ship in April), Apple is reportedlyworking closely with some developersto finalise and test their apps, even inviting a few to its Cupertino headquarters for in-situ tests.With reports that the company has ordered five million for its first run, probably covering sales for one quarter, the chance to create a hit app for those precious square inches of wrist space looks ever more tantalising. Some analysts reckon Apple’s Watch could sell 1m in its first weekend on sale, and 20m by the end of 2015. Watch-app downloads will probably run in tandem. Goldrushes like that don’t come often.So what does a hit wrist-app look like? Try asking those writing for Google’s Android Wear platform. Data released by Canalys, and underscored by download data for the Android Wear app from the Google Play Store, says that 720,000 Android Wear devices, almost all smartwatches,were shipped in 2014.Among the most popular Android Wear apps on the Google Play store are watch faces – there are dozens – and asimple calculatorwritten by Wearable Software, a four-strong team based in Karlsruhe, Germany. Cedric Larrat, its founder, told me there have been over 357,000 downloads of the company’s Android Wear apps, of which 260,000 have put it on their smartwatch, while the calculator has had 170,000 downloads, of which 120,000 were installed. (He can’t track whether they’re still using it, though.) “I believe that the right time has come now to establish smartwatches on the market. In the past this has been tried, but the technology wasn’t advanced enough. [The arrival of] Bluetooth 4.0 [with its low energy demands], better and smaller batteries, as well as microelectronics, make it possible now.”On a less grand scale, there’sMini Dialer, which lets you dial a phone number via your smartwatch. Written by Lonnie Johnson, who lives in Phoenix, Arizona, it costs £1.27 ($1.99) and has had about 9,000 downloads – a good earner for something you might expect a smartwatch connected to a phone to do anyway.Director of engineering for Android David Singleton announces a new Samsung Android Wear smartwatch in June 2014.Photograph: Elijah Nouvelage/ReutersLimitationsInitially, Apple is limiting apps for its watch; they won’t run on the device itself, but on the owner’s phone, connected via Bluetooth. (Developers expect this to change with future Watch software and hardware.) Apple’s own page suggests uses are “timekeeping”, “new ways to connect” and “health and fitness”. The first and last have been staples of wearables for some time; it’s the middle one that developers hope to capitalise on. Apple has hinted at the possibilities with its system for sending the wearer’s heartbeat, or little pictograms drawn onscreen, to another Watch wearer.Breslan says designing for a tiny screen was “a daunting task” at first. However, “for the first release of watch apps, Apple has provided a very small library of controls that can be used to build app interfaces. This places a limit on the complexity and content of watch app user interfaces, which makes the job somewhat easier. Translating my phone application to a tiny screen whie maintaining the intuitive simplicity that I strive for is the most challenging part of watch-app development for me currently.” His Pebble experience – including installing apps such as Evernote, Foursquare’s Swarm and Twitter clients on it– has persuaded him that “a watch is not a sensible device to use when interacting with such complex applications”.He warns that apps with complex interfaces on the watch itself “will sit unused”, though the digital crown – a button on the side of the watch that can bring different apps to prominence – and the touchscreen “may ease this slightly”.But the Watch might even usher in new interfaces – as Howard Gutowitz and Dimitrios Hechagias, the duo behind an app calledLunate, hope.Named after a crescent-shaped bone in the wrist, Lunate is a keyboard designed for a watch face, but instead of a square array of keys, it arranges the letters around the face, between which the user swipes, while a T9-style prediction system produces words.“We’re solving a problem with [the] Apple Watch that people don’t yet realise they will have,” Lunate’s inventor Gutowitz, 57, explains. But its implementation must wait for ‘WatchKit’ that will allow apps to run on the watch itself– which he thinks might come this summer – or else port it to Android. “There’s a lot of scepticism that the Apple Watch will even happen in a big way, or whether the use cases will be particularly compelling,” says Gutowitz. “And even if they are, will they involve input as opposed to getting notifications?” He likens the forthcoming release to the first iPhone in 2007, which didn’t have 3G, couldn’t shoot video, and couldn’t forward MMS: “[It is] very, very limited in what you can do,” he says, “unless you’re Apple or one of its ‘partners’ – those with access to [a] real, full-featured WatchKit.”Smith thinks the most successful apps will change our focus, “like the shift we saw moving from [desktop] Mac to [mobile] iPhone. For better or worse having an iPhone in your pocket means that you are never really out of touch. At any moment you can pick up your phone and find something out or have someone reach out to you. Putting that on to your wrist means that you have that same capability but now without any hurdle to overcome. I’m expecting it will take quite some time to get used this mode and to find the happy medium between being overly connected and usefully connected.”He envisages two sorts of third-party apps rising to prominence: “informational” and “emotional”. He explains: “‘Informational’ services provide you with up-to-the-minute information – things like stock data, news, weather alerts. Bringing these within arm’s reach allows for you to never miss something you want to be informed of.“‘Emotional’ services let you connect with those you love. While some of that might come from things like messaging, I think things that will let you share what you are doing and see what those you care about are up to would be great. I look forward to having little glances into what my kids are up to each day appear on my wrist throughout the day.”How long will the battery last?That though raises the biggest question about smartwatches, and particularly the Apple Watch: how long will the battery last, and is that enough? Mark Gurman, who runs the 9to5Mac site and has a solid record with advance scoops on Apple products such as HealthKit,saysthe Watch is expected to get 19 hours of combined active and passive use, and perhaps two or three days in standby or low-power mode – but will almost surely need recharging every night.Keep on running … Questions are being asked of the Apple Watch’s battery life.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersIs that enough? “The thing Apple has in its favour is the positive reinforcement cycle driven by the device’s usefulness,” says Smith. “The more I use it, find it useful and make it part of my life ... the less likely I am to be annoyed that I have to charge it. Obviously there is a limit to that, but so long as the device can make the hassle of charging it balance out with its utility I think things will be fine.”Daniel Breslan is less sure: “I’m a power user who rises early, works hard and retires late, so if anyone will get stung for battery life shortages, it will be me.”Hechagias, the writer of Lunate, adds, “Apple maintaincomplete control until they are sure the experience comes out as they wish, and then they relax control as much as needed in order to monetize. So perhaps the battery issue is one aspect that is making them think ‘we will not let anyone make the watch look bad by doing things that might drain the battery and make us look bad’, and only allow such things when the watch is already accepted. In any case, Lunate would not be a power drain, it uses little CPU &amp; GPU, especially compared to such things as games.“But it might also be as simple as a matter of trying to enforce their current philosophy. Similar to how they would not release a large iPhone or a small iPad because “people did not want it”, untiltheydecided it is the next best thing.”What will happen to Android Wear?The launch of the Apple Watch could have a positive knock-on effect for other smartwatches, such as the Android Wear-powered Sony Smartwatch 3.Photograph: APThe other big question is: will the Apple Watch sweep away Android Wear, or help it? On this, there’s unanimity. Johnson, Mini Dialer’s author, thinks it will help Android Wear sales, “since it will increase the awareness and interest of users as they discover the capabilities that wearables provide”.Larrat agrees that the Apple Watch will provide a rising tide to float boats on other platforms: “[S]martwatches will become more attractive, and Apple is a specialist in marketing.”Russell Ivanovic, of the Australian app company Shifty Jelly, is an enthusiastic backer of Android Wear, which he says is “a far superior platform to the Apple Watch. It processes things locally, it has an always-on screen”– though not all Android Wear watches have their screens illuminated – “and the concept of Google Now-style cards on a watch just works. There are already watches that can track your runs via GPS without needing to be tethered to your phone, something the Apple watch won’t be able to do.”Even so, Ivanovic says: “The Apple watch will be more successful, chiefly because it’s made and marketed by Apple. People will find the smallest details and point to them as to why the Apple watch was more successful, but at the end of the day it will come down to the simple fact that Apple is better at launching products. They know how to build up anticipation for a product. They know how to limit supply of said product when it’s first available. They know how to market their product in such a way as to make it a ‘must have’.“Basically, they [Apple] are a product company at heart. Google seems to me like an engineering driven company that hasn’t yet learnt how to coordinate everyone to launch a product well.”• This article was amended on 25 February 2015 to clarify that Wearable Software has had 357,000 downloads of its Android Wear apps rather than its watch face app.
Russia’s competition watchdog has confirmed that it is investigating Google over allegedly abusing its domination of Android smartphone software on phones made by third party manufacturers.The watchdog opened the case to assess whether Google has violated Russian anti-monopoly laws after reviewing a complaint from Russia’s biggest search company Yandex. It has complained that Android’s default search is Google and that the mobile software includes a bundle of Google apps.“We have studied the complaint and decided to open proceedings regarding the violation of anti-monopoly regulation,” a spokeswoman for the Russian federal anti-monopoly service (FAS) watchdog said.“Device makers are free to install the apps they choose and consumers always have complete control over the apps on their devices,” said a Google spokesperson.Yandex has a 60% share of the Russian search market, and offers rival services to Google’s YouTube, Maps, Gmail, Chrome Browser and Translate. Three smartphone vendors in Russia – Prestige, Fly and Explay – were blocked from pre-installing Yandex services on their Android devices last year.Related:Google's new concessions on European search will put rivals' logos into resultsTerms of use for Google’s version of Android, which comes with access to its app store, place restrictions on what manufacturers can install by default on their devices, and conditions on placement of Google apps and services on the smartphones and tablets.Spokespeople from Google’s Russian office denied anti-competitive behaviour.Android held an 81.2% global market share in 2014 according to research firm Strategy Analytics, with Apple’s iOS securing 15% of the market and Microsoft’s Windows Phone 3%.Android is available in several versions. An open source version called the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) is available for anyone to use without restriction and forms the basis of Amazon’s Fire OS, Xiaomi’s Miui and many others, but it does not come with access to Google’s Play Store.Google’s version of Android is also based on AOSP, but comes integrated with Google’s services.The Russian investigation comes after European regulators assess a possible challenge to Google’s mobile software business.Related:Google facing European antitrust scrutiny of Android device dealsEuropean regulators are laying the groundwork for a case centred on whether Google abuses the 80% market share of Android to promote services from maps to search,two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.The European Commission has reportedly sent handset makers questionnaires asking whether there was a requirement set by Google that they should not pre-install apps, products or services on mobile devices that compete with Google software such as its search engine, app store and maps.Google is also under scrutiny in the US, although a judge said in December she would require consumers suing Google over Android to submit more factual details in order for an antitrust lawsuit to proceed.
Uh-oh, it’s Monday again.
The 10 most popular games channels on YouTube generated more than 2.2bn video views in January alone, led by Let’s Play gamer Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg with 417.9m views that month.PewDiePietopped thelatest monthly chart of YouTube games channelspublished by online video industry site Tubefilter, based on data from analytics firm OpenSlate.PewDiePie was joined in January’s top 10 byPopular MMOs(266.8m views);Stampy(252.9m);The Diamond Minecart(210.8m);Markiplier(208.1m);Jack Sceptic Eye(201.2m);Vanoss Gaming(183.8m);Vegetta(177.8m);Juega German(127.3m); andEl Rubius(108.8m).That’s nearly 2.2bn views between the 10 channels. How are they growing? You can gauge that by a comparison to Tubefilter and OpenSlate’s chart from six months ago,in July 2014, when the top 10 YouTube games channels generated 1.6bn views.Meanwhile, the 100 most popular channels in the chart’s collected views grew by nearly 40% from 4.3bn in July 2014 to nearly 6.1bn in January 2015.Related:YouTube: PewDiePie, DC Toys Collector and Katy Perry top in 2014Multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios accounted for four of the top five games channels in January – PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart and Markiplier – while Popular MMOs is signed to rival Fullscreen.The chart is the latest reminder of just how big games has become as a category on YouTube, rivalling music and children’s videos as its most popular content.There’s a crossover with the latter and games in channels like Stampy and The Diamond Minecart, which are aimed at the huge audience of young Minecraft fans. Both are likely to benefit fromthis week’s launch of a dedicated YouTube Kids app.YouTube gamers have also become powerful influencers within the games industry, with developers and publishers jostling to persuade the most popular channels to feature their games inLet’s Play videos– often paying for the privilege.
Advertising is not a “near term” priority for Facebook’s Internet.org initiative to get more people online in the developing world, according to chief executive Mark Zuckerberg.Facebook launched the scheme in 2013 with fellow technology firms including Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson and Nokia as its effort to connect “the next few billion people” to the internet.The social network has since worked with mobile operators in countries like Indonesia, the Philippines, Zambia and Kenya to provide free access to basic internet services from their mobile phones.This being Facebook, though, its motivations have been frequently questioned – as they have been for Google in its separate push to get people online in countries where internet access is currently limited.In aninterview with Bloomberg, Zuckerberg denied that growing his company’s advertising business is on the Internet.org agenda for now.“I’m not sure it’s a big part of the solution in the near term, to be honest. What we need to do is work out a model with operators and governments and local partners that is profitable for them so we can continue growing the Internet,” he said.According to Zuckerberg, the Internet.org model is based around persuading telecoms firms to invest in internet infrastructure and buy in to Facebook’s vision of free basic services, which in turn will persuade more people to start paying for mobile data plans once they’re online.“Originally, we thought that maybe working with other kinds of partners would be important, but at this point, we think we have a sustainable model that is working in multiple countries now, and there’s a lot of momentum and a lot of countries coming online now,” said Zuckerberg, although he admitted advertising may be a factor in the longer term.“In a lot of these countries, there isn’t a very big ad market yet. So it’s not that we won’t do it eventually, but for right now and our business, the main thing that we need to continue to do is focus on the quality of the ads,” he said.“And doing that in the developed world – in the U.S. and Europe and Asia and a lot of places that are actually going to be the driver of our own profitability and revenue – not trying to make ad markets out of countries that are just coming online.”In the interview, Zuckerberg said that the biggest challenge for Internet.org is not people being unable to get online or unable to afford it, but rather that “they don’t know what they would want to use the Internet for”.Related:Thank you, Facebook Inc, but what developing nations need is net freedom | Dan GillmorHe added that while Facebook and Google’s initiatives are separate, the two companies talk regularly about how they can work together: for example, by adding Google as one of the services in the Internet.org app in Zambia.Zuckerberg also defended Internet.org fromcriticisms voiced by former Microsoft boss (and now philanthropist) Bill Gatesof Google’s Project Loon initiative: that in many countries, better healthcare is a more urgent need than better internet access.“The reality is that it’s not an either-or. People need to be healthy and be able to have the Internet as a backbone to connect them to the whole economy. The Internet creates jobs. It actually is one of the things that facilitates health,” said Zuckerberg, citing Facebook’s work on connecting up Ebola treatment units.“I’m certainly not here saying connectivity is more important than health. I mean, that would be ridiculous, but I hope that we can help out with all of these things over time.”
The undead outbreak survival fantasy genre’s hold on game-makers shows no sign of ending, and it’s a theme that developer Techland returns to withDying Light, four years after the studio created its charismatic but flawed zombie titleDead Island.Like its predecessor,Dying Light(pictured) is a first-person game presented as an open world devastated by an outbreak, charging the player with surviving, using crude weapons. This time, the protagonist is an undercover operative from beyond the infection zone. The action largely blends somewhat clunky parkour, panicked close-quarters combat and fetch quests spread across a vast, engrossing city loosely based on Istanbul. Within this, a day-and-night cycle changes the setting considerably, presenting alternating realms different in both atmosphere and gameplay style.While the scripting is cliched, glitches rip through generally impressive visuals and the missions’ pacing can feel protracted, the gameplay mechanics do complement an absorbing emphasis on survival through evasion.Dying Lightdefinitely doesn’t dazzle, then, and can feel unpleasantly dark, but it does enthral.
Snapchat chief executive Evan Spiegel has hinted at plans to do more with music in his company’s popular messaging app, describing it as “a really interesting opportunity”“Music is really appealing to us right now because it has some of the same attributes that communication had when we were working on Snapchat in the beginning,” said Spiegel during an on-stage interview at the University of Southern California,reported by Daily Trojan.Snapchat’s main features involve sharing photos and videos with friends that disappear either as soon as they’re viewed, or after 24 hours. However, the app has added several music features in recent months.They include major labelWarner Music Group signing on as one of the launch partnersfor the app’s Snapchat Discover feature;Madonna debuting her new music videowithin the same section of the app; and most recently a feature enabling people touse the music playing on their smartphone as the soundtrack for their videos.Judging by Spiegel’s comments, Snapchat is mulling more music-related features. “Right now on your mobile phone, music is largely non-differentiated, so you usually search for a song and you can play it. It plays from four of five different places, they roughly cost the same, but it’s also high frequency,” he said.Related:Ten things you need to know about Snapchat“After communication, [music is] the highest frequency behaviour on your phone and so that in our view, makes it a really interesting opportunity and it’s something that we are thinking about.”Emails leaked as part of the Sony Pictures hackin December suggested that Snapchat – and Spiegel – has been thinking about music for some time:“He thinks every music service in the market is shit and he wants to be a curator. He doesn’t want to build a music service but he would like to have a record label so he could focus on the artists that he wants to use the platform to promote.”Snapchat also held talks with music videos service Vevo about it becoming a launch partner in Snapchat Discover, but they broke down after the two companies couldn’t agree on how to split advertising revenues from the deal.
The two latest offshoots from the ever-malleable Kirby franchise will be recognisable toKirby Triple Deluxeplayers – both of these new eShop titles were mini-games in the excellent 2014 3DS game.Dedede’s Drum Dash Deluxeis a rhythm action/platformer hybrid that sees you jump and bounce your way through seven songs from the Kirby series, all the while avoiding enemies and racking up point bonuses.Kirby Fighters Deluxeis essentially aSuper Smash Bros-lite fighting game, starring Kirby as the sole playable character. Players can pick one of 10 different abilities (each with its own move set) and then fight their way through the other nine Kirbys and two bosses. There’s a new four-player mode for this release, but don’t go expecting anything as sophisticated asSmash. While both were perfect as bite-size bonuses in their source game, neither is compelling enough to really warrant a solo outing. Unlike the exceptionalCaptain Toad, which made the similar jump from bonus to standalone release, the additional content here is minimal and the core concepts haven’t been expanded on in any significant way.
Every morning as Carla Astudillo gets ready for work, she puts on the news. But instead of turning on the TV, Astudillo’s headlines come to her from her computer. Astudillo is a cord cutter and she’s not the only one.About 7.6m US households no longer get cable. From 2010 to 2014, the number of cord cutters – those who have decided to forgo life with cable and opted to get their TV and news on the internet –increased by 44%.It is a seismic shift that has helped trigger the largest cable merger in history, Comcast’s proposed takeover of Time Warner, and is at the heart of the fierce row being fought out in Washington over new rules to protect net neutrality – the concept that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet.Related:FCC's net neutrality proposal to treat high-speed internet like public utilityMany cable cutters are paying little attention to the clash of the titans. For them it’s about cost and convenience. But you can bet that the titans are paying attention to them.Astudillo, a 27-year-old data journalist forNJ Advance Media, canceled her cable in 2012. Back then, even with cable channels at her disposal, she increasingly found herself watching shows on Hulu and Netflix. The two services made the transition easier. Of course, the $30 to $40 that she now saves each month didn’t hurt either.Right now, she pays $59 a month for her Optimum internet connection and $7.99 a month for a Netflix account she was paying for anyway. She is considering upgrading to Hulu Plus, which would cost her an additional $7.99.She says she has given little thought to how an end to net neutrality will affect her internet and TV-watching habits. She is, however, worried about the future of open internet and innovation that brought us services such as Netflix. “I feel like it would be the end of wild wild west of the internet, innovation and all of these good things,” she said.Most consumers have remained blissfully unaware of the net neutrality debate or how its outcome might affect them. Broadband’s regulator the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) received a record 4m comments on its open internet proposal spurred on internet activistsand aided by John Oliver. But in 2013, 74.4% ofall US householdstold the Census bureau thatthey had internet. Four million is just a small fraction of that.Related:'Awe-inspiring' FCC internet protections could alter landscape for net neutrality“I don’t pay enough attention to [the net neutrality debate], honestly,” says Lauren Pavin, a 32-year-old coffee shop manager in Baltimore.She and her boyfriend are on the cusp of cutting the cord. This past Christmas, Pavin received Apple TV as a present. They already subscribe to Netflix and are just waiting for HBO to provide a stand alone service, before their do away with their cable bill. “Between [HBO] and Netflix, that’s all we watch,” she said.Her cable and internet subscription with Comcast costs Pavin about $140 a month. Even after cutting the cable, she might have to stay with Comcast, as that’s the company that services the majority of the Baltimore area.Pavin has little hope that net neutrality will fix her internet troubles.“I wish the connection was faster but ... it’s Comcast. It’s a terrible internet service in general,” she says. In the six months that she has lived in Baltimore, she has experienced monthly internet outages.Comcast: not exactly a favorite among consumers.Photograph: Matt Rourke/APCutting the cord may sound like you’re hurting Big Cable but the money they lose on one end they make back at the other. Time Warner’s cable subscriptions have been declining for years and its revenue from video subscriptions drops millions of dollars a month. The upside is that the company’s high speed internet subscriptions are going up faster than its cable subscription was going down – making up for all the losses.After intense lobbying by proponents net neutrality rules likely to be voted through this week will mean the cable firms can not slow online services or offer fast lanes to others. The regulations are meant to maintain a level playing field that should allow new video services to woo cable cutters just as Netflix and Hulu have in the past.But those rules are already under attack from some Republicans and will be subject to an immediate challenge from the cable industry, which argues the FCC has gone too far.cable map promoAnd in the meantime cable cutters bemoaning their lack of choice face an even more consolidated market. If the Comcast/Time Warner deals goes through, according to the FCC’s measures some 63% of US consumers will only have one choice of broadband provider.Proponents of net neutrality like Neil Hunt, chief product officer at Netflix, have previouslybemoaned the lack of competitionamong internet service providers.“The reality in this country is that we don’t really have competition for which cable provider you really get your broadband from,” Hunttold the Guardianlast year. And as such, if companies like Netflix want to reach consumers in all parts of the US, they have to find a way to work with the particular providers servicing those individual areas.The net neutrality debate will enter a new phase this week – but it won’t end here. Not long from now the FCC will decide whether or not to allow Comcast to takeover Time Warner. While cable cutters may feel they are reshaping an industry, close inspection suggests the industry is still very much in control.Cable companies are “absolutely worried about the changing environment”, says Bruce Leichtman, president and principal analyst at Leichtman Research Group. “But – for the cable specifically – while they are worried about losing TV subscribers, they also are the providers of broadband service. So, if someone is going to get Netflix or Hulu, they are going to need broadband service and that, in the majority of places, is the cable company.”
CableRelated:Map: How much are Americans paying for cable?
Q: What is net neutrality?Net neutrality is the principle that all legal content and applications should have equal access to the internet, without being favored or blocked by internet service providers.Q: Why is it in the news?On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will vote on new rules to regulate broadband that have proved to be thehottest issuethe regulator has ever faced. More than 4 million people – a new record – submitted comments to the FCC as it considered its options and Barack Obama called on the regulator to impose the “strongest rules possible”. Activists are calling Thursday’s meeting “the most important FCC vote of our lifetime”.Q: What is the FCC proposing?Tom Wheeler, chairman of the FCC, isproposing to protect net neutralityby imposing strict new rules on internet service providers under Title II of the communications act. The FCC would be given the legal muscle to:Prevent broadband providers from banning any legal service or website.Outlaw “paid prioritization” – fees for faster service.Ban “throttling” – impairing or degrading internet traffic.The rules will apply to wireless and wired services and dramatically expand the FCC’s power to regulate the industry.Q: What is wrong with the current system?There isn’t one. Internet service providers have sued the FCC on a number of occasions, challenging its regulating authority. In January, Verizon successfully challenged the FCC’s authority to prevent the company from creating “fast lanes” or slowing or blocking selected web traffic. Broadband has been effectively unregulated for over a year.Q: Will it pass?Almost certainly. Wheeler is one of three Democrats on the five-member commission, all of whom support his proposals. The two Republican commissioners will object but will be overruled.Q: Who supports the proposals?Alongside Obama, a broadcoalition of internet activistsand tech companies including Google, Facebook, Netflix, Mozilla, Etsy and Reddit have backed Title II regulation.They argue that without strong regulation, cable companies could “pick the winners” online, providing better service for their own offerings or those of preferred clients than for rivals. Such a move would stifle innovation online, they argue.Q: Who objects?Verizon, obviously, AT&amp;T andthe cable industry, and the Republican Party. Republican senator John Thune has accused the FCC of giving in to “bully tactics” and called its proposals “terrible”. Both critics and proponents argue that Title II is akin to regulating the internet like a utility such as water or electricity. The objectors argue the burden of regulation will hamper innovation and discourage investment. Wheeler has sought to assuage their fears by proposing to “forbear” more stringent utility rules. The FCC says it will not, for example, impose price restrictions or force cable companies to share their networks. Cable companies say there isno guaranteethat a future FCC will abide by those forbearances.Q: What happens next?Broadband providers are lining up to sue the FCC as they have in the past. FCC officials have said they are confident they can defeat a legal challenge, but their opponents will not give up without a fight.Meanwhile Thune is drawing up legislation that, while it would enforce most of what the FCC is proposing, would limit the regulator’s authority over the broadband industry. The battle over net neutrality is far from finished.
