StepStone has certainly found its path to success easy in the euphoria surrounding internet stocks with the announcement of its &#163;2.41 a share flotation price hitting the top end of expectations yesterday.The Norwegian online recruitment firm, which begins officially trading on the London and Oslo markets on March 14, last week had to nudge up its offer range from between 152p and 190p to   205p and 243p in response to the strong investor demand.British investors have been allocated 5.9m shares with a parcel of 200 each, while 1.5m shares go to Norwegians.Spread betting firms expect StepStone to soar as high as 480p to 490p. Fred Tulloch, marketing manager at Financial Spreads, said the demand for internet firms continued to amaze the company, which had underestimated its bets on   StepStone and Interactive Investor International.The offer of only 54m StepStone shares, which will raise &#163;121m, is understood to have been at least 20 times oversubscribed with one institutional investor asking for 10%.StepStone will be capitalised initially at &#163;514m and intends to use the funds to expand across Europe. Giles Clarke, chief executive of StepStone, said the strategy is to be the   leading online recruitment and career portal by snatching more employment listings, customer advertising and CV listings.Mr Clarke who took the helm last September owns about 5% of the company. StepStone boasts clients including Nokia, Andersen Consulting, Coca-Cola and Pizza Hut.However, losses at StepStone, founded in 1996, have leapt from &euro;300,000 in 1997 to   &euro;24.2m (&#163;15m) last year. It operates in Britain, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium and Italy, and claims that it is the market leader by revenue. Turnover in 1999 was &#163;7m.It says it has about 1.7m job-seeker profiles in its database and that it is used by more than 10,000 companies.
Iobox, an upstart start-up from downtown Helsinki, is nothing if not ambitious. "We want to become the Yahoo! of mobile phones," says Henry Nilert, one of the co-founders. It is already well on the way. Iobox offers a one-stop shop for mobile web access including messaging, entertainment, stock quotes, m-commerce (mobile commerce) and personal management (like calendars). An email sent to your iobox email address also sends the first 160 characters to your mobile and beeps to tell you it has arrived.Most of these services are already available on conventional mobiles. But iobox also offers expanded options for the new internet-friendly Wap (wireless application protocol) phones including a free email box, access to address books and icons that can be downloaded fromwww.iobox.com. This week, iobox announced a partnership with FirstQuote to provide share quotes, news, top market movers and the ability to buy and sell shares directly from mobile phones and other wireless terminals.Nilert claims that its service (costing about six cents a throw) is unique since it is available to any Wap or ordinary phone user regardless of which operator they use.When I visited the company in Helsinki last September, it claimed 200,000 registered users for its website. While we were chatting in one room, new customers from all over Europe were registering automatically on a computer in another room at the rate of 1,000 a day without the burden of a sales force. It beats selling double glazing any day.In London last week (where iobox is setting up a second head office) Nilert said that registrations had now topped 400,000 and were increasing by 1,500 a day. And this is before iobox spends its latest &#163;8m fundraising on a marketing push.Iobox already claims to be the world's leading wireless portal. Nilert, a 28 year old Swede, born in New York but brought up in France, expects to have several million users within the next couple of years and a significant share of a world market expected to grow to 500 million wireless devices by 2001.Iobox has been riding on the back of Finland's world lead in mobile telephony - it has the highest mobile usage and the world's biggest mobile phone manufacturer, Nokia. Barely a year old, it raised an unprecedented amount of money last year for   a Finnish start-up ($3m) before getting the new tranche in December.What of the future? "My feeling is we haven't seen anything yet," says Nilert. "Of today's services, email to mobile has been very popular and so has chat or instant messaging. Content services will get more popular - like getting time-critical information sent directly to you, say, about a blockage up the road."Users won't be happy if they get irrelevant information. Personalisation and location are very important. If I follow a particular stock, I may want to know any major changes."Another category is m-commerce. With today's technology there is still, despite the limitations, a huge potential. For example, I may want to know when the next book of a favourite author comes out. In Finland you can now buy cans of Coke or have your car washed while paying by mobile. Last minute deals for hotels and flights are becoming popular."Your phone is a very personal product, with you all the time, you almost sleep with it. You can have your own icon and ringing tone, the ability to play games on it. If every week you wanted the top 10 songs, you could get them or the song of your soccer team. It has to be done in a focused way, making it as simple as possible. We have done sales of books and CDs (in association with Boxman. com) by phone since July."Looking to the future you will have a device that is 'on' all the time with unlimited bandwidth with better information and graphics. Further on, it would be nice to have voice recognition as I browse through sites. There will be a little video camera there too."There will be seamless integration between the internet device you have in your home, whether it is a screen or your fridge or your desk, and the thing you have in your pocket and the device you have in your car. It's going to be all the same service received  n different ways. I may be typing an email to a friend of mine from home, and reply when I am sitting in the car. I may listen to it in the car on the phone and then reply talking into the phone".Iobox's revenue comes from three sources: its take    from each phone call, income from hosting wireless services for others, and commissions from e-commerce sales. Like most dot.com executives Nilert is coy about figures - except to admit that losses   exceed revenues. He says the company could be profitable in a couple of months if it stopped investing but "that would not be smart".The name of the game is gaining market share.
What a messThe roll out of ADSL by BT is, as Victor Keegan (Online, February 24) says, a mess.  Two weeks ago, a BT engineer fitted an ADSL line and modem in my house. He did it for Video Networks as part of its Home Choice business. The cost was &#163;40 for the set-top box and remote control, and &#163;5.99 a month for the television service. Home Choice makes it clear that the modem is BT's, and that there are no phone charges. Home Choice plans to offer internet access in March but this will entail connecting the set-top box to a PC by the serial port.What I cannot find out is whether I can connect straight to the modem, with the appropriate card in the PC. The BT ADSL helpdesk was not even aware BT was fitting modems.  
So, I now have a free broadband line but no internet access through it. The internet revolution stops here.Keith Holroydkbholroyd@yahoo.co.ukGirls' gamingFurther to Dr Mark Griffiths' postulations on why fewer girls play computer games, I'd like to add that the packaging, marketing and sales of games is offputting to females.I like computer games of the puzzle-solving/adventure variety. However, whenever I go to Virgin Megastore to look for a new game, I am put off by the aggressive, male-oriented packaging of games which, when played, are not in the least bit aggressive.We're not asking for feminine, flowery stuff (or - Heaven forbid - "female" versions of existing games), but often the packaging belies the intellectual nature of the game. Games companies are definitely missing a trick by excluding female consumers.Also, staff behind the counters in games stores are invariably males in their late   teens. You can't help but get the impression that they're laughing at you, Beavis and Butthead style, while you browse.Dr Griffiths may be a psychologist, but what is all that rubbish about girls and low scores? Even I know that girls are collaborative, not competitive, and we don't care about "winning". We're more likely to favour the games that don't feature "scores" anyway!Fiona Campbell-Howesquinquireme@hotmail.comWindows painI wonder how many home and small office users realise the compatibility problems that can arise when upgrading to Windows 2000?I am very dependent on my computer for my own business and I have always tried to keep my system up to date. So I bought a copy of Windows 2000 when it first came out. On installation, it produces a compatibility report that scared me to death and made me abort the installation.&#149;  I may have to upgrade the flash Bios on my Dell Dimension R350. Dell has been helpful here and it appears that is worth doing anyway.&#149;  I have had to download new software for the Zip drive. Quite easy from the Iomega website and the new software is much better.&#149;  But my Canon LBP-660 laser printer and my HP ScanJet 4100C may not be supported by Windows 2000.In fact, the printer and scanner issues will probably mean I will not proceed with the upgrade. Having spent the money, I am a bit sore that there was no indication of these problems on the box or in any of the advertising.You can apparently download a compatibility test fromwww.microsoft.com/windows2000/compatible and I would urge anyone to do that before parting with money.Robin Shippfirecrest@btinternet.comToo slowI have just tried to access Vavo, which I thought sounded great. However, it takes a vast amount of time to load, so I gave up. It does not seem very equitable to have sites with such complicated images they take forever to load.Joyce Edmond-Smithjeds@pavilion.co.uk
Surf freeBritish Telecom has responded to Telewest's launch of flat-rate net surfing on Valentine's Day by extending its uncharged (0800) BT Internet service to cover evenings (6-12pm) as well as week-ends. It has also cut the cost from &#163;11.75 to &#163;9.99 a month, which matches Telewest's price.The Telewest service still looks better value because it provides unmetered net use all day. However, you can access the service only via a Telewest line, and it's apparently very difficult to get online between 5pm and midnight.As I have two Telewest lines, it would be nice to confirm that, but disks that Telewest said it would send on February 14 and February 25 have not arrived. However, I've had no problems getting on to BT's "unlimited" service, which is limited to 312 hours a month.DreameyeIn between beating people up in Soul Calibur, Dreamcast console owners will be able to send their grannies 25 second video clips to say hello.Sega's Dreameye digital video camera will also take still pictures with a up to VGA resolution (640 by 480 pixels) and provide "fun video chat (TV telephone)" features via the Dreamcast's built-in modem and internet capability.Sega says: "The birth of Dreameye will transform today's TV game genres and network communication via the written word and voice into an entirely new world consisting of network entertainment and visual live communities." A Dreameye website is under construction. There are no details of price or availability.  JSFast coloursPhotographic prints fade when exposed to light; inkjet colour prints usually fade even faster. But Epson has just announced a solution.It says its new Stylus Photo 870 and 1270 printers can produce prints that last for more than 10 years "in typical indoor lighting conditions   without any objectionable fading".However, this applies only with the new Intellidge ink cartridges and Epson Premium paper, available in "glossy photo" and "matte heavyweight" versions. Printer prices are &#163;299 and &#163;399 (for the A3 model), including VAT.Easy e-PCHewlett-Packard has announced its first simplified e-PC in the UK with a small 3.8kg sealed-box e-Vectra designed to work as "a corporate PC appliance".The Windows-based range starts with a 466MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) with 64 megabytes of memory and goes up to a 733MHz Pentium III with 256MB. Prices are expected to start at about &#163;370 without monitor, and the product is expected to ship next month.The first e-PC is not aimed at home users, says Eric Cador, general manager of HP's Business PC Organisation, "but if you want to buy one on the web, I'll take your order and ship it to you".Seewww.hp.com/go/epc(JS)Roll up a laptopIf Toshiba gets its way in a few years time, when you've finished with your notebook PC, you'll roll it up and put it in your pocket. At CeBIT, as part of its series of concept gadgets, the company unveiled its ultra flexible DynaSheet screen-based PC. Its key feature is a fold-away Polymer display which is being developed in conjunction with British company CDT. There's no keyboard as it uses voice and handwriting technology, while compatibility with the cordless Bluetooth system means there are no wires.   Toshiba insists it's purely a prototype now, but says that - in theory - it could be available in the UK within three to five years. (AN)
Return of the LucasLovers of Star Wars films will be pleased to hear thatAtom  filmsis to show George Lucas's first ever short film on the web. It's part of the site's commitment to showcase student films, and the Lucas short, Electronic Labyrinth: THX-1138, come as part of an archive from the USC film school in the US. The site does require the very latest versions of both browser and RealPlayer plug-in for access to the top-notch stuff. Some material is available to those with older browsers. The short digital film, Not Without a Fight, documenting last November's "battle for Seattle", is a potent demonstration of how power ful the medium can be, however jerky the image, however tinny the sound.UnhackneyedThe London borough of Hackney has a new website, and it is a lot friendlier than the site's government departments.www.hackney.gov.ukis full of clickable maps, useful directories and local history. It does not forget that there's more to Hackney than finding a dentist and paying the council tax, so leisure sites and an e-zine are part of the package. A borough council that is fun to deal with? Whatever next?Leave it to JeevesDespite a dispute with the estate of PG Wodehouse over its name, US search engine, AskJeeves, has launched a UK-specific site atwww.ask.co.ukandwww.askjeeves.co.uk. One gripe: the site uses frames. Once an answer is clicked on, rather than simply sending you to the site like everybody else, AskJeeves imports the requested site, leaving you with heavy branding and the inability to bookmark the page directly.Cool site for hot stuffAuctions like to sell themselves on how hot their goods are, but insurance company CGU has gone one further. It has cut a deal with the police and put unclaimed stolen goods on the web atwww.bluecycle.com. The site is already an Aladdin's lock-up of bikes, boats and electrical goods. By far the most telling category is the list of private number plates that have "I've never had a proper job" written all over them.' But if T1FFF (&#163;1,500) and L1YAN (&#163;2,000) have already been seized by the police, just who do the auctioneers think will buy them the next time around?On the moveUpmystreet.comshowed how useful a website could be without actually selling anything. Since then, most major property sites seem about as reliable as, well, estate agents. So the launch ofwww.reallymoving.com- a site to help you plan and prepare a move - is long overdue. Full of useful links, tips, information and a neat removal planner, the site could give the more overtly commercialwww.home.co.uka fright.Online onwineA whole case of wine sites has popped up and the latest,www.madaboutwine.co.uk, picks up where the oldAmiVinsite left off. It has a number of new features but best is the wine expert who    answers questions via email in less time than it takes to knock back half a bottle of Chablis. Also worth a sniff iswww.chateauonline.com, which aims at the connoisseur but features a useful wine diary telling the rest of us what is available. And London's wine temple has just launched a site atwww.vinopolis.co.uk.On the airNational Public Radio, the closest thing the US has to the BBC, has started webcasting an online-specific show,All Songs Considered. It's an eclectic mix, mostly instrumentals but far better than anything produced by the UK's major radio players. Seekers of original  net radio could tryhttp://contour.netwhich seems to push the boundaries of net radio week-by-week.A home in spaceSpace station homelessoffers a bizarre vision of how humanity might really go about colonising space. Naturally it is no utopia, full of homeless astronauts, stray space dogs and enough junk to destroy the planet. It's very witty and not without a few pointers to how we might manage life on earth.Jumbo offerMilky Elephant is the home of Norton Love Doctor, a wonderful download for Mac users, that lets you give your computer the love and care it really needs. Go towww.milkyelephant.comif you love your Mac.Early learningAimed at kids, but loose enough to entertain anyonewww.willing-to-try.comis a simple but rewarding way for children to teach themselves about interactivity.KoyaanisqatsiGodfrey Reggio's poetic documentaries are some of the most distinctive the medium has ever produced. There's now a site devoted to them atwww.koyaanisqatsi.comSix of the bestOrganic foodQuick deliverywww.organicsdirect.comFresh to your doorwww.organicdelivery.co.ukFrom fish to beerwww.simplyorganic.netWant to grow your ownwww.organic.mcmail.comReal food databasewww.real-food.co.ukSupermarket pioneerwww.iceland.co.uk
All the fun of the fareCrazy TaxiDreamcast &#163;39.99  Sega  ***This is one cab ride where talk of the 'ammers and the Spurs would receive blank expressions rather than weary sighs. That's because this taxi is based in America and is also crazy.Actually try frenetic, hectic or maybe just frantic, as Crazy Taxi is pure videogame espresso. Its burst of intense   energy is an acquired, if short-lived, taste. Simply choose your yellow steed and away you go, rushing to get your fares from A to B as quickly as possible. The faster you work, the more money you receive, with creative use of the road encouraged.You'll often find yourself driving through parks and cafes as the agile pedestrians jump out of the way. And, wow, doesn't it look splendid as the sun shines, the vehicles gleam and the realistic city whizzes past. It's a pity you   can't stop the ride, pull over and admire the surroundings.As well as a gorgeous reincarnation of the arcade machine, Dreamcast owners receive some tough training modes, more choice of how to play and, best of all, a whole new city.This is all rather welcome as the Technicolor energy rush does fade rather rapidly, with long-term cabbies prone to spending time beating a particular training record rather than facing another tiring session on the streets.Like the majority of Dreamcast titles so far, CT is perfect pick-up-and-play fodder, with little time for manuals, contemplation and patience. Playing for more than half an hour without a break is not recommended, especially to those whose idea of heaven is sauntering through Civilization.But never mind, because Crazy Taxi is shallow, attractive and fun to be with. Who cares if it doesn't last forever?  (GH)Very pretty - but pretty ordinaryNoxWestwood Studios/EA  ***If looks could kill, Nox would have a rap sheet as long as a flight sim manual. It is striking, charming, vibrant, evocative and sexy - five words that probably have never been used about a role-playing game.Graphics remain fast and smooth, no matter how much is going on, and if you doubted that a game could be colourful without bearing the words "For ages 4 and up" on the box, drag those doubts into the wastebasket.In fact, Nox is so gorgeous, it's at least 10 hours before you notice how ordinary the gameplay is. The nuts and bolts here are the same as Diablo, Stonekeep, Darkstone - and having seen such long service, they're getting kinda rusty.There are a few neat innovations, like the summon bomber ability, which allows you to assemble your very own two-legged, spell-packed killing machines, but the age-old dungeon-thrash rules remain unbent.Once you've decided whether to play as wizard, warrior or conjurer, your choices are effectively over. The storyline is so linear, you feel like you're being poked   with a stick every step of the way. This inability to dodge back and forth is all the more frustrating for the size of the levels: with limited inventory space and degradable weapons, you'll find yourself leaving armfuls of goodies behind because you can't carry them, and there's no going back later to pick it up.But when it's not boring, restrictive or plain impossible. Nox is good fun. It's just that the fun was done first, better and bigger in Baldur's Gate, albeit a little less attractively.  (AB)Snowboard so boredCoolboarders 4Sony PlayStation  Idol Minds/Sony  ***Coolboarders was the first snowboarding video game, and new releases seem to have become an annual event. Since I'm not a snowboarding fan, I haven't kept track, but this is certainly an improvement on the original.You now get a choice of 16 real snowboarders, more than 30 boards, 30 new courses, and all sorts of tricks and "special events". You can even punch people during downhill races.The controls are sluggish but it's still easy to perform a variety of stunts, which is the way to amass points. It's not quite pick-up-and-play, but the learning curve isn't too tough. The graphics are   really good for a PlayStation game, and the snow-covered landscapes are extremely pretty.The game is mercifully free of pop-ups (bits of scenery appearing out of nowhere) except on the downhill runs. Detail is usually good unless you run into a tree, in which case things get very pixellated indeed.But, basically, snowboarding is pretty damn dull on a TV screen, however good the graphics. And while the game might appeal to fans who want to play as Jim Rippey or Michele Taggart, most of us have no idea who they are.Coolboarders 4 is fun but it isn't going to change your life, especially if you've already got one of the earlier versions. (JB)
If you are one of the fortunate few who has managed to get their hands on a Wap phone - prepare for some bad news. While your cherished mobile may be state of the art at the moment, within a year or so, it's going to be as cutting edge as a BSB Squarial. Basic internet functions will be seen as passŽ, as new models download music, email digital images and even give directions to the local Indian restaurant.That's the message from last week's CeBIT exhibition in Hanover, Germany, where the talk was of a glittering multimedia future delivered direct to your mobile phone.The engine the phone companies believe will transform mobile access to the internet is the high speed GPRS (General Packet Radio services) which will be operational this summer. The system, which has the backing of almost all the major phone manufacturers and networks, will offer downloading speeds of 115Kbits per second: faster than current Wap (wireless application protocol) services.Unlike Wap it will handle standard web pages, and also act as a precursor to third generation mobile phone technology UMTS (Universal Mobile Telephone System) that uses video systems.A rival system, HSCSD (High Speed Circuit Switched Data), is favoured by Orange in the UK and backed by Nokia, but has little support in the phone industry.  GPRS's trump card is that as it is constantly connected to a network it enables almost instantaneous access of emails, and high-speed connection to internet pages.The bad news is that it isn't backwards compatible. To enjoy its benefits users will have to buy a GPRS phone.
The arrival of GPRS will provide mobile phone networks and manufacturers with an opportunity to explore exciting new avenues. Certain to be one of the biggest is downloading music. At CeBIT, BT and Matsushita (the parent company of Panasonic and Technics) announced the launch of a service that's literally going to be music to the ears of mobile phone owners.Users will be able to access music sites and download tracks initially via the phone on to a Panasonic multimedia player, but in the near future, on to the phone itself. 
The player features a Secure Digital (SD) card which can store up to 64MB of music, or more than an hour of CD-quality sounds. However, Panasonic is confident that a 256MB card will be available by the end of the year and is committed to producing a 1Gigabyte card within three years.The system will be trialed in the third quarter of the year in both the UK and Japan, with a full launch planned for the third quarter of 2001. Although the UK trial will use BT's Cellnet network and Panasonic phones and players, BT is adamant that it is creating an open system. A spokesperson told Online that "the company was in discussions with both phone providers and other mobile phone networks".The downloading of music is also the first in a series of collaborations between the two companies. Panasonic is to produce a series of palmtop devices that will provide the Wap staples - email and internet access - but also feature integrated digital cameras. Users will be able to take shots then instantly email them to another mobile phone or PC.Panasonic's rivals Sony and Ericsson are thinking along similar lines. 
At CeBIT, Sony launched its debut Wap phone, the CMD-Z5, with a promise that the arrival of GPRS will lead it to concentrate on the delivery of music to its phones.Ericsson's CeBIT stand was chock full of snap-on mobile phone accessories that will make the most of the faster download speeds of GPRS. Top billing went to a concept product, the CommuniCam, a small digital camera that can send images to the internet or another mobile. Ericsson also showed an MP3 player, the Handsfree, which will be on sale in the UK this summer.The company made a couple of announcements that are sure to be a hit with travelling salespeople. It unveiled a series of location-based Wap services that deliver maps to your phone screen as well as pinpointing routes to selected destinations. Users will be able to request the co-ordinates of their nearest Indian restaurants, and the phone will display descriptions of the route to their Tandoori in either map or text form.Ericsson also intends to offer a Wap version of the Michelin Guide, which will deliver information about selected restaurants' opening hours, culinary specialities, reservation information, etc. The service then offers a text route description to the restaurant from the current position. Both services will be available in the coming months, but will work much more efficiently with GPRS.
What if our salesperson feels like some company in the restaurant? Siemens showed a tiny personal organiser concept called Chatset designed to give mobile access to commercial and leisure online forums. It's small (3Com Palm-sized), and has no keyboard. Words are recognised via its touch screen and handwriting recognition technology.If viewing maps on a tiny Wap screen sounds ludicrous, then Olympus may have a solution. It displayed a prototype of a multimedia eyeglass that enables users to see maps and other complex Wap pages in more detail. According to the company, using the Eye-Trek Monocular is akin to looking at images on a 10inch monitor. 
CeBIT also provided the first hard evidence that GPRS phones were on their way, with several companies announcing models and launch dates.Motorola confirmed its debut GPRS phone, the P7389i, a triple band model in its Timeport series, which is scheduled for a late summer launch. The model is virtually identical to its current Wap phone, the P7389.Ericsson predicted that its first GPRS phone will be available in the latter part of the year It's a version of its soon-to-be released R-320 Wap phone. 
Samsung is also backing GPRS, with its debut model expected in the UK in the end of the year.Nokia also has advanced plans for a GPRS model.
'Roger, just a note to say what an egotistical, pompous ass I always thought you were. It's almost worthwhile being dead not having to work for you. Regards from the other side, Phil." Absolute honesty is a fantasy we all indulge in occasionally, but the internet has made it a possibility.www.Finalthoughts.comhas started a posthumous email service. With this free service you can "create personal and confidential messages to your family, friends and co-workers that will be distributed after you have passed away". Future enhancements include sending video and audio emails and broadcasting your funeral over the internet.In the 90s the internet added a new dimension to love and relationships. In this decade it may do the same for dying. There are already numerous web cemeteries, which host online memorials. Why settle for some unvisited graveyard when you can be where the action is - cyberspace? Death used to be a bit of a downer. Thanks to the net, it is just another lifestyle option.Before you log off for the last time, it can pay to check out what's on offer. According to an American survey, the cost of dying is increasing three times faster than the cost of living. On the internet you can compare prices of coffins and maybe pick up an end of line special. Nor do you have to settle for that standard brown box. Designer coffins are the way to go these days. If you want your mourners to crack a smile then the Return to Sender model painted to look like a courier package may be just the ticket.Fairway to Heaven, a casket embellished with a golf course scene, is sure to attract the golfing fanatic.   For the economy-minded there is theCaskitwhich can "easily be assembled in 15 minutes without the use of any tools". This simple pine box "can be modified into a fully functional piece of furniture (such as bookcase, coffee table or armoire) until it is finally needed".If it's an urn you're after, you'll be spoiled for choice. Buy one and get 20% discount on your next. There's no need, though, to have his and her urns - a companion urn allows your remains to be comingled with your loved one or your pet. At $250, the"keepsake urn clock"is not the cheapest but it's the perfect reminder that life is ticking away.Not everyone, of course, wants urns gathering dust on the mantelpiece. Take a tip from Shakespeare: "Full fathom five thy father lies, of his bones are coral made."Eternal Reefs Incwill "turn your loved one's remains into a living coral reef". You can visit, fish or dive on the memorial reef or the company will "video tape the memorial reefs as they mature so everyone can see the positive effect your loved one's reef contribution has on the environment".Reservations are now being taken byCelestis Foundationto blast "a symbolic portion of the cremated remains of a loved one" into Earth orbit. They will circle the Earth for 40-44 years before re-entering the atmosphere and "blazing like a shooting star in final tribute".If you're not really ready to go right now, theCryonics Institutecan provide "reliable and affordable cryonic suspension". For $28,000 your body will be deep frozen until future technology enables you to be revived to live a "youthful and healthy new life".One of the worst aspects of dying is the way it makes a mockery of all those hours in the gym. Don't despair, the Summum organisation of Salt Lake City (www.summum.  org/mummification/modern.htm) has the answer: "Mummification could be appealing to anyone who works hard at staying in shape. With the increasing number of people joining health clubs and becoming more health conscious, just because you died, why not end up on a high note?"At a total cost of $63,000, it will not only keep you looking good right through the millennium, but also preserve your DNA in perfect condition for future cloning.The Natural Death Centre, a British greenie site, offers useful advice for those who are happy to pass over. Tips include getting a "Do not Resuscitate" tattoo, how to avoid misdiagnosing death, funerals as networking opportunities and making your own video memorial message.Don't know what to wear to grandpa's funeral? The onlineCity Morgue Giftshopdoes a nice line in "Always A Pallbearer, Never A Corpse" T-shirts and coffin earrings. For riveting deathbed reading, you won't go wrong with like What Am I Going to Do With Myself When I Die? or What Happens When You Die: From Your Last Breath to the First Spadeful.With death, timing is all. Enter your date of birth in the onlineDeath Clockand receive your personalised date of death. A clock showing your remaining days, hours or minutes can be purchased separately.Mourning becomes electricWalking round the great Recoleta cemetery of Buenos Aires with its great chapels and mausoleums built by patrician families can be exhausting,  writes Christopher Moss in Argentina.And Chacarita necropolis, constructed when yellow-fever hit the city in the 1860s, is so big most people have to drive to the tomb of a relative or friend.But an Argentine website has opened which can take the strain out of paying one's respects to the dead. It'swww.pazeterna.com, conceived by Jorge Luis Calvigioni of Buenos Aires province, who claims it came to him after "reading a   lot of news stories about people who were cutting themselves off from the world to show they could live on the internet. Thinking in the opposite direction, I realised there was a big empty space with regard to dead people".For US$70, members of the Paz Eterna ("eternal peace") cemetery get a page containing a traditional tomb framing a photograph and message. Once issued with a password, distributed by whoever is paying for the virtual grave, visitors can interact with the corpse by means of voice, video, extra pictures and messages. A virtual flower shop is there so the tomb   can be adorned with the dead person's favourite bouquet.Currently available in three languages - Spanish, Italian and English - the site is obviously looking to a global, multi-faith market of bereaved people who are either far from the real tomb or too busy to visit it.The cyber-cemetery was launched last Christmas Eve and already has 45 tombs up and running. For the public, there is a special access, but when I tried clicking on it, there was (perhaps appropriately!) no response. Without a Java browser, death remains in the great beyond.It's not a new idea. Back in    1995 Dr Lindsay Marshall, a lecturer in computing at Newcastle university, set up aVirtual Memorial Garden. Here, the public can read or leave online tributes to the dear departed. One tribute, appropriate to the internet era, says: "My wish is that Norman be lost in cyberspace forever, he loved his time spent on his computer."There is no charge for this service.  World Gardens - theVirtual Cemeteryis a slicker operation but charges $35 for an entry. However, you can email virtual flower arrangements to the families of the bereaved.
The DCMS thinks it's cool. Go to its website and, if it detects Shockwave Flash 4, you'll get a fabulous display of sliding,   horizontal bars. As you move into the site, words emerge and fade, and bands of colour ripple down the screen...The main menu consists of oddly-pulsating radio buttons   hidden behind an irritatingly-pointless blind that rises when you move the mouse pointer over it, and comes down again when you move it away.This spectacular waste of   time suggests a company with too much time on its hands. But it's not a company, it's part of government: the department for culture, media and sport.The average internet user   in a hurry would usually give this sort of site a wide berth, but this week should be an exception. The DCMS has just published an independent internet inquiry into the creative industries that are part of its remit. These include advertising and design, the performing arts, broadcasting, and publishing.According DCMS minister Chris Smith, these "industries generate revenues approaching &#163;60bn a year, contribute over 4% to gross domestic product, employ around 1.4 million people directly and indirectly and are growing at about 5% per annum, twice the national average".The internet inquiry focused on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs, in the jargon) because the big players have already invested vast sums in their internet operations. Nor was it meant to tackle every problem that SMEs face, just the ones that might benefit the economy, if they were resolved. But it did give a bunch of people drawn from the creative industries - including me - the opportunity to tell the DCMS what it could do to help.One idea was for a sort of "virtual square mile" to help bring together internet professionals from the different creative industries for their mutual benefit. It's clear that the financial services industry derives some benefits from geographical concentration, and the internet offers a way of building a similar sort of community online.Another suggestion was an internet service or "hubclub" for arts and cultural industries similar to the ArtsOnline service planned by the Arts Council of England.My own view is that the aim could be fulfilled just by giving away free web space in a virtual world like GeoCities. There's no reason why a commercial organisation couldn't do this, and make money out of it. But such a site would need two things to make it different from, say, GeoCities or Freeserve. First, it would need a comprehensive, searchable directory, so that visitors who needed a product or service could find it easily. Second, it would need to provide every member with a cheap, simple e-commerce system, including a way to accept credit card payments.But while it might be possible to tell the DCMS what it should do, a lot of the things that need doing are the responsibility of the DTI, the home office, the DfEE, the treasury, Oftel, the data protection reg istrar, or the European Union, and so on. Some of these are clearly heading in different directions, with the home office working against the interests of e-commerce, which the DTI is trying to promote. It's nice to have an e-Envoy, but let's not pretend we've got "joined up government".The government's regulatory framework is potentially even more of a problem. When it was developed, the different mass media - print, radio, television, cinema etc - were fairly easy to separate. Today, virtually all "content" can be digitised and delivered over the web, so why distinguish between them? The DCMS and DTI plan to address the "converging digital environment" and a consultative white paper is expected in the autumn.But even if the task force knew all the answers and the government were prepared to act on them (which it isn't), there remains a fundamental problem: speed of execution.The task force completed its inquiry less than six months after it was set up, partly by doing much of the work online. But the internet has changed since then. It will have changed even more before the government has finished chewing it over.Patricia Hewitt, minister for small business and e-commerce at the DTI, almost admitted as much at the report's launch. "We in government have to start moving in terms of internet years, not parliamentary years," she said.In reality internet companies revise their strategies and may change their aims every three to six months, whereas governments think about what they can do in four to five year terms.If the government really wants to do something, it can lead from the front. It employs vastly more people than the creative industries, and is responsible for far larger revenues. It knows it should be doing more on the net. But if the DCMS still thinks it's cool to do websites with Flash intros, frames and red text on a pink background, it's got a lot of catching up to do.&#149;  Creative Industries Internet Inquiry: Snapshot of a rolling wave atwww.culture.gov.uk/creative
Raising capital is never easy, unless you have a rich uncle not averse to the odd gamble. The banks are probably the easiest route but you have to repay with interest.Raising capital through the sale of shares is attractive, and innovative stockbrokers are now using the internet to reduce the cost and lead time in raising capital by selling shares to the public.Potential investors apply online for an allocation of shares in response to an online prospectus. They receive, online, notification of their share allocation. The only paper involved in the process is an authorisation form faxed back to the broker. The applicant receives a share certificate in an electronic format but a nominated bank holds the actual certificate.The US is well ahead in applying the internet to all aspects of business. E*Trade (www.etrade.com), one of the first brokerage houses to offer online share buying and selling, can help companies raise share capital through itsE-Offeringsubsidiary. This offers US companies the ability to raise capital quickly and efficiently. Companies can prepare   filings, communicate more effectively with a broader investment base, and   complete the share offer as fast as possible at a lower cost.Bruce Shewmaker, managing director of E-Offering, intends to launch a similar operation in the UK and Europe. In the future he sees the internet playing an important role in raising share capital for companies.In theory there is nothing to prevent prospectuses being issued to anyone with an email address to solicit funds to get a company off the ground. However, they will be in breach of the Financial Services Act (FSA), which applies to the internet as it would to other approaches such as a letter, a fax or a phone call, if they are not authorised to conduct   investment business.Breach of the act is a criminal offence carrying a prison sentence of two years, a fine, or both. And, the company's promoters could become liable for making restitution if investors suffer a loss. TheFinancial Services Authorityenforces the law and launches some 600 investigations a year.  No brokerage firms in the UK yet offer an initial public   offering (IPO) facility on the internet. This will change with the arrival of EPO.com, a company specialising in   electronic public offerings. Launched in Sweden in   September 1998, it claims to have more than 45,000 retail investors on its database.In the UK alone 1,000 retail investors are added to the database each week. In Sweden,EPO.comhas conducted 17 IPOs via the internet and Robin Birchall, corporate finance manager, expects the company to do this in Britain next month. In the short term EPO.com doesn't intend to become the lead broker for an IPO. It expects to get  up to 25% of an initial share issue which it will then offer to retail customers via the net.In Europe, Germany appears to take the lead in this field with Deutsche Bank selling about 10% of each of its German equity offerings online. The Wall Street Journal reported in 1999 that Buecher.de AG, a company selling books over the internet, needed to raise $41m through a public share offering. It turned to German internet broker Net.IPO AG,  and raised $110m online from 7,000 investors.  In the US, research shows that only certain companies can attract investors to   subscribe for the initial share offer via the  net. The message is: don't apply if your company is brand new or a start-up with little or no history using low or minimal technology, and has limited growth potential.Brokers offering to help companies raise capital through the internet will  back only those they see as exciting, innovative and   technology driven.  The internet promises one of the cheapest methods of prospecting for new clients.   Birchall believes that the future of IPOs, at least for non institutional investors, will be via the internet and paper-based subscription offers to acquire share capital will become a thing of the past. Once all the regulatory hurdles, in place to protect investors from unscrupulous operators, are overcome by internet stockbrokers, the net may soon become the place not only to sell goods and services but to source that elusive start-up capital.
When Apple launched the iMac in Britain, 
trouble-free access to the internet was the main selling point. Actor Jeff Goldblum promised potential buyers an iMac would get them 
on-line in three easy steps. "Step one: Plug it in. Step two: Switch it on. Step three: There is no third step," a grinning Goldblum promised.
A perfectly fair claim in the US. But British 
consumers - reliant as we are on a creaking telecoms infrastructure - cannot be so confident of reliable access to the internet.As more and more people get wired up, they are increasingly finding that maintaining a connection to the internet is much less straightforward than the dotcom ads would suggest.
Infoserve, a technical support company set up six months ago, specialising 
in internet connection 
problems, has received thousands of calls from 
customers unable to make or maintain connections.Derek Oliver, managing director of Infoserve, 
confirms: "A problem with connectivity is the single largest stumbling block we encounter and it invariably takes the longest to resolve."
The rapid proliferation of internet service providers (ISPs) in the past few years has led to big variations in standards of service. In the US, the ISPs tended to be off-shoots of established telecommunications 
companies with large 
infrastructures and a wealth of experience.Here the profit margins are so small for ISPs that they sometimes fail to upgrade their capacity by enough to cope with the 
volume of subscribers they sign up. 
New customers may be unable to collect email and surf the web because all the lines to their ISP are engaged, said Oliver. Another problem is BT. American consumers see it as part of their telephone company's basic job to ensure a reliable internet connection.In Britain, most of us are not only forced to pay the cost of a call (although new "unmetered" net access from the likes of Telewest and BT Internet has begun to reverse this trend), but we are not even guaranteed a connection. Phone BT to complain about an dropped internet call and you are brusquely told an "ordinary" BT line is  guaranteed only for voice calls. The only way to guarantee internet access is to sign up for Home Highway, for a £150 connection fee and £30 a quarter thereafter.The problem is that an internet connection requires more bandwidth than a voice call. In the US, the ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber) system has been widely and cheaply available for years. In Britain, BT has decided to push ISDN (Integrated Services Data Network) instead and this is used by the Home Highway service.The ADSL system allows for a much higher bandwidth than ISDN and lets you to keep your connection open at all times rather than dialling in every time you want to find a web page.Yet BT does not plan to make ADSL available to consumers until the 
summer, at the earliest, and then to only a small section of the population.
Emily Green, managing director of Forrester Research, an organisation which specialises in mapping the growth of internet technology, says: "There is no doubt that ADSL is a far superior technology. The only reason BT has been promoting ISDN is that it was seen as the next big thing when it became available about a decade ago. BT invested a lot in ISDN and is now trying to leverage its investment."No telephone company has been keen to roll out ADSL, but BT has been particularly sluggish because it has faced less competition from cable operators than some of their European counterparts, she says. "There is no doubt that the British consumer has had a worse deal as a result."The smaller the bandwidth, the more vulnerable an internet connection. David Firman, technical manager at Infoserve, says he had a neighbour who lost touch with the web every time it rained. The noise the rain created on the line was enough to break the connection.Not only do we lack ADSL or affordable ISDN, but even the inadequate 
capacity of ordinary lines is sometimes further diminished by BT. In some newer households it has "split" the lines using a Digital to Analogue Conversion System (DACS). This works fine for voice calls, but unsuspecting customers trying to get online are liable to have problems.Even BT admits that DACS is not ideal for the internet, but refuses to say whether it would replace the line if a customer was having problems. Each case would be looked at "individually", a spokesman says.The final factor causing increased failed connections is the modem itself. As desktop computers become more popular and cheaper, manufacturers are tempted to cut corners to compete. Modems are more likely to be inaccessible and inferior.
But, with the prime 
minister having staked his reputation on stimulating 
e-commerce, and thousands of new customers 
clamouring to get on-line every month, it would be nice to think the technical infrastructure was in place to underpin such a seismic shift in communication and commerce.It seems it is not.
Freedom fraggedQuake designer John Carmack of Id Software has threatened to sue QuakeLives for trying to get out of its obligations under the Free Software Foundation's GPL (General Public Licence) under which Quake itself was released. QuakeLives' Slade now makes visitors to his website,Quakelives.com, waive their rights before they can download code."To... proceed into this site, you have to give up your rights under the GPL. Specifically the rights regarding access to the source code. And while we are obligated to offer you the source code... To gain access to this site, you are obligated not to ask," he explains. Slade complains that people are asking for code but not using it to fix bugs or add features, which is the idea behind the "open source" approach. "So,"¸ he adds, "disappointed with what the community has become, I've decided to take a stand."Carmack understands the problem but principle is at stake. "If necessary, I will pay whatever lawyer the Free Software Foundation recommends to pursue this," he says in an open letter at http://www.webdog.org/plans/1/
This may be a minor spat, but the GPL, devised by FSF-founder Richard Stallman, is the basis for the free software movement. Linus Torvalds used Stallman's free software to create his Linux operating system kernel, and released it under the GPL.Silicone on siliconPammy is coming to a computer near you, not as an old Baywatch poster but in a game based on VIP, a tongue-in-cheek TV series set in Hollywood, Beverly Hills and Los Angeles. It's a world of blue skies, fast-looking cars and even faster women, where Pamela Anderson Lee plays Vallery Irons (sic), a gun-toting personal bodyguard to the stars. The French company UbiSoft has licensed the game rights from Sony Pictures Consumer Products Inc, and says it will create products for most gaming platforms.The PC version will be out in October 2000, with Sony PlayStation and PlayStation 2, Nintendo 64 and Dolphin, Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance, Sega Dreamcast and X-Box to follow. Although VIP is broadcast in more than 60 countries, UbiSoft is more interested in the fact that "according to statistics, it is the most popular show among American teenagers". Which statistics it doesn't say.EA buys itself a DreamElectronic Arts, the biggest independent videogame company, has taken over Steven Spielberg's Dreamworks Interactive. Dreamworks has had hits with several PlayStation titles including Lost World: Jurassic Park and Medal of Honour. This is just the latest in a string of takeovers that includes Origin, Maxis and, in the UK, Bullfrog.Virtual VeniceIs the country going to the Doges? Well, soon you'll be able to move to 16th century Venice, thanks to an online game from France's Cryo.
Players will be able to move their avatars (representatives) around what the company says will be a faithful 3D reconstruction of the city, buying and selling works of art and sending off expeditions. Venice is, essentially, a real time resource management/trading game, and if you haven't a PC available, you'll be able to make trades via a web page.
Lastminute.com, the online travel agency, yesterday claimed that volatile global stock markets and concerns over the success of the latest clutch of internet companies had forced the company to pitch its value at the lowest end of analysts' expectations.The price range for the company's float was set at 190p to 230p, giving it a potential value of &#163;316m, following much speculation that it would start out at &#163;400m.However, grey market pricing by IG Index and Financial Spreads for the stock's debut was already putting it at between 360p to 500p yesterday,   which would take the company's value to &#163;750m.Up to a quarter of Lastminute.com - or about 33m shares - is expected to be offered in the float, raising &#163;62m for investment in marketing, technology, product development and expansion into new markets and suppliers.The founders of Lastminute, Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox, are expected to hold between 15% and 20% or &#163;63m of the company when it lists on March 21."It's really exciting finally getting it on the road," Ms Lane Fox said.Lastminute is expected to offer 8m shares to small investors with the remaining   25m going to institutions. "We still think it's a pretty good chunk, the amount we are selling off, with the volatility of the market," Ms Lane Fox said. "I think it's an exciting time for any dot.com."Miles Satiel, an analyst at West LB Panmure, said: "The valuation that seems to be emerging is towards the low end of expectations. Do we believe Lastminute.com has a market dominating position? is a question that doesn't immediately bring about the answer 'yes'. That's what the price is telling us."He said it was likely that Lastminute.com would list at a premium because of its strong branding.Other major shareholders in Lastminute.com will include venture capital firm Arts Alliance Advisors and Global Retail Partners.Mobile phone group Orange will acquire 1.65m shares at the market price while Virgin Atlantic Airways and Lufthansa will each eventually own 4% of the company.Virgin and Lufthansa have both been granted warrants which can be converted into shares at 37p each if three-year performance targets are met.The firm published December quarter results which showed turnover growing almost fourfold to &#163;409,000 and gross profits up from &#163;111,000 to &#163;350,000.
Telephone bank First Direct yesterday announced that it was transforming itself into an "e-bank" and launched a broadside at the spate of standalone internet banks launched in recent months.Giving details of its new online service, First Direct - a division of HSBC - said it was combining its experience of phone banking with the strengths of the net to create "an internet bank you can talk to". It said it expects to double its 1m customer base within three years.People will be able to register for the Firstdirect.com service from today, but the product range will not be available until June. Until then, would-be customers will have to make do with the bank's promise of "fiercely competitive" rates on current accounts, credit cards and other products. Alan Hughes, chief executive of First Direct, stressed it would continue to offer its phone banking service alongside online banking and expected customers to use both channels.In a swipe at online banks such as Egg and the Halifax's Intelligent Finance, he said he believed the standalone net proposition "is a terrible one". First Direct differs in that it already has 1m customers and is profitable, he said."The difference here is that First Direct is a proven force, we are profitable, there is a clear income stream and we have a record of delivering service across a range of technologies. We will not be here today and gone tomorrow."Mr Hughes highlighted dissatisfaction in the US with the poor web service associated with some online banks.
The government is moving ahead with plans to regulate covert surveillance, saying it needs to update existing phonetapping powers to keep pace with the internet and mobile phones.But the regulation of investigatory powers bill, which gets its second reading in parliament next week, has provoked widespread alarm. Internet experts and civil liberties campaigners fear that the legislation threatens human rights by opening the doors to unchecked powers for mass surveillance.Britain already has wide powers to intercept communications, but until now it has lacked a regulatory framework for use of informers, a situation the bill is designed to rectify. The proposals cover the monitoring and interception of communications by law enforcement and security agencies. The bill lays down the rules to be followed by the police and security services when they tap private phones, pagers, mobiles or private networks, including office switchboards.The bill will cover activities well beyond those of the security and intelligence services and the police. Ministers will be able to issue orders allowing surveillance by other agencies such as the department of health and social security, the ministry of agriculture and the department of trade and industry, as well as local authorities.The government argues that it needs this power to combat criminal groups such as paedophile gangs that send encrypted messages over the internet. Civil liberties groups welcome the introduction of a systematic legal framework for surveillance activities while expressing deep unease at the government's wide sweep of powers and the lack of oversight and redress procedures.The authorities will be able to force anybody to hand over the text of or decryption keys for computer communications such as emails. Those who refuse could face jail.A key issue is the burden of proof. Critics of the legislation say innocent computer users who had lost software codes could end up in jail as it would be impossible for them to prove that they did not have the requested key.The government believes it has built sufficient safeguards into the legislation. But Caspar Bowden of the Foundation for Information Policy Research think tank, says the law as drafted is "impossible". He accuses the government of ignoring all the advice and lobbying it has received from the internet community in the past year."This law could make a criminal out of anyone who uses encryption to protect their privacy on the internet," Mr Bowden said. He claimed that the department of trade and industry dropped decryption powers from its e-communications bill last year because the measure was incompatible with the human rights act. "The corpse of a law laid to rest by trade secretary Stephen Byers has been stitched up and jolted back into life by home secretary Jack Straw," he said.Mr Straw says none of the law enforcement activities specified in the bill is new. Covert surveillance is old as policing itself, he points out. "What is new is that for the first time the use of these techniques will be properly regulated by law, and externally supervised, not least to ensure that law enforcement operations are consistent with the duties imposed on public authorities by the European convention on human rights."Useful linksThe regulation of investigatory powers billThe Foundation for Information Policy Research's discussion of the billCaspar Bowden profileMinisters seek wide bugging powersNews Unlimited special report: free speech on the net&#149; FIPR is organising Scrambling for Safety (see last September's programmehere), a free public conference to discuss the bill, on Wednesday 22 March in London. The government and opposition parties have agreed to participate. Registration details and further information are on theFIPR siteor e-maili.want.sfs2000@fipr.org.
Graham Wallace, chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless,  is candid about his dealings with  Richard Li. "He's got a rich father. That always helps," he says. "I liked him. He's got a quick mind. And when talking to him you can   see he's always thinking ahead."The quickness was epitomised by the way Li's embryonic Pacific Century CyberWorks hijacked the proposed merger between  Hong Kong Telecom and SingTel. Li apparently secured up to $11bn in financing from a syndicate led by HSBC Holdings on top of more than $1bn raised recently in a share placement.His business methods mirror those of his father, who last week created pandemonium with a share offering in an internet company called Tom.com that was 669 times oversubscribed; 300,000 would-be investors queued for application forms.Father and son now control some 60% of Hong Kong's telecoms market, including the Hutchison-Whampoa group.
AllianceISP America Online and mobile phone firm Motorola announced the preliminary terms of a joint venture in which the two will develop a personal interactive communicator service. The deal will enable AOL users to access services on Motorola's wireless personal communicators.All clearThe competition commission confirmed it has completed its four-month investigation into cable operator NTL's proposed &#163;8.2bn acquisition of Cable &amp; Wireless Communications' residential business. The report is widely expected to clear the merger.SaleYesterday United News &amp; Media announced the &#163;139m sale of its photo library business in the first of a planned series of divestments ahead of its planned merger with Carlton Communications. The two companies pledged to make &#163;3bn of disposals and refocus the merged firm on TV, business services and consumer publishing both conventional and online.Joint venturePalmtop pioneer Psion said yesterday it had formed an alliance with mobile phone technology firm Qualcomm covering the use of the Psion-led Symbian technology for advanced CDMA wireless phones.
Three Swedish companies yesterday announced plans to bring the motor car into the internet age.Telecommunications equipment maker Ericsson, truck and bus manufacturer Volvo and telecommunications services provider Telia are setting up WirelessCar which will offer mobile e-services ranging from roadside and emergency assistance to internet access for vehicle manufacturers and fleet operators. Drivers will be able to get expert analysis of faults from a remote diagnostics facility.The companies have not given details of how much they plan to invest in WirelessCar. Initially they will be equal partners but expect to   recruit other companies in the future. "So far advanced mobile e-services have been mere visions. WirelessCar will make them come true," president of the new venture, Jan Hellaker, said.J&#246;ran Hoff, vice president and general manager for new and special business operations at Ericsson, said WirelessCar was "a natural extension of our vision of anywhere, anytime communications".Ericsson is involved in a similar link-up with Electrolux and telecoms provider TeleDanmark to bring the internet into the domestic appliance market aiming at creating "the networked home" - where the fridge could keep track of the number of eggs being used and provide advanced warnings of impending break-down.
Exchange Holdings, the online financial information company, yesterday attempted to deflect attention from plunging pre-tax losses by announcing its first European acquisition and plans to spend millions on rebranding itself.The company, which floated in August last year, reported an operating loss of &#163;14m compared with a loss of &#163;2m in 1998. Chairman Jan Loeber said this reflected "increased investment in product, service, people and brand to fuel the future growth of the business". Turnover rose 8% to &#163;18m.Exchange Holdings runs Moneyextra, one of the leading personal finance websites, which allows people to compare mortgages, savings accounts, loans and other products, and to monitor their investment portfolios.After snapping up a number of other UK websites, including Moneyworld, Exchange yesterday took its first step abroad. It is buying Swedish online investment fund supermarket Fondex for an initial &#163;21.65m, and said the deal "will be shortly followed by other announcements in Germany and Spain".The company is to change its name to Moneyextra and plans to spend &#163;18m on building up the brand this year. It intends to expand the main website to include an online home-buying centre, and comparative motor, home and travel insurance services.Moneyextra and Moneyworld notched up almost 18m page views in January compared with 6.7m in September.
HSBC yesterday unveiledhsbc.com, its global internet bank, ahead of tomorrow's launch of hugely discounted products by the new internet arm of First Direct, HSBC's profitable telephone bank in the UK.The London-based bank with operations in 82 countries refused to put a figure on the cost of launching hsbc.com but said it would spend $2bn (&#163;1.25bn) on technology this year, a rise of &#163;187m on last year.It also said it had set aside &#163;200m to cover bad debts in Korea, the majority of which analysts believe are connected to Daewoo, the car company.Overall, however, HSBC's bad debt charges fell &#163;355m to &#163;1.25bn in 1999 as economies in Asia, where 38% of its business is based, regained some stability. The group's pre-tax profits rose by 21% to &#163;5bn although profits in the UK banking business, formerly known as Midland, rose less quickly.The UK bank reported operating profits of &#163;1.3bn, up 1%, restrained by the dollar-sterling exchange rate, the provision against the Korean debtor and another &#163;15m to cover pensions misselling.Costs in the UK bank operation also rose, mainly because of bonus payments to the traders in its treasury operation. Up to 5% of the UK bank's administration is now handled in China.Within the UK bank, First Direct, launched 11 years ago as a pioneering telephone operation, reported an &#163;18m rise in profits to &#163;25.8m. First Direct broke even in 1994 after amassing start-up costs of &#163;124m.Sir John Bond, chairman of HSBC, said First Direct would announce its new, "fiercely competitive" internet products tomorrow. The City believes the products could represent moves by First Direct to offer market-beating rates.Sir John insisted HSBC's strategy was different to its rivals, all of which announced internet banks during the past fortnight's annual bank reporting season. HSBC already has   400,000 internet customers. "The opportunities of e-commerce change the fabric of the way business is done in financial services," Sir John said.HSBC, which plans more advertising based on its red hexagonal brand, has already spent the past 18 months developing hsbc.com with IBM. Together, they have created a computer package called IFS to link all its operations.Sir John said the strategy also involved forming partnerships such as the one with Identrus, an electronic signature company, as well as taking direct stakes in internet firms.In the UK, HSBC already has 55,000 of its customers signed up to Open, the Sky-led digital television consortium in which HSBC has a stake. It is aiming for 1m hsbc.com customers in a year.Sir John said the group was not just chasing retail customers. "One of the most exciting markets in the e-age is the commercial market, the small and medium sized enterprises that form a vital part   of our strategy and long-standing core business," he said.The group, which bought the private banking business of billionaire Edmond Safra, who died in a house fire last year, said it would take a &#163;100m restructuring charge in 1999 to cover the cost of the purchase.The bank's shares, listed in London and Hong Kong where 8% are owned by the Hong Kong monetary authority, fell 3p to 720p in London. It announced a second interim dividend of $0.207per share, taking the total to $0.34.
Until this moment I have never owned a brand new car. It always seemed a curious way of tearing up one's money - listening for the thud of the 25% drop in its value as you drove it out of the showroom door.But when it came to replacing our ageing Volvo, fuel consumption was a driving issue and newness therefore of the essence. We'd been eyeing up the Peugeot 406 diesel; but a recent estate model would be &#163;15,000 or so and an older one wouldn't have the new, ultra-efficient, HDi engine.Might an import be the answer? A friend of mine had tried. She wanted an Audi A3 but had been told, quite wrongly, that it was unavailable on the continent in right-hand drive. By the time she'd discovered the truth of the matter she had already taken delivery of a UK showroom model.I was determined to do better and turned for guidance to the EU's car price website. This compares tax-free prices in each member country and gives an index figure for each car. For the Peugeot 406 the index is 128.8% in the UK, compared with 100% in Holland and 115% in Belgium. But the clear winner is Denmark, at 77.8% - or 40% off the UK price.Not that the Danes themselves are   winners. When you add back Danish tax their cars are among the most expensive around. But the rock-bottom manufacturers' prices required to compensate means that every bargain-hunter in Europe is beating a path to their dealers' doors.    Jonas, who sold us our car, was far too polite to admit that he was doing us a favour. But he didn't need us the way we needed him. He had been a struggle to find. I started by choosing batch of the larger dealers from the Peugeot Denmark website and faxing our requirements.Result: silence. I called the Peugeot hotline number given in the EU website, which turned out to be customer services in Coventry. It seemed a cheek to be asking them how to circumvent their own outrageous prices. They were polite, but scarcely chummy and offered me the number of the Peugeot importer in Denmark.The importer told me to contact a dealer. "But the dealers won't speak to me," I returned.Then, a week later, came a message containing the phone number of one of the dealers I had already tried. I dialled it anyway, but the salesman who answered was adamant. "We don't do UK cars," he told me. "But," I protested, "the importer said . . ." A muffled conversation at the other end and then, suddenly, I was speaking to Jonas and the way ahead was clear.But what to order? We had wanted an LX family estate, with optional rear electric windows. The UK price was &#163;17,495 after dealer's discount. But equipment levels vary widely across Europe, and in Denmark we assumed we would be limited to a Danish model, although supplied with imperial speedometer and right-hand drive.We had spent hours poring over the model details from the Peugeot Denmark web site, guessing at the meaning of the Danish words for such things as vanity mirror and parcel shelf. Eventually we settled on the ST. In practice, Peugeot were not about to build an Anglo-Danish hybrid, so Jonas completed the circle by matching the ST back to a UK model. The equivalent he plumped for was the GTX, two levels up from the LX, list price &#163;20,470.The order form was on my desk within hours. The price, tax free, was 122,340 krone - a bit over &#163;10,000 at current rates. It included a whopping 10,000 krone for "documentation", but we were pleased to pay. The deposit requested was a reasonable 25%.With the run-up to Christmas and the millennium we put the car to the back of our minds. Then, in January, the call came. It was four months since we had placed the order.We had to organise in a hurry.   Insurance was a problem. Our broker couldn't find cover that would operate before the car was registered in the UK. So I rang round and got it from Direct Line. The Go website was offering flights to Copenhagen for &#163;40. To get them you had to collect vouchers from a newspaper we didn't read. We had already missed the relevant days; could my brother be relied upon not to have thrown away his back numbers? Fortunately, he could.Six in the morning on the day of departure. Travelling light, we left the pushchair at home and set out on foot for the station. A bad moment to remind ourselves how slowly the children walk. We missed the train but made it to the check-in at Stansted with six minutes to spare.In Copenhagen the Tivoli Gardens was closed so we went to the zoo. The next day we called on Jonas. It took him a moment or two to negotiate our bankers' draft, but he had the invoice, temporary Danish registration and the all-important manufacturers' certificate of conformity ready on his desk. We had 24 hours to leave the country.Only the certificate of conformity bothered us. The left/right- hand drive and metric/imperial speedometer options had not been ticked. Jonas could not read the French and shrugged. We decided to hope for the best.We drove through the night, entertaining ourselves with the trip computer and the rain-sensitive   windscreen wipers while trying to interpret the Danish instruction manual. Despite getting hopelessly lost in Holland we ended up in Dover at nine the next morning, green but triumphant after a choppy crossing, elated to hear the thud of our new car increasing in value as we drove it on to British soil.Registration was simple, or would have been if the certificate of confor mity had not been rejected. I called Peugeot in Coventry. Our certificate was only valid in certain countries - a case of EU harmonisation that was not quite harmonious. They agreed to issue a new one. Meanwhile an English manual cost &#163;6 from a Peugeot main dealer. No question asked.Now we are registered and legal, with tax disc and smart new V reg. number plates, awaiting only the last piece in the jigsaw: a bill from customs and excise for 17.5% that will bring the purchase price to about &#163;12,000. Add &#163;500 as the cost of collection and the saving is a clear &#163;5,000 compared with the car we originally wanted; nearer &#163;7,000 compared with the higher specification car we actually drove away.Checklist&#149; Start with the EU website at http://europa.eu.int/comm/ dg04/aid/en/car.htm - go from there to the six-monthly price report. If your car isn't featured try the nearest base model. Find the cheapest country for your car. Check the hotline number for the manufacturer in case you get stuck.&#149; Find the dealers on the car maker's website for your chosen country. There are generally links to these on the manufacturer's main website.&#149; Telephone if you can - faxes and emails can be ignored.If it's Holland or Scandinavia, you can assume without arrogance that they will speak English.&#149; When selecting a model explain that you want the UK equivalent. Non-standard features can affect the second-hand value of the car.&#149; Don't be frightened because its abroad. Sending a deposit to a large overseas car dealer is less risky that giving it to a dodgy middle-man in the UK.&#149; Remember to ask for the certificate of conformity and temporary registration, and be sure to get a receipted invoice.&#149; Take a bank draft when you get the car. Make sure it is insured for the drive home.&#149; Don't be put off by the paperwork. Get the information pack on importing a vehicle from DVLA (01792 772134). Take the registration and VAT forms it contains to a vehicle registration office with the invoice, certificate of conformity, insurance and a cheque for the tax disc plus a fee of &#163;25. The VAT form will be sent to customs and excise who will send you a bill.&#149; Once home, the car is not legal until it has a UK tax and plates.&#149; If there's a problem with the certificate of conformity, contact the manufacturer's UK office.
What car do you drive?A Ford Fiesta. It's a man's car. Or at least it was until I bought it from him. It's a classic K-reg 1.1, in eggshell blue. The boot doesn't lock, and the stereo's held on with chewing gum, but aside from those two minor points it's absolutely rubbish.What does that say about you?I need a new car.What do you like best about it?The fact that it's a car. Beyond that it has nothing whatsoever in its favour. Except perhaps the colour: an exquisite lapis lazuli. It makes me cry to look at it. For all sorts of reasons.Why did you buy it?I needed to get to Milton Keynes in a hurry, and there were no buses.What kind of driver are you?I drive the way that I make love. Slowly, carefully and with a hammer under my seat.Have you ever crashed?I once drove into the back of another car at low speed. I apologised and it was all OK. I can't really remember what she looked like. I've dined out on that story, I can tell you.What do you use your car for?Driving mainly. Though sometimes, if I'm in the mood, I'll sit quietly at the wheel, with the engine ticking over, just enjoying the noise of the 1.1, the smell of the petrol fumes, and then at the last moment I'll get up and open the garage door. I'd do it more often but it does tend to give me a headache.What's in the glove compartment?It's more of a ledge than a compartment. It's got a Gary Glitter tape in it, and a leaflet about a Cornish monkey sanctuary. I went to Cornwall once. I visited a Monkey Sanctuary. It was brilliant. I picked up a leaflet. Can't remember where I put it though. Probably knocking about in a glove compartment somewhere. Or on a ledge-like equivalent.What music do you listen to on the road?Glitter.What would be your dream car?A Ford Fiesta. Flame red. P-reg. Maybe even a 1.3. Man! I'd eat those 1.1 K-regs for breakfast! Probably never happen though. Still, a guy can dream.&#149; Iain Lee presents the 11 O'clock Show on Channel 4
I regard myself a modern woman, a feminist even. I've read all the right books and take strong positions on women's role in society.I applaud the birth of New Man with his developed sensitivity, his ability to cry and be open about his feelings and his celebration of women's equality. But something happened recently with a guy I started dating which makes me think that all my feminist beliefs aren't worth the tin that my badges are printed on.Patrick was attractive to me because he had the soul of a poet. He knew all the names of butterflies, cried spontaneously when seeing something beautiful like a flower opening and he could cook really complicated things. But as our relationship progressed I found myself getting a bit stuck on something.He was all these wonderful things but I felt occasionally that his sensitivity was verging on   the little-girlish. I wanted some affirmation of his masculine side and thought that perhaps if we took a trip in his car that speeding along the motorway might allow me to see him in a different light. So I suggested a weekend trip to the country. He thought it would be lovely. "Can we go in your car?" He looked a bit crestfallen. I felt disappointed, and it showed. He looked at his fingernails. "Alright then."His battered Datsun Sunny wasn't much to look at. I strapped myself in and waited for the tug of acceleration, praying that this would inject a bit of testosterone into our wilting relationship. We stopped and started in the London traffic but finally broke free onto the M40. This was his chance to shine.We were in the slow lane behind a lorry. I could feel myself leaning forward in my seat. He put his indicator on and did lots of looking but seemed reluctant to   overtake. I couldn't speak. It was worse than I imagined. He finally broke out from behind the lorry into the middle lane but once we nudged in front, the car squealing like a pig, he nipped back into the slow lane - tongue poking out a bit with concentration, like a little boy reading a book. Hopeless.Later that day, sipping beer in a pub by the river, I told him that I just didn't think it was working. He asked for a reason. How could I explain that his inability to own the road, to overtake and win in   the motorway competition turned me off? I mumbled something about insurmountable differences and suggested he dropped me at the train station and I'd return to London on public transport.Shocked by my need for a man who could overtake, I reflected on past relationships and found, to my surprise that I had been in love with several men who couldn't drive at all.Martin Amis said "Poets don't drive", and my predilection for poets has proved this to be true in many cases. These are the men who shun all responsibilities and take pride in their inability to stay sober enough to even have a driving lesson. Their appeal is in the fact that they have shunned peer pressure and distanced themselves from the key car-buying demographic, finding status in places beyond the material. I find these men as attractive as those who burn across asphalt,   busting the rev counter.So my conclusion is that men who are ambivalent about driving are not attractive to me. And it's not just me.I did a survey of my girl friends and asked how they would feel if they were on a date with a guy and were stuck in a slow lane behind a lorry and the man driving the car wasn't keen to overtake. One friend said "Urgh. How irritating. I'd wonder what was wrong with him." Another went further and said that she'd get out at the next service station and hitch a lift home. These women would consider themselves feminists but are suffering from this same syndrome as me.At this point I should confess that I am an ambivalent driver. Technically, I can drive, but put me on a motorway and I freeze. I consider myself pretty able to cope in difficult situations - show me a fuse box, ask me to light a fire or   install some software and I can do it. But on the motorway I'm a little girl, squeezing my eyes shut rather than facing oncoming hazards, sticking in the slow lane and blocking people's exits.If I get stuck behind a horse box I will sit it out until it's time to leave the motorway rather than overtake.This is an attempt at a Darwinian justification for my (and my friends) attraction to boy racers - that I need a man to do the thing I can't really do. But given that my girl friends are confident drivers I think I would probably just say that women like guys who are into and can handle powerful vehicles.A few weeks after the trip to the countryside I received an email from Patrick telling me that he'd like to drive across asphalt at a hundred miles an hour with me, naked. Yeah, right.&#149; Names have been changed to protect the ambivalent driver
Microsoft was back in court last week, trying to persuade Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson that the company hadn't really broken any anti-trust laws. Its lawyers produced a new rabbit out of their copious hat, namely an argument that Microsoft's legal copyright over the Windows operating system could not be infringed by a court's anti-trust ruling.Which, being translated, seems to imply a view that even if Gates &amp; Co have violated anti-trust law then it doesn't matter because their copyright allows them to do so. The judge, I am delighted to say, would have none of it. This line of argument, he observed icily, would have   allowed John D. Rockefeller to escape from the anti-trust laws which finally broke up Standard Oil in 1911.Ironically though, by dragging copyright into it, the Microsoft lawyers have put their fingers on the nub of the problem. Copyright is going to be the bane of our lives for the next decade. Because software can be copyrighted, it enjoys legal protection for much longer than patented inventions.In one of the most original contributions to the 'what to do about Microsoft' debate, Jonathan Zittrain of the Berkman Centre at Harvard has proposed a fiendishly ingenious remedy for the kind of market dominance currently   enjoyed by the company: limit the copyright protection of software to five years.This is far too good an idea to be adopted by the US Congress (which is entirely in hock to the publishing lobby). But perhaps the EU Commission might be more receptive? After all, they have taken on the US over the thorny issue of data privacy.The launch of Windows 2000 gave Microsoft a rare spate of good publicity. After all, some people had begun to doubt whether the company would ever get the monster out the door. And yet there it was, all four flavours of it, ready to go.Bill Gates described it as the most reliable product his company had ever shipped. Why, he crowed, independent tests had shown that a Windows 2000 server could run for 90 whole days without falling over (as compared to the 2.1 days it takes a Windows 95 machine to crash).Non-technical readers may be puzzled by this. They will translate the above into everyday terms and think of, say, the chief executive of Ford proudly announcing that the new Fiesta would break down only once every three months rather than every second day, as at present.If that were to happen, the CEO in question would be hauled off to jail and Ford's share price would go through the floor. And quite right too.  Such are the boring realities of the 'old' economy. The 'new' economy, however, is an entirely different place.In an interesting internal Microsoft memo leaked last week, one of the chaps who led the Windows 2000 development team revealed that the product was riddled with bugs.'Our customers do not want us to sell them products with over 63,000 potential known defects,' he wrote to his colleagues. 'They want   these defects corrected. How many of you would spend $500 on a piece of software with over 63,000 potential known defects?'As it happens, for a program as big as the new version of Windows, 63,000 bugs is probably quite reasonable. But it does explain why most businesses will be slow to adopt the first release. Combine that with Judge Jackson's verdict (expected in April) and ponder whether you really do want to hold on to that Microsoft stock.&#149; Idiocies  of filtering software #23,452. A reader emails me to say that all references to Scunthorpe are filtered out of the online chat room he uses. Just as well he didn't try writing about train couplings, stud partitions or misplaced analogies.john.naughton@observer.co.ukFor links and background material seewww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
It was on a Sunday morning shortly after the launch ofLastminute.com, the e-commerce website which offers everything from holidays to gifts, that one of the company's co-founders, Martha Lane Fox, took the telephone call. 'This voice said, "The site's OK, but there's something missing. I can book the holidays and everything, but I can't get a date".' A slightly alarmed Lane Fox put the phone down.Perhaps the voice will be able to realise his wish soon. 'If you think you need it at the last minute, the chances are we're probably looking to go there,' Lane Fox says. This typifies the message the 27-year-old Oxford graduate is now trying to drum home. Lastminute, which is gearing up to float on the stock market in the next few weeks, has a lot of potential, runs the message. Like the company's exhortation to its 800,000 registered users, Lastminute.com is keen to 'do something'.The company will need potential by the bucket load to justify its likely valuation when it floats. Lastminute, which is only 18 months old and turned over around &#163;2.6 million in the 12 months to September 1999, is likely to be valued at up to &#163;400m when it is listed on the Nasdaq and London Stock Exchanges.Given the huge demand for Internet stocks, the firm is likely to be worth far more than this shortly afterwards.Lane Fox, who, with the company's co-founder and fellow Oxford graduate, Brent Hoberman, 31, jointly holds a 20 per cent stake in the firm, knows that to justify this sort of value over the longer term, Lastminute needs to develop its business strategy and become an indispensable online Jim'll Fix It for web surfers, rather than just a cute idea.Personalisation will be the key to Lastminute making the shift from well-intentioned website to one capable of make serious money.Lane Fox paints an enticing scenario: 'Soon our service will be   able to message your mobile phone, saying things like, 'We've found the holiday that meets you and your friends' requirements - sun shine, the chance to drink good red wine, and it's only four hours away." Having a site that feels personal will be critical.'By doing this, of course, Lastminute should develop a much closer relationship with its users. The company, whose earnings model is based primarily on commission fees, may boast that it has approaching a million of them registered - a figure which is currently growing by more than 30 per cent a month - but it needs to convert this sort of interest into sales.Just because Internet users have registered an interest does not mean they are buyers. Indeed, a typical user now buys something from Lastminute between two and three times a year.But equally, by building sophisticated databases which are aware of users' likes and dislikes, Lastminute reinforces its position with its 1,000-plus suppliers, which include British Airways, Bass Hotels, Conran Restaurants and Virgin.The company knows that this is its unique selling point: one which will differentiate it from the major travel agents selling on the Web. And because of this, all the major airlines and hotel groups are keen to see their names under the Lastminute umbrella, a desire which allows the company to build critical mass.'They &#91;the travel agents and the like&#93; own the supply, but they don't have the volume that we can offer,' she says.True, people visit Lastminute because of its reputation for being an Internet hub - somewhere they know they will find a holiday or a restaurant or whatever. But what about the threat of a major ticket seller developing its own   site, and then squeezing its margins to price Lastminute out of the equation? It may not be able to offer the breadth of holidays but, hey, look at those prices. Where would that leave Lastminute, the e-commerce intermediary?Lane Fox dismisses that possibility. 'Companies can't do it on their own website because they fear cannibalisation.' Perhaps, but what about companies such as Egg, the online bank set up by Prudential? The wily Pru deliberately established a completely different online brand for this reason. What would stop a big player doing something similar?Even if this were a possibility, Lane Fox says, Lastminute has first-mover advantage. 'You'd still have to set the company up, and we're starting to get a critical mass in Europe,' she says.Indeed the company already has offices in London, Paris, Munich and Stockholm, and has plans to roll out its brand across the rest of the continent. Lane Fox also admits that the company is now looking to get into the US through its alliance with bargain travel retailer priceline.com.And besides, Lastminute is keen to be seen as much more than a bucket shop for late holidays. Speciality services include everything from last-minute babysitters to firms that bring you breakfast in bed.'It isn't just about cheap travel. Someone may be desperate to get a hotel room in a particular place, or else their girlfriend is going to kill them. We may be able to offer it to them - but at a price,' Lane Fox says. She says that last Valentine's Day proved there were was a huge untapped market for this sort of last-minute premium service.In addition to broadening its geographical reach, Lastminute is keen to spread itself across as many different   technological platforms as possible. It has deals with BT Cellnet and Orange to put services on their mobile phone networks, and has signed up with interactive cable TV company Telewest.Money from the float will be ploughed into developing the site, which Lane Fox admits needs improving. 'We've spent a lot developing the back end &#91;the electronic stuff that goes on behind the scenes when you click your mouse&#93; but we want to do more with the front end &#91;the bit you look at&#93;.'Lane Fox who, apparently for public relations reasons, is now the face and mouth of Lastminute, leaving Hoberman - who dreamt up the company - in the background, admits to being surprised at how quickly it has grown.Indeed, initially she didn't think it could work at all. Hoberman suggested the idea in 1996, while working at Spectrum, a consultancy specialising in new media strategies. 'I said it was far too complex and you would need thousands of suppliers, but, of course, that's what the web sorts out,' Lane Fox says.The company raised &#163;600,000 to get going. Its backers include venture capital firm Arts Alliance Advisers, as well as France T&eacute;l&eacute;com, Deutsche Telekom, Sony Music Entertainment and Intel. There was only one major problem when the pair had decided to launch the business. A Sardinian businessman had registered the name. Both Lane Fox and Hoberman were adamant that their site had to be called Lastminute.com, and the Sardinian was happy to sell it for several thousand pounds.Today the company's name is everywhere, as Lastminute, already the second most recognised e-tailer in the UK after Amazon, looks to boost its profile before it floats. The fact that airports operator BAA is also an investor helps: it means the Lastminute name will be plastered on numerous billboards at travel destinations across the land.'The brand is vital. It has quite a sexy image. We're not trying to be a big computer company; we're about empowering the consumer,' Lane Fox says.The question is, though, whether enough consumers believe this. Attracting the techno-literate, upwardly mobile crowd is one thing; casting the Net wider is another.
Direct Lineis launching what it claims is the first life insurance service offering virtually instant cover. Quotations for term assurance and mortgage cover will be available 24 hours a day, with cover arranged in five to 10 minutes. The website already sells motor, home, travel and breakdown insurance.Investment management companies are beginning to sell their funds online. Investec Guinness Flight is offering itsWired Index Isawith a discount on the initial charge from 5 per cent to 3 per cent until 28 April. The Wired fund invests in companies likely to benefit from new technology. Its unit price has increased sharply since launch but investors should be aware that these types of funds carry a relatively high risk, because of a huge surge in the price of the stocks they invest in over the past year or so.Abbey Nationalis selling its Catmarked Isa tracker fund. The site also offers mortgage shoppers an estimate within three minutes of what they will be able to borrow and there is a calculator to show repayments on any Abbey product. Personal loans from 9.9 per cent are also available.Independent adviserChartwelloffers a guide to Isas, including recommendations. Chartwell will rebate any initial commission from the fund manager, and 50 per cent of all commission paid in future. There is a flat fee of £20.www.thedeal.netoffers mortgage deals from major lenders. Eventually there will be deals on consumer goods. The site also offers information on managing your money.In good time for the new W car registration on 1 March,MoneySupermarketis promoting its personal loanfinder service. The lowest rate offered is 7.9 per cent from Northern Rock, but this requires a payment protection policy taken out with the loan.
On the afternoon of Friday 29 August 1997 a team from Special Branch acting on instructions from MI5 smashed into a flat in St George's Drive, Pimlico, owned by David Shayler and his girlfriend, Annie Machon, both former intelligence officers. In the three-day search that followed, the flat was ransacked for documents to incriminate Shayler, who had gone public in a Sunday newspaper a week earlier with his claims about MI5 incompetence. In the search, the police took away a handful of innocent papers. They also stripped the couple's sheets, which they confiscated along with a pair of Machon's knickers. But they overlooked a report Machon had written for a management consultancy, into personnel problems at MI5.Shayler has always claimed that he was merely attempting to highlight serious flaws in the way the intelligence services operate in Britain. The operation to find evidence in his own case seemed to prove his point. In the years since, however, the focus has shifted away from the substance of Shayler's claims and on to the reliability of the man himself. Until this month, even the interest of the media was drying up. In the year that followed his release, Shayler slipped out of the public eye, exiled in Paris, eking out a living as a journalist using his increasingly out-of-date knowledge of intelligence. He still lives with Annie, who acts as spokeswoman for 'Public Friend No 1', spending much of her time travelling between France and Britain, something which Shayler is unable to do. They live in a flat in Paris's comfortable 11th  arrondisement , close to the Bastille. It is unlikely they are still surviving on the money received for the original  Mail on Sunday article, around &#163;39,000, but Shayler has continued to work as a journalist, notably for Mohamed al-Fayed's  Punch magazine, in which he writes a monthly column. Much of the life of the couple centres around the caf&eacute;s and restaurants near    the Gare du Nord, where they meet lawyers and journalists for sometimes several lunch appointments a week.Both are French speakers - Shayler's degree was in French - but are nevertheless isolated and desperate to return to Britain. Machon, a Cambridge classics graduate, has remained a somewhat enigmatic figure: blonde, slim and extremely careful with her words, she could not be more different to her partner. Throughout the past three years, she has studiously avoided talking about her own experiences in intelligence. Apart from Tony Benn, no MP has publicly defended Shayler. This weekend one prominent Labour backbencher said that Shayler was his own worst enemy: 'He has become a media personality, always willing to appear on TV and get quoted in the papers and that does enormous damage to his credibility.'From the outset, Shayler has had an image problem. When he walked free from La Sant&eacute; prison in France in November 1998 he claimed a victory for free speech and justice. He had successfully demonstrated to the satisfaction of the French courts that he was a whistleblower, not a traitor. All attempts by the British government to extradite him had been deemed politically motivated. Shayler felt he had been vindicated.   As he left the prison his delight was captured by French photographer Jacques Brinon. This single photograph, which appeared on the front pages all over the world, probably did more for Her Majesty's Government's case than any previous smears about his unreliability and incompetence. It showed Shayler with his hands behind his head, eyes half closed and mouth wide, revealing the full extent of his double chin. With a Middlesbrough FC away strip visible under his jacket, he looked for all the world like a fat, stupid football yob. When the papers arrived on the desk of MI5 chief Stephen Lander the image staring out at him must have confirmed his beliefs that this was a man who was not 'one of us', who should never have been recruited in the first place.Shayler has been described variously as a ' born rebel', a 'blabbermouth' and a 'troublemaker'. The Foreign Secretary himself said that his talk of the involvement of British agents in a plot to kill Colonel Gadaffi of Libya was 'pure fantasy'. For his enemies , the combination of Shayler's appearance, his quickfire patter and an obsession with football, make him a distinctly dodgy geezer. But people who have met Shayler describe him as charming and amenable, and capable of inspiring a surprising amount of loyalty among friends and associates. The events of the past two weeks increasingly suggest that Shayler has been telling the truth from the beginning. An MI6 document posted on the Internet appeared to confirm there had been of a plot to kill the Libyan leader in early 1996 as Shayler had said. The suspicion that Shayler has highlighted serious wrongdoing by the intelligence services is given added credibility by the lengths to which the British state is prepared to go to silence him, including this weekend's news that the Government is taking out a civil action against him.David Shayler joined MI5 as part of a recruitment drive in the early Nineties to attract a new breed of non-public school, non-Oxbridge graduates who would shake up the moribund service. With the end of the Cold War, it was felt that MI5 had to shift the emphasis of its operations towards the very real threat from the IRA, Islamic fundamentalists and hostile regimes in the Middle East. A cryptic advert appeared in national newspapers in 1991 showing three empty chairs, with the catchline 'Godot Isn't Coming'. It read: 'If you have already achieved plenty, but now find yourself marking time, stuck in a rut and unable to progress, then it's time to act.' Shayler, who attended a Buckinghamshire grammar school and Dundee University, seemed the perfect candidate - bright, able, with experience of the real world, but without any traditional preconceptions of how an intelligence    officer should behave. He even had a background in left-wing politics, campaigning for the miners during the 1984 strike, and as a student editor publishing extracts from  Spycatcher , the memoirs of former MI5 agent Peter Wright, but even this did not exclude him from what he believed was a reformed service.According to Shayler, he and other officers of his generation soon became disillusioned with intelligence work. Most of it seemed to involve shuffling papers and getting official clearance for    the endless MI5 phone taps on ordinary individuals. He became appalled by the level of surveillance of tiny extreme left groups, while the intelligence service was unable to stop terrorist acts by the IRA such as the bombings at Bishopsgate and Canary Wharf. Most seriously he was convinced that MI5 and MI6 agents often acted outside the rule of law, knowing they were unlikely to be punished. After raising his concerns with senior officers he, like many of his colleagues, left around the time the Labour government came to power in 1997 pledging to make the intelligence services more accountable.Tony Benn believes Shayler has raised important issues about the way MI5 and MI6 operate without any real control from Ministers or Parliament: 'If what he was saying was irrelevant and inaccurate they could easily dismiss it. What he is doing must be extremely unsettling to the secret services.' Benn, a Cabinet Minister in the Wilson government, added: 'What Shayler has demonstrated is that you can challenge the muddles and bungles of the intelligence services as long as you don't challenge their right to do it.'Others are less convinced. One former Tory Cabinet Minister told  The Observer that he had it on good authority that Shayler 'got into the service by mistake', that there were distinct indications that Shayler had entered MI5 'with the specific object of finding embarrassing things and publishing them'. Shayler describes himself as 'almost autistic' in his memory for detail about the history of Middlesbrough football club, and admits to having a chip on his shoulder about the public school and Oxbridge types who dominated MI5 and MI6 while he was there. But opponents should not underestimate his chippiness and his memory for detail. It has served him very well so far.David ShaylerBorn:Middlesbrough, 24 December 1965Girlfriend:Annie MachonStudied:Grammar school, Buckinghamshire; Dundee UniversityJobs:Sunday Times  trainee (sacked); newspaper proprietor (launched student newspaper, the  Paper) ; spy (resigned)Lives:Paris, 11th  arrondisement
Drive along the dusty four-lane highway towards Chennai from India's computer capital, Bangalore, and about 10 miles out you will be struck by the sight of gleaming towers and concrete curves of Electronic City.Home to some 80 companies, Electronic City is the centre of India's silicon plateau. This patch of land - most of it encased in walls and littered with banners for commercial giants such as Oracle and NTT - is the epicentre of an economic earthquake that is shaking the subcontinent.Polite conversation revolves around how to make, when to make and who is making money from the internet. The big banks, like ICICI, have plans for online customer services. All   the advertising in the pages of mid-market Delhi tabloids have been bought up by a financial website, sharekhan.com. The upstarts and corporates target the new, moneyed, consuming class of some 200m - more buyers than live in any one European country. And a sizeable number of them are becoming rich on the back of India's new economy.Software is modern India's spice. The industry will be worth &#163;2.5bn in exports this year - and in three years should top &#163;12.5bn, making up nearly a quarter of the subcontinent's output.The country's most precious resource is its people. The pool of highly educated, English speaking IT professionals so impressed Microsoft's Bill Gates in 1997 he proclaimed   that India would be a software superpower and promptly awarded the first Microsoft professorship outside the US to Delhi's Indian Institute of Technology. The stock market values each employee of Wipro Technology, one of India's computing darlings, at &#163;1.9m.Foreign companies have rushed into silicon plateau: Novell opened their R&amp;D centre at Bangalore nearly four years ago; the operating system for Oracle' s NC was written in Bangalore; European software company Baan has headquartered its R&amp;D operations at Hyderabad.The tide of colonisation of the Indian computer industry is now over and a generation of home-grown talent is emerging. Most have taken their cue from California's silicon valley - where a quarter of start-ups are run by Indians. Others have read of the exploits of Pavan Nigam, rated by Netscape's Jim Clark as the "best programmer he had ever met".And none have forgotten the entrepreneurial buzz created by software engineer Gururaj Deshpande, the data communications expert who offered shares in his third start up, Sycamore, last year for $38m (&#163;23.9m). They closed on the first day of trading at $184.75 and Mr Deshpande is now worth $3.7bn.But Sycamore is a US-based company. The hottest stocks at the moment are those with roots in Indian soil but have imported the lifestyle and entrepreneurial get-up-and-go of American capitalism.Take Infosys. This software services company has its own 25-strong fleet of buses, runs generators to avoid the power cuts that plague Bangalore and built basketball courts and a Domino's Pizza to re-create the relaxed, campus feel of an e-venture in silicon valley.Formed in 1981 on about &#163;200 by seven software engineers and run from their homes, it offered software services around the globe. The first 10 years of the company saw revenues grow to about 90m rupees (&#163;1.3m).The company's big break came when the it developed a computerised distribution package for Reebok France, which then referred clients to Infosys. Last year, the it became the first Indian software firm to list on a US stock market. Big customers now include Sainsbury's, Visa, Lucent and Nortel networks. About 3% of the company was floated, rais ing &#163;44m. The current US valuation tops &#163;8bn - on nine month earnings of &#163;87m."The stock has performed well in the investor market," said Narayana Murthy, the chief executive and brother-in-law of Mr Deshpande.The 46-year-old Mr Murthy is himself something of a legend. He won a place at the best university in the country, IIT Kharagpur, in 1962 but could not take it up because his father, then an education official in the state government with eight children to support, could not afford the hundred rupees a month in accommodation fees. A man of great modesty, Mr Murthy lives in a small three-bedroom bungalow in downtown Bangalore.The original seven founders are now worth nearly &#163;2.5bn - on paper. Out of the company's 5,000-strong workforce, some 200 are dollar millionaires and a further 1,800 are rupee millionaires - including the canteen manager and company chauffeurs.Paternalism seeps into aspects of Infosys' corporate life. It has set up a charitable foundation which receives 1% of the company's total profits and distributes the cash for social causes. "We see wealth creation as essential to spanning the divide &#91;between rich and poor&#93;. Wealth should be shared out and we are involved in wealth distribution," says Nandan Nilekani, Infosys' managing director.But the ambition at Infosys is to become the hothouse of technological talent on the world stage. It maintains offices in California, Tokyo, London, Frankfurt and New York. More than 98% of the group's income is from outside of India. With the dollars raised on the US markets, Infosys is planning to snap up a US software company.In 1997 the company made &#163;6m, two years later &#163;20m. In   the past nine months it has already taken 10% more than it did in the whole of last year.Wages are rising fast. At present computer programmers start on about &#163;300 a month - small in western terms but nearly 10 times the average Indian's income."It is a very competitive market for talented software engineers," says Mr Murthy. "But these wages in India, which are increasing at 30% a year, are containable. Indian wages only account for 15% of total revenues. Therefore we only have to enhance productivity at a rate of 4.5%. Part of the reason for the Nasdaq share issue was to be able to offer overseas employees competitive share option schemes."The software company has its detractors - many saw the millennium bug as an irreplaceable revenue. The explosive growth of the net economy has meant the opposite has happened. "Every business is now under siege. E-commerce has dramatically changed the business model and we are perfectly placed as providers to offer new solutions," says Mr Nilekani.With dot.com clients such as Amazon and CBS Sportsline as well as work for internet infrastructure companies, Infosys has picked up plenty of e-commerce experience. Revenues from net-based work has risen from 1.3% in the first quarter to 15.6% of total sales in the last quarter of 1999. This has almost made up from the shortfall in "Y2K", which fell from 24% to 5.8% of total sales in the period.Infosys likes to think of itself as in India, but not run by India. Mr Murthy says: "We don't rely on local telephones, we have our own system. Our customers should not notice that the infrastructure is any different to their own - no matter where they come from."
On-line and telephone share traders are hastily taking on staff and adding new computers after the recent trading boom caught them off guard - and left furious small investors hanging on the phone for up to an hour to place, buy or sell orders.Since last November the number of trades on the London Stock Exchange has ballooned from around 50,000 a day to an average of 100,000 and on some days it has hit 140,000. Almost every one of the new share traders - whose cheap dealing fees have fuelled the boom - buckled under the phenomenal rise.Many internet dealing sys tems slowed to a crawl, which was a disaster for "day trading" investors in hi-tech stocks such as Pacific Media or Baltimore Technologies, where prices have yo-yoed dramatically in the space of a few hours. Many small investors abandoned internet trading sites for telephone services instead, hoping for a faster response, but found that they were held in call queues lasting 30-60 minutes.Anger among investors has spilled over into the chat rooms and bulletin boards at net sites such as iii and hemscott. At times the boards have been jammed with investors messaging each other   with complaints about which internet or phone dealer is currently worst. All the big stockbroking names have suffered, with Charles Schwab and Barclays Stockbrokers in particular taking a roasting.The problems are still not fully ironed out. The Financial Services Authority stepped in before Christmas to monitor the situation and this week said service was improving, with 75-80% of calls now being answered first time. Yet a check by Jobs &amp; Money this week found that many brokers are coping only by closing their doors to new customers and, even for existing customers, severe   problems can still arise on Monday mornings and Friday afternoons when trading volumes are at their most intense.Callers to Halifax's Share Xpress service are greeted by a message that the company will not accept new registrations. Halifax jolted the market by offering trades at just &#163;5 a go when it opened for business - but was then overwhelmed by the volumes. It says now that it is monitoring the situation daily. This week, for example, it allowed new registrations on Tuesday and Thursday.Charles Schwab refuses to take new "certificated" business, where the investor   wants to trade using paper certificates, but will open accounts for 'nominee' business, where certificates are 'dematerialised' and held by Schwab in a nominee account instead. Barclays Stockbrokers also admits to continuing delays with certificated telephone dealing. NatWest Stockbrokers has avoided the worst of the problems by a slow roll-out of its internet service.The brokers have also tried to stem volumes by blacklisting certain shares, predominantly small hi-tech stocks, which have created huge back-office problems because they are not tradable over   Crest, the electronic settlement system. The list includes popular stocks such as Geo Interactive Media and BATM Advanced Technology.Schwab and Barclays, who with NatWest are the biggest brokers for small traders in the UK, both say they are racing to build up capability to deal with the trading surge. Schwab spokeswoman Jane Drew says: "We have opened a new customer service centre with 100 people and increased by 60% the number of people answering phones to 170. We are also doubling the capacity of our net service."Barclays, which says that it   is now transacting more than 10% of all share trades in London every day, says it is looking at increasing its internet capability to handle 40,000 trades a day. Spokesman Justin Urquhart Stewart says: "In the worst case, telephone delays were up to 45 minutes, but now the queues are about 4-5 minutes."Other on-line stockbrokers are hoping to take advantage of the big brokers' embarrassment. A recent favourite among the chat room investors is Stocktrade, part of the Brewin Dolphin group. "It's been very busy, and volumes are extraordinarily   high, but our response times have been good," says director Robert O'Riordan. Call queues are in the seconds rather than the minutes, he claims. NatWest, although admitting to some "growing pains", also says that its call answering is now "pretty much instant."The real test will be if the systems are able to cope with a crash in internet stocks, when everybody wants to get on the phone or on-line simultaneously to sell. "There will inevitably be some big delays" warns Barclay's Urquhart Stewart.He admits to being astonished by the stocks which   currently top the trading volume lists and which have displaced the privatisation and demutualisation favourites.&#149; Investor 2000, the UK's largest private investor conference, is taking place at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Westminster, London, on March 3 and 4. There is a special Jobs &amp; Money readers' offer- the first 50 people to call 0845 605 2001 will receive a one-day ticket for &#163;25 instead of &#163;75, a two-day ticket for &#163;39.50 instead of &#163;110, or an exhibition-only ticket for &#163;5 instead of &#163;30. Quote reference number 166.
Retirement saving is being brought into the 21st century with the announcement that from next year, you will be able to buy a pension entirely online.This will cut out a lot of the paperwork and should mean lower charges, as there will be no need for documents to be sent off in the post. And some experts say it won't be long before people are able to use the net to track their pension's performance.The "e-pension" is just one of a package of measures announced by the government this week which slots the final pieces into the stakeholder pension jigsaw.Stakeholder pensions have been described as a much more user-friendly version of personal pensions and will be available from April next year. The government is promising they will be simple to understand, good value and flexible.Millions of people now excluded from taking out a personal pension - such as those taking career breaks, mature students and carers - will be able to buy a stakeholder plan and benefit from the tax relief they will attract. You will be able to start one up for as little as &#163;20 and the maximum a company will be able to charge for managing the funds is 1% a year.Labour has been talking about stakeholder pensions since it was in opposition but the details and rules have been confirmed only this week.The announcement came hot on the heels of a MORI survey that will make depressing reading for the government: it found that 75% of people said they had either not heard of stakeholder pensions, or knew nothing about them. More worryingly, almost as many (74%) believe they will be financially secure in retirement, even though almost half are relying on the state pension alone, says benefits consultancy Towers Perrin, which commissioned the research.On Wednesday a report will be published calling for an end to people who retire being forced to buy an annuity with their pension fund. The Retirement Income Working Party, made up of representatives from insurance and investment companies, and academics, will recommend that people   should have a lot more choice about how they take their retirement income.Allowing electronic applications for stakeholder pensions is definitely a step forward. At the moment, the information needed to open a personal pension has to be provided in paper form, and companies have to send back written confirmation.Some of the websites up and running have cut out some of the paperwork, allowing people to fill in their details on screen. However, they still have to print the form off, sign it and post it to the company. But from April next year, information can be provided over the phone, by email or via the net, says the department of social security. The firm will still have to send out confirmation of the details to the customer, but this could be via email.This will bring pensions in line with individual savings accounts, which can already be bought entirely online from some companies.But experts are warning that a number of the other details that emerged this week are not so positive.There has been a lot of debate about whether the millions of people in company pension schemes should be allowed to pay into a stakeholder pension too. Ministers have decided that higher earners in "final salary" company schemes definitely won't be able to boost their retirement savings in this way, and lower and middle earners may be barred too.Another blow is the scrapping of the "carry forward" rule which lets people make additional pension contributions to make up for low contributions in previous years. The self-employed will be hardest-hit by this because their incomes often fluctuate and they tend to want to catch up on pension contributions when their earnings permit it, says John Glendinning at Scottish Amicable.Thomas McPhail at independent financial adviser Torquil Clark, says what we are seeing on stakeholder pensions suggests it is only a matter of time before the government abolishes higher rate tax relief on pension contributions - a move that would prove hugely controversial.
The internet comes with a lot of promises. Some of those are environmental: that it will save energy and cut down on waste. Some are social: that it will provide access to information for everyone and access to the biggest markets for the smallest players.But what if the net lets us down? What if e-shopping adds to total consumption, results in more vehicle journeys, not fewer, and worsens the plight of town centres?Answers to these questions and more will emerge next year from a research project run byForum for the Future, the think-tank founded by the environmentalist Jonathon Porritt. The investigation was launched recently by Patricia Hewitt, the e-commerce minister, and is backed by several large companies who hope to gain from the new marketplace, including Sun Microsystems, the Post Office and the consumer products giant, Unilever."The internet is rapidly becoming the most important medium for both interactions and transactions between people and organisations," says Shanker Trivedi, vice president for Sun Microsystems in the UK and Ireland. "We must ensure we are aware of the impact of this new dot.com paradigm on individuals and the environment."His concern is that the internet revolution could backfire. Instead of democracy and sustainability, we could end up with social exclusion and new environmental problems. There are clear - potential - social and environmental benefits, but there could also be a black side to the web revolution. The research project will weigh the balance between the positive and negative aspects. First, the dehumanising potential of many   "digital jobs", set against the potential gains for local economies and smaller firms.There also is the worry that e-shoppers are likely to be the most wealthy, while the poor most desperately need to find bargains. If the e-lite replaces traditional buying with remote shopping, physical shops will be in trouble. They will have less custom to finance their expensive premises. That sounds great if it means an end to hypermarkets on the edge of town which threaten traditional shops. But what if it means closures of high street outlets instead?Next, consider the physical end of the internet transaction. A small number of products can be delivered down the wire - music and software, and potentially anything currently on the written page (such as this newspaper). This is positive for the environment, resulting in lower consumption of materials from newsprint to packaging, and less physical distribution.But most shopping cannot be completed this way. It is useful for small items such as books which can be sent through the post, but bulkier goods such as clothes and food require special deliveries. It is easy to imagine a scenario where this results in greater environmental damage, not less - quite apart from the physical dangers from wild van drivers careering up and down our streets.Shopping remotely, whether through traditional mail order or new media, is more likely to result in dissatisfaction. The colour isn't   quite right, the size is wrong. That means more two-way trips. Then there are the items you forget when skipping down Tesco's screen catalogue, which you would spot on the shelves as you struggle past with the trolley. That is another car journey, perhaps.Even worse, it is possible that families freed from the chore of Saturday morning supermarketing will hop in the car and whiz miles down the motorway to some leisure paradise for the day. Finally, the internationalisation of retailing could produce a boom for air freight, as more and more goods are shipped round the world to satisfy shoppers hungry for a bargain and blind to the environmental effects. The range of such issues thrown up by ecommerce is substantial.James Wilsdon, senior policy adviser at Forum for the Future, says : "The jury is still out on whether the digital 	economy will evolve into a powerful ally of sustainable development, or a spur to greater social exclusion and environmental destruction."There is an urgent need for dialogue between policy-makers and the companies who will be driving the dot.com revolution."That dialogue will be achieved by the involvement of eight leading companies. The research will be carried out by a number of think-tanks. Forum for the Future will concentrate on opportunities for eco-efficiency,   dematerialisation and the potential shift from products to service-based businesses, while seven other organisations will work on issues such as transport, energy use and 	carbon dioxide emissions, as well as wider policy issues.The New Economics Foundation (NEF)will look at ways of improving access to the web and the dangers of worsening social exclusion if that cannot be achieved.Alex MacGillivray of NEF said the net had the potential to be positive but without wider access it would remain primarily a middle class phenomenon. "The purchasing power of buying clubs is fine, but at the moment that is for middle class people. The people who really ought to get the benefits of lower prices are the people who at the moment are the least likely to get online."NEF is exploring the potential to open up the net to poorer communities by providing reconditioned 	computers. Even then there is the question of whether old machines can capitalise on the net's potential. "You don't want people being on ine but not being able to use the best services", according to MacGillivray .These complexities will be clearer when the researchers finish their task next year, but much will depend on how e-shopping affects consumers' behaviour. It will take several years for that to emerge.
The information superhighway is a two-way street: if you can get out into the virtual world, then some of the less savoury inhabitants could also get into your personal computer. Scary, isn't it?OK, so you have nothing to hide and nothing worth stealing, so no-one's going to invade your PC, right?  Wrong.The computer intruders out there don't know what you've got until they've had a look around your hard drive. And once they've done that, who knows what they might do? Even if they just deleted or renamed a few files, or changed some data, that wouldn't be very nice.As wake-up calls go, you might think this is late: intruders have been breaking into computers for at least 20 years. But this was mostly people with home computers breaking into large corporate networks, usually for fun. Now they are breaking into home computers and it's no fun at all.My own wake-up call came soon after British Telecom introduced its free (0800) internet service at the weekends. Instead of getting on and off the net in a hurry, I'd stay on for hours, which made my PC much more noticeable.And for the first time, I became aware of other users trying to access my machine, or at least testing the "ports" through which computers listen to the net. (To find out which ports are listening on your PC, simply open a DOS window, type netstat -a and press Return. Do you know which programs are using those ports? If you see 12345 or 31337, be very afraid.) Today I can get at least 50 alerts over a weekend.My interest in "firewalls" - special programs designed to keep intruders out - took a sudden leap.My son, who is 14 and knows everything, told me not to be silly (I paraphrase slightly). Every kid has a port scanner, he said, and they probe people's ports when they're bored. It doesn't mean they can get into your PC.  Not in my case, because - unlike you - I'd spent several hours going over the thing with the computer equivalent of a fine-tooth comb.   But people can get into a PC, and do almost anything they like, if there's a "trojan" such as NetBus or Black Orifice or SubSeven sitting on the hard drive.That's why many of those "innocent" probes are for the ports that these remote control programs usually use, such as 12345.  In other words, would-be intruders are not looking for your PC in particular, just for any machine with a trojan that provides backdoor access.Of course, you wouldn't have installed such a program deliberately, but it might still be present. It might have been concealed in a game that you downloaded from the net (whacked any moles recently?) or emailed to you as an attachment.Someone else - not you - might have got one from a pirate software CD.Part of the problem is the growing trend to hide what's going on, to make computing seem simpler than it really is. What about all those programs that various websites install on your PC or Mac for your convenience? What about the routines concealed in Java or JavaScript or ActiveX controls? How many people know what they do?There are several web pages that will show you how    vulnerable your computer is, without doing anything illegal.Privacy.nethas a good one which can probably tell you your name, the name of your PC, the name of your workgroup, the name and address of your internet service provider, and sometimes your email address. More personal information may also be stored on your PC in "cookies" including details of web pages visited and advertisements viewed. (Cookies are small text files that websites can deposit in your PC's Cookies folder, unless you set your browser to reject them. This is done from the Tools menu in Microsoft Internet Explorer 5: select Internet Options then the Security tab.)For an even more worrying experience, go to theGibson Research Corporationwebsite and invite it to probe your computer's ports. Steve Gibson is much more paranoid than I am about people getting access to your computer, and he just might be right.Fortunately there now seems to be a solution, and for home users with Windows PCs, it's free. Go to theZonelabswebsite and download the new   ZoneAlarm 2.0. Find the 1.5 megabyte file called zonalm20.exe, on your hard drive and double-click it to install the program.ZoneAlarm is a firewall that monitors all the internet traffic in and out of your PC. It will stop websites from sneakily accessing your hard drive, and will keep out intruders doing port scans or trying to find trojans.  For an illustration of its effectiveness, go back toPrivacy.netand GRC's site and retest your machine for privacy and security.ZoneAlarm is not a panacea. For example, once you've allowed your browser access to the internet, there's nothing to stop you from downloading a trojan.Nor will it stop you from running email attachments that you should have no compunction about deleting on sight.However, it will stop things happening in the background that you probably wouldn't know about, unless you'd already bought a firewall such asBlackICE Defender.Nor does ZoneAlarm check for trojans such as NetBus and SubSeven, or for viruses and other nasties. You should do this separately using a virus checking program. There are lots available: just make sure you use the latest version of a program that also checks for trojans.As for those cookies,Webroot's Window Washer(or MacWasher) can be used to clear them out, and you can download a trial version from the website.  But installing ZoneAlarm should be just the start of a more defensive attitude to computing.It's time we stopped letting website designers shove all sorts of rubbish at us in the name of a more "personal" experience when that seriously compromises our security and our privacy.&#149;  For detailed information on firewalls and listening ports, seewww.robertgraham.com/pubs/firewall-seen.html
Why has British Telecom lost the plot? When Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, called last week for a cut in the cost of internet access, BT reacted like a wounded tiger. Sir Peter Bonfield, chief executive, issued a strongly worded statement warning him to keep off his patch and not to interfere with BT's private business.  He told the chancellor that BT's timetable for opening up the local loop to competition - set for July 2001 - could not be changed without BT's permission.I've got news for BT. It can. It may have escaped the corporation's notice but it still has a virtual monopoly of the "local loop" - the last mile of wire between the telephone exchange and the domestic consumer. The government still has the right, indeed the duty, to make sure that where monopolies are operating against the public interest, they are opened  up to competition. If the government threatened to refer BT's monopoly of the local loop to the monopolies commission then you would see it wake up quickly from its  digital slumber.It has already happened in America. The dismantling of the monolithic Bell telephone system into competing "Baby Bells" is one of the reasons why America's cheap phone calls (flat monthly rental and then unlimited free usage) have led to a huge internet take-up rate. This has had a big knock-on effect on the rest of the economy. The more people use the internet cheaply, the more scope there is for faster expansion of e-commerce, and greater incentive for companies to create products to feed the web's booming population (and then export them).  Two crucial infrastructural factors determine the future success of the internet economy.The first is low cost access (to drive demand and increase online usage times) and the second is broadband access to determine supply (or "content"). They go together. The broader the bandwidth and the cheaper the access, the quicker companies will develop innovative broadband content for the mass market and for specialist applications.The ability, for instance, to transmit high quality television or film instantaneously over the internet (in two directions) will not only open up a consumer market for films, less popular football matches and so forth, but could also radically change health and education. Poor schools could eavesdrop on better schools, medical operations could be done remotely and the relationship between GPs and patients - and  consultants and nurses - could be revolutionised.BT fails on both counts. Its prices are still far too high in general and if you doubt this, look at the advertisements in the Guardian and elsewhere to see competitors undercutting BT on international calls by up to 90%.  The fact that there are even worse examples of monopoly behaviour among other European telephone giants doesn't alter the argument, it merely underscores the size of the problem. Monopolies behave the same everywhere.The availability of broadband raises the uncomfortable question: what should be done when what is best for the shareholders clashes with what is best for the economy as a whole? If BT regards its role as maximising profits for shareholders then it will want to prolong its monopoly and milk it while it is there. Under pressure from the regulatory body, BT has agreed to open up the local loop to competitors. But it won't happen until July 1, 2001, and then will only be  the interim technology ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line).This offers  fast reception of signals but much slower outward transmission (hence the asymmetry). It will be fine for downloading films and for online shopping - but it won't be powerful enough to take film-quality video in two directions. This is where many of the most exciting applications lie (such as high-speed video conferencing). The alternative (already in use on BT's trunk routes) is fibre optics which have almost unlimited two-way transmission capacity.  And why July, 2001? Someone should tell BT that its competitors are living in internet time where things happen next week, not next year. If BT really thinks it can't offer ADSL before July next year then the government should start an instant internet auction to see whether any start-ups could do it quicker.For 15 years BT has been trying to persuade the government to let it wire Britain with broadband capacity. The proviso was that it would need to pump "entertainment" down the channels (meaning video films) in order to make it commercially worthwhile.  The government at first refused BT permission to send entertainment down the wires because it didn't want to upset the cable   companies who were laying cables around around the country (albeit cherrypicking the most profitable regions) in order to provide competition for BT.   If BT had been allowed to wire the country with fibre optics (each strand of which can carry up to four million phone calls simultaneously) on a "common carrier" basis then there would have been no need to dig up the roads for cable in the first place.When the government eventually started to think about removing the ban on providing entertainment services, BT seemed to cool on the idea of truly broadband access, unlike online nations like Finland and Singapore. Britain now has a golden opportunity to seize the initiative in the race for broadband access. And this will still be very  important during the wireless revolution because even cell phone calls are routed through cabled networks.BT now looks like a giant that is losing its way in the internet world. It has looked on, embarrassed, while Vodafone (market capitalisation £160bn), a company that barely existed when BT (market cap, £63bn) was privatised, has soared ahead of it to become one of the four most   valuable companies in the world. Pundits are beginning to refer to BT as a takeover target. The Lex column of the Financial Times has even suggested it should make a takeover bid for Dixons to get its hands on its Freeserve subsidiary, in order to use Freeserve's management to exploit its own customer base.BT's problem is not of its own making. It arises from the Conservative government's mistake in privatising it, leaving its domestic monopoly intact. It should have been either split between its "common   carrier" obligations and its commercial services or broken up on the Bell model.  Now it is facing a fresh crisis because its perceived duty to its shareholders clashes with the national interest which demands that affordable - and that means much lower prices than BT is contemplating -  broadband internet access be rolled out as quickly as is humanly possible.There is still time for BT to realise that a cut-price broadband policy would not only be good for the UK economy but actually good for shareholders as well. Why? Because it would convince the increasingly sceptical City that it knew the direction the internet was going.   But it must act fast. It is becoming a question of wake up - or break up.
Bookshop browsers who go home to check the prices on Amazon before committing themselves can now save a journey: the internet retailer's UK website will be available on mobile phones from today.The biggest name in online shopping said yesterday it was   launching what it claimed was the first European service that will let customers complete a transaction from their handset without making a voice call.Owners of Nokia or Motorola mobile internet phones will be able to access Amazon.co.uk anywhere and buy books or CDs by typing in a   user name and password. Calls will be charged at data rates, which Amazon said are lower than voice calls.Although only a handful of gadget lovers are surfing the mobile internet, research quoted by Amazon forecasts 48m people worldwide will own suitable phones by 2002.Amazon.co.uk
Warren Buffett, the man often described as the world's best investor, appears to have abandoned his long-held contempt for overvalued technology shares by buying a stake in Microsoft.The latest move by Mr Buffett's company, Berkshire Hathaway, follows his repeated warnings that technology shares were overvalued and that he did not understand them. It also comes after a patch of poor performance by the firm.Mr Buffett had wanted to keep the purchase of 167,500 Microsoft shares a secret for up to a year but the US securities and exchange commission rejected the request for secrecy and Berkshire reported its purchase late on Tuesday.Some analysts suggested that the tentative purchase, worth about $167m (&#163;104m) at the end of September, could reflect Mr Buffett's personal relationship with Microsoft's co-founder Bill Gates as much as a conversion to the world of technology. Mr Buffett has been described as a mentor and good friend of Mr Gates and the pair are known to play online bridge together.A Berkshire official refused to discuss the purchase yesterday. Previously, the company has bought a stake in First Data Corporation, which processes payments for e-commerce companies.The surprise in the Microsoft stake is that Berkshire typically buys stakes in undervalued groups and holds them for a long period of time.Berkshire has attracted an almost cult-like following with its adherence to stocks Mr Buffett can understand. However, many of these stocks, including companies such as Coca-Cola and Gillette, have underperformed the market in the past year as technology shares have raced ahead.Shares in Berkshire fell almost 4% on Tuesday before rebounding slightly yesterday morning. The company, which has enjoyed compound annual returns of about 25% in the past 35 years, has seen its premium rating fall in the past year.The company has publicly denied that the 69-year-old Mr Buffett wants to retire. Under SEC rules, investment funds with more than $100m in assets under management have 45 days from the end of each quarter to disclose changes to the firm's holdings.
&#149; Online British games portal Gameplay yesterday announced it had bought five games firms from Germany's Computec Media for &#163;47.6m. The purchase is part of Gameplay's push to replicate in Germany its UK position. "The UK and Germany take up 40% of the games market, so if we can win there we have a good chance of winning in Europe overall," chief executive Mark Bernstein said. Shares in Gameplay gained 81p or 10.9% to a new high of 822p.&#149; Broadband venture: Leading maker of website servers Sun Microsystems has joined Microsoft in a $50m equity investment in BroadBand Office, which wires offices for high-speed net and telecoms services. The investment is the first time the two have taken a stake in the same start-up.&#149; European capital: The online investment bank focused on Europe, EPO.com, has raised $12.5m (&#163;7.81m) through a syndicate led by European venture capital investor Catalyst Fund Management &amp; Research. Also investing are Ze Project, a subsidiary of Europ@web, the net investment vehicle of firms including Bernard Arnault and Bank Boston.
Japanese gamers flocked to a special exhibition in Tokyo at the weekend for their first look at the Sony PlayStation 2. Widely accepted as the best games console produced so far, it will go on sale on March 4 for less than 40,000 yen (about &#163;250). And it's expected to sell a million units on the first day.But British gamers had different questions, such as: How long will I have to wait? How much will it cost in the UK? And will it really run my old PlayStation games?I went to Sony's offices just off Oxford Street in the centre of London to ask the two men responsible for coming up with the answers: Ray Maguire, UK managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment, the games division, and his director of marketing, Alan Welsman. And while they were still working on the details, the direction was clear."Ken Kutaragi, the inventor of the PlayStation, has this dream of computer entertainment," says Maguire, "the device in the front room as the conduit for all forms of entertainment. That's the long-term vision. When there's an infrastructure which can support that, that's what we'll have. The PlayStation 2 is the first product in realising that dream: it has all the connectivity you need for just about all digital inputs and outputs. It will be presented as the world's best games machine, but in time, as the cable infrastructure gets into people's houses, we'll utilise that network in putting other forms of computer entertainment in front of consumers."As Kutaragi puts it: "What   we are aiming for is a world of digital entertainment that transcends games. PlayStations will undoubtedly be connected to televisions in the home. We are consciously aiming to integrate games, movies, and music. Add to this a network, and in five or six years, when PlayStation 3 comes out, the door will open to a completely new world."The missing word is "convergence". A lot of companies are predicting a world where games, music and films will all be purchased and downloaded from the internet, rather than delivered on compact discs. But if it turns out that people want to download content from Sony Music and Sony Pictures and Sony websites to their Sony PlayStations, which are plugged into their Sony television sets and Sony hi-fis, I won't be a bit surprised.To begin with, of course, the PlayStation 2 is based on a DVD drive, so it can be used as a movie player, and a CD audio player, as well as a games console. This should broaden the market and attract older consumers, not just the ones who have grown up with games.It has a Sony i.Link high-speed connection compatible with an industry standard called 1394, which can be used to connect a hard disc drive or a digital video camera. It also has a   standard PCMCIA card slot for adding a modem. Unlike Sega's Dreamcast console, the PlayStation 2 doesn't come with one."If you specified a modem today," says Maguire, "it would soon be out of date. You should be able to specify the kind of connection you want. We'll be able to use technology as technology advances outside our control." In the future, the company may need to support cable, ADSL telephone connections and other types of link, not just dial-up modems.At the same time, the PlayStation 2 looks backwards: it will still play games written for the original version. Console buyers are used to dumping their expensive games when a next-generation machine appears, but backwards compatibility is part of Sony's attempt not just to dominate one generation of games machines - as Atari, Nintendo and Sega have done - but to dominate successive generations."In reality, &#91;compatibility&#93; shouldn't even be a consideration," says Welsman. "You should be able to use your old software on your new machine. It's a great thing to show respect for the consumers who've ploughed money into the first one. We're very keen not to lose our core support, and we're very mindful that, as you and others have said, nobody's ever done it twice. The backwards compatibility shows how we're thinking about our core audience."The last thing we need is a multimedia machine that no one   understands."The company also wants to maintain sales of the PlayStation, rather than replace it immediately with the PlayStation 2. Gamers will be encouraged to buy the original knowing they will still be able to play their games when they upgrade to the more expensive model. (Apparently all but 15 third-  party games which didn't follow the design rules will run.) And as Maguire points out, PlayStation sales are booming in places like Eastern Europe "where prices have come down to a more affordable level".Price and delivery dates for the PlayStation 2 are more difficult. "In the autumn" is the company line. "It will depend on demand in Japan   and how many machines are needed to feed that market," says Maguire, "and on the yields in the chip factories."There are so many factors it will be quite late in the day before we've got any idea of the actual release date, price or numbers. But everyone within this office would like to see it no more than the price of the PlayStation when   it was launched here: that's what they've done in Japan. A hundred times the machine at the same price."At &#163;299.99, the PlayStation 2 could be considered cheap, since it's based on two massive custom chips that could cost &#163;300 on their own. However, the games industry has a razor-and-blades business model, where the consoles are sold at the lowest possible price to create a market for profitable games.Maguire even argues that allowing competitors to make rival versions of the PlayStation 2 - which Sega tried with its Saturn console - would lead to higher prices. "They'd have to make a profit out of it as well, so the price to the consumer would have to be higher. If we look after this ourselves, the hardware price to the consumer can be as low as possible," he says.But if there's no money in hardware, why not sell consoles directly to the public, and cut out the retail and distribution overheads and profits?For a second, Maguire's office falls strangely silent. The retail trade, especially the independent dealers, played a big part in the success of the PlayStation, which has now shipped more than 5 million units in the UK, and more than 70 million world wide."We're thinking about all routes to market right now," says Maguire. "The PlayStation is sold direct in Japan, and our competitors also sell direct in this country as well. I think it's a natural evolution."Selling direct could also make it simpler to cope with supply problems, given that there's already huge demand for the product. "The hype is extraordinary, but the reality is that we firmly believe we have to earn every single unit out there," Maguire says firmly.They certainly had to work their socks off when the first PlayStation came out. Then, Sony had no track record in the games business, which was dominated by Sega's MegaDrive.Now, it should be easy. Sony is the market leader, and the PlayStation had more than 70% of the console games software market in January,   on independent ChartTrack figures - roughly 10 times as many as its nearest competitor.However, Sony Computer Entertainment achieved its initial success by operating as a start-up company, an independent republic. With the PlayStation 2 destined to become the focal point for a wide range of Sony products, won't that independence be lost?"In fact it's the other way around," Maguire replies. "As SCE grows and produces more value to the corporation, we become more independent spirited. We have to have that single focus: presenting our product in the way that consumers want it. I'd hate things to get normalised across the group. Everyone that works in the building - and for Alan and me, that goes back to 1993 - has got the same passion now for the PlayStation 2 launch as we had for the PlayStation 1. We're just going to go for it."
A shot in the armI just wanted to thank you for your piece on the-bulletwww.the-bullet.com. I thought I was alone without venture capital was getting mightily ****ed off with endless stories about teenagers with contacts getting millions.There must be a whole army of us bedroom entrepreneurs and I'm sure I'm not the only one who's been encouraged to hang on by your feature. Up the revolution!Trevor McPartlinhellochums@aol.comFighting talkJane Evans (Feedback, February 17) raised the question of why males play computer games more than females. There are three possible reasons.1:Design of games: On the whole, computer game software is designed by males for other males. Videogames have the capability to bypass the problems of gender identification - yet most manufacturers choose not to.  Early attempts to introduce female-orientated hardware (Nintendo Game Girl) and software (Ms. PacMan) were unsuccessful.2:Socialisation factors: Videogame playing (like, say, football and cricket) are perceived to be male activities. This does not preclude females from engaging in these activities but there are few social rewards for doing so.   It could be that male domination of videogames is due more to social rules and socialisation factors than the games themselves.3:Innate gender differences: On average, males perform better in visual and spatial skills - particularly depth perception and image solving. These skills are essential in good game playing since good hand-eye co-ordination is needed in addition to the quick judgments of spatial relationships.Since males would tend to score higher than females due to the differences in visual and spatial skills, the females' average lower scores could be considered a discouraging factor in their reluctance to play video games.Dr. Mark GriffithsHead of Psychology, Nottingham Trent Universitymark.griffiths@ntu.ac.ukNetfilmsI am writing in response to Jack Schofield's article (Try a hard drive-in movie, February 17) in which he quotes Christine Atha of the ICA's education department saying she couldn't think of anyone who'd put a film online.Well there may not be many of us but we are there! It's a bit of a "chicken and egg" situation: while people assume that all of this is only happening in the US, it is a self fulfilling prophecy.  I have spent the last six months or so setting up my site but have received most of my information from newsgroups based in New York.If the government and other relevant funding bodies are serious about investing in current technology, they could start by providing funding and support for such initiatives.  We are there, we are doing it, and with a little help we could be providing a viable presence to rival those of Spielberg in an area where nobody has, as yet, established a strong identity.While Schofield was quite right when he pointed out the technological constraints that exist in terms of putting traditional films on-line, the technology is changing daily, and as many of the film sites mentioned pointed out - this is the start of a development that could change the industry.This is why companies like Dreamworks or Disney are working so hard now to establish their presence as a   deliverer of web movies.  It is also true that the technology involved in delivering films via the internet is still in its early stages and involves quite a degree of computer based skills.Consequently, many of the short films - and especially flash animations that have been designed for the web - have been made by teenage "lads". However, this is not the only presence of "made for web" films.I have set up a site called plugincinema that is currently in its beta &#91;test&#93;stages but has been designed specifically for people who are interested in on-line filmmaking, with technical information on the equipment that is involved as well film schools and discussion boards.It was designed to act as a focus for independent British filmmakers who are interested in the aesthetic that may exist with the advent of films designed specifically for delivery on the internet.Check out our web site atwww.plugincinema.comand join us in our attempt to establish Britain as the centre for web based films!Ana Kronschnablana.kronschnabl@uwe.ac.ukSee hereI'm pleased to see Guardian Unlimited is going to be available on interactive TV and would like to point out that this service is also in operation in the Manchester area in addition to the London areas mentioned in Read It Here First (Online, February 17).Bill Beardana.kronschnabl@uwe.ac.ukSelf helpI read with interest David Birch's article (Why content isn't king), and Paul Hartman's comments (Feedback, February 3).With regard to having some space in Online to observe less commercial sites, surely this is one of the purposes of the feedback page, where readers can alert fellow readers and editors alike to their newly created web gems.By now it is perhaps clear that this letter has that intent! Visitwww.concise.org.uk, the innovative home of my band, designed to promote ourselves and help other bands.Jonathon BuckJonny@concise.org.uk
Going grey very quicklyDwarfed by last week's Windows 2000 spectacular, Apple has speed-bumped its professional machines and revamped its mobile range.At last week's MacWorld Expo in Tokyo, chief executive Steve Jobs unveiled an iBook Special Edition, which comes in a businesslike grey and sports a faster 366MHz processor than its lurid orange and blue predecessors.The existing iBook range has had its standard memory increased to 64MB - up from the previous, paltry 32MB - and a 6GB hard drive, up from 3GB.The Powerbook range has also been upgraded with processors running at up to 500MHz, two firewire ports and support for Apple's Airport wireless networking. The company is claiming the PowerPC chips make the top-end machine the "fastest portable ever".The G4 line of professional desktop computers has also returned to the specification first announced by Jobs last year, with chips running at 400, 450 and 500MHz.The company was forced into an embarrassing u-turn after that announcement, when it emerged that the fastest 500MHz chips could not be produced in the quantities needed to fulfil orders.Speeds on the machines were temporarily lowered by 50MHz.Get the NakMeet Nak - a curious-looking computer with a microphone. You could be speaking to it a lot in the future. Nak is a Linux-based personal digital assistant from Lernout &amp; Hauspie (L&amp;H), the speech and translation specialist, which has a full speech interface. That means you'll be able to dictate and listen to email, surf    the web and even buy things online without lifting a finger to a keyboard. Gaston Bastiaens, president and chief executive of L&amp;H, sees the company's technology    taking off because handheld and mobile devices are difficult both to type into, and to read from. "The most intuitive, logical solution to this dilemma is a speech-enabled interface that allows users and machines to communicate in a simple, natural, hands-free manner," he says.
At last, soccer that really scoresISS Pro EvolutionSony PlayStation &#163;34.99  Konami *****Football games are released every month but most of them aren't very good. The sales leader is EA's Fifa series, whose success derives partly from official licensing and recognisable branding.However, Fifa plays a mediocre game on the pitch with unrealistic 7-6 score lines commonplace and goal scoring unsatisfying, especially when compared to ISS (International SuperStar Soccer) Pro Evolution.Without a Fifa licence, it boasts players like Owenn and Sheerer. But ISS really triumphs on the field of play. Novices, used to the ease of other titles, will be disappointed by the effort needed to even register a goal.For the first time in ages, here is a soccer game that rewards practice and encourages experiment.   Everything is under your control, so you can flick on a header, or obstruct the opposing player.This means there is relatively little help from the computer and it can be frustrating at times as your receiving player stands waiting for your pass, only for it to be easily intercepted by the opposition.Thankfully the ground-breaking through-ball returns here, but it is the use of tactics and strategy that is the key for success,   alienating ISS even further from the post-pub gaming crowd. But even they will appreciate the visuals, as the impressive animation means most players are recognisable.Sensible Soccer on the Amiga will always be the football champion for the 20th Century, but ISS Pro Evolution has staked an early lead in the race for 21st century honours.  Wonderful. (GH)Can Airport really take off?Airport IncPC CD-rom &#163;34.99  Krisalis Software/Take 2  ***The airport is shrouded by a stifling pea-souper. The air traffic controllers are on strike. There's a pilferer at large in the baggage depot, and a man with a funny accent has just called to say he's left something ticking in terminal one. Wish you were here? Thought not.Such problem-solving, however, is the meat and potatoes of the simulation. After all, who would have imagined that the likes of Theme Hospital and Railroad Tycoon would be so popular? And Airport Inc holds its own on many fronts.Its big selling point is its fully 3D environment, far more conducive to designing worlds than the traditional 2D isometric view. Rotation is restricted to 90 degree units,but it's a start. Respect   is due, too, for the animation of the passengers, vehicles and planes, which is astonishingly smooth and detailed, given that you can zoom from miles overhead right up to the pilot's window.Control freaks can run just about every aspect of their airport, from freight and retail contracts right down to the charges on the luggage trolleys. But with changing weather conditions, geological disasters and disgruntled clients, there is no end of things to ruin your day.What such simulations need is some kind of reward for, or distraction from, your tireless efforts to survive. Here, Airport loses altitude. Faced with drab graphics, pedestrian sound effects and little in the way of wit or imagination, you are likely to find something just as interesting by looking out of your bedroom window - and you can do something about it.  (AB)
How does writing for the web differ to writing for print?  Most people do read us on the web but we still really look at ourselves as a newspaper because that's how we started. We started putting it up on the web in 1996 but we'd been doing it in print for about eight years prior to that.Can you envisage the net replacing conventional print?I have a soft spot for the printed publication and it works and makes money so there's really no reason to kill it off. Increasingly though the web is becoming the more important thing. The internet and our website is the reason we're successful - if we hadn't we wouldn't be where we are now and you certainly wouldn't be interviewing me!Are you tired of hearing the phrase e-commerce?We did a story about e-shitting and how everything's getting done online. America's so business obsessed and they've got this exciting new thing to write about. I guess I am sick of hearing about it because I don't practise it.Does the net community sometimes get hysterical about having to constantly find new uses for it?Pretty much everything we do in life there's someone searching for a way to do it by computer at this very moment. It's quite fatiguing that somewhere out there, someone's trying to work out how we could metabolise protein and drink water via computer! I'm sick of revolution already.Are you happy with the way the net regulates itself?I like the idea of a free press and the net is the freest press around right now. It's a very democratic medium and it's certainly been good for us. I don't really surf the net all that much for entertainment but I really like it in theory.Do you get any sense of global community from the net?We do feel more in touch with our readers on the web just because we get feedback from them, whereas our print version readers don't really write. As far as this mythical Utopian sense of bringing schoolchildren in Africa and Japan together: on a recent visit to Mexico I was at a very poor resort town and there were people using the internet but they were all American tourists. Everywhere you go in the world you can find Americans talking to Americans online!What system do you run?I have an iMac at home and it's all Macs at work, too. I've always been under the impression that everyone used a Mac because I've always been involved in journalism, which is one of the few industries that's predominantly Mac-based.What would you like to see happen with the net?I'm sure that somebody's out there worrying about it so I don't really feel like I have to. It would be nice if everyone had access to it.&#149; The Onion is at:www.theonion.com
'My wife gets &#163;39 a week, I get &#163;110 a week. I live in poverty.	 I fear for my family," says Tony Carpenter. "I've got nothing to lose - you can't get any lower than I am."That's why Carpenter is organising what he calls a crusade to get a fair deal for people like himself. Like many 21st century crusaders, his chosen weapon is the internet. Unlike them, Carpenter is 71, and is using his role on a website calledVavoto bind fellow pensioners into a protest group. His first target: the government's planned 75p increase to the state pension."Don't hesitate to write to your MP and tell them how you think they should be doing their job," barks Vavo's site, which has 30,000 regular visitors among the UK's over-45s, and has had a total of 550,000 visitors since it launched six months ago.Carpenter's fellow   crusaders are right behind him: three MPs have called Carpenter and another eight have emailed him after Vavo's newly-militant pensioners showered them with protest letters.In his politics forum - "where grey has its say" - you can find a list of which MPs have agreed to support a higher increase to the state pension, instructions on how to write to the others, even a set of form letters. "Tony Carpenter's aim is to get millions of people to say, 'if you don't treat us with respect, we will not vote for you again'," warns Vavo's development director, Richard Spinks.But Carpenter's protest politics is only one aspect of Vavo, one of the newest of the net's online communities. Like web-based social clubs, communities give users the chance to meet in chat rooms, swap information and make friends. It's a model that has worked for twenty- and thirty-somethings, where sites like FortuneCity, a free   home site, count their memberships in the hundreds of thousands. Vavo's Spinks was one of the founders of FortuneCity - but being a relative youngster at 33, he had no idea that a European site for "third-agers" could work in the same way.He changed his mind after his recently widowed and lonely father-in-law came to live with him. Spinks encouraged him to make friends in US-based senior citizen chatrooms. "One night I found he'd fallen asleep in front of the computer at 4:30am," he says. "I couldn't get him off the PC."Soon afterwards, his father-in-law became the first member of Vavo. There are now 87 forums, but Spinks promises to leave the site's development to the users (they even chose the name, he says, vetoing any mention of age). He sells the advertising that pays for the site - it's sold out three months in advance - recruits the administrative   staff and has already raised the capital to expand Vavo to Germany, Spain and Sweden.Spinks is also helping Vavo's members use their power to beat down prices, cutting special deals with the site's advertisers. For example, Vavo members pay no single room supplement at Sheraton hotels.He promises two insurers will launch low-cost health insurance packages for members this spring. His most ambitious stunt yet: organising members to band together and buy discount Volkswagen Polos. "When I get 100 orders I'm going to Volkswagen's factory to negotiate," he says. "Three months from now, we will have a set of financial products for over-45s that are the best on the market."Vavo's weapon is that companies and governments alike would love to be able to sell themselves to a group   that numbers 19 million today, and will soon be the majority. According to the Association of Retired and Persons over 50 (ARP), by 2021 half the population of the UK will have celebrated their 50th birthday. While pensioners like Carpenter have no cash to spare, others form a powerful consumer lobby. Retired people spend &#163;25bn annually, ARP says: 84% buy holidays, 72% buy cars, and 43% buy financial packages.But Vavo's members are not there just to be sold to. "Pensioners were taught to do as they were told. The politician was a man that we respected. That's why we allowed politicians to tread on us. And some of us are getting sick of it," says Carpenter."Sit in the corner and be quiet? No way," adds Helen Irvine, 51, who uses the site mainly for its chatrooms ("On American sites they are appalling. No etiquette") and runs a forum for horse-lovers. She's also organising   the first Vavo group meeting: on the first weekend of March in a hotel in Nottingham.Making new friends now occupies much of Les Singleton's spare time. "A mere baby" at 47, he gets between 12 and 18 emails every day from new friends. "I'm proud to be part of this. I'm amazed. But I'm not a nethead. I just like to talk to people.""We have never been able to do something like this before because we've never had the means of communication. For the first time we can set up a network to do something for ourselves, and it's free from censorship," says Carpenter."Don't worry, we're going to make a go of this," he jokes. "Unless MI6 comes around and bumps me off."
You're a programmer. Being multilingual means knowing C++ and XML; multi-culturalism means tolerating Windows programmers when you're a Unix devotee. You work long hours, you spend weekends curled up with programming manuals. So when holiday time rolls around, what could be more idyllic than a relaxing Caribbean cruise, talking computers with a few hundred others just like you?If this sounds like a vision of heaven rather than hell, Neil Bauman - or Cap'n Neil, as he signs himself - is 		prepared to make you a very happy geek. Bauman, operator of a new venture calledGeekcruises.com, is a purveyor of fine programming holidays to those whose motto in life is: "I code, therefore I am."Bauman, a mid-40s self-confessed geek, has lined up computer-oriented seven to 10-day luxury cruises based around the unlikely topic of programming languages. The cruises bear whimsical titles such as Perl Whirl 2000, Java Jam, and XML Excursion. There's a European Linux cruise in the works for 2001. He bills them as "high tech cruises for geeks and other computer professionals" - presumably to accommodate those who do not yet feel self-confident enough to calls themselves geeks.Bauman is big on geek pride - and on convincing employers that they should reward hard-working technology employees with, say, a Perl Whirl cruise to Alaska. "I think geeks have always been looked down upon in the 		corporate world as the guys with thick glasses and pocket protectors," he says, himself the picture of contented geekiness in a plaid shirt, worn corduroy trousers, bare feet - and thick glasses. Bauman works from a home office in geekdom's four star city, Palo Alto, California."The geek should be recognised as not just some grunt who sits in a cubicle," he argues. "I think in some way, this elevates the stature of a geek. This," - he says with emphasis, gesturing at a row of brochures fanned on a sofa - "is clearly worthy of a geek."  More than 900 geeks apparently agree. They've sent e-mails asking for more information on the cruises, and Bauman sends out his glossy brochures in response. He says he gets eight to 10 emails a day, many from Europe, and points out neatly stacked envelopes with address labels for Britain, Ireland, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, France and elsewhere around the globe.Some 20% of the 100 or so already signed up for his May Perl Whirl are Europeans. "They take their holiday time a little more seriously," he says.  For the hard-core geek, there's plenty to get serious about. Sessions on the various cruises include Perl, XML and Really Big Data, The History and Culture of Perl, Tips of the Java Wizards, and the highly tempting Making File Conversions Fun and a Way of Life. Speakers include programming gurus such as Joseph Hall, Randal Schwartz, Lincoln Stein and geek icon and inventor of Perl, Larry Wall. Special events include a seminar for "our female Geek Cruisers" on Issues of Being a Woman in the Tech Biz, a pub crawl through the Alaskan port of Juneau, and a rigorous seminar entitled Rebuilding Post-Apocalyptic Civilisation with Perl.Bauman got the idea for Geekcruises.com after taking his family on a Star Trek theme cruise to Alaska (Bauman's walls are lined with shelves holding videos of Star Trek and its various spin-off programmes). While at a meeting of a local chapter of Perl enthusiasts called the Perlmongers, "the idea just struck me right there all at once. So I blurted out, 'What do you think of a Perl cruise?' Dead silence", he recalls.Then, one after another, the group's members agreed it might be a fine thing to do. Conveniently, the members included Perl authors such as Hall, and once several agreed in principle to the idea, others came on board (as it were).  Bauman thinks computer geeks will welcome the chance to holiday with geeks. "Most love reading computer manuals and &#91;computer publisher&#93; O'Reilly books on weekends and on vacation. When I went on the Trek cruise, I brought Perl manuals," he confesses.Along with those who will take the cruises for their own holidays, Bauman thinks he can tap into the employer market by offering the perfect company perk. "Retaining geek talent is one of the biggest challenges," he says. And anyway, an employee enticed with a cruise "is not going to quit between now and the cruise. At least you have an indentured servant for a while."  He's quick to stress that there's plenty of relaxation time as well, especially in ports of call. For families and spouses, the ship offers films, game rooms, exercise areas and an internet cafe."While the geeky guy or gal gets to do their geeky thing, the family gets to do family things," he says.  And the geeky guy or gal can even do the family thing. According to Cap'n Neil, two couples intend to get married during the Perl cruise, and one couple will be celebrating a honeymoon - proving that even on a geek cruise, geeks can be distracted by something other than code.
Go here nowYou  have only until March 3 to comment on the government's internet strategy, so go towww.iagchampions.gov.uk/ Strategy.htmas soon as possible.  There you can read e-citizen, e-business, e-government, a 32-page white paper prepared by the Central IT Unit on behalf of the e-envoy. CITU has long been the most wired bit of Whitehall - not hard when the competition is as clueless as the home office - and its proposals for e-government deserve consideration. Comments can be emailed toconsultation@citu.gov.ukThen YellNominations have opened in the fifth annualYell Awardsfor the best websites, run by British Telecom's online yellow pages. There are 11 different categories  including, for the first time, one for the best internet service provider. As well as entering addresses for your favourite sites, you may also add comments to say why you like them. There isn't a category for the worst designed site, sowww.theprioryshow.com- which features an exclusive Zo‘ Ball online diary - is safe.Big bangsThe memory of the Eiffel Tower attempting take-off is going to put other firework displays in the shade until the memory fades. However, the US government used to make bigger bangs, and now it has put the evidence online. For a truly frightening experience, watch theHistorical Nuclear Weapons Test Films.  You can get videos of vast numbers of explosions either as MPEG downloads or streamed in four levels of RealVideo, according to the speed of your internet connection.Verse &amp; worseThe internet now has a poet laureate, but it's not e e commerce - the choice ofFN Newswire- nor the romantic Elizabeth Barrett Browsing. It is Kyle MacRae, from Glasgow, who entered The Coolest Den in Cyberspace in a competition run by BT Click and the Poetry Society. All the short-listed verses are online: go towww.btclick.comand follow the link. Nonetheless, every   programmer knows that the award should have gone to the surpassingly wonderful Verity Stob, who has not got a big bottom. Some of Verity's best poems have been published in her column inExe magazine.Wise wordsJewishnet has introduced an Ask The Rabbi section to answer tricky questions such as which way you should face when praying in outer space, and whether you can feed space aliens with milk cooked with meat, or chometz on Passover. Follow the link atwww.jewish.co.uk.  There are more interesting answers at the oracular Newwings atwww.artwells.com/newwings. Think of it as a modern version of the ancient Chinese divination system, the I Ching.Map questMatthew Zook's Page of Domain Name Data doesn't look like much but his site is well worth visiting for his maps, which show the density of internet penetration from the streets of San Francisco to a map of the world. Zook is studying for a PhD in the department of city and regional planning at the university of California at Berkeley, and his site is athttp://socrates.berkeley.edu/~zook/domain_names.For startersShell has launched a site for newcomers to e-commerce. If you're aged 16-30 and want to start up your own business,www.shell-livewire.orgprovides an introduction. You can also get a free business start-up pack in the post. NetObjects, which sells web construction software, has also launched a site atwww.GoBizGo.com.EndingsThe death of Charles Schulz, creator of the Peanuts comic strip, is being marked at theofficial site.  There's also a homage to the beautiful and bright Hedy Lamarr, who shocked the world with Hollywood's first nude scene in Ecstasy in 1933, and pioneered the idea of frequency-hopping radio communications to control torpedoes. The site is in German and English atwww.hedylamarr.atMail cheque"The cheque's in the post" may be one of the world's great lies. A variant is "the cheques in the email". ThePayPal.comservice lets registered users send cash   to anyone with an e-mail address on the internet. But PayPal  is open only  to US residents at the moment.
The real heroes in the film Bladerunner are replicants, lifelike androids almost as human as the humans seeking them out for destruction. Harrison Ford even falls in love with one.   Such creatures are a long way off but companies are deploying software programs that can almost pass for human.One 2 One, the mobile phone group, last year became the first British company to employ a virtual representative, or vRep, called Yasmin on its web site. Yasmin started life as a TV ad. Now she - or it - is available 24 hours a day, never loses her temper and reacts politely to even the most un-businesslike inquiries.Her job is to answer questions from customers on issues from current offers to tariffs and network coverage.   The creation of a  computer with human characteristics has been the stock-in-trade of films from 2001 to Terminator. One 2 One's Yasmin has far more practical functions, but its successful application could prove to be a vital element in e-commerce.With e-commerce, customers want service and answers at any time of the day or night. Call centres, e-mail based service representatives cost money and can get overwhelmed by customer inquiries. That's where the vRep comes into its own. Many questions are of a repetitive nature so it is possible to anticipate them, come up with the answers and automate the whole process.Another attraction for companies, although it smacks of big brother for customers, is that vReps record and analyse every conversation, collect data and build up a detailed customer profile. Ask Yasmin has an option where the customer can decline to have the information collated - the data allows a company to offer more immediate support, anticipate customer needs and take a more proactive approach in cross-selling products.One 2 One's vRep was built by Neuromedia, an artificial intelligence company in San Francisco, and installed by a joint team from One 2 One and Axcess.com, a British company and Neuromedia's European partner.   Since Ask Yasmin was launched last summer, One 2 One says the number of email questions has been halved to 200 but sales have jumped. Walter Tackett, chief executive officer and co-founder of Neuromedia, says One-2-One now saves $50,000 a month.When you click on Ask   Yasmin atOne 2 One's website, she asks your name and off you go. Asked if she's human, she will reply: "I am a computer program which can interact with users through natural language conversation."  Yasmin's usefulness is obvious. Ask for charges and the program brings up tables for the various rates so the information can be absorbed much more easily than over the phone. Other services include specs on various mobile phones."Customers can find the exact information they need just by asking a question in plain English," says Kevin Braithwaite, managing director of Axcess. "The web sites of other UK mobile operators often force the customer through endless mouse clicks and dead ends before they can even begin to locate the information they need."   While Ask Yasmin has worked smoothly for One 2 One, some vRep programmes have been clunkers. A journalist from E-Commerce Times who tested Ask Nike, based on Ask Jeeves, the search engine, was told that he could customise a shoe's base colour. But when he asked what base colour was, Ask Nike could only reply: "We're sorry, but Ask Nike was unable to answer your question." Natural   language programs are complicated and if they are duds a company will look silly.Axcess sees much potential for vReps, particularly in the financial sector as banks move increasingly online.   Axcess has its own vRep. Karen Eliot was lifelike enough for people who conducted conversations with her asked her out, to which she replies politely but firmly: "I'm not available, friend" and turns the conversation back to virtual representatives.Axcess, founded in 1995 and housed in a converted spaghetti factory in Parsons Green, plans to launch Richie, a more advanced version of Ask Jeeves that picks out sites for children. Based on unscientific tests with young children, Axcess discovered that they were interested in dinosaurs, music and sports.   Richie, to be launched some time in March, will select suitable sites for nine   to 12-year-olds. The site is designed to be a community for children along the lines of Yahooligan.com and a showcase for vRep technology.Yasmin and Richie are very much the poor cousins to Hal, the anti-heroes of Blade Runner, and those killing machines in Terminator, which is how it should be.
Does spending a lot of time on the internet mean you're a sad loner? It's an argument as old as the online world itself.  Last week new fuel was thrown on the great geek debate by a report from two academics who have studied internet use and its effect on offline, "real world" behaviour.  Its conclusion? That more time spent online apparently leads to less time spent on real life.People who spend more than five hours per week online spend less time with family and friends.   The report also makes bad reading for television executives: the majority of respondents say their TV viewing has been curtailed by the internet."The more hours people use the internet, the less time they spend with real human beings," said Norman Nie, a Stanford University political scientist who conducted the study along with Professor Lutz Erbring at the Free University of Berlin.  He added: "The internet could be the ultimate isolating technology that further reduces our participation in communities even more than television did before it."The study looked at 4,113 American adults in 2,689 households. About one third said they were online five or more hours per week. Of those people, 13% said they spent less time with family and friends and 8% attended fewer social events.  Additionally, 59% said they had reduced their television viewing. Researchers found that every hour spent online typically reduced television viewing by that same amount, and people who were new to the internet started watching less television almost immediately.The longer people have been hooked up to the net, the more time they spend on it, the study found. The most common use of the internet was for email.  Fifty-five per cent of those polled had internet access at home or work, and 25% said they worked more at home without any decline in time spent at the office.  But no sooner was the report published than critics lined up to dismiss it, with one branding it "non-science"."Presenting it as a scientific study is a bit of a reach," said Howard Fienberg, a research analyst with the Statistical Assessment Service in Washington DC. "It's preliminary work and it doesn't tell us much."   He suggested that a more random selection of survey respondents studied over a longer period of time would produce more accurate indicators of internet use and social effects.  Another critic was the author and internet use guru Jakob Nielsen, who called into question the survey designers' definitions of human contact.Nielsen said the definition should include internet-based environments such as chat rooms, message boards and e-mail, and said concepts of contact used in the study were ill-defined.  "How do you define what you count as personal 	contact?" Nielsen asked. "You could have had some other report a hundred years ago that said the telephone would cause a loss in social relations and human contact. The big problem is that the definitions do not hold in the new human experience."In addition to scaling back personal contact, the study showed that a quarter of regular internet users who are employed increased the time they spent working at home.  Sixty per cent of those same regular internet users also said they watched less television and one third said they spent less time reading newspapers.  The survey was conducted for the Stanford-based Institute for the Quantitative Study of Society.Participants were given internet appliances and free internet access so they could answer the survey questions electronically.  The Stanford survey echoed one released in August 1998 by researchers at Carnegie Mellon university. That report said people who spent a few or more hours a week online grew slightly more depressed and lonely as they used the internet.- Associated Press
Ascension dayThose of you who started drooling at the empty boxes	 of Ultima IX: Ascension on game-store shelves in the week before Christmas can stop now. Within a couple of weeks, those boxes should,  contain the finished game. While Lord British's latest role playing game (RPG) was launched on schedule in the US, its UK release has been repeatedly put back, mainly because of an  infestation of bugs, which Origin was forced to rectify Stateside with a series of increasingly large patches (the latest download is 6.4MB). The good news: the UK version, due in the first week of March, should be fully patched and ready to run. The bad news: Origin has discontinued the official technical noticeboard, so any unresolved issues will stay that way.Wacky ideaDick Dastardly, Muttley, Prof Pat Pending, the Anthill Mob et al are to get a long-overdue videogame outing as Infogrames goes to work on a Wacky Races game for the PlayStation. Taking the wheel of such fondly remembered vehicles as the Arkansas Chug-a-Bug and the Buzzwagon, players compete in a cheating, sign-swapping, short-cutting fight to the finish line. It is brimming with bonuses, jumps, secrets, weapons and gadgets.Baldur's backInterplay's follow-up to Baldur's Gate, Shadows of Amn, is set in the region to the south of the first game and its expansion, Tales of the Sword Coast. BG2 promises twice as many monsters, 130 new spells, new character races and classes, and 15 travelling companions. Whereas before you could train your characters only to a measly level 10, the new experience cap will allow you to beef up your fighters, mages and thieves as high as level 20. Best of all, you will be able to import your main character from the original game. So hold on to those savegames until autumn.Lone gunmanThe news that Valve Software's first-person shooter Half-Life is to gain a new lease of life on the Dreamcast has been tempered by Sega's admission that it is unlikely to feature a multiplayer option. But the single-player mode will boast a higher polygon count, improved lighting and effects, and a new mission starring everyone's favourite cannon-fodder, security guard, Barney.Second callDespite the lukewarm reception for empire-building Civilisation: Call To Power, Activision has revealed that plans are afoot for a Call To Power II. The latest entry should address some of the game-balance problems that afflicted its predecessor and offer new graphics, a refined interface, and a more sophisticated diplomatic system.Next BondAfter the disappointment of Tomorrow Never Dies, Electronic Arts is pulling out all the stops to get things right for the next James Bond title, The World is Not Enough. EA has started recruiting level designers for the game, which will use the Quake III: Arena engine. The job ad posted on the web asks for candidates with expertise in 3D technology, proven teamwork skills and - that quality so rare in programmers these days - the ability to meet deadlines. Oddly, an in-depth knowledge of Denise Richards' vital statistics counts for nothing.Cheap shotBruno Bonnell, president and chief executive officer of Infogrames, voiced the longstanding concerns of UK gamers at the Emerging Technologies Conference in Sheffield by calling for lower game prices. In a passionate but frustratingly vague speech, Bonnell expressed hopes that games would be selling for under £20 "in the near future". See you all at the cryogenics lab.
Prudential, Britain's biggest life insurance group, today announced plans to cash in on the success of its pioneering internet bank, Egg, by selling part of it to the public. The sale of a minority stake is expected to raise between £1.5bn and £4bn.Jonathan Bloomer, Prudential's chief executive designate, said the group had not yet decided how much of Egg to float, but the London stock exchange typically regarded a "minority" stake as something between 15% and 25%.He said the exact value would be determined at flotation both by Egg's progress and the state of the market.The launch of Egg in 1998 started a trend in internet banking in Britain. Egg has signed up 800,000 customers by offering attractive interest rates. It had deposit funds of £7.6bn at the end of 1999, and the number of customers is expected to top 1m next month. Prudential said customers who had signed up with Egg before midnight on February 22 were expected to be eligible to participate in the initial public offering.Egg's success has prompted other banks to jump on the internet bandwagon. Recent research predicts that the number of people in Europe who are banking online will quadruple to 21m by 2004.Abbey National and Halifax unveiled stand-alone online banks last week, some of which may also be floated. This competition could cause problems for Egg, and shares in the Pru have fallen in the past few weeks. News of the planned float came as Prudential reported a 10% drop in annual operating profits for 1999 to £776m.Egg and Prudential banking made a loss of £150m last year, compared with £77m in 1998. Prudential said it expected Egg to break even in the latter part of 2001, adding that investment in the concern would be similar to the £150m spent in 1999.Mr Bloomer ruled out a large-scale merger such as that announced this week by the insurance companies CGU and Norwich Union. However, he said Prudential would look to make acquisitions in Europe to enable it to compete with the likes of Allianz, Axa, Aegon and Generali, as well as the merged CGNU.Mr Bloomer takes over from Sir Peter Davis as chief executive next month. Sir Peter, who is credited with having transformed Prudential during his tenure, is moving to Sainsbury's, the retail group.Useful linksEgg.comThe Prudential
Bruno Bonnell is one of the few people to have stood up Brazilian soccer maestro Ronaldo for dinner. Arrogance? Well, the Frenchman commands the $1.1bn computer games empire Infogrames and he is a very busy man.Caught out at a question about the skipped dinner, the chairman and chief executive mumbles an excuse about keeping another engagement at the Majestic Hotel in Cannes, rather than any power play on his part.Infogrames designed and is selling Ronaldo v Football, one of the hottest soccer games on the market. Though ineffective when France beat Brazil in 1998 to become world champions, the Brazilian is the big draw in Cannes where Bonnell is overseeing his company's part in one of the largest computer game and software exhibitions in Europe.Bonnell, sometimes described as France's answer to Richard Branson, is giving   back-to-back interviews to sell the Infogrames story."We will take the necessary steps to become one of the big players in the industry," he says. "We will charm the US market. We will show them a company with a great product and commitment rather than just being another European export."The company was born in 1983 when Bonnell and schoolfriend Christophe Sapet had a product that taught people about basic computer programming.It has since swollen through acquisition, organic growth and a listing on the French bourse, to rank among the world's five biggest independent computer games publishers and distributors.It boasts more than 1,000 game titles, 100m users, and sales this year expected to hit $400m. Games include Alone in the Dark, V-Rally and Mission Impossible, as well as the hot item featuring Ronaldo and the Brazilian soccer team; it also has the licence to produce titles with Looney Tunes characters.Even with such an impressive stock market value, Infogrames is battling with other independent games distributors, including Eidos and America's Electronic Arts, to grow even bigger. There has been perennial speculation of consolidation in the industry and Bonnell has previously hinted at a merger with Eidos, his UK-based closest rival which has the well-built Lara Croft as its best selling game.Only last year Britain boasted the largest interactive entertainment market in Europe, worth &#163;1.4bn, beating both Germany and France.Asked about consolidation, Bonnell says: "I'm not a prey. We have to look to take the lead on our competitors."Infogrames has access to more than $500m for further acquisitions but he is coy about future deals. "Eidos is a very respectable company but our development lies towards the US and Japan."The UK he describes as a "very interesting and erratic market" where games not accepted by players are scrapped.To achieve critical mass, Infogrames last year snapped up a majority stake in American publisher and distributor GT Interactive Software for $135m and in the process gained an important Nasdaq listing. The company also bumped up its sales target after the acquisition to $1bn by 2001. A healthy target but one that suggests growth by consolidation, say analysts.Bonnell wants Infogrames to be on every platform and already its games are on Sega, Sony and Nintendo, as well as mobile phones, personal computers, the internet, interactive television, handheld games and palmtops. It also has a games channel with Canal Plus.Last week, a deal with BSkyB's interactive television service Open was announced to provide games sites for subscribers surfing the internet through their TVs.The French group has also invested $200m to establish a subsidiary, Infogrames.com, that will hold all its online assets. Bonnell estimates 20% of the company's sales will come from online users by 2002.Investors have not always wanted to chase technology stocks nor to join the boards of computer game companies. So Bonnell and Sapet still own a third of Infogrames."It wasn't seen as a serious business," says Bonnell. "Being a board member then of a games company was not something honourable. Now they all want to tell their kids about it."
The prospect of Microsoft being broken up moved a step closer yesterday as the judge in the landmark anti-trust case against the software giant founded by Bill Gates compared it with the oil monopoly run by John D Rockefeller at the turn of the century.Judge Thomas Jackson's invocation of Standard Oil, a monopoly which was broken up by the courts in 1912 because of anti-competitive behaviour, provided a boost to the case against Microsoft brought by the federal government and 19 US states yesterday.Tough questions to Microsoft's leading lawyer marked a far more negative stance by the judge. He repeatedly interrupted Microsoft's counsel John Warden as the lawyer sought to defend the Seattle-based company which controls 90% of the world's computer operating systems. At one point the judge accused Mr Warden of evading his questions.The judge's tone suggests that Microsoft will be hard pressed to stop him from finding that the company broke US anti-trust laws.In yesterday's court hearing, which provided both sides with one last chance to put their case before the judge, the judge reserved his most biting criticism for Microsoft's argument that its copyright ownership excused its behaviour."I don't really understand your copyright defence," said the judge, before adding that Mr Rockefeller had "a fee-simple control over his oil and I don't see a distinction".He interrupted Mr Warden's argument that "anti-trust laws did not trump copyright laws". The judge said: "I am not so sure of that."The argument concerned Microsoft's bundling of its internet browser with its Windows operating system. The government has argued that by putting the two together Microsoft was forcing its way into a fledgling market by abusing its stranglehold over operating systems. The judge indicated his support for that view in his preliminary ruling in November which found that Microsoft abused its monopoly position and harmed competitors and consumers alike.Microsoft is under heavy pressure to reach a settlement with the government in its separate talks with a mediator appointed by Judge Jackson. If no settlement is reached the judge is expected to rule on the case in the spring.
