To many a casual internet surfer it was simply a soft-focused doodle celebrating the life of labour leader and civil rights activist Cesar Chavez.But to a small minority of conservatives thumping away at their keyboards on Easter Sunday it was something more sinister. It was a slight on Jesus. Worse still, it was a slight on Jesus directed by the White House, and in particular Barack Obama, America's Kenyan-born Muslim leader, probably.In any case it was a storm in a Easter egg cup that had right-wing bloggers harrumphing and twitterers cramming their anti-Google diatribes into 140 characters or less.Chavez, the innocent party in all of this, was chosen to be the focus of a Google doodle due to the occasion of Sunday coinciding with what would have been his 86th birthday. The celebrated co-founder of the National Farm Workers Association died in 1993.Last Year, Obama declared March 31 to beCesar Chavez Day, and said it should serve as an opportunity for Americans to "observe this day with appropriate service, community and education programmes" in honour of his legacy.In 2012, the celebratory day fell on a Saturday. But those cunning chaps in the White House must have known that the great union organiser would one day come up against the founder of Christianity, and had already leaned on Google to back their man, allegedly.The Daily Caller was but one brave website challenging the internet search giant over the choice."While Google frequently decorates its logo to celebrate various holidays and special events, it is unclear why the company chose to specifically honor Chavez's birthday, instead of Easter Sunday," it fumed in its leading article Sunday.It prominently pointed out the cozy relationship between Google chief executive Eric Schmidt and Obama. In case anyone wasn't convinced, the article had a sublink to an opinion piece on Google's "radical agenda".Rod Dreher over at the American Conservative was also indignant:"It's a small thing, of course, but this kind of thing, accumulated, signals an intention to de-Christianization of our culture, and the creation of an intentional hostility to Christianity that will eventually cease to be latent, or minor."Quite so, or perhaps it was just a drawing. No I'm wrong, it was a socialist plot. The right-thinking chaps on Twitter tell me so.One user, Lisa Schreckenstein, tweeted: "Today I switch to Bing since #google thinks Christ is less important that (sic) Cesar Chavez, socialist labor leader on EAST DAY!"That stunning news was heard across the internet, or at least to her 27 followers – which is still more than double the number that attended the last supper.She was not alone though. Keith R Kingsolver tweeted: "Wow. Congrats Google, youve managed to alienate all Christians in America today: instead of celebrating Christ, they celebrate Cesar Chavez.""Mom said it best...'Go to hell, Google'," said Faith Goldy.The conservative site Twitchyinitially confused the matterby claiming Google was honouring Hugo Chavez, the recently deceased Venezuelan leader. Correcting the matter did not dull the outrage for many on Twitter.A handful of prior Google devotees announced their conversion, with Bing being the new online deity to be worshipped. The Microsoft search engine opted to play it safe Sunday, with a picture of colourful eggs adorning its search page.UPDATE:Google has commented on the online backlash its doodle has stoked in conservative quarters.In a statement emailed to the Guardian, the internet giant acknowledged that there had been a "lot of angry user emails" but only a couple of press inquiries.A spokeswoman said: "We enjoy celebrating holidays at Google but, as you may imagine, it's difficult for us to choose which events to highlight on our site. Sometimes for a given date we feature an historical event or influential figure that we haven't in the past."
ThoughSly Cooper's been absent for eight years, the robbing raccoon's brand of stealthy platform gameplay still holds up. Cast into the time stream to save his ancestors and rebuild the Cooper family's tome of thieving knowledge, Sly's capers introduce various side characters, each with dedicated abilities to master. Sadly, while early story chapters are encouraging, later ones feel as if the developers ran out of ideas – another ice level, anyone? However, linking the&nbsp;Vita and PS3 versions activates some impressive augmented reality features, and the whole package proves&nbsp;to be charming, if undemanding, fun.
To playLego City Undercoveris to know joy. Hyperbole, perhaps, but rule-breaking cop Chase McCain's adventure is easily one of the finest games yet produced under the Lego banner. It delivers all the charm and humour the series is known for, while lovingly parodying the whole crime drama genre. Gameplay remains similar to previous entries, destroying and rebuilding surroundings to progress through story missions, while free play allows exploration of the vast Lego City to unlock new characters, vehicles and areas. However, the Wii U gamepad adds several well-implemented new features, including an ever-present (and much-needed) map, crowd-scanning for crooks and tracking.Criminally, there's no co-op – a staple of Lego outings – but it's merely a misdemeanour, given the overall quality on offer here.
BioShock Infinitehas had something of a troubled genesis, one fraught with delays and a weight of expectation from an audience enraptured by Irrational Games'2007 original. In many ways, this is the true sequel toBioShock, developed with the careful oversight of creator Ken Levine – and, thankfully, it's been worth the wait.Playing as Pinkerton detective agent Booker DeWitt, you're off to the secretive airborne city of Columbia – a roving "perfect society" that's corrupt below its pleasing veneer – to rescue Elizabeth, possessor of strange powers and the young daughter of the city's messianic prophet. Shades of the earlier games' Little Sisters, then, but Elizabeth proves to be a far more potent figure.Assorted Vigors grant Booker abilities such as flame-throwing and telekinesis. Combined with Elizabeth's ability to tear holes in the fabric of space-time to provide health, weapons, and defences,Infiniteallows players considerable flexibility in how to escape Columbia, offering a fresh take on the first-person shooter.Where the failure of Randianobjectivismwas the focus of the first game,Infiniteuses its 1912 period setting to deconstruct modern political thought. Though it tears down ideas of misplaced American exceptionalism, the game itself is nothing short of exceptional – a beautifully designed, engaging and thought-provoking effort.
Bruce Chatwin has a lot to answer for.  Specifically, he's responsible for a forthcoming initial public offering (IPO) on the Italian stock market. It all goes back to something he wrote in his bookThe Songlines. He had arrived in Australia and was setting up a work space in a caravan. "With the obsessive neatness that goes with the beginning of a project," he wrote, "I made three neat stacks of my 'Paris' notebooks. In France, these notebooks are known ascarnets moleskines: 'moleskine', in this case, being its black oilcloth binding.  Each time I went to Paris, I would buy a fresh supply from a papeterie in the Rue de l'Ancienne-Comédie."Chatwingoes on to relatehow the notebooks were made by a small firm in Tours, the owner of which had died and whose heirs had sold the business. So he assumed that the source of his beloved notebooks had dried up. What he didn't know was that the business had been bought by a Milanese stationer who eventually began producing the notebooks again.  And what he could not have known was that the business would one day be floated on the stock market (3 April, to be precise). The IPO could value the company at up to €560m (£473m).Regular users of its products will find the information in thepre-IPO filingsinteresting. The price of a Moleskine notebook, for example, is at least double that of comparable products, which is why the company enjoys an operating margin – 41.7% – that would impress even the boys and girls at Apple. The explanation, of course, is that the basic ingredient of a Moleskine notebook – paper – is dirt cheap. (And it shows – as fountain-pen users discover very quickly.)The reason Moleskine gets away with charging so much for such an indifferent artefact is that is it not so much selling a product as an ethos. Call it the Chatwin syndrome: the delusion that possessing the kind of notebook that Hemingway, Oscar Wilde or Picasso might have used bestows elan, panache and other desirable qualities upon the proud owner.  And – who knows? – maybe they're right.But before you rush out to buy the stock next month, consider this. There is another chic, expensive product out there which is likewise seen as conferring exalted status upon its proud owner. I refer to the Apple iPad.  Granted, it is a lot more expensive than a Moleskine notebook. But on the other hand, when was the last time you saw a notebook that could allow you to watch YouTube videos, listen to Rolling Stones records, do your email and play Angry Birds?What brings this to mind is the realisation that whereas everywhere I used to go in the course of what is laughingly called my work I met people who were toting Moleskine notebooks, now most of them have iPads. And – shock, horror! – they appear to be using them asnotebooks!Sacre Bleu!as Hemingway (or was it Gertrude Stein?) used to say.Worse still, some of the note-taking apps on this infernal device appear to be mimicking the Moleskine genre.Penultimate, for example, even has the temerity to reproduce the squared paper that is one of the Moleskine's specialities, not to mention the soft covers of the smaller Moleskine notebooks. And it enables one to have squared, lined and plain paperin the same virtual notebook!Then there's the enigmatically namedPaperapp, which allows one to open an unlimited number of virtual notebooks, each of them with a virtual elastic band in classic Moleskine style.And so it goes on. I've lost count of the number of note-taking apps that, in one way or another, draw their inspiration from the ancient paper notebooks that so entranced Chatwin. They all have the advantages of virtuality – the ability to expand a notebook on demand, for example, or to have different kinds of page-template in the same notebook.  But they also have the disadvantages of a computing device, namely that – unless you're David Hockney – scribbling, writing  or drawing on a glass slab is much  more difficult than doing the same things on paper.Maybe that is why the killer note-taking iPad app avoids all thisskeuomorphicstuff and goes straight to what digital technology does best.SoundNotejust puts up a lined page on which one can type notes, say, the discussion in a meeting. But it also provides a "record" button that creates an audio file which is synchronised with the notes. It's the one app I use all the time. And it does something that no Moleskine will ever be able to do.
When a brand name becomes a verb, you know it has hit the big time. Hoover did it. Google did it. Another technology company wants us to believe "Shazamming" has entered our day-to-day vernacular. Shazam claims it has millions of users using an app that made its name enabling people to identify music tracks on the radio or TV.Now the technology brains behind the product are promising to wave a magic wand over our daily routines, revolutionising the way that we use mobile devices to shop and consume information, and allowing us to order a jacket or pair of shoes worn by an on-screen personality with just one simple Shazam."We have the ability to identify the product in a TV show so that when somebody Shazams it, they could find out where a presenter's dress is from in one click," explained CEO Andrew Fisher, who joined the UK start-up in 2005, six years after its launch, and is credited with making it a global brand. He said: "We are focused on creating a new category which we call media engagement. We make it easier for consumers to engage with a brand or a piece of content they are interested in, without having to go through search engines, then mining the results. That works with both TV programming and advertising: a 30-second slot can be turned into a three-minute brand engagement – and more."This week, Fisher announced he had wooed Daniel Danker, the £250,000-a-year head of the BBC's much-lauded on-demand services, to take up the newly created role of chief product officer at Shazam. He joins another high-profile recruit, Brent Hoberman, co-founder of lastminute.com, who was appointed to the board last November. Their remit is to develop software platforms alongside TV and commercial partnerships in the UK and beyond."Global brand advertising is worth about a trillion dollars, so anyone who can tap into that is going to be richly rewarded," said Fisher. "We want Shazam to be that company. There are five billion mobile phones in the world, so we are only at 5% of the market opportunity: that's a lot of growth and development potential."A spokeswoman said there had been 20m downloads of Shazam in the UK. TheObserverasked Shazam to provide evidence for exactly how many unique users it has but it did not want to supply any. The company, which employs 125 people in its Hammersmith HQ and another 40 overseas, claims to be adding two million users a week worldwide.Last year, the consumer-insight agency Neilsen published data demonstrating that four out of five of those who have a mobile phone or tablet monitor it while watching television. Shazam had already married our multimedia consumption habits with innovative technology that delivered a "second screen", adding another tier of information and experience for viewers.When users "tag" music or a TV programme, the Shazam app takes a fingerprint spectrogram sample of the audio content and matches it to a vast database. Currently, image recognition isn't functional, but the unique sound content on TV output (at time of broadcast) would be enough to drive users to the relevant Shazam content on their mobile device. Fisher hopes that image recognition is the next step.In the US, where Shazam's market penetration is also claimed to be a third of the population, it is used as a "companion app", delivering extra content to support programming on 160 channels, 24/7.Why does this differ from the "red button" option on digital televisions? "When you use the red button, you take over the whole experience for everyone who is watching in the room," explained Fisher. "With Shazam, individuals can access a cast list, details of the soundtrack, read tweets from the actors, check out the script, buy onscreen product and a whole lot more on their individual mobile devices without disrupting anyone else's viewing."In the UK, the ground-breaking technology is currently being used to provide supplementary content for limited Shazam-enabled programming (the recent Brit awards, for example, where users gained behind-the-scenes access and links to engage directly on Twitter and Facebook). But the commercial potential to sell product is still hindered by regulators."A lot more has to be done to comply with Ofcom," conceded Fisher. "We are not a broadcaster, but we partner broadcasters, so it has to work."The digital media landscape is evolving fast, with technology and consumer interest developing at a pace that challenges regulatory bodies. This weekend an Ofcom spokesperson said that the proposed service was still "hypothetical" in the UK and that "all broadcasters must comply with rules on sponsorship and product placement to ensure that audiences are protected".Social web consultant Euan Semple said: "The challenge for Shazam is adding enough value for both brands and consumers, without inundating us with annoying stuff at annoying times. Smartphones and tablets are very intimate devices and if we invite a business into 'our' space, they have to behave themselves, or we will stop using it.""
Recently, Kia launched a "sleek, low, yet muscular coupé… cheeky and cheerful in its compactness", its name "hinting at the fun on the open road". It was all going well until news of its name reached Northern Ireland, where, for some reason, people started objecting to&nbsp;the idea of popping to the shops in a&nbsp;Provo.Here was further evidence that naming a car is a tricky business. There are cars, such as the Provo, whose name signifies something other than the manufacturers intended: a big hand, so to speak, for the Ford Pinto or, as it appeared to be called in Brazil, the&nbsp;Ford Small Penis. And there are those whose names just signify bafflement: the Daihatsu Social Pose, the Mitsubishi Urban Sandal and – my favourite, from Honda – the Life Dunk, which&nbsp;sounds like something you go&nbsp;to a&nbsp;therapist about.Into this latter category comes Vauxhall's mini-SUV, the Mokka. Its&nbsp;name is presumably meant to signify coffee – or, rather, kkoffee – but why? Who names a car after a&nbsp;misspelled foodstuff? What are they&nbsp;going to launch next? The Vauxhall Pakket Of Kkrisps?It's not the only question the Mokka poses. It has an odd design. It&nbsp;looks huge from the outside: tall and determinedly macho. "The driver of this car does not have a&nbsp;pinto" – that seems to be the message. In fact, it's a bit of a lunk, full of musclebound bulges, like Alex "The Reidinator" Reid on wheels. Inside, however, while you're seated high up, the interior feels narrow – you could get three people in the back only if they were keen to get to know each other an awful lot better – and the boot's not particularly capacious either, smaller than both of the Mokka's competitors, the Nissan Qashquai or the Skoda Yeti.It's well-equipped – you get a DAB radio and air conditioning even on the basic model, and storage compartments up the wazoo – without feeling particularly exciting. And it's competent rather than great to drive. More agile than you'd think, given how tall it is, and apparently a&nbsp;lot better than it was (initial reviews were so bad, Vauxhall was forced to revise its steering and suspension), but you'd describe the experience as&nbsp;inoffensive rather than fun.Perhaps that's the point. Vauxhall has claimed the Mokka is aimed at "empty nesters… who like to carry bikes". As target markets go, that seems erring on the specific side, but then maybe they'll find the good&nbsp;value, practicality and, indeed, the bike rack that slides out of the rear bumper override the lack of thrills. For anyone else, as mokkas go, it's a bit lukkewarm.Vauxhall Mokka 1.4T AWD Exclusiv 4x4 S/S 5drPrice as tested£20,200Top speed118mphAcceleration0-6mph in 9.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption44.1mpgCO2 emissions149g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating3/10
Games out this week includeLuigi's Mansion 2(3DS), the delightful puzzle game in which Mario's younger, slimmer brother trembles his way through haunted houses in search of ghosts and treasure;Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14(Xbox, PS3), in its desperate struggle for novelty in this 14th incarnation, lets you play golf at night (just what you've always wanted), and travel back in time to chance your arm against golfing greats such as Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus;Ghost Recon: Anthology (Xbox, PS3, PC) brings together every single version of the splendidly playable lightly tactical shooter up to its most recent outing, Future Soldier; and finallyFinding Nemo: Escape To The Big Blue Special Edition(3DS) is the 3D remake of a 2006 game – inspired by the ever-popular Pixar film – that was itself a remake of a 2003 collection of mini-games which seemed a bit lame, even back then. If this one gets milked any harder, it's liable to turn inside out.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe last two BioShocks took place in the gloom of leaky undersea dystopia, Rapture. This one's set in Columbia, a shining steampunk city in the clouds, where evil messianic Father Comstock has imprisoned Elizabeth, a girl with strange powers. Naturally, you're there to perform the jail break. As well as all the sunshine and open space, this differs from past outings in that Columbia isn't derelict; it's well populated, complete with a police force and military to foil your plans. The game's alternate realities, invoked in your attempts to escape, cause added destruction; while gunfights are fast and dangerous, with a fine balance between guns and vigors, the game's version of magic. The plot, with its shifting timelines and themes of religious zealotry and racism, also has a wonderfully twisted conclusion; it's potent, compelling and fun.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewFresh from playful pastiches of Batman, The Lord Of The Rings and other cinematic greats, Lego's now setting its sights on games. Lego City Undercover is Grand Theft Auto junior, where you're Chase McCain, accident-prone super cop in pursuit of the misbehaving Rex Fury. That gives you licence to borrow (note: not hijack) any vehicle and wreak mayhem in the name of the law, smashing everything you see into its component studs. Although it takes its cues from GTA, the trademark slapstick and cornucopia of film references give LCU a more lighthearted sense of humour, spreading its appeal to all ages. Actually playing it, though, you'll discover a game that's firmly aimed at kids, who'll appreciate its gentle pace and fairly simple interactions (which can be hampered by slow load times); adults meanwhile may well find themselves hankering after the games that inspired it.
For Hilary Bowman-Smart, the latest in a long line of articles suggesting women should change their behavior in order to avoid sexual violence was the last straw.Last week, Bowman-Smart, a Melbourne-based student and self-described #feministkilljoy, didn't think twice about a tweet parodying what she thought was already nonsensical advice.If you wear a broccoli safety-pinned to your lapel manly carnivorous men will be repelled and won't rape you#safetytipsforladies&mdash; Hilary Bowman-Smart (@hilaryjfb)March 19, 2013Soon,#safetytipsforladieswas shared by thousands of women who decided to use Twitter (and their senses of humor) to push back against what they perceive to be ignorance about sexual violence – specifically,how it's perpetratedandwho is at fault.Artist Liz Chesterman created these illustrations from the #safetytipsforladiesAnd what started as a humble (then viral) hashtag crossed over from Twitter to Tumblr when artist Liz Chestermancreated custom illustrations around some of the tweetsand posted them to her blog."I think the reason that it took off on Twitter (quite unexpectedly for me) was that it allowed us to express a massive sense of frustration at women being told how to prevent rapists, instead of rapists being told not to rape," Bowman-Smart told the Guardian.Twitter activism against rape cultureisn't new. In 2010, a group of women went on Twitter to protest against Michael Moore's defense of the rape charges against Julian Assange. Women used the hashtag#MooreandMeto demand an apology. Moore later retracted his statement, which included the line, "Please – never, ever believe the 'official story'."And last year, Twitter erupted with #FlushRush after shock jock Rush Limbaugh called law studentSandra Flukea "slut" after she testified in front of Congress about the need for a contraception mandate in Obama's healthcare law.But what happens when the issue at hand isn't a national news story – and when the offender isn't prominent? Women are using humor as a way to point out everyday sexism, which, as Wired's Alice Marwickpoints out, is still pretty harmful – and worth calling out. Take the case of Adria Richards and "donglegate":This is why seemingly tiny, individual acts of sexism – like innocent dongle jokes – matter. Such "micro-aggressions" combine to reinforce structural sexism. MRAs and garden-variety geeks expressing similar attitudes may not be radical activists … but they're radical defenders of the status quo.In February, a group of 4Chan users decided they'd try to make#Ineedmasculismbecausehappen as a response to a popular feminist hashtag #INeedFeminismBecause. "Women aren't going to harass themselves," read one tweet. Quickly, the trolls become the trolled:#INeedMasculismBecauseas a proponent of this ideology i am ignorant of what it represents in a cultural &amp; historical context bro&mdash; nice_mustard® (@nice_mustard)February 8, 2013Outrage over sexism and rape cultureisn't going away – and it shouldn't – but women being funny to prompt new forms of discussion suggests that, even with something like a Twitter hashtag, women can refocus some archaic discussions about their bodies, and perhaps prevent them from happening in social spaces at all."I think making light of rape as an act and making jokes about victims is abhorrent … but women can and should be able to make light of their own experiences and get relief through humor," Bowman-Smart said.
Is Nick D'Aloisio exhausted? Apparently not. In a week that has seen the17-year-old newly minted tech millionairehit the headlines, give back-to-back interviews across the world, fly to America to appear on primetime TV shows and find time for a quick phone call to me from the back of a New York taxi, he&nbsp;still sounds sparky. "I've got a lot of energy," he says. "I don't know why. It's&nbsp;been like a marathon."The high point? "Seeing [the news on] the front pages of newspapers," he says. "Those kind of things have been shocking, to put it mildly. When I started it two years ago, it was just a hobby." And the low points? There haven't been any, of course. D'Aloisio radiates positivity. "The proudest moment for me has been seeing these tweets coming through from teenagers saying, 'You've inspired me,' and I'm so excited about that."We met in London several days earlier – the day after internet giant Yahoo announced it had bought D'Aloisio's app for a reported $30m [£19m]. He has had about two hours' sleep. Everyone wants to speak to him – who doesn't love&nbsp;the fairytale story of how a British teenager came up with an idea in his bedroom and two years later sold it for millions?D'Aloisio createdan iPhone app called Summly, which summarises news stories, and was downloaded by nearly a million people. "It helps publishers reach out to a younger audience," he says. "There is a generation of skimmers. It's not that they don't want to read in-depth content, but they want to evaluate what the content is before they commit time. Especially on a mobile phone – you don't have the phone, or cellular data, or screen size to be reading full-length content." Yahoo, underrecently appointed CEO Marissa Mayer, is repositioning itself to capture the growing mobile sector, so Summly appears to fit right in.But they're getting more than just some clever technology that they could probably have come up with themselves for a fraction of the price. In D'Aloisio, Yahoo (an internet dinosaur that has struggled in recent years) have a bright, articulate and charismatic hiring. He is the star of this week's global PR onslaught. It helps that he appears to have neither the introversion of your stereotypical computer nerd, nor the megalomania of someone who was already being described as a "boy genius" long before this new deal. He is polite, likable and self-aware, saying he knows he has to be careful that he doesn't come across as precocious. "I try to maintain a&nbsp;level of humbleness to this," he says.Why does he think they bought Summly rather than creating their own? "We work with some of the best scientists in the world – [at] the Stanford Research Institute." And his technology has an 18-month headstart, he adds. "But they're also going down the position of acquiring talent, and there are some people coming over with me."But Summly has already been removed from Apple's App Store. Was he worried they were essentially buying him and his service out of the competition? He nods. "I guess that could have been a negative," he says, if they had bought it and simply shut it down, "but it was clear in the conversations we had and the time I spent on campus that we're going to do the best we can to integrate it." His&nbsp;summarisation technology "is now the thing that's going to come to life, hopefully across a lot of different things at Yahoo. The goal, being the founder, was to get as many people in the world accessing this medium, and I think Yahoo is hopefully going to offer that."The money – he is not saying how much he personally earned after investors have taken their share – has gone into a trust fund. "It's not like I&nbsp;can&nbsp;go into my bank account and pull out money to buy a car," he says. He'd have to ask his mum? (She's company director, and his trust-fund nominee.) He laughs. "Yes." How much money does he have in his bank account? "I&nbsp;have a debit card, and I probably have about £40 on it." He says he's always having to text his parents for more. "Genuinely, it's kept that low." Deliberately? "Kinda," he says, before adding, with a touch of embarrassment, "That was prior to all this happening."If he was a couple of years older, he thinks he would be more tempted to go and buy an apartment, a car, a holiday, but – still living at home with his younger brother, on a sabbatical from A-levels – those aren't things he&nbsp;has spent any time thinking about during the past few years. "It's almost like I'm too young for any of this to apply," he says. He might buy some clothes, he&nbsp;says, maybe a new computer. "One&nbsp;thing I'd like to do is angel investing in small companies. That's what's exciting, and if you are lucky to have a bit of money, you can take those risks. That's what I would do if I was going to go and spend it."In lots of ways he is still like any other teenager: "I see my friends, see my girlfriend, maybe go to a party, try and&nbsp;play sport." Is he worried about how sudden riches might change his relationship with his friends? "People I don't know, they're probably going to see me differently. But my core group of friends don't. It is all a bit different now, but I'm not going to change as a person. I don't feel different. If the motivation had been money, I'd be going off laughing. But because the motivation was technology and product, this is just the beginning of&nbsp;what I want to do."D'Aloisio was born in London, but grew up in Australia, returning to the UK aged seven. His mother is a lawyer, and although there have been coy references to what his father does (along the lines of "something to do with commodities") he's actually a vice president of Morgan Stanley. Not to come over all class warrior, but given his parents and his private education, does he really think anyone could have done what he has? "Absolutely," he says in an&nbsp;instant. "My family doesn't have any&nbsp;particular wealth. We were an immigrant family, a&nbsp;generation above [his parents are of Italian and&nbsp;Spanish descent]. It's no longer an education thing – if you look at&nbsp;the top [tech company] founders in the world, half of them haven't finished high school or university. So I don't think an educational path thing comes into it. Similarly, location-wise, there are people in Asia&nbsp;and Africa doing companies."I speak to his mother, Diana, and she laughs at the idea that it is her and her husband who are really behind their son's success. Was she surprised by what has happened? "I'm surprised it happened so soon, but we always knew Nicholas was technical and talented." She says she was never worried about the amount of time he was spending on the computer, "because he would always show us what he was doing. I remember him creating 3D models on his computer as a 10-year-old". Is she worried success will affect him negatively? "Not at all," she says. "He's always had an older brain and I think he will cope with it very well. He's just a normal kid and I don't think that will change."D'Aloisio got his first MacBook aged nine, and used it to edit home video. When he needed to upgrade to a better laptop to use different software, he pestered his parents for months, eventually persuading them he would use it for homework. In early 2008, when the Apple App Store was announced, D'Aloisio – then just 12 – realised it was a huge opportunity. "I went into an Apple store with my dad and we asked one of the assistants how we did this [make an app], and they didn't know what we were talking about. So I had to wait another few months before it got released publicly." In the meantime, he says, he&nbsp;taught himself basic programming using open-source software online and the book C for Dummies.When he launched his first app – a jokey app calledFingerMill, a treadmill for fingers – in August 2008, a month after the store opened, it made £79 on the first day. "So as a 12-year-old I was like, 'This is awesome.' I did a free app called TouchWood [it made the screen look like wood and made a sound when you knocked on it]. It was gimmicky. But every time I did an app I learned more."Did people think it was strange that he spent all his spare time in his bedroom writing apps? "It is a bit weird," he&nbsp;says with a laugh. "But I never told anyone. I still went out with my friends at the weekend, found time for sport, it&nbsp;was just this thing I was doing."He came up with the idea for Summly in spring 2011. "I was using Twitter a lot on my phone, and was realising there was a massive gap between the link on the tweet and the full story. If you could come up with a summary layer to show in Twitter, that would be awesome." He&nbsp;had also just been revising for exams, and was getting frustrated at having to waste time reading information online that turned out not to be useful.His first version was called Trimit, created in his bedroom, and almost immediately it started to gain attention – Apple featured it on the app store and several blogs wrote about it. A few hours afterTrimit appeared on Techcrunch, the tech news site, D'Aloisio received an email from a venture capital firm led by Li Ka Shing, the Hong Kong billionaire. D'Aloisio, then 15, had never heard of&nbsp;the company, and thought the email was a joke, so ignored it. "And a few days later I get another email. So I&nbsp;reply,&nbsp;and we do a phone call."The investors, keen to come to London to meet him, asked when he'd be free. D'Aloisio smiles. "I was going, 'I can't really meet between 9 and 5,' and they asked why, and I was like, 'Well, school.'" He laughs. Did it put them off? "I think they loved it even more."The $300,000 investment went into developing Summly. "I was able to attract some key talent – for example our chairman, who is ex-Amazon, was able to come on and help, almost like a double act: wise, business guy and young, crazy founder." It would be misleading to suggest D'Aloisio went from bedroom programmer to millionaire – he was also able to attract a network of heavyweight advisers and well-connected investors such as Ashton Kutcher and Wendi Deng – but this shouldn't detract from his achievement. He says he doesn't "manage" older employees: "I mean, I&nbsp;work with them. They're equal, if not&nbsp;superior."His age has never been a problem, he says (other than for legal issues, when his mother has to sign on his behalf). "I&nbsp;think people are actually more … not lenient, but positive towards me because this is my first time," he says. "If I muck up, it's not intentional."He describes an incident two years ago when he bombarded the tech site Gizmodo with increasingly desperate emails begging them to write about Trimit; in one email saying he was about to be sacked if they didn't feature it, in another saying that without exposure, the debts he had run up in creating it were so high "now I'm going to have to go without food for the next month". (Gizmodo published these extracts with the headingHow I Made a 15-Year-Old App Developer Cry.) He refers to it now, with a smile, as "a learning experience. I'm almost proud of it, looking back. Obviously, I've learnt how to handle the media now." He laughs, nervously. "But at the same time, look, I was a 15-year-old. End of. It's like a badge of honour."He isn't allowed to talk about the details of his Yahoo contract, or how long he is tied in for. "I wouldn't be doing this deal if I wasn't motivated by joining that company. I might be there in 20 years' time, I don't know. I don't want to rule anything out. I think it's going to be awesome." But he says he wants to go to university at some point (he plans to do his A-levels in 2014), and in the future set up and run more businesses – maybe not even a tech company. "There's still a&nbsp;long way to go. This is the start."He has to leave to catch a plane to New York, where he will do more interviews and appear on Today and Piers Morgan's CNN show. "It's been an absolutely exciting, fascinating week," he says when I catch up with him days later. "It's been manic here in the US." He has no idea what's happening next week – it depends on who else wants a piece of him. "I'll probably be at home, with my family." And then it's off to Yahoo's offices. To start his first job.
Amid all your other thoughts during the Easter Weekend you may at some point come to the conclusion that you have a house full of family members and no chance of getting them to the park because it's like Siberia out there. If that's the case, here are five entertaining indie games that you can gather around and explore together. Possibly while scoffing Creme Eggs. Though wipe your hands before touching the controllers – there's nothing worse than a sticky joypad. Anyway, here you go...To the Moon (Freebird Games, PC)This beautiful, poignant adventure follows a dying man as he's given the chance to live his life again from the beginning – all to fulfill a final wish. It sounds depressing, but it is wonderful life-affirming stuff, with a stirring soundtrack and cute retro visuals. Okay, so To The Moon has been out for quite a while unlike the others, but on this weekend it seems fitting to play something about hope, death and the possibilities of redemption. It's £7direct from the developer, but if you're very quick, it's on sale for £2.79on Steamuntil the end of Friday.Terraria (Re-Logic, PC, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3)Billed as the first serious multi-platform competitor to Minecraft, this engrossing and creative game lets you explore a 2D scrolling landscape, digging tunnels, crafting weapons and doing battle with monsters. The world is procedurally generated so no two games are ever the same, and there's just so much detail andlifein the thing. It's been out on PC for a while, but is just arriving on Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network adding a load of new features including four-player splitscreen co-op play, which is soooo much fun. Read Christian Donlan'slovely reviewon Eurogamer for more proof that this is unmissable stuff. Oh and a Vita version is on the way. You can buy the PC version on theofficial siteor on Steam.Runner2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien(Gaijin Games, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Wii U, PC)The latest title in Gaijin's cult 'Bit.Trip' series of nostalgia-tinged titles is another 'endless running' game – i.e. your character just keeps moving and you have to avoid obstacles by jumping and sliding – very quickly – through a series of beautiful retro environments. It's exciting, it has amazing chiptune music and it has the compulsive feel of the classic arcade games.Ridiculous Fishing(Vlambeer, iOS)A seemingly unlikely critical smash, this potent fishing simulation is one of the most pure and enthralling explorations of casual game design ever devised. The set up is simple; you sit on the edge of a pier, cast your line, guide it into the murky waters, then lift a fish out – and shoot it. But as you progress, you unlock a wealth of new power-ups and a cunning tactical quest emerges from the overwhelmingly catchy feedback loop. Essentially, if you have an iPhone and you like games and you are not playing this, there is something wrong with your iPhone, or you.Slamjet Stadium(Alistair Aitcheson, iPad)If everyone is on a massive Easter Egg-fuelled sugar rush, this might be the way to expend some of that energy. It's a futuristic sports simulation in which two players compete on the same screen, using touch controls to guide their hover bike team members around a tiny, dangerous pitch. The aim, of course, is to score goals, but how you do that is up to you: you can play fair or you can cheat by trying to control your opponent's players while they're not looking. It's like the classic Amiga title Speedball combined with pinball and air hockey into one chaotic maelstrom of hands and laughter.• Want more indie gaming action? Check out our previous list offive interesting games.
Not sure if anyone is around on this freezing cold Good Friday (this time last year it was 20 degrees), but if you are, here is somewhere you can talk about games.
The headlines have been apocalyptic: "Global internet slows after biggest attack in history"; "Biggest ever cyberattack slows internet for millions"; "The attack that nearly broke the internet"; "Cyber attack jams crucial infrastructure around the world".So how was it for you?According to a company called CloudFlare, which specialises in helping websites minimise the impact of online junk data attacks by effectively creating more targets and thus spreading the burden between them, this particular assault – by a Dutch hosting company, Cyberbunker, on a not-for-profit anti-spam organisation called Spamhaus – eventually escalated to cause"congestion across several major [top-level, backbone internet networks], primarily in Europe, that would have affected hundreds of millions of people ... "Hence, presumably, the armageddon headlines. Except, as the tech websiteGizmodo points out, not many people seem to have noticed: few have complained that the internet was more than usually sluggish; movie-streaming services such as Netflix did not go down; mega net-enterprises such as Amazon reported nothing unusual; organisations that monitor the health of the web "showed zero evidence of this Dutch conflict spilling over into our online backyards". Specialists contacted by the site reported that the attack, major as it was, had "a severe impact" on the websites it was directed at, but it certainly did not shake the internet to its core.Gizmodo concludes the whole story was essentially a cynical bid by CloudFlare to drum up more business. James Blessing of the UK Internet Service Providers Association council won't go quite that far, saying the attack "did have an impact. Some sites will be affected." But while the global internet, or parts of it, may potentially be vulnerable to a truly massive attack using the kind of DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) techniques Cyberbunker has allegedly deployed, this one is probably not it. Yet. If youreallywant to slow down the internet, the best way may still be the simplest:cut a cable.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Samsung became the world's No.1 smartphone maker &gt;&gt; BusinessweekIn 1995, Chairman Lee was dismayed to learn that cell phones he gave as New Year's gifts were found to be inoperable. He directed underlings to assemble a pile of 150,000 devices in a field outside the Gumi factory. More than 2,000 staff members gathered around the pile. Then it was set on fire. When the flames died down, bulldozers razed whatever was remaining. "If you continue to make poor-quality products like these," Lee Keon Hyok recalls the chairman saying, "I'll come back and do the same thing."The lesson stuck. In May 2012, three weeks before the new Galaxy S III was to be shipped, a Samsung customer told the company that the back covers for the smartphone looked cheaper than the demo models shown to clients earlier. "He was right," says DJ Lee, the marketing chief of Samsung Mobile. "The grain wasn't as fine on the later models." There were 100,000 covers in the warehouse with the inferior design, as well as shipments of the assembled devices waiting at airports. This time, there would be no bonfire — all 100,000 covers, as well as those on the units at the airports, were scrapped and replaced.A must-read.Windows Blue Buzz &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:Windows Blue is also the first place where Microsoft could really react to the feedback coming from the Developer, Consumer, and Release Previews.  Pretty much what we have in the market today was cast in drying concrete by the time the Developer Preview hit the market."Windows Blue" is the codename for the upcoming updates to Windows 8. Berenson is a former manager inside Microsoft, so he knows what he's talking about. If you want to understand the Windows development process, this is the post to read.Apple cuts iPad mini shipments for 2Q13 &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe decrease may be as high as 20% on month during April, the sources noted, and may continue to slightly decrease throughout the quarter to bring total shipments of the iPad mini to as low as 10 million units during the quarter.Apple's cut comes as it is adjusting its reserves for the next-generation iPad mini, which is likely to be released in the third quarter, added the sources. However, the sources also noted that Apple's cut is because of increased competition from various 7-inch Android tablets.Apple recently adjusted shipment estimates for its iPad and iPad mini products in 2013 to 33 million and 55 million, respectively, said the sources.Only 88m? After shipping 65.7m in 2012? When IDC is expecting 190m tablet shipments this year (see below)? Only 46% of the entire tablet market? Disaster.Calling all SF Bay Area residents: help test our new local, same-day delivery service &gt;&gt; Google Commerce BlogToday we're starting a new experiment, Google Shopping Express. It's a local delivery service that we hope will make it possible for you to get the items you order online the same day, and at a low cost. It's incredibly early days and so the service is only available to a small number of people in the Bay Area.As a tester, you will be able to shop online, in a single place, from retailers such as Target, Walgreens, Staples, American Eagle and Toys"R"Us/Babies"R"Us - along with locally distinct shops such as San Francisco's Blue Bottle Coffee, and the Bay Area's Palo Alto Toy &amp; Sport and Raley's Nob Hill Foods, and get your items delivered that same day. So hopefully, no more trips across town for simple errands.Your bets please for whether this will succeed, succeed enormously, fizzle out or create huge ill feeling towards Google when things go wrong. We've added the start date to our growing list of Google services. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for pointer.)Worldwide smart connected device market crossed 1 billion shipments in 2012, Apple pulls near Samsung in fourth quarter &gt;&gt; IDCLooking specifically at the results for the fourth quarter of 2012 (4Q12), combined shipments of desktop PCs, notebook PCs, tablets, and smartphones was nearly 378m and revenues were more than $168m. In terms of market share, Apple significantly closed the gap with market leader Samsung in the quarter, as the combination of Apple's iPhone 5 and iPad Mini brought Apple up to 20.3% unit shipment share versus 21.2% for Samsung. On a revenue basis for the fourth quarter, Apple continued to dominate with 30.7% share versus 20.4% share for Samsung.Going forward, IDC expects that tablet shipments will surpass desktop PCs in 2013 and portable PCs in 2014. In 2013, worldwide desktop PC shipments are expected to drop by 4.3% and portable PCs to maintain a flat growth of 0.9%. The tablet market, on the other hand, is expected to reach a new high of 190m shipment units with year-on-year growth of 48.7% while the smartphone market is expected to grow 27.2% to 918.5m units.That's a lot of tablets. Even more smartphones, of course.Are premium Android smartphones worth it? &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintChris Hall puts the Nexus 4 against the HTC One, Sony Xperia Z and Samsung Galaxy S4:the Nexus 4 hardware is now behind the curve, giving these new premium smartphones something to sell. If you're after the best experience, if you want to be on the cutting edge, then yes, premium smartphones are worth it.But they're only worth it for about six months. With the rate of change being so rapid, staying at the cutting edge can be costly.Popular blowback continues in China over Apple attacks &gt;&gt; MacNNUndercontinuing attacksby Communist Party-run newspaperThe People's Dailyand other government-run media outlets, Apple has emerged as acause celebréamong internet users in China, who have responded tostate-organized Apple bashingwith strong criticisms of state-run companies and broadcasters. When independent Beijing-based finance and business magazine linked to aPeople's Dailyarticle andasked readers to comment, they instead overwhelmingly criticized the state and its anti-Apple campaign.Bloody ungrateful commenters. (Also, it's cause célèbre, not celebré. You're welcome.)Somersby Cider ad &gt;&gt; YouTube"It uses your normal docking system." "And you've downloaded." I've downloaded?" Very witty.Spreadsheets: you never knew there was so much wrong with them &gt;&gt; Fielenne HermansUtterly fascinating slide deck (no, come back) on a four-year PhD research study looking at spreadsheets (no, come back). Did you know most spreadsheets don't start out with the intention that they'll be business-critical.. they just turn out that way? Or that many contain inherent errors? Plenty of food for thought, and useful links, and tools, here.Tuberculosis map &gt;&gt; BaiduBaidu map of China showing incidence of tuberculosis cases for World TB Day (24 March): an estimated 5m people in the country have it, and each can spread it to between 10 and 15 people.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A cut to the largest internet cable that connects Europe and Asia caused severe service disruption that stretched from from Africa to Pakistan.Chief technology officer at internet connectivity measuring company Renesys, Jim Cowie, said that parts of Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan and India have been in "very tough shape" since the cable was severed. These internet customers get most of their internet service routed from Europe and the US and when the cable was cut,some lost internet connectivity entirely.Cowie said: "When a cable like that gets cut, a lot of the paths between networks get radically changed and we see that within a few seconds."Seacom, asubmarine cablenetwork that provides broadband to Africa and owns the cut cable,said Wednesdaythat the cable had suffered a cut off the coast of Egypt. Following reports that three men had been arrested for cutting the cable,Seacom said Thursdaythat it could not confirm what was responsible for the damage.The disruption comes days after reports of what some touted as the "biggest cyber attack in history." This attack occurred when a group,reported by the New York Times to be hosting site Cyberbunker, launched a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack against spam-filtering company Spamhaus."The impacts are like night and day compared to this DDoS attack, which was a good story, but really didn't cause a widespread global impact," Cowie said.When an undersea cable's service is disrupted, internet service must be rerouted through other cables, significantly impeding an internet service provider's ability to deliver internet service. A DDoS attack is mostly felt by the targeted site, with some collateral damage to nearby internet exchanges."It's messy and physical, they have to go out with a ship, typically, and make a splice," Cowie said. "Depending on where that is, it can take a long time."The predecessor to this undersea cable, SEA-ME-WE-3, has had a service interruption since January after being damaged in the waters of Singapore. Repairs to the cord have been impeded because of delays in obtaining the licensing from the Singapore government allowing it to be fixed.
Egyptian naval forces have arrested three scuba divers who they say were trying to cut an undersea cable off the port of Alexandria that provides one-third of all internet capacity between Europe and Egypt.However the navy who captured the men had no explanation of who they were working for, where they came from or why they would want to disrupt Egypt's internet communications.Pictures on theEgyptian coastguard's Facebook pageshowed the three men tied up on board a boat, and alleged they were cutting an undersea cable partly owned by Telecom Egypt, the country's main communications organisation. The men had been on a fishing boat, said a statement by Colonel Ahmed Mohammed Ali, but offered no other details.Theworld internet submarine cable mapby the telecoms analysis company Telegeography shows that six cables come aground at Alexandria. The men were allegedly trying to cut theSeaWeMe-4(South-east Asia-Middle East-Western Europe-4) cable, able to carry a third of the traffic between Europe and Egypt. Covering a distance of 20,000km, it enters the sea at Marseilles and makes landfall in Annaba in 15 other countries including Sri Lanka, Thailand and India.Map showing the location of Sea-We-Me-4 cable. Source: TelegeographyIt is one of eight undersea cables between Europe and Egypt - so cutting one would not immediately destroy connectivity, but would lead to congestion and slowdowns.However reports earlier this week suggested cable breaks on four cables around Egypt - IMEWE (linking France to India via Alexandria and Suez), TE-North (owned by Telecom Egypt), EIG (Europe India Gateway), and SEA-ME-WE-3, a partner to the cable that was allegedly attacked. That would cause significant interruptions to internet services.Internet services in Egypt have been suffering disruption since 22 March, apparently after a ship's anchor cut through another cable.Worldwide, undersea cables carry 99% of intercontinental internet traffic, and form complex networks across the world. Jim Cowie, co-founder and chief technology officer at the network security company Renesys, said that internet connections had been slowed down as far away as Pakistan and India.Internet connectivity in the Middle East was seriously affected in 2008 whenships' anchors cut through cables, which cut capacity between Europe and Africa by up to 70%.Update: this article was corrected on 31 March 2013 to add the phrase "significant interruptions to internet services" at the end of the sixth paragraph, which had been omitted due to an editing error.
Ebay is preparing a push against Amazon and into developing markets that could see its online marketplace handle $110bn (£72bn) of sales within three years.By 2015, eBay hopes to double its number of users worldwide to 200 million, with a quarter of buyers and sellers living in emerging markets. The volume of sales would rise 47% from today's $75bn, the company said as it set out targets to analysts.Its chief executive, John Donahoe, who succeeded Meg Whitman in 2008, joined as Ebay was losing market share to Amazon, but he has turned the company since reversed its fortunes. "The turnaround is behind us and we are now playing offense," he said. "Ebay is no longer just an e-commerce company. We're a global commerce platform."A Russian language site is planned, to capitalise on the fact that in 2012 Russians bought $400m of goods on the English-language site, placing 30,000 orders a day.Including a rise in the number of transactions managed by its PayPal online payments subsidiary, the company has forecast it will enable $300bn of commerce in 2015, up 71% from $175bn last year.The company is moving away from catering for individuals clearing out their attics and making space in their wardrobes in favour of discount items direct from big brands at fixed prices. About 70% of new goods are sold at fixed price.The market welcomed Donahoe's plans, sending eBay's shares up nearly 4% to $54.
It was launched in a garage in Bellevue, Washington, in 1994, but is now by far the world's largest online retailer – and it strikes fear among high street rivals as it continues to swell.Amazon, founded by the former hedge fund manager Jeff Bezos, has ballooned into a global giant with operations in 11 countries including Canada, China, France, Germany, and Japan as well as the UK. It employs 88,400 people, generated sales of $61bn (£40bn) in 2012, up 27% on the year before, and has a stock market value of $120.6bn, with its shares rising 30% in the last year alone.From its early days selling books, Amazon has branched out into CDs, DVDs, games, consumer electronics, household goods and clothing, and its selection of TV shows, songs, books, apps and games has grown to 23m titles. It continues to expand and offers services from online storage and web hosting to film hire, through its purchase of Lovefilm in 2011.Its technological prowess means it even runs websites for rival retailers including Marks &amp; Spencer. At one point Amazon even ran the online store for Waterstones, its embattled UK rival.Having eaten up the physical book market, becoming the UK's largest bookseller last year, Amazon also leads the way in the future of publishing – electronic books. It controls 45% of worldwide ebook sales according to analysts, thanks to its Kindle reader.Waterstones – nearing its last chapter? Photograph: Sean Smith for the GuardianInvestors see Amazon as a game changer, attacking rivals with low prices and, crucially, excellent service including fast, reliable and low-cost delivery. But the firm has underpinned its low prices by side-stepping taxes.The retailer generates an estimated 10% of its worldwide revenues in the UK, but paid just £2.3m in tax in the most recent three years for which figures are known. Its Luxembourg base means it can charge EU customers just 3% VAT for e-books and music downloads compared with the 20% levied in the UK. Profits collected in the UK and other EU countries are funnelled out via royalty payments for intangibles such as use of the brand or technology.But the EU is piling pressure on Luxembourg to toughen up its tax rules, and the UK government is being pushed to tighten the tax regime exploited by multinationals. However, none of that seems to be having an impact on Amazon's soaring sales as it competitors, from HMV to Woolworths, face existential crises or simply crumble.• This article was amended on 29 March 2013. Because of an editing error, the original version suggested that Amazon currently runs Waterstones' website; it used to, but no longer does so.
In this week's editionJemima Kissmeets Ross Bailey, founder ofAppearhere.co.uka new site that aims to connect pop-up-shop entrepreneurs with commercial landlords. Ross tells Jemima why his ambitions are both cultural and commercial, saying that as traditional retail models wane there is a need for a more innovative shopping culture to take hold on our high streets.In her first 'Email from America' Aleks Krotoski muses on her visit to one of LA's cyber-addiction clinics and wonders where the line is between passion and obsession when it comes to all things digital.We also have a tech news roundup including a collaboration between theUK's secret service and the private sector in the fight against cyber-crimeand why film directorDanny Boyle thinks 3D movie technology may be a fad.
Amazon is facing a revolt from small traders as the internet retailer – which describes itself as "Earth's most customer-centric" company – plans to impose a wave of fee rises on third parties who use its network to sell consumer electronics, automotive parts and other goods in the UK and across Europe.Trader fees on millions of electronic accessories listed on Amazon – including popular items such as memory cards, headphones and printer cartridges – will jump from 7% to 12% for the busiest traders in the UK and four other major European markets from 4 April, just after the Easter weekend.The fee increases – which in some cases amount to as much as 70% – have left traders furious, although none are prepared to go on the record because they are concerned about how Amazon will respond."We are obviously quite worried. We don't know if this will push us under," said one UK trader, who employs five people and asked not to be named. "Is there anything we can do about it? No, they are Amazon."In France, the internet retailer is putting up fees on sales of DVDs, music and video games from about 10% to about 15%. In Germany, fees for traders selling tyres are to be lifted from 7% to 10%. In Britain, sellers of automotive parts face a fee rise from 12% to 15%.Traders are the latest group to express increasing discomfort at the growing might of Amazon, as the Seattle-based group continues to revolutionises the way the world shops – and the way online businesses pay taxes. Andy Street, chief executive of John Lewis, has accused it of "destroying the UK tax base" by recognising all UK sales in Luxembourg and gaining a tax advantage over rivals, while publishers are concerned by the retailer's dominance of the ebook market.Although Amazon began by sourcing and selling products itself, third-party traders have become an important part of its network. Globally, 2 million third-party traders use the site, although the company does not say how many operate in each country.In the runup to last Christmas, almost two in five items bought on the site were sold by its army of small traders. The latest quarterly figures show worldwide revenue for Amazon grew 23% to $21.27bn (£14bn) in the last three months of 2012. Electronics and general merchandise sales outside of North America generated $5.43bn (£3.58bn).A second British trader, who generates more than £1m in sales through Amazon, said: "At the moment I am putting all my efforts into eBay." He said the cost of doing business on eBay would be much lower. As well as demanding lower fees, the trader said, eBay's PayPal business passes on payments promptly, within two or three days, while Amazon holds on to funds for between two to three weeks for smaller traders."It's a huge strain on a small business not being able to access cash we're owed from Amazon. And they're making an absolute fortune in interest."The second trader, who also asked not to be named, said he was preparing to breach strict Amazon rules which stipulate no products on the site can be offered by the same seller at a cheaper price elsewhere. "We are not supposed to, but we will have to have higher prices on Amazon," he said. "I don't think they can enforce pricing. We have to be able to compete with everybody. It should be up to the seller, it shouldn't be up to Amazon."But the first trader warned such a breach of Amazon's third-party sellers' agreement could backfire. His business had been damaged after it was suspended from Amazon for several weeks for offering a product on his own website at a lower price. He predicted the new fees regime next month would result in many smaller traders being forced off Amazon.Similar fee increases were pushed through in the US in January. One angry American trader wrote on an Amazon bulletin board: "Now that Amazon has all the power they're imposing increased fee hikes to all those cozy sellers who have supported Amazon since day one."Another posting read: "Holy Crap! 8% to 15%?! Goodbye good deals from 3rd party sellers on Amazon in the electronics section. That's crazy, that's a huge increase."Meanwhile, fee increases are being seen as an opportunity for rivals such as eBay and Play.com, who are looking to break the stranglehold Amazon has over many areas of online retail. Some of the world's biggest supermarkets, including Walmart and Tesco, have been experimenting with the idea of online marketplaces of their own. Meanwhile Japan's largest online retailer, Rakuten, is already offering an alternative, having bought Play.com in the UK and Priceminister in France.This so-called "marketplace" side of the business has become more lucrative, generating faster growth for Amazon than traditional in-house sales. Amazon makes money by taking a cut of traders' sales and, in some cases, by offering shipment and call centre services. But recent moves by Amazon to increase fees have sparked fury.Amazon, which declined to respond to repeated requests for comment from the Guardian, told sellers in February that the fee rises followed the introduction of a new "web store" category for electronic accessories. "The new store will help to improve customer experience by providing a central destination for millions of unique electronic accessories products, a more intuitive browse structure, and other features," it said.However, the second of the two traders interviewed by the Guardian said: "We didn't ask for a new store or new category that Amazon have forced on us. Customers don't tend to browse a store either – they enter what they're looking for in the search box."He suggested Amazon's market dominance left traders with little recourse. "The government needs to step in and regulate the marketplace sector so businesses and the merchants' livelihoods, and their employees, feel protected. Selling on Amazon is a big risk." Amazon, unlike eBay, also competes directly with its traders, leading to an uneasy relationship in some cases."Companies such as ours – we essentially make the market for them," said the trader. "They see products that are selling the best and then list against them. What used to be your bestselling item is suddenly not your bestselling item. And that's because Amazon sell it. We don't have a chance in hell to compete."Meanwhile, a petition started by an independent bookseller calling on Amazon "to pay their fair share of tax in the UK" has received more than 100,000 signatures. In publishing, Amazon's championing of ebooks has challenged the business models of many well-established businesses, in large part prompting themerger of Random House and Penguin.Amazon has also faced a raft of criticism for its approach to sales taxes. The European commission last year ordered Luxembourg to close a VAT loophole which allowed Amazon to charge just 3% on ebook sales to British readers, rather than the 20% VAT it would have to charge if it were UK-based. In the US, the group is battling with several states about whether it should collect regional sales taxes in areas where Amazon has large customer numbers but no physical presence.Last year, George Osborne moved to close down a VAT loophole exploited by Indigo Starfish, Amazon's "preferred merchant" for CDs and DVDs, which involved shipping goods via the Channel Islands to avoid VAT. He said such trade, on Amazon and elsewhere, was costing £130m a year in lost UK tax receipts and "has been used by large companies to undercut shops on our high street".
High-profile success stories like Amanda Palmer, Ouya, Double Fine Adventure and Pebble have made Kickstarter the first port of call for many creatives and startups looking to raise funds for a new project or device.This month has thrown up three more projects that are of interest to Apps Blog. MiiPC, Tiny Games and Popbitch: The Next Generation are very different beasts, but apps are central to all three.MiiPC, armed with the slogan "Power to the Parents!", is the closest to Ouya, in that it's an Android-powered computer small enough to be held in your hand. Where Ouya focuses on games, though, MiiPC is more of a general-purpose desktop computer aimed at families.It's the work of San Mateo-based startup ZeroDesktop, which in a few days has shot through its $50k fundraising goal. It's nudging $90k at the time of writing with 41 days still to go."MiiPC is a compact personal computing device that runs on the Android operating system. Connect MiiPC to a computer monitor (or TV) and instantly turn it into a learning, media and entertainment station," explains its project listing. "It is designed for large screen connectivity and optimized to provide a true keyboard and mouse experience."Each family member gets their own user account on the computer, which runs the Android Jelly Bean 4.2 software – and thus Android apps of all stripes, from Facebook and Angry Birds to more educational fare.The hook for parents is the MiiPC companion app for iPhone or Android smartphones, with which they'll be able to monitor their children's usage, block access to certain apps and sites if they want to, and set time limitations for others.I can see the appeal, not least because of the projected price: $99. I'm a bit warier of the risk of Big Brother syndrome for parents of older children who may resent the parental oversight, but it's going to be an intriguing project to watch.Tiny Games are designed to be played in the real worldTiny Gamesis a project from UK design agency Hide&amp;Seek, which is shooting for £25k to make "an app that gets you playing the perfect game with your friends". A game in the real world, that is.In fact, it's more a collection of rules for hundreds of micro-games that can be played with other people, with the app providing any necessary digital tools – think dice and timers – as well as keeping track of what you've played. Games will initially be grouped by location: the home, the pub, on the road and on a walk, with Kickstarter backers able to vote for a fifth.Hide&amp;Seek is roping in various designer friends to create games for the app, and there will be filters to ensure only suitable games are suggested for each context:"If you can't run, say, or if you're colourblind, or you're mostly playing with kids and you don't want any games that might tend to the risque, then you can tell the app and it'll take that into account when it works out what game you should play," as the Kickstarter page puts it.Tiny Games appeals to me because it's encouraging people to play together rather than all gaze at separate screens. It's iOS-only in its initial guise, but Hide&amp;Seek says that if the project reaches £45k, it'll make an Android version too. With 15 days to go, just over £10.6k has been pledged.Finally, there'sPopbitch: The Next Generation. It's an iPad app for the UK-based weekly email newsletter and website, which has been going since 1999. Now there's going to be an app for that, if Popbitch can raise £25k."We want to launch a new, spin-off publication - a full-colour, multimedia digital magazine-style edition of Popbitch - built not for email, but for tablets," explains the project pitch. "The scope of tablet technology will help us shine a brighter light into the darkest corners of media, music, politics, sport and technology, even more than can manage in our weekly email."The £25k will fund the development of a test edition of the new app and its distribution to backers, who'll then be able to provide feedback ahead of a full commercial launch.Popbitch sees the app launch as a way to shift the nature of its editorial, rather than just being a whizzy touchscreen way to read its newsletters. "We will continue to put stupid jokes, funny rumours and scurrilous tales from the media and entertainment world into the mix, but this will also greatly increase our capacity to commission exciting and original journalism, proper investigations and innovative features."iPad-only? Popbitch says that the technology it's working on for the app should be usable on other devices, "so should hopefully work across iPads, Galaxies, Nexuses (Nexii?), Kindle Fires without any fuss... we are assured that an Android version is entirely possible and so will be developed if the demand is there."With 21 days to go, Popbitch has raised £12.4k of its £25k goal. It's an interesting test of the strength of its existing community, and also of its willingness to stump up to help a service that's long been free expand to a new platform and business model.
I've sat through more presentations about the way to solve the copyright wars than I've had hot dinners, and all of them has fallen short of the mark. That's because virtually everyone with a solution to the copyright wars is worried about the income of artists, while I'm worried about the health of the internet.Oh, sure, I worry about the income of artists, too, but that's a secondary concern. After all, practically everyone who ever set out to earn a living from the arts has failed – indeed, a substantial portion of those who try end up losing money in the bargain. That's nothing to do with the internet: the arts are a terrible business, one where the majority of the income accrues to a statistically insignificant fraction of practitioners – a lopsided long tail with a very fat head. I happen to be one of the extremely lucky lotto winners in this strange and improbable field – I support my family with creative work – but I'm not parochial enough to think that my destiny and the destiny of my fellow 0.0000000000000000001 percenters are the real issue here.Whatisthe real issue here? Put simply, it's the health of the internet.The copyright wars have eroded the internet's inherent resilience at a time when it is desperately needed. Today's internet is integrated into our lives in ways that have surpassed even the wildest prognostications of the 1980s – it's the default way of signing your kid up for after-school dance classes; for paying your gas bill; for posting videos of police violence; for remitting funds to distant relatives; for getting permission to put up a garden shed; for booking a vacation; for finding out whether you need to go to the A&amp;E; for writing a paper or essay for school; for earning a living – and increasingly for everything else, like buying groceries, shopping for insurance, getting a degree or qualification, and all the other activities that constitute full participation in public life. None of those things are related to the entertainment industry, but none of them are taken into account when the industry's pals in government draw up their plans for fighting "piracy." Everything we do today involves the internet, everything we do tomorrow will require it.The internet is important, but the copyright wars treat it as a triviality: like cable TV 2.0; like the second coming of the telephone; like the world's greatest pornography distribution system. Laws such as the Digital Economy Act provide for disconnecting whole families from the internet without due process because someone in the vicinity is accused of watching TV the wrong way. That would be bad enough, if the internet were merely a conduit for delivering entertainment products. But the internet is a lifeline for families, and giving some offshore entertainment companies the right to take it away because they suspect you of doing them wrong is like giving Brita the power to turn off your family's water if they think you've been abusing your filter; like giving KitchenAid the power to take away your home's mains power if they think you've been using your mixer in an unapproved way.The internet is the best – and often the only – place to publish all sorts of information, and yet England's high court judges have decided that the entertainment industry can compile blacklists of sites they don't like and get court orders demanding that service providers block them without a hearing, much less a trial.The internet only works when it is connected to devices, and so devices that are connected to the internet have proliferated. It's not just the telephone in your pocket – from the CCTV in your doorbell to your kid's latest toy, the category of "standalone device" is rapidly dwindling away to nothing. At futurist Bruce Sterling pointed out in his recent South By Southwest keynote address, a personal computer, c1995, is perfectly capable of processing your words and running your spreadsheets, but you'd be hard-pressed to find someone interested in taking one off your hands. Without networks, the relative value of practically everything dwindles to zero.And yet the EU Copyright Directive and US laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act make it a literal crime to "jailbreak" devices, to install your own software on them, to reverse-engineer the software on them and discover hidden vulnerabilities that might be putting you at risk. Every week brings a fresh example of a device that's less secure than it ought to be – most recently, a presentation at theShmooConsecurity event showed how Wi-Fi-enabled DSLR cameras could be hijacked over the internet and turned into covert CCTVs that streamed secret video of their owners to bad guys. A policy that makes changing the software on a networked device in order to ensure you're not defeating region-controls or subverting the App Store is nothing short of insane.Back to "solutions". I've had a lot of well-meaning people explain how the copyright deadlock can be "solved" by some means that will make it easier to pay artists and the companies that back them. As BitCoin's prominence has grown, so, too, has the prominence of "microtransactions" for use in this context. Since you can exchange a fraction of a BitCoin for free, it may be practical to exchange something like money for tiny dribs of entertainment, opening up payment avenues that have been closed until now. There's still the "mental transaction fee" of deciding whether a few moments' entertainment is worth even a tiny sum, but that's another problem.However, even if microtransactions quintupled the amount of cash flowing toward the entertainment industry, I believe it would do nothing to calm the calls for greater censorship, greater surveillance, and greater control. Experimental psychologists have long documented pathological "loss aversion" – where we pay more attention to what we've lost than what we've gained. The entertainment industry is the poster child for loss aversion – how else to explain the groans and gnashing of teeth about piracy losses that attend each year's glowing box-office numbers? "Sure, we made more at the box office than ever last year, but think of how much more we might have made if not for piracy!"The same goes for boycotts. I'm all for supporting DRM-free, Creative Commons-licensed media, but even if we all give 100% of our entertainment budgets and attention to the open and free, internet-friendly alternatives to Big Content, it will do nothing to distract the entertainment industry from its demands that something be done to solve the "piracy problem."Look, I'm in the industry. It's my bread and butter. If you buy my lovely, CC-licensed books, I make money, and that will make me happy. As a matter of fact, my latest UK edition isPirate Cinema, a young adult science fiction novel about this very subject that won high accolades when it came out in the US last autumn. But I'm not just a writer: I'm also a citizen, and a father and a son. I want to live in a free society more than I want to go on earning my improbable living in the arts. And if the cost of "saving" my industry is the freedom and openness of the internet, then hell, I guess I'll have to resign from the 0.0000000000000000001 percent club.Thankfully, I don't think it has to be. The point is that when we allow the problem to be framed as "How to we get artists paid?" we end up with solutions to my problems, the problems of the 0.0000000000000000001 percent, and we leave behind the problems of the whole wide world.Anti-piracy campaigns emphasise the risk to society if people get the idea that it's OK to take without asking ("You wouldn't steal a car...") but the risk I worry about is that governments will get the idea that regulatory collateral damage to the internet is an acceptable price for achieving "important" policy goals. How else to explain the government's careless inclusion of small-scale bloggers and friends with their own Facebook groups in the scope of the Leveson press regulation? How else to explain Teresa May's determination, in the draft communications bill, to spy on everything we do on the internet?These policy disasters spring from a common error: the assumption that incidental damage to the internet is an acceptable price in the service of your own goals. The only way that makes sense is if you radically discount the value of the internet – hence all the establishment sympathy for contrarian writers who want to tell us all that the internet makes us stupid, or played no role in the Arab spring, or cheapens discourse. Any time you hear someone rubbishing the internet, have a good look around for the some way that person would benefit if the internet was selectively broken in their favour.So what is the solution to the copyright wars? It's the same solution we need to the press-regulation wars, to the war on terror, to the surveillance wars, to the pornography wars: to acknowledge that the internet is the nervous system of the information age, and that preserving its integrity and freedom from surveillance, censorship and control is the essential first step to securing every other desirable policy goal.And what of the entertainment industry and its "piracy" problem? Well, back in 1939, the science fiction writer Robert A Heinlein published his first story, "Life-Line," that contained his truest prediction:"There has grown up in the minds of certain groups in this country the notion that because a man or corporation has made a profit out of the public for a number of years, the government and the courts are charged with the duty of guaranteeing such profit in the future, even in the face of changing circumstances and contrary to public interest. This strange doctrine is not supported by statute or common law. Neither individuals nor corporations have any right to come into court and ask that the clock of history be stopped, or turned back."
Is it possible to move a software program I've installed on my desktop computer to a drive I've just purchased? The program is Serif desktop publishing, and it takes up a lot of memory on my PC. I thought by removing this software, it would help to make my PC work quicker. (I know very little about PCs.)Peter PriceI can't think of any programs that would, on their own, make a big impact on a reasonably modern PC, and Serif's desktop publishing programs certainly shouldn't cause any problems. Serif's freePagePlus Starter Editionis the most common download. This runs on PCs with only 512MB of memory and 100MB of free hard disk space, which is small by today's standards. In fact, any PC purchased since 2007 – the year Windows Vista came out – should have at least 2GB of memory and 100GB or more hard drive space. This is four times the memory and a thousand times the hard drive space required.Add memoryFirst, check that you have enough memory installed. If you have Microsoft Windows XP, press the F1 key to call up the Help and Support Center. Click on the words "Computer information" in the top left corner. This will bring up a box that lists your PC's basic specification. There's an entry on the right for "Memory (RAM)". This should say 2048MB or preferably 3072MB or more. If it says 512MB or 1024MB, then your PC does not have enough memory, and the simplest way to speed it up is to install more.Go to theCrucial.comwebsite, tick the little box to agree to the terms and conditions, and run the Crucial System Scanner to scan your system. If you get stuck, there's a short video to explain how to do it. (You can also watch the video atYouTube.) Click where it says "View Quick Configurations" and the scanner will tell you which chips you can buy to expand your PCs memory.If your PC has, for example, 1GB (ie 1024MB) of memory and two empty memory slots, then you may be able to add two 1GB chips to expand it to 3GB for £30. This is probably the cheapest option if you are running 32-bit Windows XP. Of course, you will have to open up your PC's case to fit the new memory, so it's worth exploring this problem first. Depending on the type of PC you have, there may be aYouTube videoto show how it's done.Recover hard drive spaceSecond, check that you have enough free hard drive space. The best strategy is never to let Windows go below 1GB of free hard drive space, and ideally keep 5GB or more space free. Windows uses a swap file on the hard drive to store working code (pagefile.sys). If it runs out of swap file space, Windows will slow to a crawl.If you don't have much space, make sure you know all the log-on IDs and passwords that you use for various websites, then delete all your Temporary Internet Files. Each browser has its own way of doing this. In Internet Explorer 8, go to Tools and select "Delete Browsing History (Ctrl+Shift+Del)". In Google Chrome, click the hamburger button (three horizontal lines in the top right), select Tools, and then "Clear browsing data". That could free up a couple of gigabytes. It will be much more than you would save by moving Serif's software.Next, download and run Piriform's freeCCleaner. (If you use Google, do not click any Google adverts, and only use piriform.com addresses.) The latest file at the time of writing is ccsetup400.exe. CCleaner will clear out more temporary files left behind by other programs.After running CCleaner, download and runSlimCleanerby clicking Download where it says "or Download from SlimWare Utilities. (It's quicker than using the big green button to download it from Download.com.) SlimCleaner will analyse all the software on your hard drive and help you to decide which programs to uninstall.Click the Software button on the left of SlimCleaner: this will list all the programs on your PC, and give them a "community rating" based on what other users think. Ideally, all your programs will get a green rating for Good, though some will no doubt be optional or unrated. Check any red ones and consider whether you really need them. Click on the ones you don't want, and SlimCleaner will uninstall them. This will free up some more drive space.In passing, note the tab marked Updates. Ideally, all your software should be up to date, because old versions may have known vulnerabilities. SlimCleaner will tell you about new versions and download them for you.Finally, click the SlimCleaner button labelled Disk Tools. This will pop up a box that shows all your hard drives, tells you how big they are, and how much free space they have. If you select your C drive and click Analyze it will tell you which files and folders are taking up the most space. These will usually be music files, movies and photographs. You may want to back some of these up to write-once CD-Rom or DVD discs and copy them to your D drive (if any) or to an external hard drive. Again, this will free up space on your C drive.On my very old Windows XP desktop, for example, I have 25.3GB of my own photos, 11.1GB of interview files and 8.6GB of movies. These take up 10x the space of my 4.3GB of program files, which includes 677MB of Microsoft Office 2007. I can't imagine a case where it would make more sense to move a useful program to an external drive rather than shift or delete 800MB of interviews about the launch of Windows 7.Alternatively, I could buy and install a second internal hard drive in an empty drive bay, and use it to store all my digital data. This would be a cheaper option than buying a new PC.Moving programsPeople do sometimes move applications from one internal disk to another because they want to devote a whole drive to a heavyweight program such as a movie editor. This is tricky because the file paths – which tell Windows where to find things – are stored in the Windows registry. If you just move the program files without changing all the registry paths, the program will stop working.There are a few utilities that will move programs, such asSymMover. However, I prefer to uninstall programs from one drive and install them on the other. It's the most reliable method.In theory, you could move an application to an external drive, but this is usually a bad idea. The question is: how slow is the connection to the external drive? If you have a fast new PC with a Thunderbolt drive then it should be fine. If you have an external hard drive on a USB 1.0 or 2.0 cable, then it's too slow for something like desktop publishing.One option that works for some programs, especially small ones, is to install them on a removable USB Flash memory stick or thumb-drive. This is a handy way to carry aroundutilitiesand a fewessential programsfor use on other people's PCs. But it's usually faster to run programs from the PC's local hard drive.To sum up: don't think about moving frequently-accessed software. Move rarely-accessed data instead.For a more general answer from 2010, see:10 steps to speed up a slow Windows PC.• This article was amended on 29 March 2013 to correct the fact that Windows Vista was released in 2007, not 2005 as originally stated
BlackBerry is on the rebound after returning to profit and revealing healthy demand for its first smartphone, with a million of its Z10 handsets shipped in their first month on sale.Founder Mike Lazaridis took the opportunity to retire on the relative high of the embattled phonemaker's better-than-expected annual results, announcing he would be step down as vice-chairman and leave the board of directors on 1 May.After successive rounds of job cuts, BlackBerry posted a $98m (£82.9m) net profit for the final quarter of its financial year, up from $9m the previous quarter and a loss of $125m in the same period a year ago.However, the number of subscribers to BlackBerry's network – users pay a fee for services and access to the company's secure data pipes – fell faster than expected, from 79 million last quarter to 76 million.The chief executive, Thorsten Heins, promised results would show the company breaking even in the next quarter, based on a "lower cost base, more efficient supply chain, and improved hardware margins". The improvement will come despite a 50% increase in marketing spending to support the global launch of BlackBerry 10, its new smartphone software platform."With the launch of BlackBerry 10, I believe I have fulfilled my commitment to the board," Lazaridis said. "Thorsten and his team did an excellent job in completing BlackBerry 10. We have a great deal of which to be proud. I believe I am leaving the company in good hands. I remain a huge fan of BlackBerry and, of course, wish the company and its people well."Analysts described the million sales mark of the Z10 as "stellar", given the handset went on sale in the UK just four weeks before BlackBerry's financial year end on 2 March, and did not reach the crucial US market until last week."The million devices sold is a sign that BlackBerry achieved decent if not stellar traction in the quarter for its new devices," said Ovum analyst Jan Dawson. "Given the supply constraints, late launch in the US and the decision to launch the Q10 later, this is a good start for the platform."BlackBerry is expected to produce further BB10 models this year, including a version with both touchscreen and physical keyboard called the Q10 in April. Sales of older generation BlackBerrys drifted down to 5m, from 6.9m last quarter, as demand for the handsets dwindled around the world.During the last year, BlackBerry has made more money in Africa than on any other continent. Here, revenues fell from $4.5bn to $1.2bn, but the total was still well above the $587m earned in North America, the firm's second highest grossing region.Illustrating just how painful BlackBerry's decline has been, annual revenues have collapsed 40% from the previous year to just over $11bn, with $628m of operating losses accumulated since March 2012.While critics have dismissed the PlayBook, BlackBerry's answer to the iPad, the tablet computers have continued to sell, with 370,000 shipped in the quarter.
Earlier this month, the Bafta video game awards seemed to show an industry in rude health, with innovative indie titles sharing the honours with interesting mainstream success stories like Dishonored and Far Cry 3.But with the cost of development rising, a new console generation on the horizon and radical new billing methods emerging (hello microtransactions!), this is also one of the most disruptive and unpredictable periods in the history of gaming.So what happens next? After the awards, I sat down with four veteran developers who are also members of Bafta's video game committee, which oversees the organisation's gaming commitments: Harvey Elliott was a studio head at Electronic Arts before leaving to become MD of middleware specialist,Marmalde; Paulina Bozek, once the executive producer of Sony's SingStar series, now runs social games studioInensu; Georg Backer is with Jonathan Ross'sHotsauce Interactive, after several years at Lionhead; and Andy Payne is MD ofMastertronicand chairman of industry trade body, UKIE.I got them all together to discuss the state of the industry and the future of games. Here's what they had to say – with the 15 key points highlighted...Let's look back at the Bafta video game awards briefly. Indie games did really well, with Journey, Unfinished Swan and The Room all winning in their categories. What does that say about the industry?Harvey Elliott:I was really pleased just to see so many indies nominated and fighting across the board with the big guys, and then to see so many of those indies win – deservedly so. It was a really positive award ceremony. I think the Bafta committee is much more representative of the industry as a whole now. It means we can champion new things better than we've been able to in the past.Andy Payne:I think it really reflects the industry. I feel that the tipping point is here, things are changing. It showed that[1] you can spend as much money as you want or as little as you can afford, and you can make great games. I mean, to see New Star Soccer going up against Fifa, and winning! That was a legendary moment for me. A lot of the developers I spoke to that night were saying, 'I'm inspired now, I want to win!' I've never seen that before.Georg Backer:The important thing is, all the games deserved to be there – it wasn't just a case of having to represent the indie community.AP:And so many of the entries this year weren't shooting games! Most video game awards are all about shooting games. But that's not what games are about.Paulina Bozek:I was really interested to see the Game Developers Conference survey, which came out a few days before the Bafta awards. It's the biggest industry meeting we have, and more than half of the attendees are targeting mobile platforms, which lend themselves well to indie developers. So the awards were really in-step with what's happening.But even beyond the indie titles, it was good to see some slightly more interesting Triple A titles doing well…AP:Yes, Dishonored winning best game. A new franchise and an amazing title.It's very encouraging – we're heading into a new console generation and usually at this point we're talking about visuals and processing power. But it seems that the games people are playing and discussing are just as likely to be New Star Soccer or Journey…HE:It shows people care about gameplay. I mean, I don't sit looking at good mainstream titles like Far Cry 3 thinking, 'oh that's not quite good enough, if only we had a little bit more processing power'. I don't think what we're desperate for right now is a surge of new technology, what we need is phenomenal gameplay and phenomenal experiences.AP:The whole sense of iteration has changed. There are new tablets coming out all the time – we're not waiting years for new technologies now. That's going to be an interesting challenge for the console makers.GB:Ease of development is so important too. You have access to digital distribution but you also have tools that enable you to make games fairly easily – or at least to overcome the technology barrier. Your creative mind is the limit. Look at theDare to Be Digitalwinners; look atThe Room– that's by a bunch of guys that started as outsourcers. They had one coder![2] So that's it now – with the right tools anyone can build something amazing.So it's about ideas, but you can't deny it's also about the availability of new platforms. Without tablets, The Room wouldn't have been possible…PB:Sure, these are platforms that people really enjoy playing on. It's a really visceral experience playing The Room on iPad. At the same time, those devices are totally open so they allow for experimentation, they allow for small studios, they allow for iteration and trying things out. You have literally millions of chances, as a gamer, to find something incredible, that may be on its sixth or seventh iteration. That's missing from the consoles. But I think in the next generation, that will be the direction they go in – it's not so much a technological leap, it will be about opening up access and making things more flexible; to give people the freedom to create in an environment that's currently quite closed and difficult.That definitely seems to be what Sony was trying to say at the PS4 launch – the hardware and infrastructure seem to be designed to allow more experimentation…PB:I think it would be amazing if the consoles got to the stage where, if you have a big IP that's on its fifth sequel or something, and they're flogging the same thing over and over,[3] imagine if they opened those big franchises up to third-parties who could then create extensions that take the series in new directions.I think about it from the social and family games angle – a lot of those games have reached their pinnacle, but there's so much more experimentation and innovation left if you could open up those systems, to allow developers to create their own expansions and extensions. It would be super interesting.HE:That's the world that Gabe Newell has been exploring at Valve. Look at Half-Life and the tech they created.They opened that upand Portal came from that, Counter Strike came from that. It's exactly the industry we need.[4] For the consoles to survive, they absolutely have to be open marketplaces, where anyone can put their content out.Of course there's still room for big publishers to put out phenomenal Triple A content, but anything should be possible. I have a lot of respect for what Valve has achieved with Steam – consoles need to be right in the heart of that space too, to be competitive.So is there a possible future model where publishers cede out sequels, or at least spin-offs, to indies? I mean, would Dead Space 3 have been better if they'd have given it to, I don't know,Parsac productionsor Jasper Byrne, who madeLone Survivor?GB:I actually think there have been some really good sequels over the last year: Far Cry 3, the new Hitman title… But I think there's a realisation that's come out of the indie scene – that what players focus on is gameplay. You can't just do a blockbuster anymore. A while back you'd play the games that were given to you by the big publishers – they owned the playing field. But over the last two years the exposure of indie games has made those publishers realise that sequels have to be really, really good.And the big publishers are taking notice of indie now – Minecraft has shown there's an enormous business there.PB:In some ways, as an indie, you have less space to get it wrong, you can't afford to have major flaws in there, especially if you're a new studio working on a new idea that doesn't have a huge marketing push behind it. You just have to be great. There's passion as an indie, there's an intense work ethic – you have nothing to help you out. You have to just do it.AP:Fan-generated content is becoming much more important. And feedback is everything.[5] The relationship between creator and consumer is everything – it's a fascinating time.We're just at the beginning of this. As gamers, we've always played what we've been served. We'd wait, we were served, we'd play. Now that has stopped. You get the game and sometimes it changes within a day because of feedback, especially on the mobile devices. This is a much more democratic approach and I think that's going to change the way business is done.[6] All this working on a game for two years, NDA'ed up to your eyes, bored out of your brain… nobody want's that, the creators certainly don't. It's too much, it burns people out.And then they get their game out into the world and the world just shrugs its shoulders. The creators end up saying, 'well, why did we bother?' Well, get the game our earlier! See what's going in the community.PB:Whether you're an indie or a big studio, making a hit and getting a game out there among consumers takes time, it really does take time. There are less instant successes now.[7] You may need 12 months of iteration to get that sweet spot, to get the mechanics right and get the audience involved.For indies that's difficult because you have to sustain yourself – even if the revenue's not there you have to keep refining…Well, of course, Minecraft turned that into a business model, charging for the alpha and then inviting the community to become paying QA testers!HE:Those trends are happening all over the place, whether it's Minecraft or the Kickstarter approach to development, people are signing up as fans to something and saying, yes, I want to see what this team can create. And there's the free-to-play model where people can get something, try it and then decide, yeah, I believe in this and I'll invest in it. It's so much nicer as a consumer of games to be able to experience them in so many different ways, whether that's paying upfront, or investing in something you've had the chance to influence, or you pay for something very small and chose to pay more as you go along. All of these models support the indie community and as long as the platforms continue to support the indie community the industry will absolutely thrive. The blockbusters will still have their chance as well.So what can Sony and Microsoft learn from the current industry - and how can this be applied to their forthcoming machines?AP:Both Xbox and PlayStation are massive brands - millions of people know what they are. The challenge is to develop an ecosystem that supports all sorts of games – that's about connectivity, it's also about being smart.HE:As Andy said earlier, there is new hardware going out all the time now, in the form of smartphones and tablets. These are forcing the market to move on, they have amazing connectivity, you have digital downloads, instant play, immediate ways to get into games... They also have a social media layer sitting in the background: most games let you post to Twitter, post to Facebook, create a social connection. Microsoft did well at this with the gamer score and achievements, and Sony had a go too. I feel like those are the areas they need to be looking at.[8] The ecosystem is important, but also it's that social setting where people can talk about the games, get involved with the games, have feedback to developers… as long as the platforms support that they will thrive.They could lose their market by ignoring the smartphones and tablets.It seems that the console manufacturers are increasingly interested in indie gaming, but they still haven't made it that easy to get on their platforms.GB:But indie gamesarethere - this is really the first console generation that this has happened. It will be interesting to see what happens with those big next-gen machines – will there be indie launch titles? You need to open up and let people in early. You need to get that momentum at launch.PB:On the game level,[9] one of the things that's really come through this year about the console manufacturers is the ability to spot something special - like Journey or Unfinished Swan. Both of those came from schools, they came through the experimental route.Sony spotted them, gave them a big platform and it really worked out. That's something platform holders can do really well - elevating something to a new level. In terms of opening it up to developers, it's two-fold. It's the infrastructure and architectural makeup of the system, which Sony seems to have committed to making easier. But currently there are also a lot of administrative processes to publishing on console, even on PSN which is supposed to be for light, snack-sized games. You still have to go through the traditional routes. These just need to be re-jigged – it's not like you to build the whole system again from scratch.AP:You have to let the thing live a bit. They still have this need to control. And this whole idea of exclusive games - the younger generation just do not understand why you can't play Halo on your PlayStation or Uncharted on your Xbox. It's a ridiculous system - it needs to go away.HE:There's been a big change. Over the last two hardware iterations, 80% of the games market was console. That's where you had to be if you wanted visibility. But now, Steam has re-ignited the PC gaming sector, Apple and Android have created a new indie market… consoles will have to embrace this new era; if they don't, games will still exist without them. Consumers nowadays have more than one device - they may own a console, but they'll also carry a smartphone or a tablet, they have lots of ways to access content - and they're less fussy. Walking Dead is the same experience whether you're playing it on a high-spec PC or an iPhone.PB:I love the Walking Dead on an iPad - not just for the touch interface, but because it can go anywhere with you. I mean, imagine being a 12 year-old camping out in the backyard and playing this! It would be so frightening, but so cool! The overall experience exists beyond the graphics.AP:The console manufactures, I think,haverealised that they're not the only game in town anymore. I mean, there used to be these battles between Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft and developers were in the middle of it. But now you can zoom out, Star Wars-style, and there's a whole galaxy beyond them: Apple, Google, Samsung… They're all interested in content and they put the console companies into perspective. The console in isolation, won't work.HE:I remember when the Super Nintendo launched in the UK - it had three games. Three games! And then you're waiting for months for something else to happen.And that's exactly what they've done with Wii U!GB:I think[10] the attention span of gamers has reduced dramatically.I used to know the release schedule for two years ahead! I don't know what's coming out in two weeks anymore! I don't need to have that attention span anymore. There's so much great stuff happening, on every platform. And I love the fact that with Steam, when I've bought a game, I can download it on PC and then I can download it on my Mac, it doesn't matter. How awesome is that?HE:And it's the ecosystem as well, it's the whole scale from the indie guys to the big blockbusters.Are we really heading toward an era of digital only games?HE:I don't know, but my kids don't care if they have the box or not!PB:And where are you going to buy these non-digital games anyway?I guess it's Amazon or a supermarket now for a lot of people…GB:But then my broadband at home is rubbish. Sometimes I miss being able to just run out and buy a game at the local shop. And people do still like special editions...HE:Ultimately it's not the delivery platform that matters, it's the gameplay experience.AP:My company almost went bust because of console publishing. Not because the games didn't sell, but because it cost a load of money to manufacture the physicals stock. And then you're feeding that into a retail market where you're not paid until the product is sold. The shops are not taking any risk. If you're a small developer you have to go cap in hand to the console manufacturer and then to Walmart, Bestbuy and Game, none of which take on any risk. That's why you had sequel after sequel after sequel. It's a spreadsheet game and it just got tiring foreveryone.HE:And if you're on console you're paying the fee for the discs to be printed.AP:And then if you want your game to be seen on the shelves you have to put out more than one copy per store - you need multiple copies and you have to start buying space. I mean, the game shops have been selling space rather than games for bloody years - and they wonder why suddenly we don't want that stuff anymore. With digital it means you put your investment and your time upfront and then you can release it - if it doesn't sell, it might be a disaster, but you don't have the follow-on disaster of unsold stock. The issue that's coming through now is, what should games be priced at? What is the true price that people are prepared to pay? Because there are no physical goods, it means there's more flexibility.[11] If you have a Steam sale over one weekend, you can pay for your company for three months - that's with a game you haven't touched for a while, an older title that's just hanging around.PB:The big challenge is still discoverability. Instead of the problem of retail, now you've got thousands and thousands of games.[12] You have to build a fanbase and as a developer you spend as much time thinking about that as you do working on the actual game.GB:Community building is essential.AP:You know, the retailers are looking around trying to find something to do, how about showcasing the people who make the games? What about being arealshowroom for games, rather than a place where you go and buy stuff?HE:When you're thinking of buying a game, it's the community opinion that matters.[12] If you had retail supporting that channel, saying, 'here's who made the game, here's what the community thinks of it, here's a recommendation you can trust and buy into', then they've got a place…What we seem to be seeing from the successful independent book retailers is that the future of high street retail is about aggregation and personal service…HE:I get that experience from Waterstones. You go in to the store and I feel like they've read the books – they give you recommendations, they give you guidance, I like the way that works. I don't know how their model is sustainable because they carry bucket loads of stock, but the model has to be more than 'this is a place where you go and collect something', because if it's just that, you can go to Tesco.Digital has also brought in a new type of game experience – things like Journey and The Room that you can finish in three hours. Well, that's okay now because there's a pricing model that can support that.AP:In shops you've just got a couple of price bands. I mean, we've had no end of discussions… before World of Goo became this huge sensation, I cut a deal to put it in a box. Could I get a retailer to take it? They'd never heard of it. I said, look I reckon this game should be about six pounds. They'd say ten. I'd say, well no, I think six. So then they'd say, 'okay, five'. So we'd go with that, but they're not making enough money and neither are we. But in digital, you can set your own price and see what the market does. You can take your chances.PB:The Holy Grail is trying to talk to both casual and hardcore audiences. Games like The Room and Journey do that. They still offer deep experiences.[13] We're no longer looking at non-hardcore as shallow. It doesn't have to be shallow and throwaway, it just means accessible.It's great that we've got to that point.GB:I actually think video game marketing has moved on. It used to be about how many levels there were and how many weapons, but now it's more about the experience you'll get. It's more like cinema advertising now.But there seems to be a fascinating neurosis in game design now. Titles like Tomb Raider and Far Cry 3 are constantly offering the player side-quests and mini-quests: do that, try this, do you want to go down a tomb? Here you go! Do you want to race a quad-bike for a bit? Be our guest, here it is… They seem to be paranoid that if you're given a few seconds to think, you'll get bored and play an iPhone game.HE:That's because you will! Five years ago, gamers bought five titles a year, that's it. The tie ratios on PlayStation 2 were like three or four to one. Now, gamers own hundreds of games, they've got them on their phones, on Facebook… The big games are afraid that if they don't continually remind you of all the brilliant things you haven't yet done, you'll lose interest.GB:I do play Angry Birds when a console game is loading![14] But on mobile, a lot of games remind you if you haven't done anything for a while; they'll message you – come back and I'll give you something. That's something that maybe the next generation of consoles should think about. How can we engage with players while they're not playing?HE:But back to this question of physical goods and whether or not there's a space for them. I think there is, because with digital, bandwidth is a problem and storage is a problem: unless your download speed is huge and your hard drive is massive, you WILL need physical space. Steam is great - you can reload titles back on to your system, but bandwidth is finite. I know I can re-install all my games onto iPad, but it is constantly full. So that's where physical product will always have room, especially if it's Blu-ray size with a ton of storage space.The interesting thing with PlayStation 4 that very few people picked up on, was this sense of instant access – Sony bought Gaikai so that people could choose a digital game and start playing it immediately. They want to banish load times for updates and patches. Sony wants PS4 to work like TV with each game acting like a different immediately available channel.PB:That's an interesting thought – that PS4 wants to be more like a media company with games as channels. At the same time we have media companies who are trying to become more like games. TV viewership is dying and the way you watch TV… to watch a channel that is mass broadcast is just so alien a lot of time. Everything is personalised. But then to think of games companies as media companies streaming game channels – that changes everything. That's so interesting.HE:It's fascinating to watch all these different industries, all these different media converging into social connected experiences…GB:The thing is, it is just another form of entertainment now. There are people in my family who are better at Angry Birds than me, but if I say, 'you're a gamer', they deny it. It's entertainment…And everyone wants to capture those people! Everyone wants to be their single source of entertainment – whatever it is.AP:Look, I have capped broadband, and someone asked earlier why I put up with that. Well, it's because I've always had the same broadband supplier. It's like bank accounts – we rarely change them. So you have big players like Virgin and Sky battling to get you as a customer because they know, once they have you, you're unlikely to go anywhere else. Those guys are desperate to ensure they're The One. And the TV guys like Sharp and Samsung are saying, no, we're The One, because we have the screen! Everyone wants to be The One. And you can only have one The One! You see companies like Microsoft trying to do everything…PB:Well,[15] if you want to be The One you need to be a software platform, not a hardware platform.A lot of the companies trying to be The One have a physical interest, whether that's a pipeline or whatever – that's a lot harder to iterate or change. It will be easier to be The One with software. Although we haven't talked about Ouya or Gamestick at all – they have a role to play, but it's a little way off...HE:So to answer you're question from the beginning, it's a very exciting time to be in the industry!
I sort of knew this might happen. Dan Dawkins, the ex-editor of PSM3, isn't just a fan of the Metal Gear series; he's something of an obsessive. He's spent the last 18 months analysing Hideo Kojima's tweets, watching out for teasers and unlocking the many clues and red herrings Konami has thrown out about the future of the defining stealth series.So when the publisher released its new Metal Gear Solid V trailer on Wednesday night, I contacted him and asked what he thought of it all. And he thought about it alot. "Bottom line: Kojima has orchestrated a masterful reveal for MGS V, even if the 'secret' has been fairly obvious since internet detectives found 'Metal Gear Solid V' written in the negative space of The Phantom Pain logo," he says. "It'sthe journey, not the destination – and Kojima reveals little that isn't a deliberate clue, or a slavish troll of his dedicated audience. It's why I love MGS."So what does he make of the announcement – specifically the role that Ground Zeroes will play, and its relationship to the Phantom Pain main event? It now seems clear that they'll be separate releases. "MGS: GZ is most likely a form of prequel," he says. "That's in line with Kojima's recent hints – in an Edge interview I conducted – that he's hoping to trial 'pilot episodes' of forthcoming games; to test the audience's appetite, and alleviate the risk, plus potential cost, of next-gen development. MGS: GZ is clearly set after the events of the PSP's MGS: Peace Walker, circa 1974, and in the new MGS V trailer, we see the 'mother base' (the oil rig) that you spend all of Peace Walker building, getting blown to pieces. In The Phantom Pain hospital segment, we see Snake in his sneaking suit (from MGS: GZ and MGS: PW) suffering a cardiac arrest and entering a coma – presumably after events in MGS: GZ or the mother base attack."Still, it's not that clear in terms of chronology, and MGS V's lead character Big Boss has been in two comas during his life in the official MGS canon. The first – a mere one year coma in 1972 – leads to the events of Les Enfants Terrible and the birth of Solid and Liquid Snake (plus later Solidus). The second is considerably longer, more in tune with the 'nine years' quoted in the MGS5 trailer, even if the timeline isn't such a neat fit. MGS PW ends in 1974, and the second coma is supposed to take place in 1999, after the events of Zanzibar Land. Big Boss enters the coma after being defeated by his son… Solid Snake. Look, I didn't say this was straightforward."And the trailer?"The trailer is like opening a Pandora's box… full of Russian dolls," he says. "For every answer, we get another question. Now we know how MGS: Ground Zeroes and The Phantom Pain are linked… but not what it means for the wider sweep of MGS V. Essentially, I see them both as prequel chapters for a bigger open-world game, likely leading to the set up of 'Soldier's haven' Outer Heaven, with huge free roaming levels possibly set in Africa. That's not something I've invented – once again, it's all in the initial research. The really interesting bit is what Hideo Kojima is trying tosay. Why did he orchestrate such an elaborate reveal campaign? What's with the invention of a fake developer, Moby Dick Studios, and the use of the words 'Call me Ishmael' – the first words of Moby Dick – in the MGS V gameplay footage?"Kojima's never shied from social commentary, and I think there's something to be said about the deliberate blurring of reality and fantasy, as a means to comment on our 'always on' society. At last year's E3, Kojima talked about getting old and making a game about 'love and family'. Only a few weeks ago, he said this was still in his mind, but he was more concerned with turning 50, how this made him feel, and a sense of duty to his fans: the need to pass on something worthwhile. What greater concern might we have for the young generation than the rise of the virtual? The way we can dissociate ourselves from reality with tablets, phones, social media, games etc – is this healthy?"I might be wrong, of course, but the original Phantom Pain trailer explicitly asked us to consider 'Is this real?' with phrases like 'Open your eyes'. Let's be honest, that bandaged guy in the hospital isn't a real person… but a subconscious projection of a damaged psyche recovering from a coma. I've got a fair bit of evidence to support that but, hey, it's fun to have secrets – and we all need to sleep."Dan has written his own timeline and study of the MGS V sagahereand it's well worth a read. Thank you, Dan. You can go and have a lie down now.Meanwhile, TheSixthAxis has a lengthy look at what Kojima and his team revealed about the new Fox Engineright here:"Then they described the PhotoScan system, which allows for models to be generated from photographs of real-world items, including humans. This is done by creating a cast, then adding special makeup effects to it before scanning it in. They couldn't show the final character right now but they showed a very genuine-looking model that had been taken from the cast directly, involving a complex wireframe which allows wrinkles and other blemishes to be kept faithful to its real-world counterpart."Which all sounds... unlikely on the PS3 and Xbox 360. But then, as the game was shown off at GDC on a high-end PC, it's very possible MGS V will straddle the console generations with a next-gen special edition. Frankly, given what's happened so far, anything is possible.
Hundreds of thousands of Britons are unsuspecting participants in one of the internet's biggest cyber-attacks ever – because their broadband router has been subverted.Spamhaus, which operates a filtering service used to weed out spam emails, has been under attack since 18 March after adding a Dutch hosting organisation called Cyberbunker to its list of unwelcome internet sites. The service has "made plenty of enemies", said one expert, and the cyber-attack appeared to be retaliation.A collateral effect of the attack is that internet users accustomed to high-speed connections may have seen those slow down, said James Blessing, a member of the UK Internet Service Providers' Association (ISPA) council."It varies depending on where you are and what site you're trying to get to," he said. "Those who are used to it being really quick will notice." Some people accessing the online streaming site Netflix reported a slowdown.Spamhaus offers a checking service for companies and organisations, listing internet addresses it thinks generate spam, or which host content linked to spam, such as sites selling pills touted in junk email. Use of the service is optional, but thousands of organisations use it millions of times a day in deciding whether to accept incoming email from the internet.Cyberbunker offers hosting for any sort of content as long, it says, as it is not child pornography or linked to terrorism. But in mid-March Spamhaus added its internet addresses to its blacklist.In retaliation, the hosting company and a number of eastern European gangs apparently enlisted hackers who have in turn put together huge "botnets" of computers, and also exploited home and business broadband routers, to try to knock out the Spamhaus system."Spamhaus has made plenty of enemies over the years. Spammers aren't always the most lovable of individuals, and Spamhaus has been threatened, sued and [attacked] regularly," noted Matthew Prince of Cloudflare, a hosting company that helped the London business survive the attack by diverting the traffic.Rather than aiming floods of traffic directly at Spamhaus's servers – a familiar tactic that is easily averted – the hackers exploited the internet's domain name system (DNS) servers, which accept a human-readable address for a website (such as guardian.co.uk) and spit back a machine-readable one (77.91.248.30). The hackers "spoofed" requests for lookups to the DNS servers so they seemed to come from Spamhaus; the servers responded with huge floods of responses, all aimed back at Spamhaus.Some of those requests will have been coming from UK users without their knowledge, said Blessing. "If somebody has a badly configured broadband modem or router, anybody in the outside world can use it to redirect traffic and attack the target – in this case, Spamhaus."Many routers in the UK provided by ISPs have settings enabled which let them be controlled remotely for servicing. That, together with so-called "open DNS" systems online which are known to be insecure helped the hackers to create a flood of traffic."British modems are certainly being used for this," said Blessing, who said that the London Internet Exchange — which routes traffic in and out of the UK — had been helping to block nuisance traffic aimed at Spamhaus.The use of the DNS attacks has experts worried. "The No 1 rule of the internet is that it has to work," Dan Kaminsky, a security researcher who pointed out the inherent vulnerabilities of the DNS years ago, told AP."You can't stop a DNS flood by shutting down those [DNS] servers because those machines have to be open and public by default. The only way to deal with this problem is to find the people doing it and arrest them."
It's Thursday and I'm back from Scandinavia! How are you?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntroducing Forecast &gt;&gt; Forecast blogSounds nifty, applies all over the globe:We've gathered hour-by-hour observations from tens of thousands of ground stations world-wide, in some places going back a hundred years. We expose it as a sort of "time machine" that lets you explore the past weather at any given location. We've also used the data to develop statistical forecasts for any day in the future. For example, say you have an outdoor family reunion in 6 months: with the time machine, you can see what the likely temperature and precipitation will be at the exact day and hour.Wouldn't be so sure about that, looking out the window. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Apple's broken promise: why doesn't iCloud 'just work'? &gt;&gt; The VergeNearly two years [after its launch], customers demand iCloud integration more than ever from third-party developers, but it's a total mess to implement. "iCloud hasn't worked out for us,"wroteDaniel Pasco, CEO of development studio Black Pixel this past week. "We spent a considerable amount of time on this effort, but iCloud and Core Data syncing had issues that we simply could not resolve."Pocketlead developer Steve Streza piled on with a cuttingtweet: "Remember that @blackpixel has many of the brightest people in Cocoa development. If they couldn't get iCloud working, who can?"… iCloud apparently chokes hard on the databases it's supposed to be so proficient at handling. From a user perspective, this means that despite a developer's best efforts, data disappears, or devices and data stop syncing with each other.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Android apps closing the revenue gap with iOS apps rapidly &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:One of the most interesting trends popping up in the conversation with [Craig] Palli [of Fiksu] was that two years ago, an iPhone user was worth more than twice as much as an Android smartphone user in revenue generation. A year ago, that lead shrunk to iPhone users being 50% more valuable – and right now, if the app is designed specifically for Android and some segmentation is considered, the revenue generation potential is the same.This change coincides with the leading Android smartphone vendor, Samsung, pulling decisively ahead of Apple in smartphone volume sales and Google's attempts to improve the Google Play user experience in order to attract more high-value customers. As the Android market has consolidated around Samsung, the splintering problem that has been plaguing the ecosystem has shrunk.Apple alleges $85 million error in court's damages order regarding two Samsung phones &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsApple claims to have found an error on Judge Koh's part to the tune of $85m (approximately 19% of the total vacated amount): she thought the jury had granted, on the basis of an impermissible legal theory presented by Apple at its own peril, $40,494,356 for the Galaxy S II AT&amp;T and $44,792,974 for the Infuse 4G, but Apple points out that Samsung's own admissions concerning the dates of first sale of these products as well as certain exhibits consistent with those admissions prove that the relevant theory - disgorgement of profits for design patent infringement - was permissible.If Dickens were alive, he would have his modernJarndyce v Jarndyce.Google Plus &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansThe only country where Google+ is top of the social networking category [for iOS downloads] is Albania.Of course, 'Google Plus' is arguably a catch-all name for a project to get all Google users to be logged into a unified system and, as importantly, to stay logged in when they leave Google: that way any page you visit with a 'share on Google Plus' button will be linked to your ID and allow Google to improve targeting. To that extent, getting people to go to the Google Plus homepage isn't the main objective.The DDoS that knocked Spamhaus offline (and how we mitigated It) &gt;&gt; CloudFlare blogMatthew Prince:The largest source of attack traffic against Spamhaus came from DNS reflection. I'vewritten about these attacks beforeand in the last year they have become the source of the largest Layer 3 DDoS attacks we see (sometimes well exceeding 100Gbps). Open DNS resolvers are quickly becoming the scourge of the Internet and the size of these attacks will only continue to rise until all providers make aconcerted effort to close them. (It also makes sense to implementBCP-38, but that's a topic for another post another time.)The European Court of Human Rights rejects an appeal of The Pirate Bay Verdict... &gt;&gt; Digital Music NewsHelienne Lindvall:Because the court recognized that copyright was protected under both the Swedish copyright law and the European Convention on Human Rights, the court ruled that the Convention required balancing the human rights of artists over any other rights of the defendants. This ruling is yet another blow to the Pirate Party's raison d'être.'Ogooglebar' ... and 14 other Swedish words we should incorporate Into English immediately &gt;&gt; The AtlanticMegan Garber has the lowdown. They're all great. Hope to hear them (and see them) translated in the subtitles of some upcoming foreign-language series involving police or politicians soon.Path's Dave Morin on Circa, Mailbox, and the secret app he invented to talk to his assistant &gt;&gt; Vanity FairSample question and answer:Ringtone?: None."I don't use a ring of any kind on my phone. This is so that I am always on offense and never defense."And that's before we get on to the custom walnut-back case.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google Glass glasses will be manufactured in the United States, an example of manufacturing returning from the far east to the west, according to reportsThe manufacturing will be carried out by Hon Hai Precision Industry, the Taiwanese company better known as Foxconn at a factory in Santa Clara, California, according to the Financial Times.Google's plans follow Apple's intention to invest $100m (£66m) in American manufacturing and President Barack Obama's stated desire to see more American manufacturing,Google glasses, known as Project Glass, are wearable computers, with cameras and voice recognition which connect to the internet via a smart phone.Google will give 8,000 people the opportunity to pay £1,000 to buy protoypes in the coming weeks with general sale expected by the end of the year.The small scale and experimental nature of the manufacturing makes it desirable to base production in California to allow constant monitoring and updating. Initially, the numbers produced will be small. If the product is a success, they could be mass produced in China. Components will be produced in Asia but assembled in California.Neither Foxconn or Google would comment on the reports.
For a sizable number of stealth gaming fanatics, the world exploded on Wednesday, and the epicentre was San Francisco. In short,Metal Gear Solid Vhas been announced. Hideo Kojima, the series creator, was speaking at the Game Developers Conference when he revealed that previously hinted games The Phantom Pain and Ground Zeroes were both, in fact, part of MGS V.Konami is being secretive on how the previously separate titles will combine, but both will be integral to the experience[UPDATE]though Ground Zeroes is like to be a separate release, arriving before the main title. After the GDC session, Kojima himself explained, "Ground Zeroes is a prologue of MGS V. Nine years after that event will be The Phantom Pain. MGS V is constructed with prologue and main game, TPP. The game play demo I presented today is the opening of TPP which is tutorial". However this works out in practice, the full title of the game is Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain and it will be coming to Xbox and PS3 at an unspecified date in the future.For his much-anticipated talk at the event, Kojima wandered onto stage, his face bandaged – an amusing reference to Joakim Mogren, the fictitious CEO of Moby Dick Studios, which in turn was the fictitious developer teased by Konami as the creator of Phantom Pain. Confused? Oh lord, you so haven't been payingattention. Kojima went on to show videos of the game, and provided an in-depth introduction to the FOX Engine that will be powering the scintillating new instalment in the long-running series.And here is the official GDC trailer:The story begins in hospital with Snake (or Big Boss depending on how the timeline fits together) waking up after almost a decade in a coma. He's weak and disorientated – and almost immediately under attack, prompting an escape bid from the building. Kojima describes Phantom Pain as an open-world game, with complete freedom for the player.We'll be adding more details later...
A home in the centre of town is no guarantee of fast broadband speeds, with UK customers facing a postcode lottery when it comes to internet connections, new figures show.City living usually brings good transport links and easy access to shops, but it can also lock residents into the broadband slow lane.Research based on 900,000 speed tests over a three-month period by price comparison firm uswitch shows the slowest area in London has a postcode which covers the Barbican, a short walk from the&nbsp;City.The average download rate in EC2Y is 5 megabits per second, well below the 12Mbps national average. The highest speeds in the capital are to be found in the suburb of Charlton in Greenwich. Here, residents enjoy connections that are 76% faster, with a 22Mbps average.In the centre of Liverpool, the L1 postcode area, home to the city's cathedral, concert halls and theatres, trails with just under 8Mbps while those living near the Formby Ladies' Golf Club on the outskirts revel in some of the fastest broadband in the country with an average of 26Mbps.The greatest disparity is to be found in Birmingham, the UK's second city. In the areas of Perry Barr, Great Barr and Hamstead, residents have an impressive 21Mbps, but in the B35 area, which covers the economically deprived Castle Vale district, average speeds are 89% slower at just over 2Mbps."Despite the government's intense focus on super-fast speeds, this data reveals massive inconsistencies, with speeds fluctuating dramatically between areas located just a few miles apart," said uswitch telecoms expert Marie-Louise Abretti.Multiple factors can slow connections. Those lucky enough to live in areas where fibre-optic cables have been installed to replace copper telephone wires are likely to get faster speeds. Distance from the nearest telephone exchange is also a factor – even homes in town centres can be some distance from their local exchange. "It is a postcode lottery," said Abretti. "Before you sign up for a broadband service, check the speed you are likely to receive. Different providers do offer different speeds, and it will always depend on where you live."Two networks supply most homes in the UK – Virgin Media and BT, which sells directly to customers but also lets BSkyB and TalkTalk use its lines. Those living in a Virgin area, or one in which BT has installed fibre lines, will get the fastest service.Changes like moving the wireless router away from the television set or plugging the cable directly into a computer, instead of using Wi-Fi, can also improve speeds.The prosperity of a neighbourhood is not always an indicator of high speed services, but some of the most deprived areas suffer some of the slowest lines.In Easterhouse, which has a history of long-term unemployment and some of the worst life expectancy statistics in Scotland, average speeds are the slowest of any Glasgow area at just under 3Mbps. This is 85% less than the near 21Mbps residents of the G22 postcode area receive.Across the nation broadband is improving, with average speeds rising by a third in six months to reach 12Mbps in November 2012, according to the latest numbers from telecoms watchdog Ofcom.The boost is thanks to growing demand for superfast broadband. By November 2012, 13% of residential broadband connections were superfast, more than doubling from 5% in November 2011.• This article was amended on 29 March 2013. The original abbreviated megabits per second incorrectly as mbps.
Record numbers of traders are betting that sales of the new BlackBerry Z10 handset will not halt the decline of the Canadian smartphone maker.Up to 30% of BlackBerry's shares are on loan to short sellers – traders betting BlackBerry's price will fall – according to research firm Markit. Rival firm Nokia, also struggling to regain lost ground in the handset wars, is the second most shorted phone maker with 20% of its shares on loan.Short interest in BlackBerry's Nasdaq-listed stock has risen to more than 155m shares, up from 136.5m shares a month ago and 60m at this time last year, perhaps fuelled by a doubling of the company's share price over the past six months."Almost three quarters of the shares that can be borrowed are out on loan, meaning it would be hard and expensive to short any more of the company," the Markit report said.The BlackBerry chief executive, Thorsten Heins, is expected to announce the first sales numbers for the Z10 handset at BlackBerry's full-year results on Thursday.The keyboardless, touchscreen device, which debuted in the US last week, has been available in the UK since January. The Z10 shipped 1m units before the end of BlackBerry's financial year on 2 March, according to broker Sanford C Bernstein.It predicts a further 3m new generation BlackBerry devices will sell in the current three-month period, and 18m during the coming year. For now, the company is selling more of its old style keyboard handsets – 5m in the most recent quarter.The financial results will make grim reading for investors, with Wall Street predicting a 40% drop in annual revenues to $11bn (£7.3bn) and an operating loss of $1.1bn, reversing last year's operating profit of $1.5bn.But a Sanford analyst, Pierre Ferragu, predicted the company could recover as it begins to sign bulk deals with corporate customers. "We have anecdotal evidence that a number of corporate clients have been waiting for Blackberry to refresh their installed base, which will support shipments meaningfully in the first months of the launch. If only 10% of BlackBerry's 30 million corporate users refresh their phone within the first six months of the launch, this would represent 3m units alone."
Worried that you're using too much petrol? Concerned that if you crashed your car in a remote location nobody would find out until too late? A new breed of software apps – linked to devices that plug directly into a car's computer – could put your mind at rest.The RAC has announced it will begin selling a small box called Advance that can monitor data – speed, fuel efficiency, airbags, lights, brakes and more – and provide feedback. It plugs into the on-board diagnostics connection included in all cars built in Europe since 2001.The RAC has installed the matchbox-sized device in 1,700 patrol vehicles and plans to sell them to customers later this year. The organisation's commercial director, Kerry Michael, said: "We would be able to remotely monitor the car so that if you've left your lights on, we'd be able to send you an alert to warn you."For those who don't want that, but do want to know what's happening inside their engine, an alternative was recently announced in the US. Automatic, a California-based company, unveiled Automatic Link, a little box costing $69.95 (£46) that plugs into the same diagnostics slot and transmits the same readings directly to your smartphone. You'll be able to see your fuel efficiency, mileage, get warnings about any problems with the car and – once you're parked – have a marker on your smartphone's map recording where you left the vehicle."It could do for driving what the iPod did for music,"said CNBC technology writer Jon Fortt. He reported that the app even gave a score out of 100 for the fuel efficiency of his driving.Both systems offer an "emergency call" facility: if the box detects a&nbsp;huge deceleration and airbag deployment, it will know you've had a crash and call an emergency service with your location. For the RAC, a&nbsp;sim card in the box will send readouts from the engine's computer to breakdown offices and patrol vehicles, which should save time in diagnosing&nbsp;problems.That two companies based in different continents have announced the products at the same time is another sign of the rise of the "quantified self" movement, whereby people measure as much as they can about themselves and everything around them. Whether they want to know the number of steps they take, hours they sleep or calories they eat, apps are springing up&nbsp;to cater to them.Automatic, which was founded in 2012, has already got venture capital backing from Andreessen Horowitz, which has previously invested in Twitter, Skype and several other venture capital companies. When its website went live a few days ago, the reaction was hugely positive. "We've been amazed by the reaction, both here in the US and internationally," said an Automatic spokesperson. "It's gratifying to know that we're working on something people are so excited about."Although a number of companies, such asBritish-based Masternaut, already offer systems to measure the performance of fleet vehicles, until now they have been comparatively expensive and required special fitting. The RAC's box, made to its own specifications and built in the US, and the Automatic Link are both simple enough that drivers should be able to install them without help.For drivers it could mean huge savings on fuel: the RAC believes the average motorist could save up to £620 a year by driving more equably.The data could also affect insurance claims. Police and insurance companies could, for example, seek access to data from the RAC or the Automatic app through a court order, which could reveal how fast the vehicle was going before a crash. "It's the same as the tachograph used in lorry cabs," said Michael. "That's been in widespread use for years. This technology is going to go the same way."Although Automatic Link isn't yet on sale outside the US, it would work on cars in Europe as long as they had onboard diagnostics.Automatic's founders, Thejo Kote and Jerry Jariyasunant, met as graduates at the University of California, Berkeley, where they were researching computer science, human-computer interaction and transportation systems. Just as Larry Page and Sergey Brin noticed in 1996 that online search wasn't much good and built Google, Kote and Jariyasunant noticed that drivers did not take much notice of how much time and money they spent driving or how they could cut both down."We knew we had to build our own hardware to give them feedback while they drive, and from there many other possibilities for helping people drive smarter opened&nbsp;up," said Kote.The RAC has not announced a price or launch date for Advance, though Michael said it would be soon.
(Please note: this isnota comprehensive roundup of every tablet on the market,nora detailed list of every specification of those tablets. It's my examination of what will actually suit my needs – which if you read on you'll discover.)When Ibought my iPadthree years ago, the tablet market was brand new. If you wanted a tablet, there was the iPad. And, er, that was it. Three years later, my iPad has slowed down to the point where it's more annoying than useful. I've jailbroken it and stripped it back to the bare essentials, removing software and music, but it simply doesn't do what I want it to do any more.So it's time for a new tablet. But in the past three years, the tablet scene has exploded: the iPad has evolved and has acquired a little brother, the mini; Google has unleashed its Nexus range of Android tablets; other manufacturers have joined the Android party; smartphones have got bigger and smarter; and most recently, Microsoft has joined the party with the touch-focused Windows 8.There are so many to choose from that it's hard to know where to start. Do I want a small tablet? Do I want something that can do duty as a laptop? Which OS do I want?In no particular order, what I want from a new tablet is that it's lightweight, so that I can hold it in one hand comfortably. I also want a decent onscreen keyboard, because I do some emailing/Facebooking/tweeting on it, though as I've got a small Bluetooth keyboard I'm not bothered about a supplementary physical keyboard. I'd like it to be able to interact with my network at home so that I can pull and push files on and off it to other networked locations, including to the cloud. I want to be able to use it with my TV, preferably via HDMI rather than fiddly software-based wireless methods. I'd rather it didn't have any proprietary connectors.I want to travel with it, so it would be nice if it could handle rudimentary photo-editing, though I'm less bothered about video and I rarely use a tablet to take pictures. On connectivity, I'm not bothered about 3G (or 4G) as I'm rarely too far from a Wi-Fi connection.As I'm in the privileged position of being able to borrow devices, I gathered a selection of tablets of various sizes and OSs, with no particular view on which I would end up choosing – though I thought I might go for a Windows device.A bite of the AppleI started with Apple, borrowing both an iPad 4 and an iPad mini. I rather like the size and weight of the iPad mini: it sits comfortably in one hand, and, like its bigger sibling, handles photo-editing magnificently with iPhoto. The 4:3 aspect ratio isn't so great for watching some video, but it does mean that the screen isn't too narrow – a niggle I have with the 16:9 Nexus 7. I also like the fact that the mini goes neatly into the smallish handbag I carry, and its "Smart Cover" (which rolls out to be a stand) is thoughtfully designed and implemented. But, like the iPad 4, it doesn't want to play nicely with other OSs: getting an iOS device to deal with networked shares, never mind send anything to a networked printer, is a world of pain that involves wading through third-party apps.The iPad is also more complicated than I have patience for as a device to use with the TV, requiring an Apple TV for the connection. That joins you to the world of iTunes content, but doesn't connect you to the wider web. You could of course hack your Apple TV, but that is unnecessarily complicated. The other option is to mirror your iPad on to your TV via the Apple TV, which is a neat trick, but which I found in practice worked erratically. And the tiny Apple TV remote is begging to be lost.Another demerit for the iPads is their proprietary connector – and that has changed from the old 30-pin connector to the new nine-pin Lightning cable, meaning that I'd have to buy adapters to get my old accessories to work with a new iPad.The Retina screen on the iPad 4 is pin-sharp, but that had the negative effect of making the Mini's screen look sub-par, particularly when compared with the beautifully sharp Nexus 7.In short, the verdict on the iPads was that they're great if you are comfortable in the warm embrace of the Apple ecosystem. But my requirements are wider. Which is a shame, as I was warmly disposed towards the delightfully portable iPad mini.Opening up WindowsNext, I turned to the nascent Windows tablet ecosystem, in the form of a Microsoft Surface RT and a Samsung Ativ Smart PC 500T.The Surface RT is a chunky piece of kit, which made it more difficult to hold in one hand than a thinner device, and – another black mark – it too has a proprietary power interface, a magnetic charger which is fiddly to connect. However, it is blessed with a comprehensive range of connectivity and expansion options: USB, MicroSD and micro HDMI out, which meant I could plug it directly into my TV: no faffing about with flaky wireless connections. The Touch Cover is beautifully implemented, but there aren't many occasions I want to attach a physical keyboard to a tablet, and at an additional £99, it's just a bit more than I want to spend.Windows 8's Modern UI comes to life with touch, but the RT is too limited for my purposes: not being able to use desktop software was more annoying than I expected. You're stuck with IE10 – there are no other browsers for the platform. While using the RT I realised that I rely heavily on extensions to Chrome, and I missed them. It was pointed out to me when I moaned about this to a friend that I don't grumble about not being able to use extensions on other platforms, but perhaps it's because I expect a more customisable experience with Windows, and so a restricted Windows is surprisingly disappointing. Not being able to add the RT to my domain network was also a niggle, although that won't be a problem for most home users (it is, however, a reason why RT devices are unlikely to make inroads into enterprise).The Samsung Ativ 500T runs an Intel Atom processor, and so is more of a fully featured Windows machine, and, undocked from its rather plasticky optional keyboard, feels more one-hand-friendly than its Microsoft counterpart. It boasts a comprehensive range of I/O ports, with micro HDMI (meaning it will plug straight into the telly), USB and a microSD slot. It also comes loaded – or burdened, depending on your take – with several Samsung-specific apps and a stylus, the S Pen. If you've used Samsung's Android-based Galaxy devices, you'll be familiar with Samsung's extras. I thought they were rather unintuitive, though the stylus is useful when working in desktop mode.I wanted to love this: my home is mostly a Windows home, and I very nearly did. However, it's heavy even without the optional keyboard dock (which also adds further USB ports) at 744g, and as with the Surface, I never warmed to the onscreen keyboard. It also has a bulky power cable that ends in a tiny nipple connector. Unlike the Surface, which comes with Office (Word, Excel and Powerpoint), the Ativ doesn't have productivity software. If I want Office, that would be another additional cost on top of an already pricey device (at around £700, it is, perhaps unsurprisingly given the spec, in the laptop rather than the tablet zone).Meet the AndroidFrom there I moved into the Android ecosystem, with a Samsung Galaxy Note II and a Note 10.1, and a Google Nexus 7 and Nexus 10. User interfaces are a very personal preference, but I fail to see why people love their Galaxy kit so much: I thought the custom UI was ugly, and the additional Samsung apps got in the way of functions that vanilla Android does perfectly well unaided. Perhaps wanting to tempt Apple fans, many of the Samsung apps are skeuomorphic, which to my eyes look out of place on a sleek modern tablet.Additionally, the Note 10.1 has a proprietary charger and both devices have no additional I/O ports. In their favour, the screens on both devices are lovely – very sharp and clear – and the stylus is useful, though plasticky and too easy to lose. But having spent time with Google's Nexus tablets and got used to the unadorned Android on those devices, the fussiness of the Samsung UI was offputting, to say the least.And so to Google's devices. I started this search with a friend's cast-off Nexus 7, which has a lot going for it: it's lightweight, inexpensive and has a beautiful, pin-sharp screen: it's another device that makes the screen of the iPad Mini seem fuzzy and antediluvian by contrast. However, its only connector is the micro USB, through which it charges, so no plugging it into the TV. And the 16:9 aspect ratio means that the screen feels either not deep enough in landscape, and too deep in portrait mode.The Nexus 10, however, seems to be the device that hits the sweet spot for me. It's slim and light enough to hold with one hand, and, like all Android devices, it offers keyboard swiping as a means of text input, which I love: I infinitely prefer it to hunt-and-peck with one finger. It has micro-HDMI, so I can hook it up to the telly.The lack of a native file browser in Android is puzzling, but once I'd installed a third-party file browser, it connected to all my network shares without a murmur of protest. Combined with the lovely sharp screen and lack of fuss about performing all kinds of functions, from interacting with the network to connecting to my TV without insisting I stay within its walled garden, it's a very nice device indeed.The resultsSo what am I going to choose to replace my iPad 1? In third place is the Samsung Ativ 500T. I would love a smaller, lighter but full-featured Windows 8 tablet, but until those appear, this comes in third. Having said that, I'm not going to buy one – it's too expensive. But I did think about it.In second place, despite its limitations, is the iPad mini. It feels expensive, given that its screen is the least spectacular, and on paper it fails to tick many of my boxes. But I really liked its size, form factor and weight. If I were feeling rich, I would probably treat myself to one of these as well as the winner...…which, hitting the sweet spot of size, weight, functionality, connectivity and price is the Nexus 10. Slim, light, keyboard swiping, and micro-HDMI.And just to help you dither, here's a table with all that written up. Handbag sizes may vary, so do measure yours first.Tablets: a few to choose fromTabletPriceFits inhandbag?TVlink?ScreenresolutionOther s/wkeyboards?MicroUSBProprietarycharger?WeightAspectratioScreensizeGoogle Nexus 77in16:9340gNYY1280x800NYFrom £159Google Nexus 1010in16:10603gNYY2560x1600Y via HDMIBit too bigFrom £319Samsung Ativ 500T11.616:9748gYNN, optional dock1366x768Y via HDMIBiggish oneAround £700Microsoft Surface RT10.6in16:9681gYYN, optional docks (cost extra)1366x768Y via HDMIOnly in bigger onesFrom £399Samsung Galaxy Note 10.110.1in16:10600gYNY1280x800NBig handbag, but lightFrom £379Samsung Galaxy Note II5.5in16:9182.5gNYY1280x720NPocket-friendlyFrom ~£400iPad Mini7.9in4:3308gYNN1024x768Only with Apple TVGreatFrom £269iPad 49.7in4:3652gYNN2048x1536Only with Apple TVChunky; OK for a big oneFrom £399iPad 19.7in4:3680gYNN1024x768Only with Apple TVHeavy, ok for big onen/a.
When it first launched in July 2010,Flipboardwas an interesting new spin on news aggregation: an iPad app that turned people's Twitter and Facebook feeds into a digital magazine.Since then, it has added other social sources like Instagram, Tumblr, LinkedIn, Google+ and SoundCloud; launched on iPhone and Android; and forged partnerships with some media owners to reformat their articles and videos within Flipboard.In August 2012,Flipboard announced that it had 20m readers, but seven months later that total stands at 50m – although both figures are for the number of people who've ever used Flipboard, rather than currently active users. More on that later.Today, Flipboard is launching a major update – Flipboard 2.0 – for iPad and iPhone, with Android to follow in a month or so. The big change: the ability for Flipboard users to curate and share their own digital magazines within the app.The obvious comparison – if you've used it – is Pinterest, the site where people create "boards" of images and videos which other users can then "repin" onto their own boards. Replace boards and repin with "magazines" and "flip" (Flipboard's chosen lingo), and you've got Flipboard 2.0."This release is the largest release we've ever done, and we're really excited about it," chief executive Mike McCue tells The Guardian in an interview."The first-generation product was really focused on consumption and reading, but this new release is focused on curation: the ability for anyone to curate content from across the internet and pull it together in the form of a magazine, then edit and share it with others."It's not just Flipboard users who can create these magazines. Some of the company's media partners, including Rolling Stone, The Guardian* and Vanity Fair, are also taking advantage of the new feature to publish mini-magazines, complete with their own advertising.Curation over creationI've not had the chance to use the new features myself at the time of writing this interview – the update was due to launch in the early hours of Wednesday 27 March – but the demo shown by McCue during the interview was slick.Flipboard users can create their magazines, then use the app as usual to read news and look at photos and videos. When they see something they like, they tap a '+' button to flip it into one of their magazines. There will also be a bookmarklet for web browsers to enable them to do this from the desktop.Other Flipboard users can subscribe to these magazines, which will display the original sources for their contents, as well as comments from social networks. When someone subscribes to or interacts with a magazine, its creator gets a notification within the Flipboard app."We want to open up an avenue for people who are passionate about something, and discerning users of the web, to build a community around it," says McCue."When you're editing a magazine, and all of a sudden you see people start commenting on it, it encourages you. Now you've got an audience that you want to feed. I think you're going to see a lot of people do this."That's a big question, tying into longstanding discussions about user-generated content and social media sites, from YouTube (how many people upload versus watch?) to Twitter (how many tweet versus read?). Will a high percentage of Flipboard users want to create rather than just read?"You're more curating than you are creating: endorsing and recommending content," says McCue. "Curating is a much easier thing. We've been watching our beta testers, and they have been creating all sorts of amazing magazines."How will people find these magazines? Another new feature is called Content Search, which enables people to search by topic, person or hashtag. It sits alongside a Content Guide that will also promote magazines in New &amp; Noteworthy and By Out Readers sections.People vs AlgorithmsThere's an interesting line to be walked here between promoting the magazines from big media partners and bubbling up the best ones from Flipboard's users."We will surface partners' content more prominently in search results," says McCue. "But we are trying to find the right balance between curation, and providing the search and other mechanisms to bring in content from other sources."There will also be a recommendation engine working away to suggest magazines to each Flipboard user based on their previous reading. It's a mix of human curation and algorithm-based recommendations, in other words.This taps into a wider digital entertainment trend: digital services remembering that recommendations from real people still have an important role alongside clever algorithms designed to filter through masses of content. Witness how curated playlists are all the rage among digital music services like Spotify, for example."It's actually about people and algorithms coming together. I look at it as like an intricate layer-cake, where you have people picking articles that they find interesting and sharing them on a social network, so they're curating the web," says McCue."So you have a lot of people doing that, but that's a lot of content being posted, so you need some algorithms to filter through all of that, grouping things by most-shared, most read or what's shared by the people you care most about."But there's more. "Now we have people picking from the articles that these algorithms surfaced and flipping six or seven articles into their magazines, so they're curating the algorithms," says McCue"And on top of all that you have a recommendation engine. It's a mix of people and algorithms coming together in lots of interesting ways."Shopping and MediaAlongside the launch of Flipboard 2.0, there is news of another kind of partner for the company: online shopping site Etsy. Its catalogue and blog articles can now be browsed within Flipboard and flipped into people's magazines, but they can also buy products from within the app.This kind of e-commerce is a revenue stream for Flipboard – it gets a percentage of each transaction – and it's another area of comparison with Pinterest, which has also emerged as a notable driver of traffic and sales to shopping sites (including Etsy).Flipboard also makes money from a cut of advertising run within its app by media partners – McCue shows an ad for Land Rover during the interview demo – which brings up the topic of whether publishers see Flipboard and other news aggregation apps as friend or foe.Or both, it has to be said: The Economist's chief executive Andrew Rashbasstold a conference in April 2012that Flipboard was "not a creative reimagining in some way – it's a head-on competitor", while suggesting that his own website team's decision to partner with it was "giving the opportunity to extract value to somebody else in an area that should be our own – so Flipboard is problematic".The Economist is far from the only publishing company whose senior executives fret about Flipboard and its rivals eating their lunch, while business development and digital teams jump at the chance to partner with such apps. Are these attitudes changing over time?"We're seeing an overwhelmingly positive reaction to what we're doing, because we've built Flipboard as a mechanism to help great content exist on the internet," says McCue.Flipboard CEO Mike McCueSupporting journalismThat's no surprise, but he has more to say, suggesting that while "great journalism can be supported in print" with a combination of sales and advertising, the web remains problematic, and mobile devices even more so."When you bring that great journalism to the web, everyone wants it to be free, and the ads are banners that sell for a tenth of what a full-page print ad would sell for. Take that same article and move it to an iPhone or iPad, and people will pay a tenth of the digital price," he says."What you get is an environment that simply can't sustain great content. If we continue to allow that to happen, the web as we know it will fall apart and retreat behind paywalls, and it won't be a web any more. And that would be a tragedy."McCue's sunny view of the economics of print journalism may not be shared by everyone in the industry – every month brings new reports of newspapers and magazines closing or going digital-only, while other publications (including The Guardian) are laying off print journalists.But back to those digital challenges, and McCue's pitch on how Flipboard can help. "We can build an ecosystem working closely with publishers that respects all of their content, and monetises it at levels comparable to print with ads that are comparable to print. We are also building in the ability to do paid subscriptions for content," says McCue.An early attemptcame in June 2012 with the New York Times, which enabled its paying subscribers to access its content from within Flipboard. McCue's comments now suggest this was just the start, and that subscribing to publishers from within the app is the next step."I don't think people have a fundamental problem with paying for content, but it's just too hard on the internet. We think there's an opportunity to make it much easier to subscribe to premium content," he says."As soon as we get that component in place, for folks like The Economist or Wall Street Journal, who are focused on keeping their content behind paywalls, we'll enable them to attract new subscribers on Flipboard, have some content be free and monetise really nicely with ads, and then easily convert those people into premium subscribers with the click of a button."Scaling upFree content, paywalls and news-aggregation apps in perfect harmony? However optimistic or sceptical you are about Flipboard finding a magic formula for profitable journalism, only time will tell if the company (and its partners) are onto a winner.It's important not to overestimate the scale of Flipboard though. 50m readers so far is a big number, but how many of them are active?When the company announced its 20m milestone in August 2012, it also said that 1.5m people used its app every day. If that ratio has continued, it would have around 3.75m daily active users (DAUs) now in March 2013.Another external source is AppData, which estimates thatFlipboard currently has 1.8m DAUs and 2.9m monthly active users (MAUs)– although that only covers people who've connected Flipboard to their Facebook accounts.Based on another official Flipboard stat from August – that 75% of its iPad readers had connected the app to social networks – the AppData figures might lead you to believe that Flipboard currently has around 2.4m DAUs and 3.8m MAUs. But there is lots of noise in such calculations.In any case, we're likely talking single-digit millions as Flipboard's active readership. Certainly not a trifling figure by newspaper or magazine standards, but very small in relation to the well-over 1bn iOS and Android devices sold over the last five years.In other words, Flipboard 2.0 and its curated magazines aren't a revolution – yet – for the media industry. They're a glimpse at one possible future, but Flipboard and apps like it need to get a lot more popular if they're to make a truly meaningful impact.Part of that challenge involves appealing beyond the geeks (like me) who got excited about Flipboard when it first launched. How does the company balance the needs of those power-users with the mainstream people who are buying smartphones and tablets in their hundreds of millions?"We try to balance both, but if we lean to one side, it's towards the mainstream," says McCue. "We are not a power-user tool, we are a mainstream everyday-use tool that anybody can use just like picking up a newspaper in the morning."McCue hopes that the new features in Flipboard 2.0 will help the app grow even faster in the months to come."We were adding a new user every second in September, but we think we'll be doing two or three or four times that in the coming months," he says. "It's going to be an awesome audience, and one that publishers are really excited about."*The Guardian is a launch partner for Flipboard 2.0, although I was unaware of that fact until McCue said so during the interview. It wasn't a factor in the decision to arrange the interview or cover the story.
There's now officially no word for "ungoogleable", meaning "impossible to find via web search" in Swedish –  although there was a term until this week.The Language Council of Sweden, which oversees the addition of official new words to the Swedish lexicon, had lined upogooglebar, defined as "something that cannot be found on the web using a search engine".The term had become a notable new use or neologism during 2012, it decided, alongsideemoji, emoticons used in instant messages;drinkorexi, an eating disorder involving barely eating while drinking alcohol instead; andconversesjukan, or Converse disease, bad feet or posture caused by wearing trendy trainers.Google's lawyers, however, got wind of the council's intentions and told it the company did not want its trademark diluted by being used to apply to all searching. Instead, the definition should be "something that cannot be found on the web using Google". And include a trademark notification, the search giant added.The council refused, and simply dropped the word from its list of new additions instead. "Google asked the Language Council to amend the definition of the word. Today, we instead are deleting the word, marking our displeasure with Google's attempts to control the language," the council's director, Ann Cederberg, said in astatementon Wednesday.Cederberg, clearly miffed at Google's search for brand immortality, said the dramatic step of deletion had only been taken after long email exchanges with Google's lawyers. "We have been trying for ages, but it has taken too long and too many resources," she said inan interview with SVD Kultur. "Google has not won anything on this."As a verb, "google" has been part of the English language for a long time. One of its first uses in print came in January 2001 in the Telegraph-Herald of Dubuque, Iowa, when the city editor Amy Gilligan asked readers "Have you been Googled yet? It's the latest thing. I was just sitting here Googling myself, in fact." She also added, for those who wondered: "Don't worry. It's not a euphemism."But the search engine was only two years old then, and keen for all the publicity it could get. Now, it seems more picky about how it appears in languages."One purpose of the neologisms list is to show how society and language development interact with each other. Google wanted to amend the definition and add a disclaimer about its trademark. The Language Council has tried to explain the purpose of the list. We do not deviate from our basic approach to language … The definition the Language Council provides has been formulated based on how the word is used in Swedish," Cederberg's statement said."We have neither the time nor the inclination to pursue the lengthy process that Google is trying to start. Nor will we compromise and change the meaning ofogooglebarto what the company wants," she added.Google, she said "has forgotten one thing: language development does not care about brand protection."A Google representative said: "While Google, like many businesses, takes routine steps to protect our trademarks, we are pleased that users connect the Google name with great search results."
Thequantified selfmovement – the idea thattracking metrics about yourselfcan lead to self-improvement – appears to be gathering steam. With products such as the FitBit One, Jawbone Up and Nike+ FuelBand boasting impressive sales numbers (the FuelBand reportedly sold out within four hours of its launch), it seems that self-tracking is finding traction and on the way to becoming an ubiquitous feature of daily life.But how exactly can it break into the mainstream, and where does the future of the movement lie? Here are the five key areas where I see the quantified self going next.App collaborationIf you self-track multiple different metrics about yourself, chances are you're using a different device or app to track each one. I currently use theElectricSleep app(Android-only) to track my sleep, aWithings scaleto track my weight, aNike+ FuelBandto track my steps and football sessions,Runkeeperto track the runs I go for, andMyFitnessPalto track my food consumption, as well as a few others.This isn't ideal for a number of reasons. Firstly, it's difficult to view and evaluate all of the different tracked stats, as each service has a separate dashboard. It's difficult for me to find correlations between the different metrics – if I wanted to see the effect that my food consumption had on my weight over a period of time, I'd have to bring two different dashboards up and compare them manually.There are a couple of trends that will help with these problems. The first of these is multipurpose devices. Two of the leading step-tracking manufacturers,FitBitandJawbone, both recently announced new products that allow you to track food consumption and sleep besides their traditional step-tracking functionality. Tracking additional metrics does not necessarily require the devices to require additional sensors (in fact, a huge variety of metrics can be tracked from the sensors in your smartphone – you just need the software to hook into them and do the tracking), so this is likely something we will see much more of in the future.Another trend that is starting to emerge is centralised QS [quantified self] dashboards. Over recent months there have been a number of entrants into this market, includingTicTrac, whose value lies in solving the exact kinds of problems I mentioned above. By pulling in the data from a variety of external sources, TicTrac lets you view, compare and visualise your data in one place. It's early days for these products, but they'll undoubtedly provide huge benefits for the self-tracker.Real-time health trackingThere are a number of recently established services offer consumers comprehensive health diagnoses, allowing for extremely personalised recommendations. In the US, a service calledWellnessFXcan provide more than 20 actionable metrics about your current state of health, including cholesterol and inflammation levels, from a single blood sample.Another,23andme, offers a "Personal Genome Service", which provides a detailed overview of your genetic profile, including what your global origins and ancestral lineages are, and specific disease risks and drug sensitivities. [Editor's note: the amount and precision of the detail that can be inferred from a genetic profile such as 23andme's is still the subject of a lot of debate. As scientists say, genes aren't destiny.]This is a fast-growing trend, as this previously advanced and expensive technology can now be offered in a convenient manner at consumer prices.However, the issue with this kind of service is that it only provides a snapshot in time. To track improvements over time, you would have to take multiple tests, typically months apart. Imagine making a change to your website and having to wait six months for the analytics data to show you what effect it had – the situation is inherently inefficient.This particular sector of the quantified self will see solutions to this problem: people will be able to track health metrics in something closer to real time.Evolution of game mechanicsPerhaps the most effective aspect of the quantified self movement thus far has been the way that game mechanics have been integrated into fitness tracking. We are all inherently competitive and this has been played upon superbly well by most of the leading fitness apps, where competing with friends encourages us to stick to a diet, or keep going to the gym beyond January. FitBit claims that its users average 43% more steps each day.Given this, apps and devices will expand upon that success by harnessing our competitive nature in new and interesting ways. Recently there have been a number of interesting innovations, including "Zombies, Run!", a smartphone app that turns your morning run into a zombie chase scenario. This type of gamification brings out two additional motivators – fun and addiction – and when coupled with the end result (users become fitter and healthier) is very attractive.The success of Zombies, Run!, originally a Kickstarter project which is now nearing the release of its second version, won't have gone unnoticed. Expect game mechanics within fitness tracking apps to become increasingly sophisticated.Fix the food problemArguably the most important metric to self-track of them all is food consumption, but this is currently fraught with problems. You can't passively track your food consumption, accuracy is inherently difficult, and there are large gaps in the nutritional information available – for example, few independent restaurants provide calorific information alongside their menu.You get your food at a variety of sources – including groceries, restaurants and event catering – which makes it difficult to imagine a single solution to the problem. The QS movement is unlikely to reach its full potential until it is able to reduce these barriers to accurate food tracking.However, improvements are being made in this area, and we should see this trend continue and even gather pace. In the US,Obamacarenow requires all restaurants with 20 or more locations to publish detailed nutritional information, and the EU is beginning to catch up after recently agreeing to new nutritional labelling legislation.These, coupled with a growing general demand from people for more nutritional information, should enable a more passive food tracking solution in the not-too-distant future; something the QS movement desperately needs.Google GlassIt's early days for Google Glass, the wearable computer that is scheduled to launch later this year, but the signs are there that it will have a major impact on the future of technology – some are already arguing that it may even usher in the start of a new post-smartphone era. What is certainly true is that it has the potential to be a game changer for the quantified self.Two things are particularly interesting about its potential impact. It hugely increases the possibilities around what can be tracked. Imagine if it were able to track your social interactions, who you spend time with and how that affects your productivity and mood.There are obvious and importantprivacy concernsin terms of the data that could be collected, but app developers will have a platform that does not restrict them to the limitations of the smartphone; they will be building on top of real-time, real-world information, and the possibilities there seem endless.It also has the potential to make tracking significantly easier and more accurate. For those tracking their food consumption, instead of having to manually enter the ingredients for a homemade recipe, imagine being able to log the ingredients by voice whilst you were actually cooking. And imagine being able to take a photo of your dish at a restaurant, say the name of the dish, and have that look up relevant nutritional information (adjusted for the portion size) found in the photo.We don't know exactly what the future will look like with Google Glass, and it is unclear whether it will ever become mainstream itself, but it certainly has the potential to make a huge positive impact in terms of the quantified self.Chris Hollindale is the co-founder &amp; CTO ofHasty, a seed-funded startup with a mission to improve the health of humanity.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSweden axes new word after Google intervenes &gt;&gt; The LocalUS search engine giant Google has successfully put pressure on the Swedish Language Council to remove an entry from its recently released list of new Swedish words.In December, the council unveiled its customary annual list of new Swedish words. Among the words that Swedes had begun using in 2012 was "ogooglebar" ('ungoogleable').The California-based multinational soon got into a huff, asking the council to amend its definition. But the language experts refused to bow down to the demands, instead choosing a third option - removing the term altogether."Instead, we're removing the word today and stating our displeasure with Google's attempt to control the language," Language Council head Ann Cederberg said in a statement.What would "ungoogleable" actually mean, though?A quick look at the early adopters &gt;&gt; Opera SoftwareAs soon as products land on the market, early adopters flock in to checkout the latest and greatest offerings. Recently, Opera Software launched a beta version of its brand-new Opera for Android browser, and, true to form, the early adopters have been out in force.Now that the beta has been available in the Google Play store for a couple of weeks, we wanted to study these early adopters of the Opera Android beta, to check out the hardware their using for everyday web browsing.What we found was that our early adopters seem to be power-users of mobile phones as well, with high-end Android devices taking up the top spots in the list of devices used to download the Opera for Android beta. The top five on the list reads as follows:As usual, try to guess them first.The Summly deal makes no sense &gt;&gt; Vibhu NorbyVibhu Norby (founder of origami.com):The story about Summly's 17-year old founder cashing out his company for $30,000,000 is fascinating because it makes no sense. I hate to be a curmudgeon, but I think Yahoo shareholders deserve an explanation. It's not clear at all to me that they are getting their money's worth....The craziest thing is that there are a lot of really qualified, CS-beefy teams doing really amazing things in the mobile news/discovery space these days - and that would definitely take a $30m acquisition offer or less. I don't really understand why they picked this one.Includes a walkthrough of how the negotiations may have gone.North Korea revokes 3G web access for tourists after just a month &gt;&gt; Wired UKMany commentators speculated that the regime was simply looking for a way to generate more money [by offering 3G], and with the recent increase in tensions on the peninsula in the wake of the regime's latest nuclear test and large South Korean-United States joint military exercises, the retraction of 3G access to foreigners could be a result of paranoia. Koryo's latest tour group also noted increased signs of military readiness in the streets of Pyongyang, with camouflage netting on vehicles and mass public training exercises.The HTC Desire P and Q and great examples of why HTC's strategy is unsustainable &gt;&gt; Android BeatStefan Constatine:How does HTC try to make their Android phones stand out? By hiring an army of engineers to make an Android skin called Sense UI. How do these other companies differentiate themselves? Huawei and ZTE have no problem sacrificing margins if it means increasing their market share. That's one strategy. Lenovo has an incredible discturbition network thanks to their successful PC business, so they're going to leverage that. And as for Samsung, you can't walk more than one kilometer in any Asian city without seeing a massive ad for the newest Galaxy phone.Where does that leave HTC? They have huge overhead costs, they can't afford decent marketing, and they're competing against Chinese players who know the market better than they do because they're actually from China.Furious Stephen Fry blasts 'evil' Reg and 'TW*T' Orlowski &gt;&gt; The RegisterBut this is just an ordinary day at the Register nonetheless. The only difference is that today we are being pelted with abuse by unusually famous readers.The latest security flaw in Sony Xperia Z allows you to bypass its passcode lockscreen in few simple steps &gt;&gt; GSMArena BlogThe software glitches in iOS 6.x devices, Samsung Galaxy Nexus, Samsung Galaxy S III, Galaxy Note II and few other Samsung Galaxy devices had allowed the users to bypass the lock screen of their devices. Now, a latest security flaw in Sony Xperia Z allows you to bypass its lock screen in few simple and easy steps.Much, much easier than the iPhone or Samsung bypasses. No obvious protection.Chromebook and the low cost of being accessible &gt;&gt; Australian Financial ReviewCaitlin Fitzsimmons:Chief information officer of US-based building company Egan Construction, Jim Nonn, issued Chromebooks to 140 foremen on the Minnesota light rail project about a year ago. In a post on the Google corporate blog, he describes how the low cost takes the fear factor out of the equation."The workers love the Chromebooks because they aren't afraid to use them on the job," Nonn says. "If one does get damaged, we can swap it for another in a matter of minutes with zero time wasted or data lost."We've saved so much in moving forward with Chromebooks instead of Windows laptops - about $200 per machine."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It begins with Bonnie Tyler. Total Eclipse of the Heart. I don't think anyone was expecting that. At a rented theatre in downtown Stockholm, EA DICE is showing off the opening sequence from the Battlefield 4 single-player campaign. There are four soldiers in a car that's sinking slowly into a lake in Azerbaijan; the leader, Dunn, is trapped under a twisted metal seat. "Shoot the windows out and go, or you'll all die," he shouts. And all the time, on the car radio it's 'Turn around, bright eyes...'. And the player character, Recker, says, 'I don't want to die to this song'. And the screen goes black.Azerbaijan is one of the two confirmed locations in Battelfield 4, the latest showcase of bleeding edge FPS action from DICE. The other is China. That's all we know about the story right now. Apart from the fact that our heroes have intercepted a piece of intel that links Russian forces with a rogue Chinese general. As my fellow writer Nick Cowen pointed out afterwards, Modern Warfare wasaboutWorld War 3, this game could actually start it.But then we're back to the screen, and to the opening mission named, 'Fishing in Baku'. The lights are up and we've gone 13 minutes back in time. The squad is on the run through an abandoned school. And, holy crap, this is Frostbite 3. Sediment hangs in the air, curtains waft into the rooms, paint peels from the wall in intricate tortoise shell patterns. Outside the window, another member of the squad, Irish, is trapped in another building. There is covering fire as he bursts out of the door, with enemies chasing. Impossibly loud assault rifle fire.And then everyone is out, running under an overpass onto a barren stretch of wasteland, with thousands of birds whirling in flocks above us. In the near-distance is a road, the traffic silhouetted in front of a low orange sun that sends out blinding beams across our sight lines. It is beautiful. Enemy trucks pull up, we engage, but a friendly chopper swoops down and sprays the road with machine gun fire obliterating the convoy in a fiery maelstrom of burnt metal and debris.Then into the skeleton of an abandoned warehouse, vegetation seething out of the crusted foundations. Somehow the squad has got to get higher up for evac; there's a lift, but it's exposed to the outside and an enemy chopper looms down. The soldiers escape to the roof, but under mini-gun fire it collapses, the vast supports give way; a tall chimney crashes down with an ear-splitting groan, sending soldiers plummeting over the edge. The survivors drag themselves into an abandoned car and drive off – into a confrontation with another chopper. A well-targeted RPG knocks it spinning out of the sky; it hits the road in a vortex of black smoke. The car veers into a lake. We're back at the beginning. Bonnie Tyler is on the radio. The windscreen begins to crack. Everything in immense detail. Black out.So here we are in Battlefield 4. And the big news for now is, the single player has been completely re-thought. EA DICE knows it did the wrong thing in the previous game, aping the corridor-based, super-linear antics expounded in Call of Duty. Instead, the campaign action is going to reflect the open, emergent feel of multiplayer. Players will get more space and time to decide their own tactics; there will be the ability to highlight enemies and suggest firing positions for computer-controlled squad-mates. There will be different approaches to key situations – players can hang back with a sniper rifle or grab a jeep and charge into the fray. Indeed, in the Fishing in Baku sequence, there were apparently ways to sneak through with little gunfire; the player could also have spent longer in the taxi, bolting around the countryside. The idea is to emulate those spontaneous, player-created moments of tension and narrative we know from online play."It won't be an open-world game," clarifies the studio's general manager, Karl Magnus Troedsson, later on. "It's actually a combination. There are epic, dramatic set-pieces where we control the player more – but even there, we still want to give you autonomy, so if you're inside something more controlled, you have to decide when to participate. But when you get to other parts of the game, like the big action bubble in the construction site in our demo, that's where the big change is happening. We didn't get as far as we wanted with BF3 - so we thought, 'you know what? When you get into a fight in one of our games, it's got to be much more like it is in multiplayer - you need to have the freedom of movement, the choice of tactics, weapons and vehicles…'"Vehicles will play a much larger part. There will be ground vehicles, but there will also be amphibious assaults via attack boats – and surely there will be aircraft to purloin. We can expect large-scale theatres of war instead of corridors and shooting galleries. "Battlefield is about openness and freedom of choice," says art director Gustav Tilleby. "The world has to be big and impressive. We're also working iconic, memorable set pieces and themes to ensure each level has its own identity."On stage, Troedsson introduces Frostbite 3 as a 'world class engine'. DICE has been working on it since 2011 and it's premiering with this game. The demo is clearly running on a high spec PC, and current gen consoles will be supported, but it's alsogotto be next-gen. The obsessive level of detail in every location just will not translate to current machines. Later, in a separate talk, Tilleby talks about how he's been hugely influenced by car adverts for the style of the game: it's there in the low sun, the beams reflecting off every surface, the long shadows, the sleek machinery and stark architecture. "There's something very desirable and inviting about car ads," he says. "They're very aesthetically pleasing, and that provides an interesting contrast to an aggressive world. The style is very dangerous and threatening, but it is also beautiful."Tilleby discusses how Battlefield 4 is the most dynamic world DICE has ever built. The key aim he says is environmental storytelling – every landscape is a script. "The world is on the verge of war, but the story is kind of an underdog story," he says. "The squad is fighting against the odds and the elements, and we want the art to support that concept. So we're working a lot with very dynamic environments, atmospheric effects, weather effects, as well as using an underlying disaster theme throughout the entire game, both in single-player and multiplayer."It's sort of cinematic, but also interactive. It seems there's been a huge desire to use the oomph of the engine to create a landscape that reacts to the emotional throughline of the game. "There's a story to this place, a history," says Tilleby. "It's not just an environment built for the player to move through. Another example of environmental storytelling is how the light changes. It begins very beautiful and sunny, but as you progress through the level and things get out of hand, the light changes to reflect that. So when you hit rock bottom and your squad leader, Dunn, is injured, it's in darkness."Then you drive out of the crash site and hit this big storm, that's symbolic for the imminent death of Dunn but also for the continuation of the story. The world is on the verge of war and the squad is driving  straight into it." So what you're saying is, the player is very much living in a powder keg and giving off sparks? Sorry, carry on.In another quick 'breakout' talk, game director Stefan Strandberg continues the theme, talking about how the player goes from being a follower to a leader, and how you're never a passive bystander to the action. And about emotion. The emotional core of the story. At one point in the evening, YouTube superstar Syndicate shouts out something about how beautiful the explosions are. "All the explosions are made useless if you don't care about the characters," says Strandberg.It's too early to tell how successful that's been. I mean, let's face it, the developers of Medal of Honor: Warfighter talked a hell of a lot abouttheiremotional storyline,theirconcern with the struggle of individual soldiers, rather than geopolitical narratives. And look how that turned out. EA DICE is speaking in the same language. All we've seen is a small squad of soldiers, giving each other back chat and support, like in any other military shooter. The acting is good (one of the characters, Pac, is played by Michael K. Williams – Omar from The Wire – for heaven's sake), but then, well, they're facing countless enemies packing astonishing firepower – like in any other shooter. "We're entering a new era of interactive entertainment," says Troedsson, as he takes to the stage earlier in the night. "We believe we're creating a game that can touch the player emotionally." Can it? Can a mainstream military shooter do that?I don't know. And – ha! – thanks to the way game marketing works these days, EA is not saying anything about multiplayer – the defining element of the Battlefield experience. That'll be for E3 no doubt. I get ten minutes with Troedsson and try to subtly lead the conversation in that direction. Does he see a future in which single- and multiplayer components combine and converge? Will we see multiplayer or social elements infecting single-player? He bats it all away. He offers one nugget on the whole idea of shared single-player experiences, though – right after I namecheck Dark Souls. "We've added social elements to the single-player campaign to make it less of a lone wolf experience. You'll be able to compare your stats with other players and so on." So… Battlelog 2? Or something deeper? That conversation hit a dead-end pretty fast.But, hell, it does look beautiful. This time, finally, we're really shifting into that fabled age of photorealism; there are moments the action looks like a Kathryn Bigelow movie – all particle effects, grit and stark, pulverising explosions. This is probably a benchmark moment. And I do like the idea of a campaign based around the gameplay tropes of multiplayer. "Battlefield is a game about improvising your own solutions to the challenges ahead," says Strandberg. And that sounds cool, because even John Coltrane couldn't have improvised his way out of Black Ops.So yes, many questions remain – the whole structure of multiplayer is still a giant mystery. But we do know that we can expect vast, dynamic environments with real-time weather systems and atmospheric changes, and day/night cycles and tremendous destruction. We can expect more advanced AI too (naturally), and a vastly customised version of the Fifa ANT animation system providing hundreds of Battlefield-specific movements.I bring up the question of next-gen consoles with Troedsson. I've been asked not to, but what the heck. Will Battlefield 4 be supporting the new machines? "We're in very interesting times right now," he smiles. "We're on the verge of something brand new. We've been part of these transitions before and we know that great things come out of them. But we're DICE – we've been around for twenty years and we're not that quick to jump on hype trains - we move at a steady pace, we tread carefully."And then he finishes with something ambiguous and loaded. "The future is bright, but is everything going to be successful? It might not be…" I'm ushered out, and I wonder what he means. Is this a judgement on a specific console? A business model? I don't know.He also gives me the best single-line description of the online FPS experience I've ever heard. "Multiplayer is chaos in a sandbox with a lot of tools," he says. And he's right, of course. That's why DICE makes some of the best multiplayer shooters on the planet. That's why this launch event feels like a big tease; a nod and a wink toward more profound revelations. We'll have to take that for now. Such is the industry – we don't know what to do, we're always in the dark. 'Turn around bright eyes', they're saying, 'we're not ready to talk about that right now'.Battlefield 4 is to be released on PC and current gen console formats in autumn 2013. Keith Stuart attended a press trip organised by Electronic Arts, with accommodation and travel expenses included.
It's Wednesday. We're starting early today because I have quite a bit story going up at 6am – to hit the embargo, innit.
Brightstar, an electronics distributor to carriers including Verizon, was the recent buyer of a record 1m handsets running BB10 software from struggling Canadian smartphone maker BlackBerry, according to the research company Detwiler Fenton.The purchase, to be made over an unspecified period, first came to light earlier this month, when BlackBerry said only that the deal was with an "established partner" and was the largest single purchase order in its history.Detwiler Fenton's managing director, Mark Gerber, told the Guardian that his research suggested that Brightstar will handle the distribution of BB10 handsets for the Verizon network to "big box" retailers and other retail outlets such as supermarkets.BlackBerry shares have lost 15% of their value since the launch in the US of its new Z10 touchscreen phone running BB10, as brokers Goldman Sachs called early sales to consumers on AT&amp;T's network "tepid" and downgraded its stock rating to neutral.The Z10 goes on sale from Verizon, the second-largest US carrier, on Thursday. Sales began on T-Mobile on Tuesday, while the smaller Sprint network has not announced any plans yet.Gerber suggested Verizon's use of Brightstar was a negative sign: "We think Verizon isn't very confident this is going to be a very big-selling product," he said. "Normally, it would want to limit the channels the handsets were distributed to initially and really control that process."With a popular phone, Verizon would control demand from retailers and the allocation to them. Doing so, however, would also involve buying the phones in the expectation they would be sold. As Brightstar rather than Verizon has the contract with BlackBerry, not Verizon, it assumes any risk from unsold inventory. "By handing that off to Brightstar, it suggests that they don't think it's a really hot product," Gerber said.Gerber estimated that in the quarter to the beginning of March, during which the Z10 was on sale for a month, BlackBerry shipped between 300,000 and 500,000 handsets. The company is due to announce its financial results for the period on Thursday.On the broader outlook, "we're more negative than Wall Street," Gerber said. "We reckon it will ship between 13m and 15m BB10 handsets in the fiscal year [ending February 2014], compared to some of the bullish Wall Street estimates of 25m."BlackBerry declined to confirm whether the sale of 1m handsets was to Brightstar. "We are bound by confidentiality with our partner and cannot disclose our partner's name," a spokesperson told the Guardian.Early reaction in carrier stores suggests that BlackBerry will have an uphill struggle restoring its position with consumers and carriers alike. Following last week's launch of the Z10 on the AT&amp;T network , the  largest in the US, BlackBerry shares fell by 8%, and then another 5% on Monday as analysts considered the outcome of its first weekend of sales.Thorsten Heins, BlackBerry's chief executive, admitted last week that success in the US, the world's second largest smartphone market after China, was essential: "You got to win here to win everywhere else," he told Reuters. "That's just the way it is. We've lost market share quite a bit, to put it mildly, and we absolutely need BlackBerry 10 to turn us around."But after the first day of sales, Goldman Sachs analyst Simona Jankowski lowered her stock rating to neutral, saying research suggested "stores were receiving a range of five to 15 devices initially, but most sold less than 10 on opening day, and some as few as two or three".Jankowski agreed with Heins that the US was "critical for BlackBerry's ultimate success," but said that initial sales at AT&amp;T and Best Buy stores were "tepid"."Our retail checks at over 20 store locations since 22 March, including at AT&amp;T, Best Buy and RadioShack, revealed a surprising lack of marketing support and poor positioning of the product," she said in a report on Tuesday. "We also saw limited advertising around the launch."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
What sort of parent allows their child to spend thousands of pounds on virtual gems? How many of us read ofDoug Crossan'sshock when he discovered that his "studious, polite and sensible" teenage son had managed to  spend £3,700 on chests of gold for iPad games, and doubted either his parenting or, even worse, technological skills?I have an idea of what sort of parent that is – me. Over a six-week period, my three children managed to rack up a total of £350 playing two games downloaded for free on our iPad. No individual purchase on eitherDragonValeorClash of Clansamounted to more than £15 but by the time we noticed the Apple bills for "bags of gems" they had soon mounted up.My five-year-old burst into tears when I suggested that she'd spent her pocket money for years to come. My far more reasonable husband pointed out that, as she had not been asked to type in a password to make the purchases in a game, she thought they were free. "They think it is virtual money in a fantasy land and it is real money coming off my credit card," he said.Games such as Clash of Clans are frequently the highest grossing apps in the Apple store, despite being seemingly free to play. A recentWired articleprofiled some of the adult players who happily spend thousands of dollars on the strategy game. Problems develop when children such as mine and 13-year-old Cameron Crossan fail to understand it is real money that is speeding up their superpowers, not their game-playing skills.Apple has refused to cancel the thousands of pounds spent by Cameron, citing parental  responsibly and pointing out the fact that its products all contain password locks to prevent unwanted or accidental purchases. But are the company and games developers exploiting children by making the rules of the game unclear?In February,Apple agreed to pay up to $100m compensationto parents whose children ran up massive bills using its free and highly addictive apps. Up to 23 million US parents are expected to lay claim to the money – parents in the UK and elsewhere are excluded.So, what can we parents do to stop our kids making in-app purchases without a password? If just saying "no" doesn't work for you (it doesn't for me), it's the software you need to tackle as much as the small child. Check the operating system first but you need to turn off in-app purchases. In Settings go to Restrictions then "Enable restrictions – In-app purchases" and "Require Password 'immediately'". And don't share your password with your child. If you don't change your default settings to stop all in-app purchases, beware that some versions of IOS allow a 15-minute window after an app download when the password isn't required for further purchases. In other words an adult types in a password to allow an app download then passes the iPad to their children who can then make various in-app purchases for 15 minutes without having to type in a password. Stuart Dredge, the Guardian's apps blogger, offerssome further advice here.My own story has a far happier ending than that of Crossan, who is a policeman and has reported his own son for fraud in order to get his credit-card company to refund the money. My husband emailed customer services and Apple refunded it all.Apparently some peoplequestionleaving children alone with tablets. Are they crazy? Not only is it free childcare, haven't they heard about the17-year-old London computer whizz now worth millions? Keep playing those games, kids. Just hurry up making the money rather than spending it.• Have your children run up huge app bills? How have you dealt with it? Share your experiences below
You have an idea for an app? Of course you do. Everyone has an idea for an app. Even my mum does, despite not having fully mastered the difference between a click and a double-click yet. So if you want to make a fortune with it, like 17-year-oldNick D'Aloisio has by selling his app Summly to Yahoo for an estimated £18m, what next?Step one: the ideaThis bit's really important: you need to work out very quickly whether or not your idea is rubbish. Find out if it already exists. Be very clear about who will use your app, other than you – ask people if they would find it useful. Generally speaking, successful apps are either a) really fun, like Angry Birds, or b) solve a problem, likeSummly, which makes mobile-friendly summaries of news stories. If your app does neither, be concerned.Step two: the specSpeak to someone who has built an app before, or knows how the process works. You need to quickly understand how easy your app is to make. If it involves complex 3D-augmented reality scratch'n'sniff (or similar), you're entering a world of pain, and will probably have to mortgage your children to even get a working demo together. If, however, it's relatively simple, you're on the right path. Proceed.Step three: the moneyMost startups kick off with "friends and family" funding – a mini pot of cash raised  in return for small equity. If you can spin a good yarn and a shiny video, aKickstarter campaignmight help you to raise funds. Many hopefuls think cutting a developer into the company will solve all of their cash problems, but they forget a very simple rule: 10% of a thing that doesn't exist yet is worth precisely zero. As for big money, it's almost unheard of for bona fide investors – venture capitalists or "angel" funders – to invest in anything before, at the very least, seeing a proof of concept.Step four: the buildThis is the really tricky bit. Generations of rubbish IT teaching in the UK has created a skills vortex: developers – the computer engineers who actually make the apps – are in short supply and huge demand, and can comfortably charge up to a £1,000 a day for their work. And you need a specific type of developer: one who knows Objective-C, the default programming language for iOS (Apple's operating system), or Java, the language-of-choice for Android apps.The alternative, increasingly popular route is to make it yourself. A growing range of online and real-world code academies can teach you: look upGeneral Assembly,Steer, orCode Academy. This option has a distinct edge: if your app fails, which it probably will, you'll still have the skills to make your next one.Step five: the marketingIf possible, be 17 years old. This helps to create attention-grabbing headlines, such as: "The new Mark Zuckerberg", "Wunderkind Geek", and "Teenage Prodigy". Failing that the usual tricks pay off: bombarding the press and Twitter, teaser videos explaining how your app will change the world, incentivising sign up. But ultimately, the success of your app will fall back to the first principles: whether or not it's fun or useful.
Let me tell you a story …Last year I attended a preview event for BioShock Infinite in Los Angeles. I was fortunate enough to be allowed to interview Ken Levine, the creative director and lead writer on this game and one of my favourite games of the last 10 years: BioShock.During the interview, I asked him about something I'd noticed in his new game that referenced his earlier work. I don't want to spoil anything for anyone reading this, so I won't reveal what aspect of the game I asked him about. But I never forgot his answer and it loomed over the entire 10 or so hours it took for me to complete his new game."Nothing of this is an attempt to be cute."I want anyone who picks up a copy of BioShock Infinite to bear Levine's sentiment in mind. Indeed, upon reflection, it feels like an essential footnote. Taken at face value, BioShock Infinite is a ripping science-fiction yarn, a beautiful art show and a tactically layered shooter. Dig a little deeper, however, and you start wandering into the sort of high-minded philosophical territory that could fuel a dozen or so PhD dissertations.That's the beauty of it, really. If surface detail is all you care about, BioShock Infinite will keep you well stocked. It looks gorgeous, its mechanics are sublime and it's to Irrational's credit that the gameplay wrapped around the narrative is far more satisfying than that of its predecessor. If you ever played BioShock, imagine a more layered environment where you can hold only two firearms and you have the help of a roaming AI that occasionally hurls you power-ups.If you didn't play BioShock, here's what you're in for. You juggle guns and superpowers in a seemingly never-ending series of firefights with increasingly tougher opponents.The corridors in this shooter are wide, frequently mutli-tiered and crammed to the rafters with weapons and enemies. There's hardly ever just one way to emerge from a firefight victorious; the number of tactical alternatives open to the player is lengthy enough to offer hours upon hours of replay value. I could go into lengthy detail about the game's "tear" mechanics, or the number of battles where using a sky-hook and rail adds another series of options, but that's not BioShock Infinite's main draw.Its central appeal is wrapped up in its story and the less you know about that before booting up the game, the better a time you will have.The bare facts of the plot are as follows. Players take on the role of former Pinkerton Booker De Witt who is charged with rescuing a young woman named Elizabeth in a fantastical flying city called Columbia. The year is 1912 and all of the racist and religious zealotry of that time are on full display. It's a trick that Irrational pull off so well. They plonk the player in an other-worldly environment informed by historical social conventions and then put the ugliest side of humanity on display.Just as they did in BioShock.BioShock Infinite is similar to its predecessor in that it offers up a layered narrative. Follow the game's story to its eventual end and you'll likely leave satisfied, perhaps ready to tackle it on its super hardcore 1999 difficulty setting. But read between the lines. Apply your experience as a player of games who can recognise tropes, traps and signs that the game you're playing can pre-empt your expectations and BioShock Infinite offers up some pretty damning data about what constitutes entertainment.And here, already, I feel I've said too much. Really, the only sensible review of this game would be to instruct the reader to close this window, order a copy of the game and play it. It really is that good. I would love to expound at length about the flying city of Columbia and the relationship between Booker and Elizabeth, but to do so would run the risk of ruining things. This is a game that lives and dies on its story and to reveal any more of that to anyone who hasn't yet experienced it would be unforgivable.BioShock Infinite exists in a pantheon tagged "required reading" in the gaming medium. In much the same way as Heavy Rain or Dark Souls may not be to everyone's taste, they are still important touchstones in the maturity of video games as an art form. BioShock Infinite too has an unshakable claim to be challenging what we think games are capable of.The best aspect, however, is that all of this highfalutin preconception doesn't matter a damn. Whether or not you take anything away from BioShock Infinite beyond its story doesn't matter. If you buy a copy of this game, you will have fun, and really, that's the only recommendation that is required when discussing this medium.BioShock Infinite is a hell of a lot of fun to play. That really should be the only quality it needs to exhibit. The fact that it holds much more feels like an advancement of an art form. Just remember that nothing in BioShock Infinite is an attempt to be cute. Just let it tell you its story.
