Juxtaposing 'intriguingly' with my post below is a fresh announcement from Codemasters - the company is working on a supernatural horror adventure entitled Clive Barker's Jericho, which will feature a story devised by the author. Here's a brief plot synopsis from the press release:"Clive Barker's Jericho deals with the mysterious reappearance of a lost city in a remote desert. When a form of evil that goes right back to the dawn of days resurfaces from there, a Special Forces squad, trained in both conventional warfare and the arcane arts, is sent in. Their mission: Hunt down and destroy the evil that lurks at the heart of the city before it destroys humanity."There aren't many Barker cliches in that paragraph are there?I was recently chatting to a colleague about how interesting it might be to graft traditional squad-based shooter gameplay into a survival horror environment - sort of like Ghost Recon with real ghosts. It seems Clive Barker has been thinking along similar lines... The game is due for release on next-gen formats at the end of next year. You can find out morehere.Anyway, I've started trying to remember other author-endorsed games where the writer took a hands-on role in the development. I can't imagine that Tom Clancy or Dan Brown had much of a hand in their respective videogame conversions, so I'm left with the late Douglas Adams who co-designed the PC adventure title Starship Titanic and... erm... I'm stuck. Now what doesthatsay about stories and videogames? Probably nothing.Incidentally, the relationship between Codemasters and Clive Barker was brokered by a company namedAlchemic Productionswhich specialises in helping the owners of entertainment IP to develop their properties into videogames. So if there's one current author you could put in touch with them who would it be?
There's more evidence of Microsoft's get tough approach to piracy: it has "filed 26 lawsuits against alleged dealers of pirated software in seven US states," according toIDG News.Microsoft gathered evidence against the defendants through several means. In some cases, complaints were received through Microsoft's anti-piracy hotline. In others, Microsoft purchased computers from the defendants as part of a "secret shopper" program to find dealers selling pirated software.Based on research conducted by IDC, the Business Software Alliance (BSA) cliams21% of US software is pirated-- the lowest rate in the world. But this piracy includes many customers who are paying heavily for software they think is legal.
David Jaffe, the creator of unmissable PS2 adventure, God of War has posted aninteresting ranton his blog, claiming that he's dropping the story element from his future projects. As he explains:"Since God Of War, I have lost interest in the genre of single player action/adventure games. In fact, I've really lost interest in making any kind of game that does not fully and only embrace interactivity in the most purest sense. I don't want to tell stories with my games anymore.Interestingly, his plan seems to be to cut away the narrative elements so often borrowed from other media and get to the raw emotional heart of gaming:"I think somewhere in the last year, I realized that electronic games have always had an amazing ability to evoke emotion... they are feelings that the best pure games can always evoke. Feelings of tension and release, feelings of fear and anxiety, feelings of triumph and defeat, feelings of confusion followed - sometimes - by joy at having overcome the challenge."Judging by the defensive and exasperatedfollow-up posthe put up yesterday, readers have been unable to get to grips with a seeming contradiction here - a wish to move away from story-driven games, but also a desire to provoke an emotional response from the player. Usually when we talk about emotional gaming, we're thinking of narrative-driven titles like Final Fantasy and Zelda.But there's no paradox here. Clearly, what Jaffe is talking about are the raw emotions elicited not from the story, but from theinteraction. He's not talking about how a story element can make you laugh or cry, he's talking about how a failed challenge can make you stamp on your controller.Still it'll be interesting to see how a game like God of war could be constructed without a plot driving the action forward - if indeed that's what Jaffe is planning. God of War minus plot is... well, it's a beat-'em-up really, isn't it?
Yahoo!'s announcement last night that it is to delay its upgraded search advertising function dented its share price as well as that of eBay, its strategic partner.EBay's shares fell by 3% while those of Google, Yahoo!'s search rival, were almost 3% down, despite the company revealing a global roll-out of its potentially lucrative video advertising product.Yahoo!'s own share price crashed by 14% and has fallen 29% since the start of the year.Second-quarter net profits fell to $164m (&#163;89.8m) from $755m (&#163;413m) on the year.While this was in line with market expectations, Yahoo!'s revenue forecast of between $1.12bn (&#163;62m) and $1.23bn (&#163;67m) for the third quarter was down on analysts' expectations of between $1.15bn (&#163;63m) and $1.24bn (&#163;68m).The company's net revenue rose 28% to $1.12bn (&#163;62m). Yahoo! said its upgraded search facility would enable advertisers to target consumers with greater accuracy by analysing the words they type in online, but this has taken longer than expected to develop.The search firm is also to launch an internet TV facility, giving subscribers access to aggregated content from ABC News and CBS's 60 Minutes.Yahoo! and eBay struck a strategic alliance in May to strengthen their position against Google and Microsoft.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Indian censors have blocked access to a number of popular blogging sites on grounds of national security, causing outrage to thousands of bloggers.The directive from the department of telecommunications (DoT) came days after the Mumbai blasts, and was aimed at shutting 17 blogs which carried material from religious and political extremists. But service providers were forced to cut all major sites, including the popularGeocities,Typepadand Google'sBlogspot. Since then cyberspace has been filled with angry emails from bloggers in India who have attacked the government's "ham-handed, delinquent" move.Ironically, the Mumbai blasts helped raise the profile of blog sites after many were used to update users on what was happening on the ground.India has some 40,000 regular bloggers and their sites hum with subjects ranging from the mundane and political to matters rarely found in polite conversation in India."This is a clearly an infringement of fundamental right [of freedom of speech]," said Sanjukta Basu, a lawyer who blogs atmeateccentricitydotcom.blogspot.com.Ms Basu says a 300-strong Delhi blogging community is considering a petition to the high court."The government only ordered to block some 20 blogs and has a duty to ensure this is carried out in an orderly manner without infringing our rights. So we are looking at the courts."Lawyers say there is a good chance the government "will be put on a tight spot" by the case. "They have a point because the inability to filter these blogs has infringed article 19 of the Indian constitution," said Pawan Duggal, a lawyer specialising in internet law.Mr Duggal said another route for the government would be to make bloggers and blog sites liable for the content. "There are provisions under the information act. The real problem is that there is no mention of blogs and bloggers in the legislation. The technology has left the law behind."Bloggers say they can still access their sites using a Pakistani-based service calledpkblogs. "It is completely ridiculous. India is meant to be a democracy. We are not living in China here," said EM, who writes anonymously atthecompulsiveconfessoron blogspot.com. "The silly thing is I can still get to my blog by going via pkblogs."Experts say the real problem is that Indian service providers do not have the technical expertise to block individual pages."Countries like Singapore and China have the ability to block specific pages and URLs. But they do it regularly. India does not and should not," said Prasanto Roy, president of the Dataquest Group, which analyses technological trends in India.Mr Roy said the internet was designed so that if information was blocked it could be re-routed with ease. "The internet was built to resist these physical barriers. Information is mirrored and copied quickly. I think what happened here was just some idiot in some ministry decided to block these sites without thinking it through."Government officials were scrambling to stymie the criticism of their actions. Gulshan Rai, director of the computer emergency response team, which is responsible for India's cyber-security, said: "Blogspot.com should not be blocked." He added: "What we need to do is work with service providers so that we block individual pages. Just give us some time."
Valleywaghas found that Chris Anderson, Wired's urbane editor-in-chief and former Economist reporter, once played bass in a punk rock group, Egoslavia. The gossip blog is even offering the band's Lost Song as a download.As Valleywag says, "the ex-punk is now riding a wave of publicity well-deserved, thanks to his theory of the Long Tail."On his Long Tail site, Anderson tops Valleywag withMy New Wave Hair: An Apology (and a story). His band was originally called REM, but was renamed by REM after a showdown with the group that went on to become superstars.Anderson started on the Long Tail journey with a great article in Wired. I did an Online cover story,A miss hit, published on March 24, 2005, and after Anderson turned the story into a book,Media Guardianfollowed up with an interview. He's also on a Guardian podcast.The long tail is based on Zipf Law, which was nicely explained by Jakob Nielsen inZipf Curves and Website Popularity, on April 15, 1997.Although most people have managed to ignore the idea since around 1949, it's incredibly significant today because of the number of online businesses that depend on long tail effects -- such as Google, Amazon, and eBay.
ModelMitsubishi Colt CZC 1.5 TurboPrice&pound;15,999Top speed126mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.4 secsConsumption39.8mpg (combined)CO2emissions168g/km (road tax band E)At the wheelCarol ThatcherOn the stereoSmooth FMEn route forPimlicoThey'd rather walkLady ThatcherWe could all make our own lists, no doubt, of the things that have contributed most to the betterment of life in the early 21st century: laser surgery, cheap air travel, the radically increased range of breakfast cereals. But right up there with these breakthroughs, surely, would have to be the invention of the automatically retracting car roof.Amazing to think, but a generation of children is coming of age who have never known a time when a sports car's top could be peeled off only by hand, using the driver's dexterity and mental cunning. And I speak ruefully, as someone who once, in what now seems an age long past, entirely uprooted most of my fingernails trying to button a canvas top on a Citroen 2CV during an unforecast monsoon on the outskirts of Ipswich.Today, the manually operated clip-on rain cover is pretty much the preserve of antique car boffins and waterproof fabric fetishists. Meanwhile, what was formerly the hi-tech attribute of Mercedes and cars that narrowly failed the audition for the next Bond movie is now tear-jerkingly democratised and blithely attached to all manner of cut-price funmobiles.Owners of cars as cheap and cheerful as the Daihatsu Copen and the Nissan Micra are casually leaning on buttons and affecting a nonchalant look as, on demand, their car opens its boot and tucks its roof inside. What's more, these same people are then effortlessly covering themselves over when, five minutes later, with due inevitability, the clouds burst. Even the worst-performing electronic roofs pull off their stowaway trick in less than 25 seconds - well before rain has begun to pool in the footwell and penetrate the CD player, and a full 26 minutes short of the time it took me to get that 2CV approximately weatherproof.And now, to this happy throng, we can add the Colt CZC, a self-stripping roadster fashioned from Mitsubishi's humble and popular, humbug-shaped, urban nip-about, and equipped, in this format, with a 1.5-litre engine, all for under &pound;14,000, if you don't mind having the version without the turbocharger (it's &pound;2,000 extra).Just like the cheeky cabriolet version of the Peugeot 206, the convertible Colt looks, when unconverted, a little lumpy around the back end, where the boot is valiantly trying to hide its true purpose as a storage point for the opened roof. With the top cast off, though, the lines all cohere and the Colt becomes as slapstick as a bumper car and as cute as a slipper.The car is constructed using budget ingenuity from all over the place. The engines come from Germany, the seats and the cockpit components are from Holland, and the whole thing is assembled under Japanese scrutiny in Italy. Talk about made using the produce of various countries. The Colt could almost qualify as a fizzy drink.Wherever it came from, the Colt CZC is a conveniently tiny item, ending not far after the windscreen in one direction, and not far beyond the parcel shelf in the other. And the bit in between isn't exactly massive, either. Mitsubishi maintains that the car offers "superior 2+2 passenger room", which is a bit of a hoot unless your particular "+2" happen to be drawn from the creatures of the field and hedgerow.A couple of pages further into the promotional literature, though, Mitsubishi appears to back down and refers instead to "two occasional rear passengers", which may be closer to the truth. But what, exactly, is an occasional passenger? Does he or she have any connection with an occasional table?It's probably best to admit that the people really having fun in the Colt CZC are the two up front, and the one having the most fun of all is the driver, slipping the chunky, short-change gearbox around and diving, hair aflap, into those tricky, small holes in the traffic. Clearly, this is not the most terrifyingly powerful sports car known to man. The engine has a low, uncomplicated thrum and there's a bagginess about the steering and a comfort about the suspension that will pretty much rule the car out of contention for the kind of red-blooded driver who likes a convertible to scare him witless.Mitsubishi predicts that four out of five convertible Colt owners will be women. And the fifth, quite possibly, will be a hairdresser. But all of them, one hazards, will be happy. And not one of them will ever need to risk their fingernails for a spot of sunshine.
Two bits of games-academia news today, which help to chip away at my preconception that game design courses are as useful as media studies degrees in landing a job.First up,Joystiqreports that my almost-alma materUniversity of California at Santa Cruz(choseOberlin Collegeinstead) has announced that they will offer a game design degree at the insitution from next autumn. While this isn't unusual or in any way novel,what's exciting is that they've recruited an innovator in the game design sphere to helm the degree -Façadecreator Michael Mateas.Mateas and Andrew Stern created the fascinating artificial intelligence experiment and released it independently last year. It boasts very simple graphics but a hugely engaging, deep and intricate plot. FromWikipedia:The game/play is celebrated for its ability to provide a close simulation of human interaction, albeit with flat-shaded 3D graphics and sound quality clips that are obviously re-used to save file space. The game is noted because the progression of conversation between the two characters Grace and Trip is rarely entirely the same, although it does cover the same major themes of dispassion, art and marriage. The player can take an active role in the conversation, pushing the topic one way or another to provide an interactive stage-play.The second piece of news which caught my attention was the announcement that Pac Man creator Toru Iwatani is standing down from his executive role at Namco to teach students game design at University level. FromJoystiq'scoverage:Although he expressed a desire to keep making games, he felt the need to teach development methods and communication skills for the betterment of the industry.So with these worldly wise industry types trading desk jobs for tweed jackets with corduroy elbow patches, is there hope for design degrees, or should would-be industry design professionals be better off getting degrees in other subjects?
"I'm very pleased to announce thatMicrosoft has acquired Winternals Software and Sysinternals. Bryce Cogswell and I founded both Winternals and Sysinternals (originally NTInternals) back in 1996 with the goal of developing advanced technologies for Windows. We've had an incredible amount of fun over the last ten years working on a wide range of diverse products such as Winternals Administrator's Pak, Protection Manager, Defrag Manager, and Recovery Manager, and the dozens of Sysinternals tools, including Filemon, Regmon and Process Explorer, that millions of people use every day for systems troubleshooting and management," writes Mark Russinovich, who is now best known forexposing Sony's rootkit-style CD protection.There's also aMicrosoft press releasewhich says: "Russinovich will join the Microsoft Platforms &amp; Services Division as a technical fellow, working with numerous technology teams across Microsoft, and Cogswell will join the Windows Component Platform Team in the role of software architect."
Whenever I create a new folder in any of my directories, it is not being named New Folder,but it is being named after a bird. The names of four folders I have just created are: oriole, starling, seagull and quail. Can this be due to a virus or can I change any Windows configuration to fix this problem? Shiladitya MallikJS: I'd never heard of this and, of course, suspected an extremely obscure virus. However, a web search found the query had also come up atCastlecops, where it says:After two days of relentless searching, I finally found a post on another site about this issue. The bizarre bird names given to new Windows directories are not the result of malware activity, but are a context menu feature installed with a freeware compression utility called AlZip. The bird names can be easily disabled within the software by turning off "Create new folders" under Context Menu in the Configuration dialog box.The odd naming scheme is confirmed by theAlTools Web site.
Neil Patel is compiling a list, and currently has more than 500. Some of these are related to the things Google has bought (deja.net, picasa.com, pyra.com, keyhole.com, writely.com etc), some are misspellings (gogole.com, googel.com, googil.com) and some are defensive pre-emptions (googlesucks.com, googleporn.com etc). Some are just mysterious: what's the point of veritablebevy.com or jennifer-wanderer.com or canalportugal.info, if these are actually owned by Google.Either way, it's a great time-waster for a Friday afternoon. Pity it's Tuesday....
Another Wii story... American site GamerPro has justconducted an interview with Nicolas Eypert, creative director on Red Steel, Ubisoft's forthcoming Wii shooter. During the chat he uttered this ambiguous statement in relation to the game's offline four-player mode:"In Red Steel, you'll have up to four players [in the multiplayer mode]. If they play together in split screens we can only say that the fight will not be only on screen (grins)."Now, was this just a bit of a Gallic jape hinting that the game is so physically involving that players will find themselves tussling on the carpet like Alan Bates and Oliver Reed in Women in Love? Or -as Joystiq asks- is this a subtle indication that the Wii controller can actually be pointed at off-screen objects - i.e. other players - and still transmit accurate data to the console?What do you think? Is Wii about to bring the near-extinct thrills of Lazer Quest and Quasar to our living rooms? Does this mean we will have to employ surly goth teenagers to hang around in our hallways drinking Tango and tutting when we walk past?Or is too much being read into a throwaway comment? No,surelythat couldn't be it...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
On the heels of TalkTalk's free broadband offering,Skytoday unveiled its own high speed internet service. Coming in three flavours - "Base", "Mid" and "Max" - Sky Broadband will offer speeds of up to 16Mbps at low prices. "Revolutionising television has led one in three families to choose Sky," said James Murdoch, Sky's chief executive, this morning. "Today, we're taking the revolution into broadband." Time will tell whether this delivers as much as it promises, but it's abundantly clear that things are going to get a lot tougher in the already competitive broadband market.
Microsoft Office 2007 (beta) currently comes in two colours: a blue that blends in with Windows XP and a black that looks good in Vista.Jensen Harris, who is leading the interface development, has now leaked pictures of a third option: Silver.To me it looks the best yet, though it's still too blue for some.
Wii will get a lot of positive press between now and launch, mainly because it offers a new story - gaming is for everyone - and is easily accessible to even the most cack-handed journalist. Criticism will be thin on the ground as any issues - such as aching wrists or control frustrations- are only likely to come to light after a lengthier play then is possible at a press bash. Or so you'd think.Nintendo's recent Wii event, which saw the console in the UK for the first time, was aimed at press who hadn't played the console at E3. Bad news for gamesblog but good news for the likes of Arena magazine. The latter, not exactly known for their games coverage, have got aninteresting piecethat voices some of the physical concerns Iraisedin May. I was quite tired after 10 mins, so lengthy Wii sessions could be a real workout. The concerns over space are relevant too, though I'd be less concerned about the TV size. Many early adopters will be big telly owning gamers, with the kit already to hand. If Wii does breakthrough to the true mass-market then it is still likely to be stuck under the main TV next to the DVD player. Historically Nintendo's consoles have generally been the children's bedroom choice - to be played on a smaller screen - but the Wii's sleek design and party friendly gaming makes me think it will live with the adults.Pretty much everyone with an interest in gaming is looking forward to the Wii - including me - but there are some issues getting swept under the carpet in the pre-launch hype.
As most top scientists are now discovering, there's only one truly reliable way to test a theory - and that's to use an elaborate 3D virtual reality system. Hence, boffins at the University of Manchester have constructed a 'virtual computer world' to examine telepathic ability. 100 participants will take part in the experiment which thrusts them into a 3D environment which according to the university's press release, "looks like a life-size computer game".I'll leave it up to them to explain what happens next..."The test is carried out using two volunteers who could be friends, work colleagues or family. They are placed in separate rooms on different floors of the same building to eliminate any possibility of communication.Participants enter the virtual environment by donning a head-mounted 3D display and an electronic glove which they use to navigate their way through the computer generated world.Once inside participants view a random selection of computer-generated objects. These include a telephone, a football and an umbrella. The person in the first room sees one object at a time, which they are asked to concentrate on and interact with.The person in the other room is simultaneously presented with the same object plus three decoy objects. They are then asked to select the object they believe the other participant is trying to transmit to them."At first, I was confused as to why this experiment actually required an elaborate virtual reality environment. Dr Toby Howard explains, ""By creating a virtual environment we are creating a completely objective environment which makes it impossible for participants to leave signals or even unconscious clues as to which object they have chosen."But surely if thelab ratsparticipants are in different rooms, there's no way they could create visual signals for each other - so couldn't the research team just use those standard Zenar shape cards?Perhaps this is all about attempting to coax telepathic powers out of the brains of the victims by placing the test in a more naturalistic environment. As the release explains, "The system has been designed to make the task as realistic as possible. In addition to selecting objects and hearing the sounds they make, participants are able to hold and move them within the virtual environment."The test has modest aims - it's not about proving or disproving the existence of telepathy, it's more about, 'creating an experimental method which stands up to scientific scrutiny'. But by using this virtual environment the research team could accidentally make some interesting findings about how we interact and unconsciously communicate in multiplayer game worlds. Before voice comms solutions like TeamSpeak came along, participants in team-based shooters often had to rely on intuition and incredibly subtle visual clues to work out what their teammates were planning (in the heat of battle, it's not always practical to type in 'you go round the back of the building and I'll cover the front door').Is there a genuine telepathic bond between gamers? We'll find out next year when the University publishes its findings...
One of the more bizarre repercussions spiralling out of the negative public reaction to videogaming in the United States is the recent decision by the mayor of gambling-and-vice mecca Las Vegas to protest against the release of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas because the city is included as the backdrop in an anti-terror plot. Fromgamepolitics:Mayor Oscar Goodman and other Las Vegas officials plan to fight the November release of the game, although what actions they may take are not specified. Goodman said Rainbow Six Vegas is based on a "false premise," and that the game "could be harmful economically, and it may be something that's not entitled to free speech (protection)... I will ask... whether or not we can stop it."TheLas Vegas Review-Journalreports that Mayor Goodman has not personally viewed any of the game's footage.What intrigues me most about this story is that it suggests that people who don't know or play videogames assume from the start that content included in interactive entertainment will be positioned negatively. From the bounty of films that are set in the city, I can only suggest that they think their glittering strips will be portrayed positively when transferred to silicone, or they'd have stopped Hollywood cameras from rolling. What a strange disparity.I wonder what he would have said to the producers of the fiercely depressing Nic Cage filmLeaving Las Vegas.
At 5-600 pounds a pop (when bundled, as it will be at Christmas) you may not care how much Sony make when they sell you a PS3. But as the Technology blogreports, it may be less than you think. Yes, it's the Cell processor - the power behind the PS3 - that is the problem.The problem is that the cost of a chip depends on the yield. Chips are made on wafers, and you have to process a whole wafer at a time. Let's assume it costs $1,000 produce a wafer with 100 chips on it. If there are no defects at all, that's 100 good chips at $10 each. If the defect rate is 99%, you only get one chip per wafer and it costs $1,000..Of course, this is nothing new. There has been plenty ofprevious speculationabout Sony's PS3 manufacturing costs, with the Cell processor and Blu-ray drive the main culprits. The latter is particularly important for Sony as it attempts to win the HD battle. And for the consumer interested in buying a PS3 when they launch? Don't expect a price cut any time soon.
For the last 15 years handheld gaming has survived as a cute niche, tagging along beside a succession of behemoth home consoles. But are the tables slowly turning in this power relationship?Apparently, Nintendo DS was the biggest selling console in America last month. Over in Japan, the story is the same: between June 26 and July 2 the DS shifted 153,566 units - the next nearest competitor, the PSP, managed 25,935. And as Gregpointed out last week, DS Lite hit 200,000 sales after ten days on European shelves. I've also just heard from Future that itsGolden Joystickawards are attracting record numbers of votes this year - with handheld titles like New Super Mario Brothers, Animal Crossing and Mario Kart DS making a strong showing for the Ultimate Game of the Year accolade.Of course, this could all be about the current lull in the home console scene. Xbox 360 is still establishing itself, PS3 and Wii aren't out yet, while PS2 is slipping quietly into the dying of the light. When there's a real, full-bodied three-way battle going on between the next-gen consoles, handheld formats may well be pushed to the periphery once again.Or the success of portable platforms may be reflecting a general consumer shift away from big static hardware and toward sexy little take-anywhere machines. We know, of course, that notebook PCs areregularly outselling desktop modelsand that the burgeoning concept of the integrated home server is seeking to replace the numerous wired entertainment boxes we have littered all around our houses.We are, after all, the iPod generation...
We've reported extensively on the future of the internet, as nations around the world push and pull to try and wrestle control from the US. At the heart of it all lies ICANN, the ruling organisation that's under constant fire for its veil of mystery. Fed up of all the useless bickering, reporterKieren McCarthy- who writes for the Register and is a regular contributorat this parish- has decided he isgoing to standfor membership of the board. "My whole point is to make the ICANN community realise that you can ultimately achieve more by being open," he says. Kieren has posted the full application on hisblogand is crossing fingers for election in October. Good luck!
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
AFP Photo"The world's first manned plane powered by conventional dry-cell batteries soared five meters (16 feet) above the ground in a demonstration flight. The glider-like plane with a single-seat gondola and a 31 meter (102 feet) wingspan was powered by 160 AA Oxyride batteries which have been produced by Japan's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co since April 2004," reportsAFP.The plane was developed at the Tokyo Institute of Technology.
"The neighborhood record store was once a clubhouse for teenagers, a place to escape parents, burn allowances and absorb the latest trends in fashion as well as music. But these days it is fast becoming a temple of nostalgia for shoppers old enough to remember Frampton Comes Alive!," saysThe New York Times."We don't see the kids anymore," said Thom Spennato, who owns Sound Track, a cozy store on busy Seventh Avenue in Park Slope, Brooklyn. "That 12-to-15-year-old market, that's what's missing the last couple of years."Greta Perr, an owner of Future Legends, a new and used CD store on Ninth Avenue in Hell's Kitchen, said that young people never really came back to her store after the Napster file-sharing upheaval of the late 90s.The story says:Industry statistics bear out the graying of the CD-buying public. Purchases by shoppers between ages 15 and 19 represented 12 percent of recorded music in 2005, a decline from about 17 percent in 1996, according to the Recording Industry Association. Purchases by those 20 to 24 represented less than 13 percent in 2005, down from about 15 percent. Over the same period, the share of recorded music bought by adults over 45 rose to 25.5 percent, from 15 percent.
There's anew tomeavailable in treeware for fanciers of the economics of virtual worlds: Play Money, the meatspace companion of the virtual adventures of journalistJulian Dibbell. The book, for sale at all good shops, is an in-depth account of one man's first-hand experience with negotiating the fascinating real-world commoditisation of items and accounts in virtual worlds like World of Warcraft and EverQuest.Regular readers of The Guardian may recallpapercoverageof the Wired contributing editor'syear-long experimentto make more money buying and selling digital castles and gold pieces in the massively multiplayer online game Ultima than he could at his chosen offline profession. While he didn't quite match his actual annual income, he did make approximately the same as a school teacher.From theproduct description:Play Money explores a remarkable new phenomenon that's just beginning to enter public consciousness: MMORPGs, or Massively MultiPlayer Online Role-Playing Games, in which hundreds of thousands of players operate fantasy characters in virtual environments the size of continents. With city-sized populations of nearly full-time players, these games generate their own cultures, governments, and social systems and, inevitably, their own economies, which spill over into the real world.The desire for virtual goods--magic swords, enchanted breastplates, and special, hard-to-get elixirs--has spawned a cottage industry of "virtual loot farmers": People who play the games just to obtain fantasy goods that they can sell in the real world. The best loot farmers can make between six figures a year and six figures a month.Play Money is an extended walk on the weird side: a vivid snapshot of a subculture whose denizens were once the stuff of mere sociological spectacle but now--with computer gaming poised to eclipse all other entertainments in dollar volume, and with the lines between play and work, virtual and real increasingly blurred--look more and more like the future.Also worth a read are other summer releases like TL Taylor'sPlay Between Worlds: Exploring online game cultureand Edward Castronova'sSynthetic Worlds.
Hewlett-Packard has announced a Memory Spot chip "about the size of a grain of rice or smaller (2mm to 4mm square), with a built-in antenna. The chips could be embedded in a sheet of paper or stuck to any surface, and could eventually be available in a booklet as self-adhesive dots," says the company'spress release.It's like an RFID chip, but can hold 256 kilobits (32K) to 4 megabits (512K), so "it could store a very short video clip, several images or dozens of pages of text. Future versions could have larger capacities."Information can be accessed by a read-write device that could be incorporated into a cell phone, PDA, camera, printer or other implement. To access information, the read-write device is positioned closely over the chip, which is then powered so that the stored data is transferred instantly to the display of the phone, camera or PDA or printed out by the printer. Users could also add information to the chip using the various devices.HP suggests a number of uses:-- Medical records: Embed a Memory Spot chip into a hospital patient's wrist band and full medical and drug records can be kept securely available.-- Audio photo: Attach a chip to the prints of photographs and add music, commentary or ambient sound to enhance the enjoyment of viewing photos.-- Digital postcards: Send a traditional holiday postcard to family and friends with a chip containing digital pictures of a vacation, plus sounds and even video clips.-- Document notes: A Memory Spot chip attached to a paper document can include a history of all the corrections and additions made to the text, as well as voice notes and graphical images.-- Perfect photocopies: A Memory Spot chip attached to a cover sheet eliminates the need to copy the original document. Just read the perfect digital version into the photocopier and the result will be sharp output every time, no matter how many copies are needed, and avoiding any possibility of the originals jamming in the feeder.-- Security passes: Add a chip to an identity card or security pass for the best of both worlds -- a handy card with secure, relevant digital information included.-- Anti-counterfeit tags: Counterfeit drugs are a significant problem globally. Memory Spot chips can contain secure information about the manufacture and quality of pharmaceuticals. When added to a drug container, this can prove their authenticity. A similar process could be used to verify high-value engineering and aviation components.There are reports atBBC News,USA Today,The New York Timesetc.
Better late than never: Friday's programme coveredCasual Friday. It seems there is life after Congdon....
Citroen C6Price:&pound;31,545Top speed:143mphMiles per gallon:32Good for:big fromagesBad for:petit criminelsLast summer, on Bastille Day, the usual cavalcade of highly polished limousines swept France's most powerful men and women up the Champs Elysees as part of the country's celebration of the revolution. As the crowds cheered, President Chirac, never one to miss a chance to aggrandise the French nation, chose this moment to reveal a new car to the world - Citroen's super-luxurious saloon, the C6. As TV helicopters followed the procession, the president's motorcycle outriders formed themselves into two distinct chevrons, mimicking the marque's famous badge. It was an extraordinary PR coup... 'Well, not exactly,' admits Citroen's press officer. 'Even we didn't know Chirac was going to use the C6. It was just a bit of luck.'For more than a decade, the executive driver, or his or her chauffeur, has been limited to driving a few monstrously powerful German cars, vehicles which have become synonymous with corporate success - and therefore totally anonymous. The C6 is set to change all that. It is at once fresh yet curiously familiar. Its classical proportions - the long nose and foreshortened back end, its great sweeping roof line - all hark back to the glory days of Citroen's great DS and CX. In the week I spent gliding round south London I got more double-takes than John Prescott at a roulette table. On a dozen occasions, people crossed the road to tap on my window and ask what I was driving, and did I know it really reminded them of 'one of those Inspector Clouseau cars'. I've never had such instantaneous positive feedback.The C6 is packed with gizmos to enhance comfort, safety and drive: rest assured that anything that possibly can be powered, softened, electronically assisted and digitally enhanced has been. Three highlights, however, are Citroen's patented hydractive suspension, which literally means you feel like you are driving a water bed or maybe a Venetian launch; its 'active bonnet', which has a pyrotechnic device to blast the bonnet upwards if a pedestrian should happen to stray into your path (savage, but life saving); and its 'head-up' visual display, which has been developed from jet fighters and means your dashboard information dances in the air halfway down the bonnet. This may sound highly distracting but it's surprisingly easy to adapt to and will, apparently, save you at least three car-lengths' worth of time in an emergency-braking situation.Stylish looks and its smooth-as-satin handling aside, the real joy of the C6 is to be had in the back seat, a real fat cat's den of comfort: lights, air con, TGV-style movable seats and, best of all, a button to move the front seats forward so you can stretch out in the rear. A true case of back-seat driving.Only 20,000 or so of these cars will ever be built, and of those only a few hundred are expected to reach these shores. And like the CX and the DS, it has 'collector's car' written all over it. And I'm sure that 20 years down the line, proud owners will be polishing their iconic C6s on a sunny Sunday morning.martin.love@observer.co.uk
In this week'sNewsbytes, I mentioned Microsoft's Private Folder 1.0, which is one of the perks for submitting to XP verification via Windows Genuine Advantage.According to CNet:Following an outcry from corporate customers, Microsoft is removing an add-on feature to Windows that allowed users to create password-protected folders.The feature was introduced as a free download last week. Almost immediately, people raised questions over how businesses would grapple with the ability of individual workers to encrypt their data.On Friday, CNet quoted Microsoft as saying: "we are removing the application today".Well, if there's a serious outcry from corporate buyers, I can certainly see Microsoft withdrawing an application. However, if these corporate buyers have yet to discover the Group Policies editor, their staff can probably download any number of free or cheap equivalents.Indeed, some company staff may already have discovered that they can just ZIP or RAR or otherwise compress anything they want to keep secret, and password protect it. Or they may just upload stuff to a personal Gmail account or a similar web-based mail service that offers one or two gigabytes of storage, to avoid getting beaten up by IT staff enforcing a 100MB (or whatever) storage limit.At the time of writing, Private Folder 1.0 is still availablehere, though it has been removed fromhttp://www.microsoft.com/genuine/offers/
The Sony PlayStation 3 could be dramatically more expensive to make than most people think, and in even shorter supply, because of problems manufacturing its novel Cell processor. Rather than costing, say, $150 each, they could cost $300 each, or even more (in hypothetical ball-park terms).The problem is that the cost of a chip depends on the yield. Chips are made on wafers, and you have to process a whole wafer at a time. Let's assume it costs $1,000 produce a wafer with 100 chips on it. If there are no defects at all, that's 100 good chips at $10 each. If the defect rate is 99%, you only get one chip per wafer and it costs $1,000. (There are other costs including the packaging and testing, and the sunk cost of the fab, which could be $2 billion. If you make 100 million chips, the cost of a $2bn fab still adds at least $20 per chip.)I've been assuming a Cell chip would cost around $150, with about 60% yield, which I thought was reasonably pessimistic. But an interview with Tom Reeves, IBM vice president of semiconductor and technology services, inElectronic News, implies that it could be much more.Tom's Hardware picked it up, and remarks:With standard silicon germanium (SiGe) single-core processors, IBM can achieve yields of up to 95%, Reeves told Electronic News. But "with a chip like the Cell processor," he then remarked, "you're lucky to get 10 or 20 percent."Even if my calculations are completely wrong, that would make Cell chips two or three times as expensive as I thought -- and that probably goes for all the other people doing back-of-an-envelope guesstimates.The stiuation is helped because Sony will be able to ship defective chips in many PS3s. The Cell has multiple processing elements, and there are eight in the PS3 design. Sony's specification is for seven SPEs (synergistic processing elements), so chips with one defective SPE can still be used. But the costs don't go away. As Tom's Hardware comments:In its quarterly report last April, Sony told investors it intends to sell 6 million PS3s between November 2006 and March 2007. If this is indeed the case, borrowing Reeves' numbers, the IBM/Sony/Toshiba joint effort (STI) will need to fabricate at least 15 million Cell processors, and toss out 60% or more of those units after fabrication.Yes, this is all a bit hypothetical. However, if Sony or IBM wants to divulge the real manufacturing costs for Cell processors (and, ideally, for those hard-to-make Blu-ray drives) we'll be happy to publish them.Note: The chip used in the Xbox 360 is also multi-core, and could have similar problems, but not to the same extent. Chip manufacturing yields increase as the process is honed and bedded in, and the Xbox 360's chip is based on PowerPC and Altivec elements well known from Mac chip production, and a well established process. In theory, the two chips might cost about the same to make, but real life is different, and is likely to stay that way for a while.
What is believed to be the world's largest photo has been successfully - if rather unclearly - taken in a hangar converted into a massive camera at a former marine base in California.About 30 people arrived this week to watch as the 8.4 metre by 32.4 metre (28ft by 108ft) black-and-white image, above, was captured at Irvine by six photographers from the non-profit organisation the Legacy Project. The photo shows the base's control towers, some palm trees and a portable toilet.It was created using the centuries-old camera obscura principle - which involved opening a coin-sized hole in the hangar's wall to allow a tiny beam of light to enter. The image then appeared - upside down and flipped left to right - on a sheath of light-sensitive fabric the length of a third of a football field and about three storeys tall.The cloth was exposed for 35 minutes, and then 60 volunteers helped the photographers develop the image by dipping the fabric in an enormous 30cm-deep tray."That was the magic: seeing this image come to life in the tray," said photographer Jacques Garnier. "That made all the work worthwhile."The photo will be wrapped around a tube and eventually shipped to a temperature-controlled warehouse. A few museums have expressed interest in displaying it, though no firm commitments to exhibit the image have yet been made.Guinness World Records has created two new categories for the photographic project: the world's largest camera and the world's largest photograph. Officials said the certification of the records would take about three months to be finalised.The ambitious project was the latest to be undertaken by the group of photographers, who decided to record the marine base before it was redeveloped.The base was decommissioned in 1999 after more than a half-century of use. Developers plan to turn it into a complex with a 150 hectare (375 acre) park, a museum district, a sports arena and thousands of homes.
If the Pirates Of The Caribbean sequel has pricked your interest in all things piratey, here are a few places you may like to go to shiver your timbers and crush ye barnacles over. For a bounty of links, travel tonoquarter given.net, the official periodical for the modern day seafaring rogue.thewayofthepirates.comis like the imdb of seabound outlaws with biographies on all the greats like Bluebeard, Blackbeard and Calico Rackham Jack;arrrrrr.comhouses an ergonomic keyboard for pirates; Modern Drunkard (tinyurl.com/67tha) examines every plunderer's favourite tipple; whilethepiratepom.comhas cornered the swashbuckling dog market by chronicling the adventures of Fo'c'sle Jack, Pomeranian captain of the Dread Ship Pork Chop. Finally, over attalklikeapirate.comyou can learn some pirate pick-up lines: Yes, that is a hornpipe in my pocket.
MondayBugs in controlTuesdayWomen in Games 2006World loves warcraftPSP lites out?WednesdayReducing real-life conflict to real time strategyPSP ad withdrawnThursdayGame marketing dissectedDevelop conferenceFridayIs British culture missing from British games?Drive off
"Everyone knows that Apple's Intel powered portable lineup gets hot, but this is insane! An enterprising fellow figured out that it would be possible to actually fry an egg on the bottom of his black MacBook," saysThe Unofficial Apple Weblog, with picture.In a comment, Patrick Haney says: "that's nothing. Try cooking up some bacon on a MacBook Pro!http://www.flickr.com/photos/splat/177826218/(I think I'd want to see the video before swallowing that one.)Presumably the Mac that's auditoning for a job at Mac-Donalds (groan) is one that suffers from the overheating problem tackled byInterrupting Moss at the Something Awful forum. He made his system run dramatically cooler by opening it up and correcting the manufacturing defect -- the application of too much thermal paste, as illustrated on page 106 of Apple's Service Manual.Warning:these picturesare not suitable for those with what the BBC used to call a "nervous disposition".So Steve Jobs sent him a thankyou letter and a case of wine, right?Nope. The forum got the usual threatening letter from Apple's overbusy legal staff saying: "The Service Source manual for the MacBook Pro is Apple's intellectual property and is protected by U.S. copyright law."Gizmodo commented:Of course the real problem isn't the single excerpted page being linked from Something Awful, but instead the fact that the image shows the extremely sloppy manufacturing process that is causing the MacBook Pro to run at temperatures as high as a 95 degrees Celcius [sic] under full load. (A temperature so high that the processor is at risk of malfunctioning.) Rather than addressing the problem of the shoddy workmanship, documented not only by those who purchased Apple's $2,500 laptop but by Apple's own service manual, Apple is trying to silence those from the Macintosh community who are trying to help other Mac users fix Apple's mistake.Note: I'd assume Apple can tell the difference between egg-frying discoloratons and thepalm-rest discolorationthat results from a manufacturing defect that has affected some white MacBooks. Apple's lawyers will probably grill you if you try it.
My genuine but old XP started telling me that it could be an illegal copy and I should activate (which I had already done). I used the WGA wizard which said already activated and exited. I checked with Mr Gates's merry men who said it would be OK now as the first activation had not registered. So far so good.Then whilst I was on holiday, my son telephoned to say he was getting a count down message. I said check the wizard which again said already activated. Then the system locked us out. Now it goes to the wizard which says already activated then chucks us out. I can only get into the system on command line.I have done a complete repair install to no avail.Robin EdwardI've replied to earlier queries about Windows Genuine Advantage so please read the answer given on June 1 (Legally Windows?) for information on theCOA (Certificate of Authenticity)andKeyUpdate.exe tool.I'd also suggest that you're more likely to succeed if your copy of XP is fully updated, certainly with SP2, and preferably with other patches, as this is what Microsoft tests against.It is also worth visiting theMicrosoft Genuine Advantage - Diagnostic Site, which will check:* If scripting is turned on * If images display correctly * If the System Date and Time are relatively correct * If the Microsoft Genuine Advantage ActiveX controls load correctly * If the Microsoft Genuine Advantage ActiveX controls are able to successfully connect to the validation serversWhat follows is an answer from the Microsoft UK support team, which I emailed you earlier. Usually I'd wait to hear back before making this public, but the topic is currently newsworthy....JSMicrosoft says:If any hardware is changed, then the hardware ID doesn't match the WPA entries and therefore, it generates an error.Resolution:a) Try to activate Windows via internet, if it fails b) Activate windows via telephone support.* When we select phone option it will display free phone number for you to call * Dial the number and it will ask, "Do you want to activate windows copy or terminal server copy?" * Select option for activating "windows copy" and follow the online instructions which should activate the user's copy of windows.c) If the above steps fail, you can try to reset the OOBETimer. You may need to do this because a few of the files on the PC may have been corrupted because of a "bad shut down" or "hardware change".* Boot the system in safe mode, by pressing F8 initially after bios screen * Once able to boot in safe mode, click on the Start menu, go to Run and type regedit to run the Registry editor * Go to the locationHKLM\SOFTWARE\MICROSOFT\WINDOWS NT\CURRENTVERSION\WPAEVENTS* OOBETimer - Right click on the OOBETimer key, click on Modify, highlight the second group of numbers, and change the numbers to different numbers.By modifying the numbers in this way, you are able reset the OOBE (out of the box experience) timer. Resetting the timer will allow you to log in to the machine and then try activation again.* Reboot the system in normal mode and then try the steps (a) and (b) again.The above steps should get the issue resolved.Further information can be found athttp://support.microsoft.com/?id=312295
"Laundry Time, an eight-week pilot program from the Internet Home Alliance, will eventually include nine families and feature the technology and services of Microsoft, HP, Panasonic, Proctor &amp; Gamble and Whirlpool. The idea is to allow family members to receive alerts and control certain laundry functions from their PCs, cell phones and television sets, thus freeing up more time to spend with their PCs, cell phones and television sets," according to Paul McNamara atNetwork World.Microsoft is kicking in proprietary Laundry Time software and its Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005; HP is providing Digital Entertainment Centers; Panasonic is bringing transceivers and TV technology; while Proctor &amp; Gamble applies its consumer know-how. Oh, and Whirlpool has the Laundry Time-enabled washers and dryers, although I couldn't find out whether the families get to keep them or not.Comment: Atlanta Business Chronicle has also reported the story inWhirlpool tests 'smart home'.The IHA has already done a study of the connected kitchen, Mealtime, a Web-based Family Calendar User Interface Project, a Structured Wiring Pilot, an Energy Management Pilot, and others.
Microsoft wasn't able to respond to us on Tuesday, when this week's copy of Technology Guardian went to press (yes, such an old-fashioned idea, but it makes money) to comment forour story about Windows Genuine Advantage- you know, that program that checks whether a copy of Windows is "genuine". The latter phrase, of course, raises all sort ofepistemologicalquestions. As we'll see.But here's the response we did get (later) from Michala Alexander, Head of Anti-Piracy, Microsoft UK. You'll recall that the story pointed out that an official Microsoft response in the US said that 80% of WGA failures were due to pirated volume keys. In which case, we asked, what's going on with the other 20%?Ms Alexander responds (and the things that I find intriguing I've marked with (numbers) and discuss further down):"Using a stolen volume licensing key has been one well known method of counterfeiting Windows XP. This accounts for around 80% of the non-genuine users today. The other 20% represents other types of counterfeit, including forms of tampering and unauthorized OEM installations. Of the hundreds of millions of WGA validations to date, only a handful was actual false positives. Most of these were due to data entry errors that were quickly corrected."Often times, users have no idea that their copy of Windows is counterfeit. The most common situation is what we call the "repair shop" scenario. In this scenario, a genuine Windows user takes their PC to be repaired. Unbeknownst to the customer, the repair shop installs an unlicensed copy of Windows. (1) The customer has no idea that this happened. In this situation, Microsoft provides a failure report that the customer can print and go back to the repair shop to resolve this issue. This scenario is also common when a PC is set up or repaired by friends or family members, who install their own copy of Windows on someone else's machine.(2) While the intentions are often innocent, this is in fact a form of software piracy."Another very common scenario is someone who buys a new PC from a dishonest business which charges them for the software but installs a pirated copy. The user knows they have paid for their copy of Windows, but they are actually running pirated software. When WGA alerts them to the use of counterfeit software, the user might feel confused or think the WGA test is inaccurate (a false positive) when, in fact, they have been taken advantage of by the business from which they acquired the counterfeit copy. Microsoft is working hard to educate customers to insist upon genuine Windows.(3) We are also working with our legal and investigative teams to help identify and take legal action against channel partners who sell counterfeit and pirated Windows in order to level the playing field for our honest partners."Additionally, customers who believe they have been victimized by software piracy can submit their counterfeit copy of Windows to Microsoft for evaluation and may be eligible for a complimentary replacement.(4)"So, the intriguing stuff.(1): Unlicensed in what way? The repair shop has a copy of Windows. The customer has a copy of Windows. (OK, they might not be precisely the same category - eg XP Pro vs XP Home, but you'd think a "repair shop" would be careful to spot the difference.) If the repair shop isn't licensed to install Windows.. the fact remains that you still have the same number of copies in circulation. Microsoft hasn't lost any revenue in this "transaction", because the repair shop hasn't put a copy of Windows where there wasn't one before. Piracy implications: zero. (Unless, as mentioned above, the repair shop "upgrades" the Windows on the being-repaired PC.)(2) A PC is set up or repaired by a family member, and the repairer puts their own copy of Windows on it. Again, if you allow that the copy of Windows being installed is legit, where's the piracy issue in the "repair" scenario? We'd imagine the number of self-built PCs which get a reused copy of Windows put on is unimaginably small. Piracy implications: orders of magnitude smaller than the daily interest on Microsoft's bank deposit of $33.5bn.(3) How does one "insist" upon genuine Windows in this situation? Many shops sell you the PC and the Windows disk (or reinstall disk) is somewhere in all the box and malarkey. If you're buying online, how on earth could you tell? Some notable very large online suppliers don't even give you a "clean" Windows box; all you get is system reinstall disks. Those are legit, but how could you know?(4) Under what circumstances precisely is one eligible for a free replacement of a counterfeit copy? What receipts etc would you need? And while the copy of Windows is being considered by Microsoft, what are you meant to do if you need to do a system reinstall or "prove" that you have a valid copy of Windows, etc?We've forwarded a link to this post on to Microsoft for more comment. From here, WGA seems increasingly like a subversive tool to expose just how confusing the Windows licensing scheme can be.
HitWise recently released a report with a headline that readMySpace Moves Into #1 Position for all Internet Sites-- well, for the US only. Naturally this prompted a certain amount of derision, soCompete has stepped in"to provide an alternative view of 'who's the biggest'." The answer is... both of them:In terms of unique visitors, Yahoo.com remains the most trafficked U.S. Internet destination online with a whopping 117 million unique visitors in June (for a clear comparison, we aggregated all sub-domains for both Yahoo.com and MySpace.com).In terms of page views, MySpace.com overtook Yahoo.com and stole the #1 rank back in January '06 - which is amazing in itself when you think about how many page views Yahoo! Mail generates. (Mail accounts for ~ 50% of Yahoo page views compared to Search which only accounts for ~8%).There are interesting graphs to make the points....Note: Compete's figures are "based on the daily web usage of more than 2 million people" rather than server logs or whatever.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The first two Driver games were fabulous (for their time). But the third - the pointlessly titled Driv3r - was second only to Angel of Darkness in bug-ridden, over hyped ineptitude. I remember thePR smokescreenthat sprang up around Driv3r. At the time - 2004 - online review embargos were rare so the alarm bells started ringing as soon as the PR called up to stress how code wouldn't be given out unless reviews were held back until after the first print reviews hit. I can't remember which magazine gave it a decent review - bless 'em - but the true horror of the game quickly emerged as online and other print reviews appeared. This year's Driver: Parallel Lines - a return to some sort of form - was too late to restore the franchise's shattered reputation.So today's news that Ubisoft has bought the IP and development studio (Reflections Interactive) from Atari is not that surprising. Atari is in a financial mess, while Ubisoft lacks a decent driving game. Whether a next-gen Driver can recapture ground lost to GTA and produce a Tomb Raider: Legend style reinvention remains to be seen. But at least Driver has a chance now.
Late last monthWiredposted an article on India's burgeoning gamer population, suggesting that the country was poised to take off as one of the largest consumer markets in the world. Whilst this is fascinating from a business standpoint, what I found most interesting was the article's comment that there is little - if any - Indian cultural representation in the titles that are played and produced. That got me thinking about the games we've got and are making in this market.As mentioned previously, the UK has undoubtedly produced some of the most well-received games in the world. The biggest franchises - Tomb Raider, GTA - have been celebrated from within for their great design aesthetic, and British developers have been given individual honours for their contributions to British culture. But what British culture has seeped back into the products that are made on these shores?Arguably, games are created for an American market. I'vediscussed the depressing factthat our business development is behoved to the US distribution machine. In Japan, the top selling games of all time feature only one or two non-Japanese developed titles. At last glance, the top games of 2005 in the US and the UK were all North American developed. Where's the British culture in there?I'm not suggesting that we stereotype the Brits for this market by creating titles that emphasise bowler hats, RP accents and cups of milky tea, but surely it's important that British cultural identity - whatever that is - is represented in the products that are made for this, the European and the international markets.Two main questions arise. First, what is British Cultural Identity? Can it be summarised ina handbook, as has been done for theBritish Citizenship Test? Whatdoyou do when you accidentally spill someone's pint in the pub?Second, how has it been incorporated into gaming? How can you incorporate spilling a pint into a game? Furthermore, if looking at existing "British" products I wouldn't consider Tomb Raider to be a shining example of Britishness; apart from Lara's plummy English accent, the rest of the story is based upon an American movie franchise. Nor do I think of GTA as being Scottish.Where have you seen the Great British Sense of Humour in any game?Rare'sConker's Bad Fur Day/Live &amp; Reloaded? Are Brits particularly good at developing Empire-builders (a laPeter Molyneux OBE'sPopulous?) Where have the ancient traditions and folk stories gone? Cultures like China and Korea regularly incorporate these elements into their products, to great success. What is Britain'sUSPin the world market?
"Virtual PC 2004 Service Pack 1 (SP1) is a powerful software virtualization solution that allows you to run multiple PC-based operating systems simultaneously on one workstation, providing a safety net to maintain compatibility with legacy applications while you migrate to a new operating system. It also saves reconfiguration time, so your support, development, and training staff can work more efficiently,"says Microsoft.It runs on Windows 2000 Pro SP4, Windows XP Pro and Windows XP Tablet PC Edition.The downloadis 18.2MB (it took 2 minutes 41 seconds here).
"Sony tops the list in the annual Harris Poll of 'best brands' for an impressive seventh consecutive year. Dell retains its No. 2 spot, while Coca-Cola, previously in the fourth position, moves up to No. 3," according to aHarris Interactive press release."These are some of the results of a nationwide Harris Poll of 2,351 US adults surveyed online by Harris Interactive between June 7 and 13, 2006. Survey responses were unaided and a list of brand names was not presented to respondents. The results from this survey cannot be compared to results of the Harris Interactive 2006 EquiTrend Brand Study results, as the methodologies for the surveys differ."A table covering 1995-2006 shows Apple making the top 10 for the first time, while Microsoft (and General Motors) dropped out of the top 10.
Technology companies have reacted angrily to the idea of a new tariff aimed at recouping money lost to illegal downloading.The proposals for a change in copyright law and licensing - put forward this week by independent music labels and artists' organisations - have caused consternation among internet and mobile phone companies. They are unhappy about what they say is the threat of an extra tax on their services.Brian Aherne, a spokesman for the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA) called the plans "ill-conceived" and said the industry would resist attempts to bring such proposals into law."We've not been consulted on this," he said."They're asking ISPs to participate without asking their opinions."Representatives from the mobile industry also claim they have not been consulted over the proposals, which were presented last week to the government's review into intellectual property, headed by former Financial Times editor Andrew Gowers.But music industry officials say the so-called "Value Recognition Right" would see ISPs and other groups charged extra to make up for the actions of customers who download illegally. The charges could even stretch to hardware, such as devices with Bluetooth networking capabilities which can be used to transfer music files between phones."We really need to introduce additional rights and create relationships with those currently profiting at our expense," said Alison Wenham, chairman of the Association of Independent Music.Officials rejected suggestions that the plans would amount to a levy on digital businesses, but admitted that current methods of measuring internet traffic were too crude to be useful. Ms Wenham said many technology firms act as "intermediaries" in the process of file sharing and accused internet firms of gaining business value from promoting legal music services in the knowledge that many customers would use their networks to download illegally.Ispa rejected such claims. "That absolutely has to be refuted," said Mr Aherne. "ISPs do not condone illegal activity and we do not support abuses of copyright and intellectual property theft."But Ms Wenham dismissed claims that internet companies already pay their full dues to artists and labels for the legal services they run, and rejected the idea that ISPs could not afford to pay for the bad behaviour of some customers."If they are working on slender margins then they should try working on none at all, which is where we are," she said.The war of words is the latest volley in an increasingly fraught skirmish between technology providers and music labels. Earlier this week the British Phonographic Industry, another leading music industry body, put pressure on two ISPs to close down the accounts of customers it said were responsible for heavy levels of file sharing.One of the providers, Tiscali, lashed out at the BPI's interference, saying that it had given "no actual evidence" which would force it to act against its own customers.Some countries already impose small levies on recordable media - such as CDs and blank cassettes - in order to offset perceived losses to artists by illegal copying. But campaigners say current moves by the music industry are not constructive."They are looking at booming technology markets, such as the growth in iPod sales, and wondering how they can get themselves a slice of the action," said Suw Charman of digital lobbyists the Open Rights Group.
How not to steal a Sidekickhas been one of the most entertaining sagas on the web (not always in a good way). It started with a post that read: "The people in the pictures below have my friend's T-Mobile Sidekick. Instead of doing the honorable thing when finding someone's phone in a taxi, they instead kept it."What started as an attempt to shame them into giving the Sidekick back turned into a media frenzy and eventually led to a 16-year-old girl from Corona, Queens, being apprehended by the NYPD -- which is not to suggest that the NYPD emerged with its reputation enhanced.Evan Guttman, whose post kicked things off, decided tosell the recovered Sidekick on eBay, and T-Mobile offered to give the same amount as the selling price, up to $5,000, to charity. After 79 bids, it went for $3,600: hurray! But the story still doesn't have a happy ending. InUpdate #67 July 11th, 9:15 a.m., he writes:Towards the end of the auction, I contacted the top bidder to confirm his identity. He lived in the UK, so I was a bit worried about a fake bidder. I called the phone number he had listed on ebay and he answered. He told me he would pay 1-2 days after the auction ended by credit card. I saw him make multiple bids overtaking others. In the end, he won. I sent him an invoice and waited for the transaction....and waited...and waited. On Monday (yesterday), I called the number again. When I asked for the person's name, I was told that no one lived by that name there. So, I hung up, and tried again. Again I was told that that person wasn't there, and asked if I was a male escort they were waiting for a phone call from. There were multiple voices in the background... I waited about 20 min, and tried one more time. This time, when I called and asked for the person, I was asked if I was a pedophile... When I replied no, the man on the phone told me this person was a 14 year old boy (his son). I told him I was tired of the games... He said that since it was his son making the auction, he was not responsible. He then cursed me out, told me he would sue me for harassment if I called again, and hung up.Big mistake. I have already contacted Ebay. Once they won the auction, they are in a BINDING contract with me. Even if it was his son, the father is responsible for the bid. This morning I have received email from the top bidder. Now he has a new story. He said he lives in a flat with multiple roommates and he left his computer on, and someone must have bid. That's too bad. Now it will be his responsibility to find out who.Comment: You have to wonder what sort of person uses an eBay ID such as mr_1337, even as a joke. And if they really were"leet", why they (a) couldn't protect thier own eBay identity and/or (b) wouldn't have drawn the obvious conclusions from the New York part of the story, which resulted in a family being identified and publicly humiliated on a global basis.From the feedback, a couple of dozen eBayers have already completed successful and satisfactory deals with mr_1337 and may have an address and perhaps other contact details. There's also eBay. Is the company going to take the chance to enhance its reputation, as T-Mobile did in the USA, or look the other way?
I'm down in Brighton at the Develop Conference - where the European game development community gathers to discuss shaders, sound and salary. Beards, black t-shirts and vastly outnumbered women? Yes, the stereotype is still accurate but less so than expected - pretty essential for an industry attempting to widen its market. And the challenges of creating these next-gen game have been the theme of the event. There have been numerous seminars with snappy titles like, "Leveraging the Ageia PhysX SDK for multi-core simulation." As you can imagine, the vast majority were of interest only to those who own, or will soon own, an ironic C++ t-shirt. Fair enough, considering the focus of the event, but luckily there were some more accessible keynotes, with Peter Molynuex's effort predictably entertaining.Since the sale of Lionhead to Microsoft Molyneux has given the impression of a man with a huge weight off his shoulders. "How you can have me up here talking about design after the mistakes I made with Black and White is beyond me", he said. Self depreciation aside Molyneux's keynote focussed on the importance of having a clear design vision as well as a longing for the good ol' days of pizza and coke. He also stressed the importance of creating a community buzz while attempting to control some of the more extreme feature requests that can gather pace, such as the call for giant fruit in Black and White. And perhaps with a nod to his predominantly developer audience, he was gently rude towards marketing people. His conclusions? Democracy out, inspiration in, with design being holistic - it's the whole experience that matters.Away from the serious stuff there was an awards ceremony that offered the chance for the development industry to pat itself on the back. Sony, Criterion (Burnout) and Bizarre Creations (Project Gotham Racing) received the biggest congratulations, with the latter's award for Geometry Wars 2 a welcome recognition of that game's minimalist genius.Broken Sword creator Charles Cecil won the development legend award - and he deserved it - but you have to wonder who will be winning this award in 2010. The growing size of teams, at least for console and PC, makes it much harder for new talent to gain recognition. My guess is Live Arcade - or maybe, gulp, mobile - will throw up a new Molyneux or Cecil. Of course, you could argue that the "name" of the developer simply doesn't matter anymore. Would you buy a game just because it was part created by Molyneux or Meier? In the future I'm not sure you will.The 18 categories and winners in full were:NEW UK/EUROPEAN STUDIOBIGBIG STUDIOSMOST IMPROVED STUDIOREBELLIONMOBILE GAMES STUDIOGAMELOFTHANDHELD GAMES STUDIOROCKSTAR LEEDSNEW CONSOLE IPBUZZ (SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT EUROPE EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT/RELENTLESS)NEW PC IPFAHRENHEIT (QUANTIC DREAM)BEST USE OF A LICENCEKING KONG (UBISOFT)BEST USE OF ONLINEBIZARRE CREATIONS (GEOMETRY WARS: RETRO EVOLVED)ART &amp; SOUNDCRITERION (BURNOUT REVENGE/BLACK)INNOVATIONSONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT EUROPE EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT/RELENTLESS (BUZZ CONTROLLERS)TOOLS PROVIDERNATURALMOTIONSERVICES &amp; OUTSOURCINGSIDE UKRECRUITMENT COMPANYOPM RESPONSEPUBLISHING HEROSONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT EUROPEIN-HOUSE DEVELOPMENT TEAMCRITERIONINDEPENDENT DEVELOPERTRAVELLER'S TALESDEVELOPMENT LEGENDCHARLES CECILTHE GRAND PRIX AWARDBIZARRE CREATIONS
I imagine there a lot of Treo wonks out there, what with Palm's headline handset being the weapon of choice for alpha business geeks the world over. So they might be interested to hear thatPalmis teaming up with bothVodafoneandMicrosoftfor the next, Euro-focused iteration of the device. According to the suits at Palm, "this collaboration will provide a powerful tool for enterprise customers" (I've spared you the rest of the blurb). But it will run on Windows Mobile 5.0 (already appearing on new Treos in the US) and, perhaps even more controversially, will only be available on Voda... no word yet at theTreonautsblog as far as I can see, and Palm say they won't go into details until nearer launch.
"Yahoo! Inc and Microsoft Corp today will begin limited public beta testing of interoperability between their instant messaging (IM) services that enable users ofWindows Live Messenger, the next generation of MSN Messenger, andYahoo! Messenger with Voiceto connect with each other. This interoperability -- the first of its kind between two distinct, global consumer IM providers -- will form the world's largest consumer IM community, approaching 350 million accounts," saysMicrosoft.The new beta program will be available in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada (English and French), China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States (English and Spanish).Comment: Yahoo and Microsoft have been working on this for several years, and announced plans to connect their consumer systemslast year. (Microsoft's business system, Microsoft Office Live Communications Server, already interoperates with Yahoo and AOL.) The real problem is interoperating with the consumer services offered by the market leader, AOL, which owns both AIM and ICQ. Both Microsft and Yahoo have been trying to interoperate with AOL since at least 1999, when AOL started tweaking its AIM protocols to shut them out.Interoperability of IM via open standards would be a much better idea, but seems no closer now than when I wroteChat to the futurein 2002.
Can you point me to an email service that is free, intended for general purposes, functional and promises to protect email from prying, including the governmental sort? Not something intended for political activism, etc: I just want to support servers who wish to protect users' data. Matthew LinaresThe only way to make email really private is to encrypt it yourself, and that means it doesn't matter which mail service you use. You could try a system such as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) orGnu Privacy Guard(GnuPG), which is free software to replace PGP. The recipient then has to decrypt your email. The system is sufficiently cumbersome that few use it.Microsoft tried to simplify things by building secure mail features into Outlook and Outlook Express - go to Tools, select Options and click the Security tab. That also has few users. Governments could encourage the adoption of encryption by using it for all email communications with citizens, but I don't see that happening any time soon. Which governments want people to use secure encrypted email?Protecting plain text email from prying eyes is a different issue, but if that is the aim, I wouldn't use a service based in the UK. London-based Confinet Ltd offers a secure and anonymous -- but not free -- MuteMail service, and its servers are based in the Bahamas. MuteMail uses SSL encryption (which is what puts the lock on the bottom of your browser window) and also hides your Internet Protocol address and other things that are a giveaway in the headers of encrypted messages.You might find something in theSecure and Encrypted Email Providersdirectory on Yahoo. This includes HushMail and KeptPrivate.com, which offer encrypted web-based mail services.
I have just taken out a new contract for broadband with NTL and am out of contract with BT, but I don't want to lose this email address. I have had it for many years and it's important for business purposes. I would be happy to pay a small fee - but not £35 a month! Tim RickettsUsually if you change your internet service provider then you lose that ISP's email address - a good argument for taking out your own domain name. However, you can switch to a BT Yahoo! Premium Mail account within 90 days. This has 2GB of storage and costs £1.50 per month. Go toBT Yahoo! Premium Mailand click "Change product".
