Stumbled acrossthisin Digg's 'upcoming stories' section and thought it might provide some light relief to the debate going on below. Profanity Adventures is a compilation of screenshots showing what happened when you typed swear worlds into early eighties text adventures. I like the way several of the examples provide custom responses to different words. That's professionalism for you.Yes it's purile, but beyond the profanity, the site is also a reminder of the variety of stories explored in this genre and the way in which such simple narratives managed to engross us. It could also be argued that swearing in text adventures was the origin of in-game transgressive behaviour leading indirectly to 'exploits' like rocket jumping. Have I justified this entry enough yet?Anyway, did you ever get up to this juvenile nonsense?
Credit: Dan DeLong/Seattle Post-IntelligencerTodd Bishop, a reporter with Seattle P-I, interviewedBlake Rossduring theGnomedexconference. There's aprint versionfrom the paper and afull transcripton the blog.Incidentally, the best guide to a minor spat at Gnomedex, between Blake Ross and Dave Winer, is onRoss's blog, and Winer alsoclarifies the issues.I wasn't at Gnomedex, but it seems Ross used slides "mocking people who see Firefox as part of a jihad to punish Microsoft" (Winer's words) and Winer missed the point that they were mockery. Your life will not be impoverished if you skip the whole episode. The only thing worth taking away isRoss's final statement: "My philosophy is very simple: serving users is the only reason I work in the software industry. I don't care about competitors unless they impede my ability to do that."
What is 3G?3G is short for third generation mobile telephone technology. It gives you an indication of how efficiently data can be transferred.What do you mean by third generation?An examination of 3G's genealogy will help in understanding the term.In the beginning there was 1G, the first generation of technology. AMPS (advanced mobile phone service) provided users with analogue voice capabilities but no data services. This meant you could use your mobile phone to chat with your friends but you could not send them text messages.Analogue networks in Europe experienced problems such as poor quality service and low levels of security. The creation of second generation (2G) technology in the form of the GSM (global system for mobile communications) network in 1992 was a godsend for dissatisfied users.GSM, which provided digital voice services, was a vast improvement on its analogue predecessor, enabling users to enjoy enhanced calling features such as caller ID. Data could be transferred but at the slow rate of 14.4kbps (kilobits per second).Technical developers did not stop there but took an evolutionary half-step to 2.5G, resulting in GPRS (general packet radio service) that offered transmission speeds of up to 40kbps. A further evolution brought us Edge (enhanced data rates for GSM evolution). This technology, often referred to as 2.75G, boosted transmission speeds to 200kbps.This brings us to 3G, which offers users superior voice quality, enhanced roaming capabilities and broadband data transmission rates of 2mbps (megabits per second) - theoretically, at least.What can 3G do for me?Video conferencing was first marketed as 3G's most essential feature. However, studies have shown that music downloads are in strong demand while video telephony only accounts for a very small fraction of use. 3G applications include map and positioning services, multiplayer gaming, online chat and live feeds of stock market updates.Who provides 3G in the UK?Hutchison's 3 launched the UK's first 3G network in 2003. Orange, Vodafone and T-Mobile followed quickly in 2004 and 02 joined the ranks last year. 3G coverage in the UK is still quite limited in rural areas so you may want to check the coverage maps on most network websites before you sign a 3G contract.How much does it cost?You will need to subscribe to a 3G network provider and own a 3G-enabled phone. Here are two typical price plans:Vodafone Anytime 700: for &#163;60 a month, you get a free Sony Ericsson W900I handset and 700 inclusive minutes. Data costs &#163;2.35 per megabyte (the average mp3 file is about 4MBs in size) and sending a video message will cost 60p.O2 Online 200 Texter: for &#163;30 a month, you recieve a free Samsung Z400 handset with 300 inclusive minutes and 750 texts. A bolt-on providing 2MBs of browsing and downloading costs &#163;3 a month. Any browse and download data consumed in excess of the bolt-on allowance will be charged at &#163;3 per MB.That is quite expensive, isn't it?Yes. That is why not many people in the UK use 3G technology, even though it has been around for some time.Japan and South Korea, where almost every mobile phone user has 3G, are at the technological forefront. They were able to avoid severe licensing fees because the development of national IT infrastructures was a priority for both countries.Mobile phone companies in the UK faced stratospheric introduction costs when implementing 3G technology. The operators reportedly paid a collective sum of &#163;22.4bn to obtain 3G licences, which explains the high prices passed on to UK consumers.What's the latest news on 3G?Vodafone launched its high-speed downlink packet access last month. This extends the current 3G technology and is sometimes referred to as 3.5G. The company will sell data cards to enable laptops to use the higher speeds. The service costs &#163;25 for up to 250Mb of web surfing.The service will initially serve Glasgow, Sheffield, Greater Manchester, Tyneside and London and complete UK coverage is promised by next summer.T-Mobile announced last month that planned upgrades will enable its 3G network to run at four times the current speed. This enhanced service will cost &#163;17 a month for up to 1Gb of web access.The mobile phone industry is working on the specifications for 4G. Hamid Akhavan, the chief technology officer of T-Mobile, told the Guardian that "wireless broadband will reach parity with its fixed-line counterpart in terms of speed by the end of the decade".In Japan, this technology is undergoing tests for communication at 1Gbps - which equates to 1,000 mp3s in five seconds.
"A new billboard advert for Sony's white PSP has caused consternation across the US videogaming community. The ad shows a white woman threateningly grasping the face of a black model," says Keith Stuart on ourGamesblog.Comment: There are different images, and you can see threehere.It looks like the usual cheap sensationalist rubbish you get by scraping the bottom of the barrel. But they're doing it to attract attention, and it works.
"Pot Belge" sounds like something you might get after overindulging on Hoegaarden. Actually, it's a bit more potent than that. "Belgian mix", as it is generally translated, is a combination of amphetamines, cocaine and heroin. It's a cheap and dirty performance-enhancing drug for cyclists.What's Belgian about it? Well, cycling is a huge participation sport there. All season long, you can race every day of the week on a "kermesse", a circuit race based around a village or small town. Local businesses put up the prize money, a few hundred euros. You can make a decent living even without being a full-time professional. The races are short, hard and fast; the testing regime haphazard. Hence "pot Belge": the winner's little helper.While the Tour de France has been scandalised by revelations from Spain's "Operacion Puerto" investigation into organised drug-taking and blood- doping for pro cyclists (leading to the suspension of two Tour favourites, Ivan Basso and Jan Ullrich), the news from a Bordeaux courtroom is just as grim. A former cycling coach, Freddy Sergant, has been jailed for running a ring that supplied Belgian mix; others received fines and suspended sentences.Giving evidence, former French pro Laurent Roux remarked that, at the top end of the sport, "Doctors cost more to hire than the riders." Much more depressing is that this sordid little drug bust shows just how far down the sport the doping problem goes - well into the amateur ranks. The pros do the hi-tech blood-doping; the aspiring amateurs ride on whizz till they can afford something better.And "pot Belge" is not just a Belgian problem. As when syphilis appeared in the middle ages, everyone found someone else to blame - the French evil, the Spanish disease, the Neapolitans "bone-ache". The reality is that doping is universal and endemic in cycling. At least in mainland Europe.Nobody will quite say it, but one reason why the most talented British riders never seem to realise their promise is that most stay clean. They don't come from a culture that accepts doping as the norm. The sport here is too small and there isn't enough money in it to make it worth people's while to buy the gear. Plenty of us do use legal ergogenic aids such as creatine, colostrum and sodium phosphate. I know the mentality: when you're taking supplements to boost performance, it's very easy to blur the boundaries for yourself into a morally grey continuum.Are we so ethically superior then? I never thought I'd say this, but let's hope the sport here stays so poor that we never have to find out.&#183;On Your Bike! The Complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books, price &pound;16.95.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,I am training for the "End to End" (Land's End to John O'Groats) to raise money for charity. I'm 33, have cycled all my life and am very fit. I'll be doing 85 miles a day for 12 days; I'm riding about 200 miles a week now but have started getting a lot of knee pain. I have had some physio, but the pain is ongoing. Any advice?Dave Hague, via emailKnee pain is common for most cyclists at some time - often it hits when you suddenly up the amount of work you're doing. A common cause is that the patella (kneecap) is not tracking straight because of an imbalance between the four large muscles of your quadriceps, on the top and side of your thigh. If the vastus medialis (inside) is not doing enough work, the vastus lateralis (outside) tends to take over, pulling the patella over as it rises and falls with each pedal stroke. Result: pain.The good news: over time, the vastus medialis gets stronger and the problem sorts itself out. You can speed up the process with special exercises - ask your physio. In the meantime, cut your mileage and don't push big gears. Good luck!&#183;Email your bike-related questions tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
Fed up of USB plug-in toys? Looking for something more useful than plug-and-play plastic flowers or desk fans? Arch design geekbeastsMatt WebbandJack Schulzehave the answer for you inAvailabot, a personalised little feller who stands up to attention whenever the chat buddies come online. The blurb says "it's a presence-aware, peripheral-vision USB toy". We say it's some sweet hackery that sounds like fun. See him on display at theRCA showor even watch avideo.
Phillip Lenssen over atGoogle Blogoscopedhas clearly got a little too much time on his hands, and decided to make someflags for the internet. With all the waving of the at the World Cup it seems apposite to mention it here; my personal favourite is this one, for the World Wide Web Consortium - "a highly accessible design on a beloved Netscape 3 gray background. The flag is still a draft and comes with an audio version for the sight-impaired".Take a look and suggest a few of your own.
A new billboard advert for Sony's white PSP has caused consternation across the US videogaming community. The ad shows a white woman threateningly grasping the face of a black model. Next to them are the words, "PlayStation Portable White is coming". The photo can also be seen on theDutch official PSP site, along with other images from the same shoot, showing the two women fighting.Sites such asKotaku, Joystiq andDigital Battlehave questioned whether the ads have racist connotations. So far the debate has split comments sections with some condeming Sony and equal numbers defending the ads as a harmless personfication of the handheld console's two available colours.Clearly, whatever the justifications, the intention is to be provocative. According to Joystiq, the adverts were created byTBWAan agency that specialises in 'disruptive' marketing. From the company's website:"Disruption is the art of asking better questions, challenging conventional wisdom and overturning assumptions and prejudices that get in the way of imagining new possibilities and visionary ideas."It's questionable, however, whether the world is ready to explore themes of race and domination in the context of a videogame console ad. Although not as wilfully controversial as Benetton's infamous 'United Colours' campaign, many viewers will be unwilling or unable to decode the imagery until it becomes about two different colours of plastic.Importantly perhaps, the ads are for the European release of the white PSP and are appearing on billboards in Amsterdam rather than in the US where racial tension usually receives more sensitive handling.UPDATE:A Sony spokesperson has beenjustifying the adto Gamesindustry.biz. "All of the 100 or so images created for the campaign have been designed to show [the] contrast in colours of the PSPs , and have no other message or purpose," he explains. Phew.
Record labels are planning to sue the Chinese arm of Yahoo in the latest high-profile move in their global battle against digital piracy.The International Federation of Phonographic Industries confirmed yesterday it would take legal action "within weeks" against Yahoo China, which is operated byAlibaba.comand 40% owned by the US-listed internet company Yahoo Inc, unless it agreed to cooperate.IFPI's chief executive John Kennedy said it had written to Yahoo China in April asking it to remove so-called "deep links" to copies of tracks that violate copyright laws but had received no response. "Yahoo China has been blatantly infringing our members' rights," said Mr Kennedy. "We have started the process and as far as we're concerned we're on the track to litigation. If negotiation can prevent that, so be it." The organisation, which represents more than 1,400 record companies in 73 countries, has fought a series of legal battles around the world in a move to stem digital piracy. It has also launched more than 20,000 legal actions against individuals.Pirated CDs and DVDs account for more than 85% of the Chinese market. The government has been tightening copyright protection after lobbying from overseas and this week introduced a law allowing it to fine distributors of illegally copied music, movies and software. A spokesman for Yahoo China said the search engine was acting "within the law". "We respect intellectual property rights," he said. "If someone sees something on our site that violates intellectual property rights, there is a process for removing it."
Efforts to remove the US government's historical stranglehold on the internet will kick off again today.Ministers, MPs and internet experts will attend a parliament reception hosted by Phil Willis, Liberal Democrat MP and chair of the house of commons science and technology select committee.Emily Taylor - director of legal policy at Nominet, the .uk domain name registry, and a member of the IGF advisory board - will attend the event, which is aimed at starting the process of finding out what kind of governance, if any, British internet users want.Last November the UN-sponsored World Summit on the Information Society was hijacked as governments looking to control web content seized upon the technology that powers the internet and the governance of the California-based, not-for-profit Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which directs internet traffic.Icann operates under a contract with the US department of commerce, a situation that has made other countries suspicious. Even though the American government claims never to have directly interfered with Icann's activities the Department of Commerce has become embroiled in controversy over its alleged role in the blocking of a request to create a new .xxx top-level domain.Back in May, Icann voted 9-5 against allowing .xxx, reversing its initial position, after a sustained attack orchestrated by Christian groups in the US. Initially it appeared that the Government Advisory Committee within Icann warned the board that it would continue to delay the signing off of .xxx indefinitely. As a result the board decided to drop the whole contentious issue by rejecting the request by ICM Registry, that was to operate the new domain.Since then, however, ICM Registry has filed several Freedom of Information Act requests for details of communication between the Department of Commerce and Icann and internet naming authority IANA about .xxx. The Department of Commerce appears to have tried to exert pressure on Icann not to allow the domain. ICM is now pushing for further information to see exactly how much pressure the US government did exert.If the US government did directly call on Icann to block the domain it will destroy its argument that the current system for running the web is independent of state interference and does not need to be re-engineered.At last year's summit in Tunis several governments caused outrage among "neterati" by suggesting individual states should have a greater role in the running of the nuts and bolts of the internet. The US government refused to give up its historic role, fearing that increased bureaucratic and governmental meddling could disrupt a system that connects more than 250,000 networks, which all use the same technical standards to allow almost 30bn user sessions daily.Deadlock was avoided with the creation of the Internet Governance Forum (IGF), which will discuss and decide on the over-reaching issues of the internet. Crucially, though, it will not have any oversight powers when it comes to Icann, which remains under contract to the US government for the time being.The first meeting of the IGF is due to take place in Athens on October 30. Its agenda will be shaped by the 46-person IGF Advisory Board, made up of representatives from government, the private sector and civil society, including the academic and technical communities.Its chair is Nitin Desai, UN secretary general Kofi Annan's special adviser for the World Summit on the Information Society.At a meeting in Geneva in May the board decided to look at four rather vague areas: openness, security, diversity and access. Exactly what these mean, however, involves another round of consultation, and this process will be launched at today's event.
If you haven't done so already then check out thisinterviewwithMonkey Islandcreator Ron Gilbert. It will simultaneously excite and deflate you. The good news is the promise of new stuff from the man responsible for adventure gaming's finest moments. The downside is the predictably low key response from publishers.You sit down with a publisher and the minute you mention anything like an adventure game or something story-based or adventure-game-like in any way, the meeting's basically over.Much of what Gilbert talks about - lack of indie development, publishers taking no risks, big budget dominance over creativity - covers similar ground tomy interviewlast week with another veteran developer, Jon Hare. Bitter dinosaurs out of touch with the gaming reality in 2006? Not a chance - the games industry needs these guys more than ever if it is going to achieve the oft discussed market expansion.
Thelatest entryin Bungie Software's Halo 3 diary has caused a modest ripple of excitement among the game's fans. The post talks about how the sheer horsepower of Xbox 360 can be applied to AI as well as graphics and that the team are making good use of the extra thinking capacity of the machine."Today, I swear I saw some Grunts do a classic pincer-movement to trap me in a narrow canyon. I was battling um, something bigger than a Grunt, and suddenly, I'm being peppered by a second group of jerks, mostly Grunts, who'd been sent in around my flanks to take me out. Grunts are still grunts though, and once I showed some serious opposition, a couple of them panicked and fled, but they nearly had me and it was quite a shock."Now, I'm no expert in neural networks, but isn't this rather basic stuff? Even if you assume the behaviours in this case contain no scripted elements and that the strategy has evolved entirely from the experiences of the enemy entities, this isstillthe sort of thing we've been seeing - or at least beentoldwe were seeing - in games for the last five years.Unlike game physics, which is now so advanced and so blatantly employed you can't fail to notice it, AI is still something of a smoke-and-mirrors area for the layman. In the heat of battle, it's very difficult to work out exactly how clever the enemy is - beyond the obvious 'if shot at, runaway and hide' or 'if player makes noise then investigate' behaviours.Anyway, I once interviewed respected US coder Chris Hecker, now a key figure behind the Game Developers Conference, and he insisted that 'advanced Artificial Intelligence' is something of a misnomer - at least where games are concerned. If you were to use all the available computing power of a current gen machine to create intelligent enemies they would be far, far too clever for human players to kill. The real challenge, he maintained, is Artificial Stupidity - making computer controlled characters appear human and flawed.This all reminds me of the time I worked as a junior game designer/manual writer for a reasonably well-known UK software publisher. One of their racing games at the time drew loads of praise for its realistic AI. This came as something of a surprise to the development team as they distinctly remembered pre-mapping the movement of each computer-controlled vehicle due to memory restraints...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Blogosphere blowhards are getting louder in their condemnation of new blogging servicePay Per Post, which offers people cash incentives to write about particular products - and they don't have to tell anyone. The web 2.0 bigwigs at Techcrunch wonder if this isa bad joke designed to torpedo the blogosphere's credibility in general, while Robert "I'm famous for leaving Microsoft" Scoble says not declaring payments would "undermine his credibility".Answer? Tell people what money's changing hands, stupid. Pay Per Post isn't demanding transparency because its clients are most likely companies that don't want their fingerprints visible everywhere. That doesn't mean you can't do it yourself.Disclaimer: I, of course, like all ethically bankrupt journalists, am personally endorsed by a large number of companies and individuals - including an antiques shop in Suffolk, the Mount Pleasant Barber's and that bloke who sung the R White's Lemonade theme tune.
It's no surprise that Google wanted a piece of PayPal's pie andlaunchedthe long-awaitedGoogle Checkoutlast week.Sell anything you want, says the 'plex... but no drugs, no booze and no stolen material. But what's this in theTerms &amp; Conditions? Users are also prohibited from using Checkout to sellOccult goods(that's "materials, goods or paraphernalia for use in satanic, sacrificial, or related practices" to you and me).No word yet on how much commission PayPal makes from sales of inverted crosses and ouija boards, but we're glad the Goobot is looking out for us.·Previously on Technology Blog
ValleyWaghas compiled a hysterical introuduction to the Google product cycle which stats, inevitably on a Friday Night when "two googletards meet for Battlestar Galactica marathon on UPN but end up calculating their worth as the weekend stock price hovers around $415; after two epicurean Mike's Hard Lemonades, a message is sent to an internal developer list with an idea for (a) Google Base or (b) an old Yahoo/Microsoft product with a new AJAX interface."Names are named and no prisoners taken.The fact that the visible results make ValleyWag's account seem entirely plausible is, of course, the main part of the fun. But you may need a heavyTechMemeaddiciton to appreciate it....
Former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble has done his own"exit interview", and it includes some interesting stuff.
Just when you think you've seen it all.... someone launches anAngel Kitty keyboardfor "naughty geeks".It's for Windows only and "available in Japan for 15,750 Yen ($140)".Comment: Does this mean cosplay can contribute to office productivity? Who knew?
As ifSaturday's farcewasn't enough, Portugal have also won the Xbox Cup in Berlin. Played on EA's so-so official World Cup game for the 360, the tournament saw 32 teams - 64 gamers - compete in what your mum, or television presenters, would call a "virtual" World Cup. The final saw the Portuguese duo beat their Mexican counterparts 2-1 in what the press release described as a "gripping final". There's no mention of how the English team did but we can be sure it was a valiant losing effort - possibly with a tear or two.Microsoft's Peter Moore,a man with a job title longer than Michael Owen's sick note, was suitably excited and not only because he remembered to say football rather than soccer.It was my honour to present these guys with their well deserved prize. The atmosphere today was absolutely phenomenal - truly the beautiful game at its best. It's been a great tournament and the first of its kind on a next generation high definition console. Seeing the matches being played out on the Xbox 360 has been nearly as good as watching a real football match!"Nearly? Do I detect a hint of regret that PES 5 wasn't used instead?
In the videogame industry version of silly season - which synchronises quite nicely with the newspaper original (i.e. summer) - even gossip and speculation are more scarce than reliable English penalty takers. So writers are forced to improvise. A couple of weeks ago, a French videogame siteallegedly claimedto have plied an unnamed Nintendo exec with enough booze to get him to reveal the Wii launch date - as early as October 30 in Japan, but possibly November, he is reported to have slurred.Now, a new Wii launch story has kicked off over in the States. The big 'news' is that children's magazine, Sports Illustrated for Kids, has revealed the US delivery date in an otherwise innocuous gaming feature. Here, there's even a specific day: November 6. I likethistake on the 'announcement' if only because the scan of said publication is as blurry as the story itself.This, of course, is another take on the videogame magazine trick of perusing Amazon and Play for freshly inputted videogame release dates then printing the result as 'news' - the thinking being that big online retailers must enjoy a close relationship with game publishers and therefore the dates must be accurate. This constitutes investigative journalism in some quarters. In the long slow summer months, a mainstream magazine taking a guess at a console launch date, is something of coup.This also speaks volumes about the insecurity of the videogame press. The assumption is thus: Sports Illustrated For Kids is amainstream consumer magazineso its information must be accurate - itmusthave a mainline to Nintendo HQ, which is closed off to lesser specialist publications.Or maybe everyone knows it's a misprint, but plays along anyway. A self-facilitating rumour mill.Whichever way you look at it, it's no more or less credible than tales of drunken execs blurting out company secrets. I'm certainly looking forward to the next source of a wildly improbable Wii launch announcement. Hey, it could even come from Nintendo.
Nick Denton, the former Financial Times reporter who has been hugely successful at commercialising blogs, has just performed some old-media style pruning at Gawker. According toThe New York Times:Sploid, a tabloid-infested site built on screen shots, and Screenhead, an aggregator of video clips, were put up for sale. Editors at Gawker, Wonkette, Gizmodo, and Gridskipper were moved or replaced. At a time when mainstream media companies are madly baking their own piece of blog pie, Mr Denton was summarily executing underperformers."We are becoming a lot more like a traditional media company," Mr Denton said last week. "You launch a site, you have great hopes for it and it does not grow as much as you wanted. You have to have the discipline to recognize what isn't working and put your money and efforts into those sites that are."
Portugal has won the Xbox Cup Championship, playing EA's 2006 FIFA World Cup on the Xbox 360. The final was played in "the 8,500-seater Adidas stadium, at the centre of the Platz der Republik," says Microsoft.Portugal beat Mexico 2 - 1, after beating Spain in the semi-finals. Mexico knocked out Germany.
The founder of the social networking siteMySpacehas unveiled plans for global expansion and a new mobile phone service that will allow its users, who already number 87 million globally, to connect to the service wherever they are.MySpace chief executive Chris DeWolfe said the site, which now has more than 3 million registered users in the UK alone who use it to make friends, share music, films and photos and communicate with one another, said it would expand into 10 new countries over the next year in addition to offices in the UK and Australia.The site, which was acquired by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp in July last year as part of a &pound;332m deal, gained a reputation for helping break new music acts.Mr DeWolfe said the new mobile service, which has already launched in the US, would come to Europe soon.He said: "We think there's a great opportunity to create a MySpace Lite for any mobile device."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
A precociously warm sun is chasing the last of the morning mist into wispy grey pools. The road ahead is empty, a seductive ribbon uncoiling through hazy, yellow fields. I've forgotten my sunglasses so I've been lent a pair of leather-and-glass aviator goggles - a small conservatory for my face. I still don't feel the part, though. Maybe it's because I don't have a moustache. Richard, however, like almost every other member of the Jaguar and Daimler Heritage Trust, has a bristling top lip, which is just as it should be, as we are sitting in an incredibly rare &pound;1.6m long-nosed D-Type. He turns to me and raises his thumb. I almost expect him to shout, 'Chocks away'. Instead, he leans over and pushes the starter button. The car's colossal 3.4-litre straight-six engine grunts and then bursts into life. It's a 30-mile journey from the gite we're staying at to the Le Mans circuit, where the D-Type is taking part in a cavalcade of historic cars before the whining, bellowing, fire-spewing modern racers get down to business in this year's 24-hour endurance race. It's a glorious, unforgettable 50-minute drive that effortlessly leapfrogs me back through half a century of motoring history.Exactly 50 years ago, this car came sixth in the 24 Heures du Mans. It was driven by the charismatic Mike Hawthorn, who always drove wearing a dicky bow and, needless to say, had an excellent moustache. The 'Farnham Flyer', as he was known, went on to become Britain's first world champion, in 1958, before his death at just 29 in a road accident on the Hogsback.When we arrive at the track, I swap cars and end up in the bright yellow 'Coombs' Jag which came fourth. At the wheel is Michael Quinn (no moustache), grandson of Jaguar's iconic founder William Lyons. 'You've got the man and the car,' says a passing official. Michael clearly has Jaguar blood in his veins and is as excited as me at the prospect of doing the allotted three laps of the 11km circuit. He guns the antique motor and we roll out on to the famous track with a dozen other unique, million-pound motors. Heritage racing is not for the shallow-pocketed.There's no seat belt, no roll cage, no helmet, no headrest. The windscreen is 6in high. Even Ronnie Corbett's hair would get ruffled. Each lap gets quicker until we hit 145mph down the legendary Mulsanne Straight. The circuit is ringed by thousands of salivating fossil-fuel freaks who gawp and cheer, their knowing eyes following our every move. At last we come to a stop, and on wobbly legs I step back into the 21st century.Later, we leave the circuit and head for Calais in Jaguar's 2006 XK - the most advanced car they've ever built. The long-legged coupe whips up the 300 miles as effortlessly as if we were popping to the shops. At &pound;60,000 it's a lot cheaper than aD-Type, but still way beyond my reach.On the other hand, a moustache is free... ...#9733;martin.love@observer.co.uk
OnBoing Boing, Cory Doctorow writes:Mac guru and software developer Mark Pilgrim recentlyswitched to Ubuntu Linuxafter becoming fed up with proprietary Mac file-formats and the increasing use of DRM technologies in the MacOS. I've been a Mac user since 1984, and have a Mac tattooed on my right bicep. I've probably personally owned 50 Macs, and I've purchased several hundred while working as an IT manager over the years. I'm about to make the same switch, for much the same reasons.I thought about buying a MacBook Pro anyway, since they're nice computers, and they run Ubuntu, but after pricing them out, I realized that I could get a lot more bang for my buck with a Lenovo ThinkPad T60p. If I'm not going to run the MacOS, why spend extra money for Apple hardware?Comment: Mark Pilgrim's defection was covered here inBye, Apple; Hello, Ubuntuand, more generally, inSchofield's First Law revisited -- and why Mark Pilgrim finally gave up on Apple.Doctorow takes the practical line on data formats and mentions that he's getting more hardware for his money. He doesn't mention the fact that he's a noted campaigner for freedom and free software. I've always found it more than a bit ridiculous when open source advocates tote around proprietary hardware loaded with proprietary closed source software. It's a bit like having an anti-smoking campaigner who always has a cigarette in his mouth but claims: "It's OK, it's not lit!"
Millions of people will be forced to pay a 'congestion charge' for sending email under plans being developed by American telephone companies to create a 'two-tier' internet.In a move which campaigners warn will destroy the openness and equality of the worldwide web, the US telecommunications group AT&amp;T is lobbying politicians to allow the development of 'fast' and 'slow' internet services.All data moving around the net is now treated equally and moves at the same speed, whether it is a personal blog or the website of a multinational corporation. But with the quantity of traffic soaring by the day, there are fears that the network could become clogged and slow down. American internet service providers argue that they should be allowed to charge customers to use a 'fast lane' giving their data priority.Industry experts say a 'two-tier internet' could see individuals and businesses charged a penny for each email they send, or asked to pay a premium for services such as online TV or an annual subscription for constant preferential treatment. This could leave less well-off users in the 'slow lane' of the information superhighway with an inferior service, as emails take longer to arrive and websites work more slowly.AT&amp;T is urging politicians to block legislation that would prevent it creating different tiers of service. It is opposed by content providers including Amazon, eBay, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo, as well as a campaign, the Save the Internet coalition, which has gathered more than a million signatures on a petition in defence of 'net neutrality'. Last week the telephone companies won a crucial victory at a Senate committee hearing, but an 'epic battle' is now predicted in the full Senate.Analysts say it is too early to know how such a change in the US would affect Britain, although anyone who does business there or visits an American website might be affected. In the longer term they predict that BT and other service providers could follow the example of their US counterparts by seeking to create a two-tier network for the UK.David Tansley, a technology specialist at the UK consulting firm Deloitte, said: 'The question is, how do you marshall a finite resource where demand exceeds supply? Do you just keep adding lanes to the motorway or do you look for a way of disincentivising some of the motorists? Unless you can defy the laws of physics, you have to consider a congestion charge. I think BT will do the same as the American telecoms companies.'Tansley defended the right of firms which own the broadband 'pipes' needed for internet delivery to levy a charge as demand rises exponentially. 'We treat the internet as a right, like oxygen or water, but the reality is that it's built by commercial companies,' he said. 'The internet needs to grow up and become more professional. Why should people be able to grab more or less on a whim?'Among the possible outcomes is first-class email costing a penny. 'Email is analogous to the postal service, in which you pay a bit more for first class and next day delivery,' Tansley said. 'It may be that "second class" email will be good enough for most users most of the time.'In the US, however, the coalition - made up of groups from across the political spectrum - argues that a two-tier system would be disastrous. 'If Congress turns the internet over to the phone and cable giants, everyone who uses it will be affected,' a spokesman said.'Connecting to your office could take longer if you don't purchase your carrier's preferred applications. Sending family photos and videos could slow to a crawl. Web pages you always use for online banking, access to healthcare information, planning a trip, or communicating with friends and family could fall victim to pay-for-speed schemes.'But net neutrality doesn't just matter to business owners. Independent voices and political groups are especially vulnerable. Costs will skyrocket to post and share video and audio clips, silencing bloggers and amplifying the big media companies. Political organising could be slowed by a handful of dominant internet providers who ask groups or candidates to pay a fee to join the "fast lane".'
"Rivals get the jitters when Google's nonsearch products grab headlines. But a close look shows that so far, there's not a market leader among them," claimsBusiness Week.An analysis of some two dozen new ventures launched over the past four years shows that Google has yet to establish a single market leader outside its core search business, where it continues to chew up Microsoft and Yahoo.There is a response:Company officials concede that some of the newer products haven't caught on. But they say a high failure rate is baked into their strategy -- as it is for an increasing number of innovative companies. Marissa Mayer, vice-president for search products and user experience, estimates that up to 60% to 80% of Google's products may eventually crash and burn. But the idea, she says, is to encourage risk-taking and let surviving products truly thrive. "We anticipate that we're going to throw out a lot of products," says Mayer. "But [people] will remember the ones that really matter and the ones that have a lot of user potential."
"Japan's development community shared anonymous thoughts on the PlayStation 3 in the latest issue of Japan's Ge-Maga. The magazine asked developers throughout the nation a number of questions regarding Sony's next generation platform," reportsIGN.Briefly, 90% think it's too expensive, 56% don't like having two hardware models, and "55.82% feel that the PS3 won't sell with the current lineup of announced titles".The developer reactions also confirm the impression that Sony screwed up at the E3 entertainment trade exhibition:While 48.54% stated that, following the show, their anticipation of the hardware is unchanged, 32.52% stated that they've become less confident in the platform. Only 3.39% said that they were relieved by Sony's announcements at the show.
For al the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereTopics include....WinFS finally killed off -- sorry, redeployedWarren Buffett gives billions to the Gates FoundationYAGMM: Find out what the traffic, weather, rail is like from the BBCMicrosoft RoundTable -- like a webcam on steroids'Mind-reading' computers next?Test drive Office 2007 -- onlineGoogle wants your credit card number
The ShowThe internet was built for people like ZeFrank, a Brooklynite who has an obsession with "duckies" and natural distrust of Austrians. His online escapades began several years ago with a demonstration of How To Dance Properly. Frank's latest ruse is The Show - a daily video in which our hero addresses viewers as "Sports Racers" and comes across as a grumpy, bug-eyed Max Headroom offering his thoughts on President Bush, airlines and occasionally "duckies". There is also interactivity such as his invitation for people on opposing sides of the globe to place pieces of bread on the ground thus creating an "earth sandwich" and each Friday the chance to write his script.www.zefrank.com/theshowNOTcotWhile the bulk of the planet have been concentrating on football during the World Cup, the good people at NOTcot have been more intrigued by the kit styles worn by the likes of Costa Rica and Trinidad &amp; Tobago. But then theirs is a world dominated by aesthetics. Here you will enter a stylish domain where design is king and all manner of good-looking stuff is championed merely for being good-looking stuff, regardless of how pointless it is - from new advances in the design of salt and pepper shakers to sunglasses made from wood. As well as objects of desire there are essays on the future of hoodies and a gallery of bizarre designer objects from around the globe.www.notcot.comFour DocsChannel 4's documentary site is a great place for anyone interested in the art of the factual films. Ostensibly it's somewhere anyone can upload their own homemade, four-minute long films. Among the best are Spizz Diaries, which follows a middle-aged punk rocker on his trip to the World Cup, and Behind The Flames, which shows us the typical day of a British firefighter. There are also interviews and tips from seasoned documentary makers like Nick Broomfield and McLibel's Franny Armstrong, a library of music and video clips you can borrow for your own attempts, and an excellent archive of rarely-seen films from the 1950s and 1960s.www.channel4.com/fourdocs
Odd that, on TV, adverts are fast forwarded through, while on the internet, people watch them and forward them to their friends. The new campaign for an orange flavoured fizzy drink (swansea-res.org.uk) is a case in point. At first it appears to be made by the residents of a North Wales town. Really it's just a very clever spoof. Elsewhere, Roman Coppola is behind one of the brilliant films promoting those shoes with three stripes (r213g037b053.net); John Malkovich stars in a film that has nothing to do with tyres (pirellifilm.com/thefilm) and thousands of yellow people would prefer we drank coffee to sleeping (www2.toleratemornings.com). The best ad online was made without the permission or sanction of the breakfast bar it's selling. Watch it (tinyurl.com/ moyqo) and you'll feel great.
MondaySeaman resurrectedLite up your weekend?Will you be downloading ALL your games by 2010?Wii can do microtransactionsTuesdayA cornucopia of design ideasSelling to your avatar: why he/she might buy stuff your wouldn'tReservoir Dogs put down in OzPS3 vs Xbox: the 'war' of words 'continues'Lite salesWednesdayEno meets Wright to talk timeMobile gaming summer holiday round-upSensible wordsNamco rings changes with Chopin RPGThursdayHalf Life 2 episode I begins the automatic feedback loopReviews and viewsSony vs Microsoft round 37: this time it's tenuous!FridayARGhPS3 games to retail at 70 quid?Mobile gaming - how is it for you?
Mobile gaming anyone? For me the theory has always crumbled in the face of the ham-fisted clunky reality. Sure, Skipping Stone has an hypnotic minimalism that appeals, but even that fades very quickly. And yes, I appreciate that quick n' easy is the philosophy behind mobile gaming. An interesting comment came out of my recentJon Hare interview. When I asked the Sensible Soccer creator about mobile gaming he responded with a tirade about license driven titles, most of which had to remain off record. As far as he - and I guess a lot of you,plus the head of Vodafone content- are concerned, mobile gaming as it currently stands sucks. So it was interesting to read a comment on the post defending the platform.RE: Mobile, there's an element of truth as has been discussed here before in Gamesblog comments about licenses and so forth being used to get attention, but I don't see why that should equal writing off the platform creatively? You'd have thought a games platform owned by millions where games cost ?3 would be of interest to old school coders. And creativity is possible - the new Sensible Skillz deadball game would have been impossible at anything like full price elsewhere.I'd agree to a certain extent, but once again the theory is far removed from reality. Yes, mobile games should be cheap and easy to make, with designers churning out games and taking chances with new ideas. But we all know that isn't true. Mobile gaming then - do anything for you?
Summertime may have been easy for Porgy and Bess, but it's certainly no picnic for videogame news sites. Starved of their staple diet - i.e. game news - they're often forced to make their own entertainment. And inevitably this means lists.Over the last week or so we've had Game Revolution's list of the50 Worst Game Names, while IGN has gone for the more contained10 Worst Coin-Op Conversions. I'm sad to see the original Saturn version of Virtua Fighter in there, but I suppose it's fair. The Atari 2600 conversions of Pac-Man and Donkey Kong are more deserving victims.There have been a couple of more positive round-ups. Gametrailers.com goes all Web2.0 by creating a YouTube compilation of theTen Best Game Weapons. My favourite though is a list of theTen Manliest Videogames of all time. I especially like the way the writer goes to great lengths to define manliness in the introduction - "there are a number of factors at work here," he explains sagely.So today's Friday Question: are there any videogame Top Tens you haven't seen yet, but would like to? I promise to take the best suggestion, research it thoroughly (mostly by ringing ex-Edge editor Joao Sanches and raiding his brain/magazine collection) and present it this time next week for your delectation. You see, this is what they call 'user-generated content'...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Kaz Hirai, president of Sony Computer Entertainment America, has been talking to US consumer magazine PSM about PlayStation 3 games prices, reportsGamesIndustry.biz."Generally speaking, over the past twelve years or so, there has been a consumer expectation that disc based games are maybe US$ 59 on the high end to US$ 39 on the low end," Hirai stated."So, what I can say now is, I think it would be a bit of a stretch to think that we could suddenly turn around and say 'PS3 games now US$ 99.99'.""If it becomes a bit higher than US$ 59, don't ding me, but, again, I don't expect it to be US$ 100," he concluded.Comment: So now we know how Sony plans to get back the hundreds of dollars it will lose on the sale of each PS2.... and also recoup the higher costs of making Blu-ray discs.There's already some discussion on our Games blog underPS3 games to retail at 70 quid?Kaz Hirai is also beingslagged offfor making stupid anti-Microsoft remarks.Cleverand, ideally, funny attacks on the competition are welcome, of course; stupid ones just make you look like a bunch of lusers.
"In case you weren't aware, we are only providing a limited number of copies of Windows Vista Beta 2 - either download or physical copies - and we're fast approaching the cut-off point. What this means is - if you want to get a copy, get it now (and I mean now). Visitwww.microsoft.com/betaexperience/engband either download or order. Because WE WILL BE WITHDRAWING ACCESS VERY SOON. Did I say that loudly enough?" asks Microsoft'sIan Moulster.The program will close on Friday June 30th 2006.If you want the beta version of Microsoft Office, the simplest route for UK users is to get it on a magazine cover disc with PC Pro or PCW magazines.You can install the new Office alongside the old one, with the exception of Outlook. If you install that, you have to replace your old copy of Outlook, then re-install it when the beta version runs out next year.Obviously, Microsoft hopes you will be so entranced by the new Office 2007 that you will want to buy a copy when it comes out. However, you should make sure you keep copies of all documents in the old file formats, not just the new ones.
More from that fateful interview with Kaz Hirai, president of Sony Computer Entertainment America. You'll remember that yesterday Ipostedabout his dig at Microsoft for stalking Sony and totally, "going down the path of everything we do".Apparently, in the same chat he was drawn to comment on the likely price point for PS3 games. "If it becomes a bit higher than US$ 59, don't ding me, but, again, I don't expect it to be US$ 100," he chortled to reporters. So, the key question here - apart from what the hell does 'don't ding me' mean - is, will the eventual retail price fall at the lower or upper end of that vague scale?Gamesindustry.bizreckonsthat due to the vagaries of price conversions between the US and UK, we could end up paying £70 or more. I haven't forked out that much for a game since the days of the Neo Geo AES.Well Sony, if there's any truth in these figures, this is one path you can be pretty sure Microsoftwon'tfollow you down...
This week's edition ofThe Escapisthas afeature-length articleon the Alternate Reality Games movement, focussing specifically on Mind Candy'sPerplex City.The text claims that entertainment is moving towards a "more immersive, participatory experience". While I would concur with that statement on certain levels, I think that regardless of the MySpace-ization of media consumption (i.e., the popularisation of blogs, widespread bulletin boards and easy-to-adapt personalisation) there's a minority of people who want to get actively involved with their entertainment. People want it to wash over them. How else can you explain the continued linearity of most widely-accessible adventure games?More info on ARGs from the gamesblog can be foundhere.
Eva Davies left her computer one day last summer with no idea that she was about to wave her data goodbye. "I downloaded something I thought was quite safe, left it, and went out to a meeting," she says.Then her partner at the Electronic Zone, a two-person electronics retailer, called, saying: "There's nothing on your screen." With no technical help available, Davies called a &pound;1 a minute helpline advertised in a computer magazine. After half an hour on the phone, still nothing. "The man on the helpline said, 'I'm terribly sorry, you have no hard drive'," she recalls.Fortunately, much of the business information was on paper: "My partner comes from a non-IT background - he likes printing things out," says Davies. But reinstalling the computer from scratch took a day and a half: "It was a horrible way to learn a lesson," she says, estimating the incident may have cost &pound;1,000 in lost profits.Towards the end of last year, the Electronic Zone began a contract with Wireworx, which provides IT support for small business, including an automated back-up system, a security software suite from McAfee and a helpdesk. On checking Davies' computer, Wireworx found it was infected with a worm - a kind of computer virus - that had been slowing the machine.Davies had noticed the slowness, but had blamed the internet connection or assumed she had overloaded the computer. "You're thumping the side of the machine, saying 'come on!'. It was frustrating," she says. "It didn't stop us doing anything, it just took us longer." With the worm removed, the computer went back to its normal speed.Emma Jones, director of three-person recruitment consultant Hugo Allen and another Wireworx subscriber, had similar problems. Early on in the business, five years ago, she dropped her laptop, which held all her business information: "I lost my database. I had a bit of a dodgy time - I had to do a lot from memory and go through all my notes to put my database back together. It really slowed me up for a while." And again, Wireworx's initial check found viruses on all three of her firm's computers, which had been freezing.Deliberate attacksAccording to Howard Schmidt, who has worked as chief security officer for Microsoft, chief information security officer for eBay and a cyber security adviser to the US president, the information security of small businesses is becoming particularly vulnerable, not only to computer failure but also to deliberate attacks through viruses."The bad guys are finding more challenges in the large enterprises," says Schmidt, who recently gave evidence to the US Congress on the subject. "The SME space gives them a richer place to play in." Although some small firms are good at guarding their computers, he adds that overall performance is "all over the map", with most having little understanding of information security.Virus writers, who used to concentrate on showing off their programming skills, have in the last couple of years turned to crime: such software is now used mainly to gain control of computers, either to send spam or to steal the data they contain, through what is known as spyware.Ricky Brown, who works on Wireworx's IT helpdesk, says he often finds spyware when doing checks on new clients' machines: this can monitor activity and send information to criminals such as passwords and business data. "It comes back to education of the user," says Brown. "Some have free tools for spyware removal, but that's not real-time protection, so the problem comes back again and again."He adds that many small businesses have anti-virus software that catches material coming through email attachments, but does not spot malicious software downloading invisibly from websites, nor does it include firewall software to guard against unauthorised data flowing in and out.Information can also be stolen by tricking humans, rather than compromising computers. Brown says that small business customers often ask about emails apparently from eBay telling them to log in to their accounts by clicking on a link in the email. This will take them to what looks like eBay's website, but is actually run by criminals "phishing" for account details so they can hijack them to commit fraud.Howard Schmidt says that, despite efforts by eBay, including free software that recognises and warns users of phishing emails, people still fall for these online scams, and the growth of internet use provides a steady supply of people who don't know about them. "We will always have people who are gullible," he says.Easy accessAttempts to steal business information don't have to come through the internet. Peter Wood is chief of operations for First Base Technologies, a penetration tester: firms pay him to attempt to get past their security. Wood has recently posed as a BT technician with fake business cards and a fluorescent jacket: "I turned up at the delivery entrance [of the target firm], they took me to the right place and left me to do what I liked," he recalls. "In any organisation, we find it's easy to get access masquerading as someone semi-official." With physical access to telecoms equipment, a criminal could fit devices to tap into calls and data: the same is true of computer systems.Wood says that very small firms have some protection against physical intrusion, as everyone knows everyone and a stranger will soon be spotted. But with 30 staff or more, it becomes possible to pose as a visitor without anyone checking and, at 100 staff, a temporary employee.He adds that smaller organisations are particularly vulnerable to "social engineering" attacks via telephone calls. Through wanting to be helpful, employees will often pass on sensitive information about members of staff or customers without checking, or even asking for a caller's identity: "Most small firms don't have any process at all," says Wood. Such calls can be from commercial rivals, private investigators or identity thieves trying to piece together information on someone so as to impersonate them fraudulently.Staying secure&middot; Use anti-virus, firewall and anti-spyware software, and update these regularly. Suppliers include McAfee (www.mcafee.com),Sophos (www.sophos.co.uk)and Symantec (www.symantec.com)&middot; Accept security updates for other software, such as Microsoft's monthly "patches", available through the Windows Update facility&middot; Use difficult-to-guess passwords and, if you must write them down, disguise them and don't leave them near your computer&middot; Be wary online: don't open unexpected attachments, don't respond to spam email and don't download software from dubious sources&middot; Peer-to-peer software, often used for sharing music files, could also be sharing your business files if wrongly configured: use with caution&middot; Don't fall for phishing, where an email supposedly from a bank, eBay or PayPal tells you to click on a link then log in to your account. Such emails are attempts to steal your passwords, then loot your cash or run fraudulent auctions in your name. When you visit a secure website, type in the web address yourself&middot; With unexpected visitors, ask for identification and if you are suspicious, call their employer. With unsolicited telephone calls, ask for name, organisation and number and be sparing with the information you provide: you can always call back&middot; Back up data and software regularly to a removable device, a CD-rom or an online service, or get software that automates this: it's easy to forget to do it regularly&middot; Have a "disaster recovery" plan, which may include a support service subscription, spare equipment and backed-up data. For more advice, see the government-backed Get Safe Online (www.getsafeonline.org)or the Guardian's Ask Jack column (http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack)
Just about every product in this month's round-up could put your business at a serious risk. No, really. It's about portable storage - large, small, with other functions too or without, it all depends on your means and your needs. It can be seriously useful to have multiple copies of an important document about the place. I've just edited a book and the fact that if something terrible happened I still have the PDF of all the proofs on my phone at all times is a comfort.Many people reading this, however, will have the additional risk of employees with their own versions of these items. A top-spec iPod, for example, has 60 gigabytes of storage. Now, how big is your customer list? And if you're about to make someone redundant, how certain are you that you can trust them not to stroll off with it?This is the point at which many small business owners shrug and say they can trust their employees, and hopefully most of them can. But it's salutary to note that earlier this year a report from the Information Security Forum said that 90% of business respondents used some sort of portable storage device, 43% of these respondents said they also used them for personal things - but fewer than half were using any data encryption to protect their information.There's trust and there's risking commercial suicide - and there are times when it's surprising a manager wants to increase their exposure to risk in this way.Here, then, is a selection of products that can be fabulously useful - just remember to manage your staff carefully, protect your data and monitor the use of anything that comes into contact with your network.The phoneNokia N91Once upon a time phones were designed so that people could speak to each other. Fortunately we soon got over that, and here's a phone that will hold four gigabytes of music - the same amount as the top-end iPod Nano.It has a two-megapixel camera, which is respectable (soon to be outstripped by the Sony Ericsson CyberShot phone), and frankly it's a consumer gadget to die for.Of course, you don't have to use the storage for music or photographs, which is why it's relevant in here. Plug it into your PC or Mac via the USB 2.0 cable supplied and ping, you've got a bona fide four-gigabyte hard disk on to which you can drag and drop files as much as you like. And four gigabytes is a large enough amount of memory to do something seriously useful with - large graphics, complex spreadsheets, animations, they'll all fit on quite happily.It's not one for backing up your entire network, but let's be frank, it's supposed to be a phone. If you're self-employed or own a very small company and would like something that's 3G compliant, offers a Wi-Fi connection when there's a hotspot around and plays music during your downtime, this is a strong candidate.Price&pound;439.95 from Expansys, various deals from operators with contractMaker's URLwww.nokia.co.ukProsSheer flexibilityCons4GB won't suit everybody, but it's not marketed for mass storageStar rating***The secure deviceLexar JumpDrive ID 256MbThe Lexar JumpDrive offers security in the form of fingerprint recognition - you transfer your information to it and then when you come back to it, if it doesn't recognise you it won't let you back in. That's good news and it gets better when you look at the price: &pound;36.49, even excluding delivery, isn't going to make much of a dent in most corporate budgets.In fact this is where the product's only real weakness actually lies. It's great that there's something with fingerprint recognition on the market that's so easily affordable to the smaller trader, and of course it's not specifically a business product so consumers can get at it too. But if the manufacturing costs are that low, how about something more expensive but with a few gigabytes of storage on it? Use is simple enough, just drag and drop after you've trained it to recognise your dabs, but this one could be useful to so many more people (and no doubt will be in the future).Price&pound;36.45 on AmazonMaker's URLwww.lexar.comProsFingerprint recognitionConsComparatively little storageStar rating***The card-reading accessoryiDuo iPod Dock and Card ReaderIf you're in the habit of using a large quantity of memory cards - maybe you take a lot of data down using a handheld computer, maybe you have to take a lot of digital photos - then you'll be familiar with the inconvenience of having to dock each individual device separately with your computer, depending on how many USB slots you have.A useful answer is the iDuo iPod Dock and Card Reader. If you don't own an iPod, forget it - it's aimed at a very particular market, clearly, and has a line out audio for listening to music without taking up processing power on your computer. Most useful, however, is its three slots that let you put 10 formats of memory card in so that you can read more or less every data format you're likely to need. Invaluable until the next format emerges when we'll all be buying new kit anyway.Price&pound;39.99Maker's URLwww.iworld.co.ukProsEase of useConsThreatens to be outmoded when more card formats come inStar rating****The computer on a stickMemorex U3 DrivesI've long struggled to convince people that U3 is a technology that's worth serious consideration, but it is. This U3 device looks and feels like an ordinary flash memory drive, which is fine as far as it goes. The difference is obvious when you put it into a Windows PC, though, because it has a number of applications on it.So when the pop-up window asks you if you want to open up the drive "proper", you effectively get an entirely new desktop on the computer, with whatever documents you've put on it, its own virus checker and your email settings, without having to think about it. The applications (like the email program) look reasonably familiar to any computer user. The only problem is that once you're away from the Windows PC world it converts itself immediately back into an ordinary flash drive and none of the clever bits work.Memorex also showed us its 8GB Mega Travel Drive, which contains (wait for it) eight gigabytes of data. The company is pitching this as a laptop replacement, particularly for people who'll be greeted by a PC when they arrive somewhere.Price&pound;65.11 for two gigabytesMaker's URLwww.memorex.co.ukProsThe increased functionsConsWindows-centricStar rating*****Online storageDiinoA whole lot of online storage systems have arisen in recent years, mostly spurred on by the advent of broadband. One such is Diino, which has some nice features.Essentially it's portable in that you can log on to it from any computer and download data - so far, so standard. The finesse lies in the fact that you can have a physical key; you can lock off specific sections of data so that only the users you choose can see what you're sharing and, since it's loaded from a CD with its own application, it doesn't leave a footprint on other people's computers when you're using them. Therefore hacking into this system becomes more difficult. The next version is expected to include mobile options.PriceFree initially, then up to &pound;10.99 per month for 10 gigabytesMaker's URLwww.diino.co.ukProsThe chance to share your storage with other usersConsYet another password to rememberStar rating****
Scientists often use fruit flies in experiments because of their simple structure and rapid life cycle. Small businesses in Ibiza could probably perform the same function for economists. Hundreds of new bars, shops and restaurants appear at the start of each summer, most hoping to make enough to survive from a tourist season that lasts perhaps three months. Few will survive their first winter.Sometimes the reasons for failure are so obvious that it makes you want to scream: "Stop throwing your money away. Lie on the beach, get drunk, squander your cash, but please stop putting so much energy into wasting it."Even people you'd think would know better make elementary mistakes. I watched one couple blow a substantial nest egg they'd accumulated from previous business ventures trying to run an up-market Indian restaurant. Unfortunately they'd located it in a strip of cheap bars, neon-lit fast-food joints and tacky souvenir shops.Their problem was a common one. Almost every business here has to either stand out from a host of similar competitors within walking distance, or entice punters out to the sticks.Earlier this summer I went to a bar that, despite being out of the way, seemed to have a winning proposition. Oxy, I read in a local magazine, had an oxygen bar, alcohol-free natural energy cocktails and music through until 4am.The combination might sound a little healthy for Ibiza, but despite the island's hedonistic reputation, you can't move for yoga centres, spas and holistic health practitioners. The absence of alcohol also means there's no need for a designated driver.Three of us arrived a little after midnight one Friday. In the late-night life of Ibiza this is generally peak-time for bars, between eating and going to a club. Of course, not every bar can be full at the same time and there's often a strange unwritten timetable that seems to ensure that crowds will appear at a particular spot at 3am for no obvious reason.That might have been the case with Oxy, but it seemed unlikely. The only people there were us, the barman and the DJ behind the expensive-looking decks. There was no sign of recently departed customers, nor of the famous oxygen bar. Only a British sense of politeness stopped me dragging the others back to the car in search of somewhere with signs of life.But I've seen worse places. The bar was decorated with a variety of pieces that were probably found on skips or bought second-hand - the sort of shabby chic that can work if done well or if the bar's busy. This failed on both counts.I actually felt too embarrassed to start talking to the barman. Something had obviously gone horribly wrong with the business plan and I really didn't want to rub his nose in it. Instead, my wife, Barbara, started talking to him.It turned out the barman was the owner. He was a French guy with definite hippy inclinations. In typical Ibiza style he'd had the idea for the oxygen bar before he'd checked the cost. Specialist units that deliver metered doses of flavoured gas cost around &euro;7,000, he said. So he decided to test the market for the concept by using a medical oxygen cylinder. He pointed to the corner at what resembled a large bomb covered in Christmas decorations.There were other problems. A burst of pure oxygen is very relaxing - which tends to make you a little sleepy. That doesn't go down too well in Ibiza where what people want is an energy boost.Next, he had to contend with new legislation forcing small bars to designate themselves smoking or non-smoking. Oxy followed the vast majority in allowing people to light up. Safety laws, however, prevent smoking when pure oxygen is being used.The bar's other advertised speciality, energy cocktails, use fresh ingredients. For these you need a rapid turnover and, therefore, plenty of customers. I don't need to explain what's missing from that equation. Finally, our owner decided you couldn't have a bar without alcohol.So now he's left with a smoky bar in the middle of nowhere, not unlike dozens of others. I'll be interested to see if he's still there next summer.Nick Clayton is a writer and web content consultant. deskinthesun@nickclayton.com
There's a lovely old anecdote from an American election from a previous century. The man on the hustings is a Republican and he's being heckled by a Democrat. He asks the Democrat why he votes that way. "My grandfather was a Democrat, my father was a Democrat and now I'm a Democrat," came the answer. "And what would you be if your father had been a Republican?" asked hustings man. "A jackass!" came the reply.It's well understood that there's no direct link this way in politics, although people are often influenced by their backgrounds. In a similar fashion, when you talk to entrepreneurs about whether or not they had business starters in their backgrounds they often won't see any link.Helena Hudson is the eldest daughter of a father who never worked for anyone but himself, and now heads up the Real Eating Company. She happily acknowledges the influence: "I did look up to him and he was always very entrepreneurial in his outlook. First he was in a pop band, then he set up a photographic studio, then a TV production company - he taught himself to play the piano, he did property deals and always did things his own way."There was an expectation in the family that she would end up doing something on her own. "When I said I was setting up a business they said, well, good, that's what we expected of you in a way. They weren't at all concerned about the risks, which I'd weighed up in some detail."Risk comes up when you talk to anyone starting a business - quite simply they're involved in sinking some of their own money and maybe some of someone else's into a new organisation and they're aware they could lose every penny. "You need to be relatively courageous to take those risks but, if you see both parents doing it, it makes you a little less worried," says Hudson, whose business was on the shortlist for the 02/Grazia small business awards this month.Jagvinder Kang heads up law firm Technology Law Alliance and also comes from a strong entrepreneurial background. His father came to the UK from India in the 1960s - a time when London was the only place in the UK where you could get Asian food - and set up a food shop followed by a national delivery service and, eventually, a wholesaler."He always pushed us to be the best we could," says Kang, who has two brothers. "One of the things we always thought was that we'd do the compulsory education and then go into the family business, leaving A levels and university out of it."His father made it clear that the boys would be welcome to join the business but that they should do so only once they had degrees, since these would always offer a fall-back that nobody could take away.Their views changed while they were studying and they all went to work in large firms. Jagvinder started his legal career with Pinsents, moving on to Wraggs - then decided it was time to start his own concern. Interestingly, his brothers didn't feel the same need: "As your own business you can set your own goals and you have full control - your limitations are your own limitations rather than something imposed on you."When Jagvinder decided to set up his own law firm, the notion of risk came up again. He was aware that, having been told he was on track for a partnership at his existing job, he would forfeit that security when he started competing directly with his current employer. "I got my father involved again. I told him that I knew my partner extremely well, that he was an extremely good lawyer, but that we could just stay where we were. I asked him if he thought it was worth the risk."Having a father who'd been in a similar situation clearly helped: "My father said he believed I could do it and had the skill set. He also said he'd help me financially during the first year if things did get a bit rough." In the event, he helped with some of the contacts, particularly in terms of banking.So what if you haven't got that sounding board? Beginning a business when you have no one in the family with any relevant background is certainly feasible, and many people do it. Stephen Bainbridge started beatsuite.com, an online library of music for corporate videos, websites and similar endeavours. His parents were employees - a social worker and a print designer - but he stuck with his music and technology and ended up setting up by himself. He now employs two people."I started off with a couple of grand I'd saved up, a couple of grand from the family, a grand from the Prince's Trust and maybe a bit more from Business Link," he says. It didn't matter that there was no history of entrepreneurship in the family. "My parents were incredibly positive. Ever since I was walking and crawling for the first time I was climbing on to the stereo to listen to music."Bainbridge worked various part-time jobs while he was setting up the business, but his parents never put pressure on him to get a "proper" job. He now represents about 45 composers.Being your own bossRoss Williams heads up adventure sports organisation 8th Day UK. He also had no entrepreneurs in his close family. "I don't think I ever made a conscious decision to start on my own. I guess it's something I always felt I'd do," he says. "The goal was always to be my own boss, to be more in control of my own life - maybe it's a slight problem with authority, I don't know."He felt the risks were worth taking and began his organisation. Family, again, was supportive: "There was always great support and constructive criticism to make sure I was doing it in the right way. I'd always talked about setting up my own company in some form so it wasn't much of a surprise."Without the business-minded family network that Kang enjoyed, Williams turned to friends with relevant experience for support and advice. Having a father who's a lawyer also helped, he says.So is family a red herring? Professor Peter Warr of the Institute of Work Psychology at the University of Sheffield stresses that you can't look at family backgrounds in isolation - there are a lot of variables in someone's decision to work for themselves or otherwise and employ a team of people or not. Family background is bound to be one of those factors. "A relevant family background seems likely to increase a person's awareness of successful outcomes and also perhaps to increase the perceived attractiveness of those," he says. "On the other hand, family experience of failure in this area would reduce the perceived probability of success (and hence reduce motivation)."In other words, if your mum's Anita Roddick you're likely to think it's a good idea to start up by yourself; if your dad's more of a Del Trotter or a serial bankrupt, you might be inclined to do something else.Warr also queries just how people going into business and observing it in the family measure their "success". Money is part of it but, as politicians are increasingly recognising, there are other factors, too. Warr has recently published an academic book called Work, Happiness and Success in which he identifies 12 separate factors he refers to as "vitamins" essential to the full picture of fulfillment."Does a family environment of successful business startup increase the perceived probability of attaining certain of those key environmental features? And do certain of the features become more valued as a result of exposure to family achievement of those features? Probably yes in both cases," he suggests.It's impossible to draw any solid conclusions about the effect a family background in business will have on an individual unless there's a deliberate "family business" offering employment. Every family is different: the offspring that has seen the parent struggle with deadlines and bills and felt excluded from that parent's attention will have a different perception from the child born after the initial setting up is over - and who might have seen the rewards available to a parent who set up a success and sold it for a small fortune during their kids' formative years.Panasonic recently commissioned research into what people who have the ability and motivation to turn themselves into businesspeople actually do with it. Brennan Peyton, head of sales for Panasonic Document Systems, says: "The key thing for us is what turns people who have the ability to be entrepreneurs into fully-fledged successful businesspeople."The main conclusion that surprised Panasonic was how little planning went into the process. "About 54% of UK businesses start without any business planning at all, so they're often described as accidental entrepreneurs," he says. "Something forces a change in their life, normally it would appear to be in their 30s, prompting them from doing what they're doing to being an entrepreneur." These prompts can be redundancy, a geographical move, anything. "We found the spark that makes that happen doesn't necessarily leap from, 'I'm going to do this' to, 'I'm going to make a plan'."The result is a lot of businesses that succeed without actually having an aim - presumably "doing well enough" is as good a measure of success as any for people in this position. Panasonic's main interest is in the fact that 64% of these entrepreneurs felt that technology was the thing that enabled their business to survive and compete. This is a little like saying Leonardo da Vinci did well for himself because he had the right paintbrushes, and Peyton freely confirms that the business idea has to work in the first place and the technology has to be deployed sensibly. "In terms of a startup making itself look like a larger concern and competing in that market, it makes a difference," he says.
Before the break...Welcome to the June edition of Business Sense, where we bring together the latest smart technology - and smart thinking - for small- to medium-sized businesses.Our cover feature this month asks whether the traits of an entrepreneur - determination and courageousness to name but two - are in the blood or something that can be learned. In other words, is becoming an entrepreneur dependant on nature or nurture?Guy Clapperton speaks to startup owners from different backgrounds to see if there exists, as it were, an entrepreneurial gene. Are all entrepreneurs gung-ho risk-takers, or are there some who find the whole business of - well, business - hard to take?Elsewhere, Sue Norris examines the rash of "binge" working that is supposedly spreading across the British workforce. Is working like mad in concentrated periods really that bad if it means employees can free up more time to snowboard or birdwatch in their spare time? Or do we just end up doing more work, at an ever more hectic pace, sacrificing holidays along the way?Of course, when we are away - on business or on pleasure - being connected is often important. If you've ever signed for hotel broadband while on your travels, you'll understand the motivation behind Ros Taylor's investigation into the pricing of that in-room connectivity this month. She discovers the service, sold for as much as &pound;10 per half hour in one London hotel, costs as little as 11p a day for the hotels to provide. Read her piece to discover what percentage of your room price you should expect to pay for a connection, and why in the US you're more likely to get it included than in Europe.Finally , as thoughts turn to summer holidays, we all often end up dreaming of how nice it would be to give it all up, and open a little bar somewhere warm. Nick Clayton, our Ibiza-based columnist, offers a cautionary tale or two.Business Sense takes a break over the summer but returns, as ever, on the last Friday of the month in September. See you then.
BooksEureka! Tips on how to think more imaginativelyNew to the bookshelf this month is Re-Think: How to Think Differently, by Nigel May Barlow (Capstone, &pound;12.99). He makes the point, a number of times, that many business problems can be solved if the business manager allows themselves the luxury of thinking differently. He refuses to use the word "creative" because of associations with advertising and media types - we won't use the phrase "outside the box" for similar reasons.He is persuasive in his arguments and backs them up with an interesting exercise: instead of introducing himself, he asks people to introduce him based on his picture, and they guess which newspaper he reads, what car he drives and so forth. He uses this as an initial point in his argument that everybody constructs their own picture of the world early on and that we'd be better at problem-solving if we can think our way around that and abandon some of our precepts.In another thought-provoking exercise, he asks us to go through a day asking ourselves "why" in a childlike way about everything we do. It can yield some surprising "I don't have to do things the same way all the time" results, as well as helping us understand how to stimulate "Eureka" moments. The idea of writing down all of your experiences during the day as a story and seeing whether it makes sense can also be instructive - if you have the time.BooksHow to get started on eBay's UK websiteA more directly practical book is the latest in the successful "for dummies" series, this one by Marsha Collier and Dan Matthews entitled Starting a Business on eBay for Dummies (Collier Matthews &pound;14.99). Like all the books in the series, the tone is somewhat frantic and, despite tailoring the copy for eBay UK users, you might be put off by some things. Don't write it off completely, though. It takes you through the stages of launching a business on eBay to stock management, customer relations and the admin behind running a business and all of the paperwork involved if you want to get serious about it. Worth a look whether you want to operate a sideline or a full-blown business.Customer relationsSMEs in need of a direct marketing rethinkSage CRM, the customer relationship management suite branch of accounting software giant Sage, has published research that suggests businesses are pretty bad at looking after customers when they're face to face. According to the survey, 94% of customers say they never give out contact information in a face to face environment when asked, but a bewildering 43% will do so when they're online.A lot of the reluctance comes from customers who see no benefit in handing their information over. Eighty per cent said they'd hand their details over if they thought it would get them a discount on future services or goods, and a similar amount would cooperate if they believed it would just get them a more tailored service on another occasion. Unfortunately, 92% of the people who'd actually provided information found that it made no difference at all to the service they received at a later date.Sage CRM conducted another survey about whether customers felt they were provided with better, more relevant information from large or small companies and, sadly for the small business community, the larger organisations are still doing a much better job of targeting their customers. Forty three per cent of respondents said they found information from large companies was useful to them, compared with only 14% saying that information from small companies was relevant to them.Small businesses are also using email to contact customers a good deal less than their larger counterparts - which means smaller operations are spending more on contacting customers than their deeper-pocketed competitors.StartupsForget Dragons' Den - it's time to raid the piggybankMicrosoft has also been researching its market and has been asking where startups get their money from. Predictably enough the new business doesn't have a lot of cash, according to the survey conducted in association with YouGov. In fact a third of startup businesses have less than &pound;10,000 when they begin, and another 8% have less than &pound;20,000. Seventeen per cent of respondents claimed to have started a business with no capital funding.The most likely source of seed funding was personal savings, which was where 52% of entrepreneurs found their money. Eighteen per cent asked the bank manager for cash, while 14% secured loans from family and friends. Five per cent remortgaged their homes, while 6% found some sort of grant funding was available to them.The most likely area in which people were likely to spend their initial capital was technology, followed by communications and then physical infrastructure such as premises and furniture.PodcastsStill want more? Look no further...Finally, this month Business Sense has been growing offshoots. Specifically a podcast - basically a radio programme you can download to your computer and then transfer to your MP3 player - on the Guardian's website athttp://business.guardian.co.uk/audio/oraclebusinesssense.Subjects on the two 10-minute programmes include VAT, late payments, whether and when to incorporate, recruitment and a great deal else, with input from Dun and Bradstreet, Business Link and a number of small business owners.
How did you react when your business last got a complaint? According to the latest research from the National Complaints Culture Survey, not that well.The survey, conducted by the organisational development company TMI and the Institute of Customer Service (ICS), shows that we are becoming a country of complainers, indicating that over 60% of customers are now willing to complain most of the time - a 10% increase on five years ago.Fifty-two per cent of customers believe UK organisations are getting worse at handling complaints, compared with 42% five years ago. Only 5% say their complaint is resolved at the first point of contact. More worrying is that companies are failing to understand how their lack of a coherent customer service response is damaging their business.Clare Barclay, head of small business at Microsoft UK, points out that some businesses are burying their heads in the sand when it comes to customer service and resolving complaints: "We recently undertook some research with YouGov that highlighted a worrying trend among small businesses."Poor knowledge of the status of customer accounts was leading to one in five of the businesses questioned losing business simply because they weren't managing their customer information properly."One in 10 were avoiding customer calls due to a lack of information on the account status, and almost a quarter had missed meetings leading to one in five businesses admitting to losing customers due to poor customer service."New research from SunGard Availability Services shows that customers fall into several discrete categories, including shouters, switchers, seekers and sulkers. According to the research, 43% of us are shouters - people who tell as many people as possible when we experience bad service; 27% of us are switchers - people who switch to another company and don't tell anyone; 15% of us are seekers - people who try and find a better way to get good service; and 11% of us are sulkers, who just put up with the bad service and sulk.What's more, if your business fails on the customer service front, one in five Britons will now rant to more than 10 friends about their bad experience. Keith Tilley, managing director at SunGard Availability Services, says: "Nearly half of us have switched service providers in the last two years, so it's clear that agitated, impatient customers are demanding better service or they will move on. It's no longer acceptable for businesses to only be available 24/7 - it's about being more responsive and available than the competition."Understanding how your customers respond to their experiences with your business is of paramount importance. In customer service, the 80/20 rule that states that 80% of your business comes from 20% of your customers; looking after that 20% could mean the difference between a successful business and one that sees its market share slowly erode.Great expectationsAnd it's not only businesses that have failed to keep pace with the needs of their customers. Clive Hicks, senior consultant and report author at TMI, says: "Five years of data show there is a yawning gap between customers' expectations the actual performance of organisations."Regulators' guidelines in particular are out of touch by saying it is acceptable to take 28 days or longer to respond to a complaint. This is not keeping pace with what is important to the customer.""Today's customers are more demanding than five years ago," says David Parsons, ICS chief executive. "They simply won't tolerate their complaints being mismanaged."In fact, 89% who have a bad service experience tell others. Organisations are blind to the opportunities a healthy complaints culture presents. People who complain more are also likely to pay more for exceptional service. Complaints can be positive for businesses that learn from them and adapt."The need to handle their complaints more efficiently is what drove Travelsphere - a privately owned, direct sell tour operator - to look closely at how it handled customer complaints. The company specialises in escorted holidays. It recognised that listening to and managing customer feedback is critical to ensuring a high level of customer service. Three years ago the company took the decision to automate its feedback handling process and invested in Respond enterprise complaints, feedback and customer service software."As a company we record absolutely everything that anyone tells us - good or bad," says Michael Wallis, Travelsphere's customer relations manager. "We get a lot of positive feedback - around 3,500 letters a year praising our holidays. In total, if you include all letters of praise, complaints, pre-holiday and miscellaneous queries, we get about 11,000 letters and emails a year."The main drivers for investing in the Respond system were frustration with the volume of correspondence and a need to reduce the administration involved. We have integrated Respond with our reservation system to reduce the need for re-keying customer information and to ensure complete visibility of data for all customer-handling staff."Travelsphere's standard timeframe for dealing with complaints is seven days. "The fact that we can achieve such an impressive turnaround is mainly due to Respond," says Wallis. "Other systems provide basic complaint and cost details, but Respond allows you to see more in-depth information at a glance, making it easier to prioritise and manage workloads."The system Travelsphere uses enables the company to instantly spot a problem when a high volume of complaints are received. "It's great because the system allows us to identify trends and establish the root cause of issues before they become major problems."For many businesses the addition of new technology is often seen as the cure for a lack of a coherent customer service policy. However, too often the instillation of these systems isn't carried out correctly and, without skilled staff to utilise the systems themselves, businesses often find that they make no positive impact on their complaints clean-up rates, or the perception that their business offers exceptional service.Research from the communication management specialist Yac indicates that small businesses are wasting &pound;73m a year on complex call management hardware when they only need relatively modest systems to give them high quality call management.Increasing profitCan improving your customer services really have a positive impact on the bottom line? A major high street bank recently boosted its profits by &pound;16m by pushing its customer satisfaction level up by just 1%, proving that you ignore your least satisfied customers at your peril.If you're unsure what your customers think of your business, ask them. Marketing expert Jackie Danicki, of Engagement Alliance, says: "Too many businesses are afraid of their customers - afraid of negative reactions, afraid of losing them, and afraid of not knowing how to keep them. It's important to move past that fear and assess exactly which elements of your business are totally within your control."For example, you can't really control whether or not your supplier's factory catches on fire, but you can control how you talk to customers and make them aware of the resulting problems and your wish to serve them as best you can in the circumstances. Often, people just want an apology and a human voice. Humanity matters and is a sign that your company can be trusted. Trust, transparency and reputation are always going to be critical to a business's bottom line."Whatever business you're in, let this advice from David Parsons, chief executive at the ICS, become your customer service mantra: "There is absolutely no doubt that the more satisfied customers are with service delivery, the more they are likely to stay with that business, buy again from it and recommend it to their friends and family. There is clear evidence and research to show a correlation between customer satisfaction and customer retention, recommendation and repurchase. In this day and age, customers want to be delighted. A customer is twice as likely to remain a customer, and four times more likely to repurchase and recommend, if they are not just satisfied but delighted."Complaining customersConsumers have changed out of all recognition. They now have a greater propensity to voice their opinions and make sure that others hear what they have to say. The National Complaints Culture Survey clearly identifies the profiles of today's complaining consumers.ShouterOne in five people will tell more than 10 people about bad service due to slow or unavailable systems and nearly half of dissatisfied consumers will tell at least four people. In addition to telling family and friends, 85% of shouters will contact the supplier directly to take up their issues before switching to a different supplier. A shouter is more likely to be male than female, over 50 and living in London.SwitcherA switcher will simply change suppliers, but not spend effort telling friends and family about the sub-standard service or contacting the supplier or consumer regulatory bodies to complain. Over the past two years, more than one in five consumers has switched utilities, insurance or mobile providers. Switchers are most likely to be male, aged 30 to 50 and living in the north of England.SeekerA seeker is a consumer who is not happy leaving service up to the supplier or spending time on making complaints. However, a seeker is more likely to work out ways of getting a better service or finding a way around the constraints. Seekers are most likely to be male, over 50 and living in the Midlands and Wales.SulkerSulkers have many of the same outspoken traits as a shouter, but instead of switching suppliers they will simply put up with sub-standard service. In the UK, 41% of consumers haven't switched any of their main suppliers in the past two years. Sulkers are more likely to be female, aged 18 to 29 and living in London.SuffererSufferers are consumers who put up with poor service due to slow or unavailable systems and don't tell anyone. Sufferers are almost evenly split between males and females, but are most likely to be aged between 18 and 29 and living in the Midlands or the north of England.How to improve your customer serviceAsk your customersMany businesses are operating under the false impression that their customers are completely satisfied with the service they are receiving. Ask your customers what they think. You may be surprised at the responses you get.Bad news is good newsEvery time you receive a complaint don't treat it as a nuisance but a chance to improve your business. Your customer may have uncovered a serious flaw in your business process that needs to be fixed.Inside out serviceGood customer service starts from within your company. You must foster an environment that promotes good customer relationships. Your staff must understand that every interaction they have with a customer will impact on how your business is perceived.Lead from the topPromoting good customer service must start at the top. If management don't realise how important this aspect of their business is, they will be at an instant disadvantage in their industry.People powerIt has been shown that some people are naturally much better in a customer services role than others. When you're recruiting look for these people as they will be your company's ambassadors.
Hack (left) under vocal attack (big version)On Wednesday night, a handful of innocent Guardian Technology writers wereambushed by more than a dozen MPs(Members of Parliament) and subjected to a peculiarly British form of torture known as a "pub quiz".It all started when we published a piece by Richard Sarson saying:Techno world has MPs beat. Guardian technology correspondentBobbie Johnsonwas approached with the challenge of a handbags-at-dawn-style confrontation, and we duly agreed to take on three teams of MPs at a Marriott hotel in Westminster. The Guardian Tech team comprised Charles Arthur, editor of the Technology section, Jack Schofield (Computer editor), Neil McIntosh from Guardian Unlimited (and former deputy editor of the Online section), Michael Cross (Technology columnist and Free Our Data writer) and Bo..., oh, and regular contributorWendy Grossman. (Bobbie went off to the States, or something, and couldn't make it.)The showdown was splendidly organised by BT's press office, which also put up a £1,000 prize for the charity of the winning team's choice.The contest ended with the equivalent of a penalty shoot-out, only worse: with an old Elvis Presley number on the SingStar karaoke program running on a PlayStation 2. Charles performed heroically, far beyond the call of duty. However, after taking an early lead, he was finally out-crooned byJohn Robertson MP, captain of the Tel-stars team.The Tel-stars also included internet guru Derek Wyatt, Claire Curtis-Thomas, Michael Connarty and Chris Mole. Wyatt is chairman of the All Party Internet group, creator of Oxford Internet Institute at Oxford University, and used to be Director of The Computer Channel at BskyB. Claire Curtis-Thomas was the first woman engineer (a Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, no less) to become an MP, also has an MBA, and used to be Dean of the Faculty of Business and Engineering at the University of Wales, Newport. Michael Connarty is a board member on Post (Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology) and former economics teacher. Chris Mole has a degree in electronics from the University of Kent and used to work at the famedBT Laboratories at Martlesham Heath.Obviously these were not the sort of people who sprang to mind when we were grumbling about the techno-literacy of the average MP....There's a great British tradition whereby the losing team claims "We wuz robbed," so you won't expect us to give in gracefully. It turned out we did worst in Round 2 -- which BT's PR referred to as "the BT round" -- about things like internet use and broadband penetration. Are MPs better at absorbing BT briefings than journalists? Or was it just that the Tel-star team included, in Mole and Robertson, two former BT employees?We'd also dispute the official answer to one question: the first MP blogger wasRichard Allan, notTom Watson, as popularly thought*. Richard -- who now works for Cisco -- was present and confirmed that he started blogging in January 2003, two months before Tom, but didn't shout about it.* Yes, we know, it says Tom was first inThe Guardian.Quite a few people turned up to cheer on the MPs, everyone joined in the final singalong, and a jolly good time was had by all. Hearty congratulations to the very impressive Tel-stars, who were worthy winners, and to the teams of MPs led by Ian Taylor and Andrew Miller for putting up such a good fight.Update: Wendy M Grossman has also written about the event atThe Register.
After decades of rampant hiring, it looks as though Microsoft has started a cull. A post on the anonymousMini-Microsoft blogincludes a quote:ok Mini, you're getting your wish. My org announced today a roughly 50% RIF. One group of 65 in the org is being cut to 36. My group of 12 is being reduced to 3. Management is being cut from 21 to 8 people.Note: RIF is Microsoft-speak for Reduction In Force, ie lay-offs. The equivalent at IBM was CTP or Career Transition Programme, otherwise known as "Cash To Piss off".Update: Microsoft Watch says214 sales jobs are being axed, but 66 new jobs are being created in "customer-facing" positions in US sales.
"In its quest to 'organize the world's information,' Google now wants to keep track of your credit card number and where you live. The company is introducing Google Checkout today, a service that will allow users to make purchases from online stores using payment and shipping information they keep on file with Google," saysThe New York Times.Google Checkout was formerly code-named Gbuy. The story says:Google is charging merchants 20 cents plus 2 percent of the purchase price to process card transactions, less than most businesses pay for credit card processing. Banking industry executives say that credit card processors typically pay MasterCard and Visa a fee of 30 cents and 1.95 percent for every purchase, so Google will be subsidizing many transactions.What is more, for every $1 a company spends on search advertising, Google will waive the fees on $10 worth of purchases. Factoring in the 2 percent fee, that represents a rebate of at least 20 percent of advertising spending.Later, the story says:While Google's tactics may be seen as aggressive competition, the company is unlikely to run afoul of antitrust laws because it does not have a monopoly in the market.Comment: The interesting question isn't whether Google is abusing its power -- in most cases, the US anti-trust laws are at best equivalent to tossing a coin -- but whether it is putting itself in a position to acquire one. SeeGoogle releases answer to Microsoft's Passport, below.Ultimately, of course, it may not matter. You could just forget about the net and give Google all your information directly (Gmail, Calendar, Talk, Video, Pages, Base, Blogger, Picasa, Gdrive, Books, online applications etc). Since Google is on track to get all the advertising, it makes perfect sense for Google to handle all the financial transanctions as well. Maybe you won't even have to worry about things like "net neutrality" if Google provides the Wi-Fi and uses the dark fibre it's buying to handle the delivery as well. Conspiracy theories often make good science fiction novellas, and this one could be very interesting.....
