You may want to talk about Devil May Cry's straight-to-number-one debut in the UK games charts. Or the fact that there's going to be a mobile version of Bioshock!You don't have to do either of those.Chat!
A couple of graduate students messing around in a campus trailer in 1994 didn't imagine they were on the brink of starting a global business for which Microsoft would eventually offer $44.6 billion. But they were.Like many of us, David Filo and Jerry Yang, electrical engineering students at Stanford, kept a list of the websites they visited, so they could find them again. But they did a much better job than most of us, sorting their list into categories, and then subcategories. They also put Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web onto the web, so other people could use it.Visitors poured in, and after a year it was clear the students had a potential business. They turned their guide into a company in March 1995, and in April raised $2m in venture capital funding.Yahoowent public a year later and soon became one of the biggest names on the web.Originally, the directory was assembled by human editors, and it dominated Yahoo's front page. Today it can be hard to find, unless you know it's athttp://dir.yahoo.com/. It became obsolete because the web grew too big too fast for editors to keep up. Users switched from directories to search engines, driven not by humans but by speedy software robots or "spiders".Front door to the webBy then, of course, Yahoo had become much more than a directory. It offered dozens of services including email, messaging, shops, an auction site and photo albums. Its new aim was to be a portal, a front door to the web.In the rush to expand, Yahoo bought more than 50 companies, sometimes for silly prices. For example, it paid $3.6bn for GeoCities, where users could create their own home pages, and $5.7bn for Broadcast.com. Other purchases included Hotjobs, MusicMatch, eGroups, Kelkoo (shopping search), Flickr, Konfabulator, Upcoming.org and Del.icio.us.In the "portal combat" wars against AOL and Microsoft's MSN, Yahoo mainly won. (The losers included Alta Vista, Excite, Go, Lycos and Netscape.) It is still the web's biggest portal, and one that users can customise via MyYahoo. Unlike Google, it puts lots of news and features on its front page, and on the left it sports a list that links users to more specialised areas. These include Finance (company information and stock quotes), Maps, Movies, Shopping and Travel.Yahoo still has the web's biggest email service, and if you want your email, calendar and contact information in one coherent place, it's the best big service around. Yahoo's search is also better than it's given credit for, but some of its other services have fallen behind.As the internalPeanut Butter Manifestoexplained, Yahoo had spread itself too thin, failed to execute well enough, and wasn't capitalising on its strengths. The web just got too big, and the competition too tough. Yahoo still offers lots of worthwhile services, but right now it's a giant in decline. And in this business, the stragglers usually get picked off.If Microsoft doesn't get Yahoo, someone else probably will - and for a lot less than $45bn.
The muffled sound you can hear is that of beleagured record company executives, and their counterparts in film and television boardrooms, cheering this morning's headlines about leaked government plans to take a hardline on illegal downloads. They would be wise, however, to leave the cork in the champagne bottle for now.An industry that has at every turn bungled and botched its attempts to stem the flood of illegal downloads unleashed since the rise to prominence of Napster at the turn of the century believes it may finally have found a solution.Increased broadband penetration, the continuing move to link the PC to the television and ever-increasing download speeds (Virgin Media is currently trumpeting its new 50Mb service) mean the Hollywood studios and TV giants are now at the crunch point faced by the music industry eight years ago.A whole generation are growing up believing that free music, movies and television programmes are their birthright. They are happy to shell out for gig tickets and T-shirts but baulk at paying a penny for music or, increasingly, TV programmes and films.In truth, the leaked details of next week's positioning paper (not, as reported, a green paper) represent a restating of the existing position. Last year's Gowers review of copyright in the digital age similarly called on ISPs and the media industry to come to a voluntary agreement and warned of legislation if they could not.The idea is not a new one: for the last year the record labels and Hollywood studios have been campaigning intensively for internet service providers to monitor their customer's usage and cut them off if they are downloading copyrighted content. U2's manager Paul McGuinness last month backed calls from international trade body the IFPI for legislation to tackle the problem, blaming the woes of the music industry on the west coast technology "hippies" who had conspired to devalue music.Their thinking seems sound in arguing that a typical 14-year-old My Chemical Romance fan is far more likely to fear the social stigma and parental backlash of the imminent threat of having their web connection taken away than the remote prospect of a court summons landing on the doormat.Privately, they accept there will always be a hardcore of hackers and computer-literate downloaders who will try and get around any restriction by masking their IP address and other means. But they hope the threat of disconnection would force the vast majority of consumers to think twice before downloading illegally and force them to go down legal routes such as the iTunes music store instead.Four of the biggest ISPs - BT, Tiscali, Orange and Virgin Media - have been in negotiations for around six months to come to a voluntary agreement. But not only do they still remain wary of establishing a precedent in taking responsibility for the actions of their subscribers, but there are sticking points over how disconnections will be enforced and who will arbitrate if a downloader is found to have been piggybacking on a neighbour's wi-fi connection.Yet there is general agreement that something must be done and some argue that legislation is preferable because it will ensure a level playing field in compelling all ISPs to comply rather than putting those who refuse at a competitive advantage.Several things have changed to make what once seemed an unlikely prospect a reality. Nicolas Sarkozy wasted little time in introducing a similar law in France, providing a workable model for other governments around the world.Around 95% of traffic at night is believed to be over peer to peer filesharing networks - much of it transferring pirated content. With the huge upsurge in data traffic generated by the popularity of video sites like Joost and the BBC's iPlayer, it is in the ISPs interests to look for ways of freeing up their networks.And technology has also moved on. Virgin Media acting chief executive Neil Berkett earlier this month spoke of rather disturbingly named "packet sniffing" technology can accurately determine exactly what their customers are downloading.Aside from the privacy questions of examining just what people are watching and listening to, there is the dilemma of what constitutes an illegally pirated file. Music tracks and recently released Hollywood films may seem pretty straightforward, but what about a BBC programme from the iPlayer that has had its copy protection removed?And how exactly will it work in practice? If you have your account blocked by one provider, are you allowed to sign up with another? With a growing emphasis on digital learning and narrowing the digital divide, is it fair to penalise the siblings of those who transgress by denying them an internet connection too?The other point is a cultural one. Having accepted there is little point in demonising their potential customers by pursuing them through the courts, will pursuing them in this way make them any more amenable to the media giants who have in many cases not yet come up with attractive legal alternatives? And despite improved detection technology, experts say it remains impossible to say with complete certainty that someone is downloading an illegal file, particularly as some traffic over P2P networks remains perfectly legitimate.Despite the detail in this morning's report in the Times suggesting the new regime would be based on the French "three strikes and you're out" model, Whitehall sources say next week's document will be short on detail beyond restating the threat of legislation if the preferred option of a voluntary agreement can't be reached. A consultation paper to be released in the spring will go into more detail.The initiative should also be viewed in the wider context of the government's willingness to legislate the internet. The earlier position that it was unregulatable and beyond national boundaries is giving way in a number of areas, from content regulation to gambling and copyright, to a belief that attempts must be made to at least try and place some regulatory framework around what is becoming the main conduit into our homes for entertainment, information and services.
The cost of sending a text message and using the mobile internet abroad is likely to fall after the European telecoms commissioner, Viviane Reding, said yesterday she will impose price cuts if Europe's mobile phone companies do not drop their charges significantly by the summer.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Reding said that sending a text home from another country within the EU should be only marginally more expensive than sending one in a consumer's home market."I want to see the end of these artificial borders between networks and nations which are both preventing private consumers and business customers from benefiting fully from the single borderless market we have created between 27 EU countries so far."She said she has no desire to impose regulation but "if I see no such single market offers for data roaming evolve by July 1 of this year, I will have no choice than to propose regulatory intervention again".Last year Reding pushed through cuts in the cost of making phone calls from overseas - bringing down the price of so-called voice roaming by about 70% - and is now turning to the cost of data services.The mobile phone industry has suspected for some time that data roaming charges would be the next target of regulation. Ofcom boss Ed Richards recently noted that text roaming prices looked too high while the cost of using the mobile internet overseas was hampering usage by business customers.To try to see off the threat of price caps, the mobile phone operators have been pushing through price reductions.  O2 and Vodafone have reduced the cost of using the mobile internet within the EU, while O2 has cut the price of texts. T-Mobile is expected to announce its price cuts today in Barcelona. These moves are unlikely to be enough for Reding.The average price of consuming one megabit of mobile data - roughly enough to view up to 200 mobile web pages - is about &pound;1.50 in Britain. But the average price charged by UK operators for using data roaming services within Europe last summer was &pound;4.11 per megabit, higher than the European average of &euro;5.24 (&pound;3.90). The average cost of sending a text message within Britain, meanwhile, is 5.6p but the average cost to a UK customer of sending one back home when abroad is 21p."Sending text messages or downloading data via a mobile phone while in another EU country should not be substantially more expensive for a consumer than sending text messages or downloading data at home," Reding said yesterday.She said she was pleased with moves to reduce the "wholesale" prices that some mobile operators charge each other for roaming services."It is these wholesale tariffs where the real problem lies for data roaming," she said, with some operators charging rival firms as much as &euro;7 per megabit.Last week, for instance, 3 linked with other networks including E-Plus in Germany and Base in Belgium, and agreed a flat rate of &euro;0.25 per megabit of data. It remains to be seen, however, whether a reduction in the wholesale rate the operators charge each other is translated into a reduction in the retail price that the operators charge their customers.Reding said the 3 deal "certainly indicates that there is a lot of commercial scope for substantial reductions over the average rates that are quite common today". Kevin Russell, chief executive of  3 UK, welcomed Reding's move, adding "we believe wholesale rates for text messaging should come down by more than 70%".Reding said the commission is required to make proposals by the end of 2008 at the latest if data roaming prices should continue to "depart substantially and without justification from domestic tariffs".
Nokia yesterday unveiled four multimedia phones, including successors to its popular N95 and N73 models, and hinted that its music phone may feature touchscreen technology to rival that of the Apple iPhone.At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona Nokia showed its new N96, successor to its top profit generator, the N95. It comes with 16GB of internal memory, and is expected to retail for about &euro;550 (&pound;410). Its new N78 model, a successor to the N73, of which Nokia has sold about 15 million units, will be on sale later this year for about &euro;350. Niklas Savander, head of Nokia's new services unit, said the company was deciding whether to use its touchscreen technology or a variant of the new N96 as the first phone in its "comes with music" range.Last year Nokia announced plans for a phone that gives a customer unlimited access to all the music they want for a year. Once the year is over, they get to keep the tracks. He admitted that the iPhone had been a "wake up call" for Nokia, which sold four out of every 10 mobile phones last year.But while Samsung, LG and Sony Ericsson all unveiled new touch-screen phones, Nokia has yet to join the race to produce an obvious competitor to the iPhone.Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, said at a press conference that the company is still working on a touchscreen variant of its user interface and will have a phone in the second half of the year. But he stressed that he does not want the world's largest mobile phone company merely to come out with a "me too" product."We have said that we will bring out touch products. [But] it's important that you don't bring out 'gimmicky touch'," he said.
The story so far: Microsoft said on February 1 that it was interested in taking over Yahoo for $44.6 billion, which represented a 62% premium on Yahoo's depressed share price. Yahooformally rejectedthe bid today, following media reports that Yahoo reckoned it was worth $57 billion or $40 a share.Without taking 11 days to think about its next move, Microsoft has basically suggested that Yahoo's board has another think.Microsoft's statementsays:It is unfortunate that Yahoo! has not embraced our full and fair proposal to combine our companies. Based on conversations with stakeholders of both companies, we are confident that moving forward promptly to consummate a transaction is in the best interests of all parties.It adds:The Yahoo! response does not change our belief in the strategic and financial merits of our proposal. As we have said previously, Microsoft reserves the right to pursue all necessary steps to ensure that Yahoo!'s shareholders are provided with the opportunity to realize the value inherent in our proposal.This puts Yahoo between a rock and a hard place. If the deal dies, Yahoo's shares will plunge in value, and the shareholders who wanted to sell will not get their 62% premium. So the real question is:how many want to sell?If it's a small number, Yahoo doesn't have a problem. If it's a big number, the Yahoo board is not going to survive the fall-out.Yahoo is playing poker with a weak hand, because it has no credible alternative to going with Microsoft. Well, not unless you think Jerry Yang is the next Steve Jobs.Microsoft could also come under pressure from shareholders, of course, but Microsoft's shares really are undervalued compared to its real financial performance. Microsoft has a P/E of 16.05, Apple's is 28.39, and Google's is 39.20.Yahoo's is 63.55.
Forgive me if you've already spotted this, but last week during his keynote at the DICE event in Las Vegas, EA president John Riccitielloadmittedthat EA's business model kills studios. Or at least it did:The command and conquer model, the command and direct model doesn't work... Bullfrog, Origin, Westwood - all no longer exist today because something broke. ... and I'll simply state that EA blew it, and to a certain degree, since I was involved, I blew it. They told me they were stifled by politics, bureaucracy, and a fact they felt they weren't heardHow bizarre to hear of corporate lunacy humanised like this. I remember the collapse of Bullfrog - the UK developer that brought us Populous and Syndicate - from my first years in games journalism. I got several calls and emails from exasperated staff, talking about how projects were being canned left, right and centre in favour of safe, profitable sequels. How could EA havenot knownthat it was ripping the very soul out of the studio? But it didn't know - because it was doing the same thing at Westwood and Origin.So now Riccitiello talks of EA as a collection of semi-autonomous city states - the likes of Criterion, Pandemic and BioWare maintaining their own identities within the corporate embrace. And the embrace keeps widening. Today, there'snewsof more Hasbro board game conversions, both to console and mobile phone. Plus, the company hasreportedlyformed a new division, EA Blueprint, which will fund small-scale game development for social networking sites - in other words, EA will be doing Facebook and Myspace applications, some based on familiar EA brands, others on original IP - and all seemingly through the sponsorship of small, cheap studios.The corporate strategy is no longer 'conquer and rule', it is 'mosey up and make friends'.
Sidekicksbyjarrodlombardo,Some Rights ReservedDanger might not be a household name, but you may have heard of the Sidekick, a consumer-focused smart phone sold by T-Mobile in several markets and Telstra in Australia.Microsoft is buying the companyin what looks to be a shopping spreedriven by their chief financial officer, Christopher Liddell. The former banker from New Zealand thinks that Microsoft should be spending its mountain of cash instead of sitting on it and using it primarily to swat away anti-trust suits. From the New York Times'DealBookblog :The New York Timesdescribed the roleof Microsoft's chief financial officer, Christopher Liddell, a former banker from New Zealand, in this transformation, which moves Microsoft away from a "not-invented-here" culture to one that knows how to buy technology elsewhere and integrate it.Danger is an interesting company with ties to Apple talent, includingApple co-founder Steve Wozniak. The smart phone developed a devoted following including celebritiesSnoop Dogg and Paris Hilton. Hilton made headlines when someonegrabbed pictures and her address bookoff of her Sidekick. The press called it hacking, but actually is sounds more like some pretty typicalKevin Mitnick-esquesocial engineering. I'll let you find those pics and videos with some pretty tame, albeit NSFW shots. They are so easily found online they might as well be posted on every street corner.I digress. The Sidekick is an interesting piece of kit, and the Danger team have deep love for what they can do with very little processing power and with the small amount of memory that phones have compared to full blown computers. I remember talking to a member of the Danger team showing off what was then called theHiptopat Comdex in 2002. He was talking about the miniscule memory footprint of the web browser, which if I remember correctly was something on the order of 70k. They got away with this by offloading some tasks onto proxy servers running Danger's software.Canadian tech writer Mathew Ingram says in a brilliantly titled postMicrosoft buys Danger, renames it Safety:I see the Microsoft acquisition going one of two ways: Danger could bring some creativity into Microsoft, or the beast from Redmond could crush all the life out of the tiny startup. I'll leave you to guess which of the two is more likely.Will Microsoft softshift the Sidekick to Windows Mobile? Hard to see that happening with the tight integration of the operating system running the device and the operating system on the network. But for those who see Microsoft as the Borg, it's probably the default conclusion. I think that Mary Jo Foley at ZDNet has one of the more interesting theories that they want Danger'sexpertise in hosting services for mobile operators.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Danger,Windows Mobile,Sidekicktechnorati tags end
Yahoo's decision to reject Microsoft's $31-a-share offer has left the market speculating on whether the search giant may now turn to AOL or even Google.Microsoft's interest in Yahoo is based on its ambition to create a competitor to Google's commanding position in the online advertising market, which was worth about $40bn last year.If a Yahoo-Microsoft merger takes place, it will hand the software company control of about 30% of the online searches in the US, giving it critical mass to make more of its advertising technology. The deal would also give Microsoft more than 90% of email and instant messaging traffic worldwide and bring together two of the world's most visited portals - Yahoo and MSN.Any combination is likely to be scrutinised heavily by regulatory authorities, however, with the US justice department already indicating it would be interested in examining any deal on antitrust grounds. The EU is also likely to investigate.AOL tie-upYahoo could take the very risky route of attempting to link-up with Time Warner's AOL. Analysts say the likelihood of such a deal being accepted by Yahoo shareholders is low. Yahoo already has well-publicised problems and a partnership with struggling AOL may only compound them.AOL was once one of the biggest properties on the internet but its empire has been shrinking, with concerns focused on its failure to maintain its once-dominant share of household web use.Google dealOnline behemoth Google is believed to have approached its rival Yahoo and proposed a partnership between the two search sites.A tie-up could involve Yahoo outsourcing its search and advertising functions to Google and concentrating instead on other areas where it has technological strength - including mobile applications, social networking and content sharing.Such a move would amount to an admission by Yahoo that it had lost the online search battle to Google, which dominates the online ad market's largest segment. But it would allow the company to keep its independence and maintain its quirky corporate culture.Other partnershipsAlternative potential partners for Yahoo in its bid to keep Microsoft at bay are entertainment empire Disney and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, whose web ventures include social networking site MySpace. However, News Corp has said it is not preparing a bid. Other companies viewed as possible contenders are AT&amp;T and Comcast. Online auction site eBay has also been viewed as partner in the past.Going it aloneThis option will be a tough one to pitch to Yahoo shareholders, especially given that Microsoft's offer represents a 62% premium on Yahoo shares before the approach was announced. One of the internet's largest and oldest destinations, Yahoo has suffered in recent years as it struggles to compete with the might of Google. Although Yahoo is still the most visited network of sites on the web, its share of global searches has been shrinking steadily.Delays to the launch of its Panama advertising platform sparked a series of profit warnings. Last month, Yahoo announced plans to axe 7% of the company's workforce after unveiling a 24% drop in fourth-quarter profits to $205m. Yahoo's shares have also performed badly.Yahoo, however, says Microsoft is not offering enough and it needs more time to prove Panama and its other advertising strategies will work.
The RM Minibook looks like the love child of Nintendo's handheld DS games console and Apple's bright white iBook laptop. To an adult, the screen and keyboard look too small to be useful. But to children (mine range up to 10), it's perfectly formed.The interface isn't Windows, but mimics it in many ways, with useful simplification. At the top of the screen are tabs saying Internet, Work, Learn, Play, Games and Settings. The other tabs include shortcuts to sites such as Wikipedia and Google, and an email program."Work" includes an office suite. A built-in webcam plus the internet phone program Skype make video chatting a possibility. The wireless connection is good, though amnesiac after shutdowns.The screen's depth of 480 pixels is less than most screens, which means some sites won't display correctly. Similarly, not all content will play.The pluses? You'll save a ton on an adult-sized machine, won't have to worry about viruses or spyware, and the light yet robust design means your child won't develop scoliosis carrying it about."I like the design," enthused my 10-year-old daughter, who usually uses my cast-off six-year-old iBook. "It was much easier to type on than my one."RM may just have a hit on its hands - and Bill Gates doesn't get a penny.
Yahoo formally rejected Microsoft's unsolicited $31-a-share takeover bid today, claiming the offer &mdash; which values Yahoo at around $41bn (£21bn) &mdash; was too low.The internet firm said it had "carefully reviewed Microsoft's unsolicited proposal with Yahoo's management team and financial and legal advisers and has unanimously concluded that the proposal is not in the best interests of Yahoo and our stockholders".Yahoo's shares rose 0.8 per cent to $29.43 in morning trading on Wall Street, indicating that traders believe a larger bid may follow. Shares in Microsoft, which must now decide whether to come back with a higher bid, go hostile or walk away from a deal, were down almost 2 per cent.The Yahoo board had spent 10 days reviewing the bid, during which time it fell in value by around 7 per cent along with Microsoft's share price.The software giant is proposing to pay $31 each for half of Yahoo's outstanding shares and 0.9509 of a Microsoft share for the other half. On February 1, when the offer was announced, this valued its target at $44.6bn and was a 62 per cent premium on Yahoo's share price before the bid. But while Yahoo's shares have since soared, Microsoft's share price has dropped steadily.Media reports over the weekend claimed Yahoo's board had concluded that a $40-a-share offer would be fair. This would value the company at more than $57bn.The Times reported today that Yahoo was exploring tie-ups with other media companies, such as Disney or AOL, as a way of avoiding being taken over by Microsoft.Analyst firm Sanford C Bernstein predicted in a note to clients that Microsoft would increase its offer to $35 a share and could go as high as $40.Other analysts say Yahoo's board believes the company is worth more than $31 a share because recent changes in strategy have not yet come to fruition."The board is saying, 'We think we can keep the company together and do far better with it than Microsoft ever will,''' said Daniel Taylor, an analyst at research firm Yankee Group in Boston.If the deal goes through, it would create an online search and advertising group that could rival the market leader, Google. Between them, Microsoft and Yahoo offer desktop, mobile and server operating systems, office applications, online services such as email and search, photo sharing and social bookmarking.Microsoft made its offer just a few days after Yahoo announced a sharp drop in profits and said it would cut 7 per cent of its staff.Some commentators believe Microsoft is unwilling to launch a hostile bid because the resultant disruption could encourage Yahoo staff to seek alternative employment, making a succesful integration of the two companies more difficult.
Yahoo's board is expected to officially reject Microsoft's takeover bid this afternoon - meaning that 10 days after an initial approach a deal still seems no closer.Yahoo's directors concluded on Friday that the $44.6bn (£22.9bn) offer "undervalued" the company, and want an offer equivalent to $40 a share, rather than the $31 offered by Microsoft.The company's share price has increased so much since the offer was made that Yahoo's market value now exceeds Microsoft's offer, despite a 62% premium.Microsoft would have to offer a further $12bn for the firm to match the $40 per share offer, which would make the Yahoo deal its biggest ever takeover.The Wall Street Journal today reported that in a conference call between the Yahoo board and investors on Friday, negotiating strategy for a higher Microsoft bid was discussed.A potential tie-up with Google, which would see Yahoo outsourcing search advertising, was also discussed, according to the WSJ.Microsoft is reportedly trying to engage Yahoo's shareholders in discussion over the bid, but is reluctant to push out the company's board through a proxy bid that could upset key staff.A Microsoft takeover - and particularly an aggressive, hostile takeover - could alienate key Yahoo executives and make it harder for both firms to integrate and compete with Google, said Deborah Allday, the director of mergers and acquisitions at global management consultancy Hay Group.Hay estimates that 30% of executives typically oppose mergers, rising to 75% in hostile takeovers."Talent in high-tech industries is very mobile, the market very volatile," Allday said."Microsoft will need to engage Yahoo employees quickly and effectively by communicating an exciting vision for the new company."Neither the markets nor employees have yet heard this vision - it is every bit as crucial as the financial due diligence no doubt being undertaken right now."Yahoo, meanwhile, is also thought to be exploring partnerships with other media giants including AOL and Disney, according to today's Times.Yahoo previously explored taking a stake in AOL in 2005, but talks reportedly faltered after the two sides could not agree terms.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Android, Google's mobile phone software, has been previewed at the Mobile World Congress (aka 3GSM) in Barcelona today. AFP said: "The demonstrations Monday were by a handful of chip makers -- ARM, Marvell, Texas Instruments, Qualcomm, NEC and ST Microelectronics -- which showed Android working in prototype form, the companies and sources confirmed.""It's definitely very promising," an analyst for technology research firm Gartner, Carolina Milanesi, told AFP. "This means that we should be on track to see commercial devices in the second half of 2008."Update: Gizmodo now hasa short videoshowing the "duck shoot" menu system, which somehow reminds me of using a Commodore 64.....
Nokia is looking to use touchscreen technology in its unlimited music phone, which is being touted as a serious rival to Apple's iPhone and is still on track to be launched by the end of the year.Speaking after Nokia unveiled four new multimedia phones at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, the head of the Finnish firm's new services unit, Niklas Savander, said the company is deciding whether to offer its touchscreen technology, which is still in development, within the first phone in its 'comes with music' range.Another option, Savander said, is to adapt its new N96 handset, a successor to its award-winning N95 smartphone, which was launched today at the show.Last year, Nokia announced plans for a phone that gives a customer unlimited access to all the music they want for a year. Once the year is over, they get to keep the tracks. So far only Universal Music has signed up to the service but Savander said negotiations were ongoing with the other major music labels.He admitted that the iPhone had been a "wake up call" for the company, which made four out of every 10 mobile phones sold last year.But while Samsung, LG and SonyEricsson all unveiled new touch screen phones, Nokia has yet to join the race to produce an obvious competitor to the iPhone.Chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo said at Nokia's press conference that the company is still working on a touchscreeen variant of its user interface and will offer it on a phone in the second half of the year. But he stressed that he does not want the world's largest mobile phone company merely to come out with a 'me too' product."We have said that we will bring out touch products. (But) it's important that you don't bring out 'gimmicky touch'," he said.SonyEricsson, meanwhile, has given its first phone using Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system a touch screen. The Xperia X1 works on the latest high speed mobile phone networks and has a 3.2 megapixel camera.Samsung used the industry's largest trade show to showcase its F490 and F480 touch screen mobile phones which are both obvious competitors in look and feel to the iPhone.LG, meanwhile, had four phones with touch screens including its top of the range KF700 which also has a shortcut dial on the back of the phone which allows users to easily switch between functions.At its press conference Nokia announced the N96, the successor to its N95 smartphone which has won numerous industry awards, with shipments starting in the third quarter of the year and a price tag of &#8364;550 (£410). It also unveiled the N78, which will start shipping in the second quarter with a price tag of &#8364;350, that has an FM transmitter built-in, allowing users to stream music from their phone to their car stereo.Many of Nokia's new phones have GPS technology inside meaning that not only can they be used as navigation devices but pictures taken with the phones can be 'geo-tagged' and uploaded to the internet to form a map of where the user has been.
Depth is surely the least tangible of videogame attributes. Like beauty it is often in the eye of the beholder - as sure as one person sees it, another will see the opposite. Take the recently released Devil May Cry 4, Capcom's latest slab of Gothic hack-'n-slash frippery. Now, I've never been a fan of this series; I just find it grindingly repetitive. I understand that the multifaceted combat system, which piles on lots of combos to a basic armoury of sword and gun, can be fun, but some reviewers are attributing to DMC4 a level of nuance and profundity that Tolstoy himself struggled to achieve though 1,500 pages of War and Peace.Okay, so I've been on the wrong side of this whole debate before. Back when I was a staff writer on Edge Magazine I provoked howls of outrage from readers when I called Virtua Cop 2 shallow. Virtua Cop 2 is a game where you point a plastic gun at the screen and shoot people. Ah but you see, it'snot shallowbecause there are lots of different ways to shoot the people, and lots of score multipliers to rack up. I was a lot more careful when I later reviewed the ostensibly similar Time Crisis 2 - although drawing lazy comparisons between these titles canalsoopen up a family-sized can of hardcore gaming worms. I'd better move on.There are games with obvious depth - if that's not a contradiction in terms. The likes of Civilization with its mammoth simulation of human development and Zelda Ocarina of time, boasting a beautifully structured character progression system, spring to mind. But there are also games where it takes real zealots to mine out the hidden layers. Pac-Man, for example, is considered to be deeper than most people imagine, because the ghosts all have different movement behaviours. Hideo Kojima thought Space Invaders, with its addition of destructable barriers, was so deep it inspired him to create Metal Gear.However, I still I struggle with the term depth when it's applied to third-person hack-n-slash games. When I see Devil May Cry 4 I see a linear rampage through a selection of sword-wielding marionettes. I see bash, bash, bash, he's dead, bash, bash, bash, he's dead. Of course, that's exactly what I see when I play Call of Duty or Halo or Gears of War, but in these examples it's enjoyable and compelling, because every single kill feels different - every kill is achieved through a split second moment of skill or luck - not through pounding the keys in the correct configuration over and over again. Perhaps this is down to my own personal prejuduces; perhaps it's down to the difference between projectile weapons and melee fighting. I don't know.I think, partly, the kind of 'depth' exhibited by DMC is outdated now. It belongs to a lineage of Japanese combat games that goes back to Street Fighter II and reached its zenith in the better Virtua Fighter and Tekken games; it's about understanding an esoteric range of key presses and combinations, how they tie together and how they work against specific combinations attempted by your adversary. This is the depth of the arcade game, hidden from button-bashers who just want to jam a pound in the slot and punch something, but present in large enough doses to capture the attention of those who hang around and want to improve.Depth has changed. In the 21st century, as console game developers move far away from the arcade as the primary source of inspiration, other forms are coming to the fore. Narrative depth, as espoused by the likes of Mass Effect and, arguably, Bioshock has become much more important. The huge plot arcs now a feature of TV series such as Lost and Heroes, have created an audience for engaging, well-thought out stories - rather than a thin slither of high concept drivel chopped up and randomly dispersed over endless iterations (a la Resident Evil). Structural depth - the kind driving the finest RPG titles - allows players to build complex and individual experiences through the collection of character points and the subsequent access to new weapons, skills, objects and game locations. These experiences are not reliant on learning nimble-fingered routines - they are inclusive, they simply require time and immersion in the game world. Of course, RPG titles have been around for years, but the depth they offer is being subsumed into other genres - hence the character progression model driving the excellent Call of Duty 4 multiplayer mode.Ultimately, while in literature, depth is about ambiguity and resonance, in games, depth is about possibility. Depth is choice. But the sorts of choices gamers want to make have changed drastically over the last decade. Devil May Cry is a typical Goth - it doesn't quite belong here, in this day and age, but a hardcore fraternity still digs it. It won't go away.
The cost of sending a text message from abroad is poised to plummet after the European telecoms commissioner, Viviane Reding, today warned she would impose regulations if mobile phone companies do not cut their prices by the summer.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Reding said sending a text home from another country within the European Union should only be marginally more expensive than sending one in a consumer's home market.She said she wanted to see "credible, do-able price reductions by the whole industry on a voluntary basis before July 1" or she would impose her own regulations.Reding added that the cost of using the mobile internet while abroad was also too high."Sending a text message or downloading data in another country should not be substantially more expensive than it is at home," she said.Last year Reding pushed through cuts in the cost of making phone calls from overseas &mdash; bringing down the price of so-called voice roaming by about 70 per cent &mdash; and is now turning to the cost of data services.The mobile phone industry has suspected for some time that data roaming charges would be her next target and has been pushing through price reductions in recent weeks. Both O2 and Vodafone have reduced the cost of using the mobile internet within the EU while T-Mobile is expected to announce price cuts this week.These moves, however, are unlikely to be enough for Reding.The average price of consuming one megabyte of mobile data is about £1.50 in Britain. However, the average price charged by UK operators for using data roaming services within Europe last summer was £4.11 per megabye, higher than the European average of &#8364;5.24 (£3.90).While the average cost of sending a text message within Britain is 5.6p, the average cost to a UK customer of sending one abroad is 21p.Reding was asked about roaming charges at a press conference held by the GSM Association, the industry's trade body, to discuss moves to prevent mobile internet users accessing child pornography. But the session's moderator refused to let her speak, leading to a press scrum after the event during which Reding made her announcement about charges being too high."From a public relations perspective, the whole thing was a bit of a disaster for the GSM Association," said one mobile industry executive after the jostling ended.Mobile phone operator 3 welcomed Reding's pronouncement but said the industry needed to tackle the high wholesale prices that some of Europe's large telecoms operators charge other networks for data and text roaming."We believe wholesale rates for text messaging should come down by more than 70 per cent," he said.A reduction in wholesale rates would allow the operators to cut their retail prices to the sort of levels Reding is calling for.Last week 3 announced it had teamed up with rival networks across Europe to reduce wholesale prices. However, it seems unlikely that cutting wholesale rates will placate Reding &mdash; the industry attempted a similar move for voice roaming two years ago but the commissioner ignored it and pushed through retail price regulation.
I was surprised as anything on Saturday morning when I grabbed my trusty copy of The Guardian and was treated to a headline from political editor Patrick Wintour which screamed, "Ministers plan clampdown on 'unsuitable' video games", with a giant picture of Manhunt added to up the hysteria. But there it was. There was no hiding from it. When a preview to a government report gets front-page coverage, you know the industry has arrived.The gist of the so-called clampdown is that the government intends to take control of the regulation of computer games, making the schemes run under the BBFC and the pan-European PEGI legally enforceable. Sellers who supply under-agers with mature games will be slapped with hefty fines and possible sentences.But the onus isn't just on shopkeepers. Government advisers are all-too-aware that violent media across the board is accessible to kiddies via e-commerce portals, where all Little Darling must do is, 'simply tick the box stating the purchaser is over 18.' Government will urge parents to keep gameplaying within view - banning them form bedrooms - so they can keep an eye on the content and suitability of the products for their offspring. This will be far more difficult to enforce.As the article maintains, the debate about violence in interactive media 'has become increasingly polarised and based on prejudice'. They hope the Byron report will soothe the fracas. For goodness sake, so do I.Read morehere.
Mobile World Congress delegates who have imbibed too much complementary coffee while trawling the exhibition stands in Barcelona this week can find relief on their mobile phone by accessing a new service which tells you where to go when you err... need to go.MizPee, created by San Francisco-based Yojo Mobile, provides location details of toilets and allows users to rate them - based on the number of toilet rolls they would award the facility for its cleanliness.The company, which has been running the service across a clutch of American cities for the past six months, has added Barcelona to its roster of locations in time for the MWC. It also has information about facilities in Paris, London and Rome.The site - which can be easily accessed on an internet-enabled mobile phone by going to www.mizpee.eu - also provides downloadable 'reading materials' under the banner of 'Looisms' for anyone who wants a distraction.The site has information about whether the toilet is public or connected with a restaurant or pub and for patrons only, whether there is a charge and if there are disabled or nappy-changing facilities.The site relies on users to help populate its directory of toilets by uploading information about loos they have used and rating them.As it has only just launched this side of the Atlantic, some areas are lacking in detail. A search for a toilet near The Guardian building, for instance, produced a result nearly a mile away which the desperate might find something of a hike - and the loo only scored two toilet rolls. In the US, however, MizPee claims to have helped over 130,000 unique users.President and former Nokia executive, Peter Olfe, who founded Yojo Mobile with colleague Dhana Pawar three years ago, writes on the company's blog that "the real inspiration, if you can call it that, came from a visit to a public bathroom in a public building ... The smell of the facilities was so bad that after only two minutes I had a splitting headache. I thought (or silently screamed) 'if I only knew where there was a clean toilet in this area that I could just walk in and use!'"
O2 will today announce plans for the UK's largest trial of an innovative home networking technology called "femtocells".The mobile operator has teamed up with Japanese technology group NEC and Ubiquisys, a Swindon-based company that lists Google among its investors, with a full launch slated for as early as next year.A femtocell is essentially a very low-powered mobile phone base station, which consumers can place in their home. It will allow mobile operators to offer bundled fixed line and mobile phone call packages and free mobile internet roaming when at home, and could also spur new services such as notifying working parents when their children have returned home - because their phone signal will be picked up by the box.Mobile phone companies have become increasingly excited about the potential of femtocells as a way of differentiating their residential broadband offerings from the likes of Sky, BT or Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk.So far, they have failed to attract many broadband customers. Vodafone, which is also running small scale laboratory tests of femtocells, has about 11,000 UK customers, while O2 - which two years ago bought Be Broadband to provide a UK network for broadband - has a few tens of thousands.While other 'converged' fixed line and mobile services such as BT's Fusion product use existing wi-fi technology, a femtocell uses the licensed mobile phone spectrum that the operators already control meaning any mobile phone can be connected through it. BT's Fusion service, meanwhile, is due to be relaunched within the next few weeks, having failed to attract more than a few tens of thousands of customers because of a lack of attractive wi-fi handsets.O2, owned by Spain's Telefonica, is currently running lab tests on boxes developed by NEC and Ubiquisys, which manufactures its kit in a former Sony plant in South Wales. If successful the trial will be rolled out to up to 500 users across the UK in the summer. If that goes well, O2 hopes to launch femtocells across the UK in 2009. It has already tested the technology in the Czech Republic, where it owns both a mobile and landline business, and Spain."This technology has the potential to support increased growth in the usage and consumption of services and data and could play a crucial role in underpinning the explosive growth of mobile broadband usage," said Vivek Dev, Telefonica O2 Europe's chief operating officer"Our Apple iPhone is already driving unheard-of levels of mobile internet usage, and the introduction of flat rate data tariffs is expected to increase this further. Both of these place huge capacity demands on our networks, and because so much of that usage is at home, femtocells coupled with home broadband could provide an alternative capacity resource."Last month American internet networking group Cisco invested in a rival Cambridge-based femtocell developer called ip.access while American mobile phone chip group Qualcomm is an investor in the Nasdaq-listed Airvana, which also has its research base in Cambridge.Last week Airvana announced it has signed a deal with French electronics group Thomson to put its femtocell technology into the company's home networking products.
The mobile phone industry will today announce its intention to shut off all access to child pornography on mobile phones that can access the internet, making the mobile internet safer than the world wide web.The GSM Association, which represents companies which together provide mobile services to more than 2.6 billion people worldwide, will launch its initiative at the Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona.It has already signed up mobile operators including 3, Orange, Telef&oacute;nica, T-Mobile and Vodafone, which together serve more than half a billion people worldwide. They have agreed to introduce internet blocking technology to prevent users accessing child pornography and provide help for customers in flagging up potentially harmful content. Marking Europe's fifth annual Safer Internet Day, Telef&oacute;nica, which owns O2 in the UK, will also announce today that it has launched dedicated child protection websites across all of its European operating businesses. The sites are to promote safer use of mobiles by younger teenagers and children.The GSM Association initiative comes as more mobile phones can access the internet. Mobile phones are increasingly being used by paedophiles to swap images. While the new alliance will not be able to prevent that sort of behaviour, it will stop people from accessing websites that contain such images.Mobile phone companies which sign up to the plan will work with police and child protection agencies to ensure that blacklisted websites cannot be viewed on mobile phones.
TheMobile World Congressis not just about the latest must-have gadgets with built-in MP3 players, web browsers, instant messaging clients, email and gaming capabilities aimed squarely at theyouthmarket. One Austrian firm will use the event to showcase the exact opposite: a phone designed for theolder user.With many developed western nations having ageing populations,Emporia Telecomreckons there will be growing demand for phones that do not confuse the user with menus and sub-menus and fiddly buttons.Its phones have large buttons, biguncluttereddisplays and a loudspeaker that works with a hearing aid. It also has a phone with a large redpanic buttonon the back, which can be set to contact up to five emergency numbers.The company, founded in 1991, has sold its handsets across Europe but has yet to find a UK operator willing to subsidise the cost of the phones - though they can be bought throughHelp The Aged.Last year Vodafone dumped itsSimplyrange of basic phones, which were focused on texting and talking, saying demand had been less than expected.
After a decade of promises, the mobile internet has arrived. So too have the giants of online business, which see the coming of reliable internet on the move as a lucrative mass consumer market that cannot be left to the mobile phone operators. The mobile industry is worth &pound;300bn a year and with more than half the world's population now owning a mobile phone, that figure will only grow.How to tap into that cashflow will be on the minds of executives from across the world when they gather for the industry's largest annual trade show today in Barcelona, which promises to be dominated by the plans of the likes of Google and Microsoft to enter the mobile market.The industry's dominant handset supplier, Nokia, also seems to have turned against the mobile phone networks, launching its own online and music services direct to customers.For the mobile phone networks, the stakes are high: can they stop the online firms, the software companies and the consumer device manufacturers turning them into nothing more than "big dumb pipes in the air" (a phrase used often by industry insiders)? In the era of the mobile internet, what is the networks' purpose other than to provide connectivity at a flat rate?If you buy something from Amazon on your broadband-enabled PC, the retailer does not have to give your internet service provider a cut of the sale. So why should Vodafone or Orange or T-Mobile get a cut of anything done over the mobile internet?"It is going to be one of the most interesting congresses for me for a long time," according to Mike Reid, director of the investment group 3i, who has watched the mobile industry for years. "If you look at the experience that we have on the mobile today, it is dominated by what the mobile operator wants you to do and see. What we have talked about until today is the mobile internet, where we are going to go is the internet on your mobile - the same internet," he says.The launch last year of Apple's iPhone proved that people will use the internet on a mobile phone. But Apple will only ever make up a small proportion of a market that is running at more than 1bn mobile handsets a year.Far more important is the arrival of Google in mobile. Last year the online technology firm unveiled Android, an entire mobile phone software system which is open to all comers. It will reveal an updated version of its software developers kit this week and handsets from the likes of HTC, LG and Samsung using the new technology will start appearing towards the end of the year.The reason a range of so-called Gphones coming on to the market is important is because Google's aim is to open up the market - to make it as easy to develop an online application for a mobile phone as it is to develop them for a computer linked to the internet.For many mobile networks, Android is the thin edge of a wedge that will force them to release their grip on what consumers can do with their mobile phones. And when consumers can do what they want on their phones, they will want to do it whenever they feel like it with unlimited access.As a result, the operator will end up receiving nothing more than a monthly flat fee for calls, texts and internet access.Google denies it is out to "get" the mobile phone companies. Several - including T-Mobile, China Mobile, O2's owner, Telef&oacute;nica, and the US-based Sprint - are members of its alliance. "Just because it's open and anyone can put applications out on the handset does not mean that there are not opportunities for the carriers to share in the revenue streams created by those applications if they do the billing or provide infrastructure to get those applications going," said Rich Miner, Google's manager for mobile platforms.The arrival of the iPhone also proved that software is becoming the defining factor in mobile telephony. For years, handset manufacturers such as Nokia argued endlessly about how many buttons to put on a phone and what they should do, but with a touch-screen phone it does not matter.A company can produce a million copies of the same device and with the right software and a host of willing developers its touch screen can offer consumers a myriad of variations of applications.Samsung - part of Google's alliance - and LG will be announcing a range of new phones at the show. Among the 11 from Samsung are several iPhone-like touch-screen devices using its Croix user interface, which is more stylish than the iPhone.The importance of mobile software is something which Microsoft has been shouting about for some time. "Apple has validated the belief we had five years ago that software really matters," according to Scott Horn, general manager of Microsoft's mobile communications business group. "Apple entering a market has been a good thing for the industry because it really has highlighted that software lets you do more with your phone."Microsoft has focused on the business and "high-end" smartphone market, with forecasts for 20 million shipments this year.The arrival of the iPhone and mass market internet-enabled devices from the likes of Nokia have spurred its move into the mainstream of consumers. At this week's show Microsoft will announce that it wants a much larger slice of the market.Refusenik"Our goal is to put a smartphone in every person's pocket," Horn said.Last night Microsoft announced that it had signed up Sony Ericsson to make phones using its Windows Mobile operating system with the first phone expected to ship by the end of the year. Sony Ericsson is the fourth of the five leading handset manufacturers to sign up with Microsoft.It leaves Nokia - which licenses some technology from it but does not use Windows Mobile - as the only refusenik. The Finnish manufacturer, which makes 4 out of 10 mobile phones sold around the world, shocked the mobile phone operators last year by unveiling its own suite of mobile services under the Ovi banner.Details about its "comes with music" service are expected at the show today and so far only Universal Music has signed up, but towards the end of this year Nokia will start delivering a phone that gives a customer unlimited access to all the music they want for a year. Once the year is over, they get to keep it. The mobile operators and their music offerings will be bypassed.To see off the threat from Nokia, one of Vodafone's music partners, Omnifone, is rumoured to be announcing a new version of its MusicStation unlimited music service in Barcelona. Its new product is expected to hit the shops in the first half of this year.But the operators face a tough fight for the mobile internet and the next generation of services. At last year's meeting, Vodafone's chief executive, Arun Sarin, warned the mobile phone industry that if it did not get a move on and develop fast internet services, the online corporations, such as Microsoft and Google, would "eat the mobile industry's lunch".Well, this year, they're very much at the table. And they're ravenous.
Reuters in Seattle has an interesting article on New Zealander and former rugby playerChris Liddell, who became Microsoft's chief financial officer in 2005. It explains why Microsoft is now behaving unlike the Microsoft of the previous 30 years. It says:In about three years, he has helped transform Microsoft from a miser that socked away money for a rainy day into a spendthrift, and he has successfully challenged the philosophy that Microsoft, given enough time and resources, should build its own technology to take on all comers.Liddell has completed nearly 50 deals since joining the company in May 2005. His boldest move yet, Microsoft's $41.9 billion offer to buy Yahoo Inc would use up nearly all of a legendary cash stockpile Liddell inherited.Other companies such as IBM, Oracle, Cisco and Google already buy dozens of companies. In fact,IBM claimedto be "the most acquisitive company in the technology industry, based on volume of transactions" ... and that was before it spent $5 billion buyingCognos.Whether it makes financial sense for Microsoft to offer Yahoo about 50% than it's worth is, of course, another issue.Another thought: Having up to $64 billion in cash made Microsoft an obvious target for chancers keen to make a quick buck without actually doing any useful work, such as patent trolls and the European Commission. Will that change if Microsoft has no money in the bank?
Rise Securityin Brazil got an Asus Eee PC and says: "the first thing that caught our attention was the running smbd process. Retrieving the the smbd version, we discovered that it runs a vulnerable version of Samba." Whoops!Rise used anexploitthat it demonstrated last year on Mac OS X.Computerworldsays: "the vulnerability was disclosed May 14 and patched that same day by the Samba community".
Alex Santoso's Neatorama has an interesting post onThe Evolution of Tech Companies' Logos. It's not a big list, but it does include Adobe, Apple, IBM, Nokia and Xerox. In the comments, someone points to theKodak logo's progress, or regress. And Kodak is a tech company....Incidentally, if we're talking logos, the IBM one is best seen as a blue square with the letters reversed out. As is well known, it was designed by Paul Rand, who also did the logos forABC, Westinghouse, UPS, NeXTand others.
It's the metaphors and similes that get me. It's a shotgun marriage, declared one commentator, 'with Google holding the gun'. Putting Microsoft and Yahoo together, said another, was like trying to produce an eagle from an alliance of two turkeys.This is unfair. Microsoft isn't a turkey, but a profitable, boring mastodon that entertains fantasies about being able to fly. Yahoo, for its part, is an ageing hippy who invented hang- gliding but aspired to fly 747s and then discovered that he wasn't very good at it. The mastodon hopes that by employing the hippy it will learn to hang-glide. The hippy's feelings about the whole deal are plain for all to see.Microsoft's $44.6bn offer of cash plus shares for Yahoo has got everyone in a spin, partly because of its sheer size but mostly because they fondly imagine it heralds an exciting future. At last, they think - something that might stop the inexorable advance of Google toward world domination! If that's what they're hoping for, then this ain't it, alas. This isn't the opening of a new chapter in the history of the computing business, but - as John Markoff observed in the New York Times - 'the final shot of yesterday's war'. And even if the merger does take place in a reasonable timescale - and if it can be made to work - it won't make much of a dent in Google.Why? Because Google has a stranglehold or a head-start in the three areas that really matter for the near-term future: search-based advertising; 'cloud' ( internet-facilitated) computing; and mobile phones. In the first two areas, Microsoft and Yahoo are also-rans, and although Microsoft does have some penetration in the mobile phone market, it's based on a proprietary-software model that is about to be blown apart by Google's 'Android' alliance - which links handset manufacturers to an open software platform.As I write, the Yahoo board is meeting to consider what to do about Microsoft's bid. All attempts to find a rival bidder have come to nothing. There is talk of a possible alliance with Google in which Yahoo effectively outsources its search and advertising to its younger rival. This is cloud-cuckoo stuff: apart from the problems it would immediately raise with US and European regulators (who are already twitchy about Google), it would be as suicidal as Marks and Spencer outsourcing clothing and food to Tesco.There is also the option of Yahoo splitting itself into its constituent operations and selling them off separately. But ultimately the problem is that Microsoft's offer places an absurdly high value on Yahoo, so the board would have to have some very good reasons for turning it down. The best that Yahoo can do, therefore, is to haggle before caving in.But it will take quite a while to seal the deal - and as the lawyers haggle, Yahoo will effectively bleed to death. Many of its best staff won't want to work for Microsoft - and will find a warm welcome at Google, which is still desperate to find talent from whatever source. Other Yahoo employees will be wondering whether they will have a job in the merged company. And their concerns will be mirrored by their counterparts at Microsoft.Microsoft's Steve Ballmer has said that he intends to keep the Yahoo brand. What then happens to MSN and Microsoft Live? Will Hotmail and Yahoo Mail both survive in the new set-up? What will happen to Flickr? Microsoft shareholders also seem less than ecstatic: the share price dipped 10 per cent after the original announcement. Many stockholders would prefer to see some of the Microsoft cash mountain returned rather than squandered on buying a declining internet company - and analysts were pointing out that, sooner or later, Microsoft would have to take a charge for the ludicrous premium it is offering Yahoo shareholders.The joke is that all of this was going on in a week when Time Warner announced that it was looking for ways of divesting itself of AOL, that poster child of an earlier dotcom era. Marx was right about history repeating itself, 'the first time as tragedy, the second as farce'.
To some, Jerry Yang is an icon of the net generation: boss and co-founder of world-famous internet site Yahoo, he oozes charm and informality. He rarely wears a tie, preferring open-necked shirts and slacks, plays golf not particularly well, and drinks Coke straight from the can.Unlike Dave Filo, Yahoo's other co-founder, Yang has always been the public face of the company, batting questions from the media, opening hospitals, chairing debates, speaking at numerous conferences, often to rapturous applause.But for others, Yang is the anti-hero who will never live down the criticism levelled against him by a Congressional committee last year, when he was called a 'moral pygmy' for authorising the supply of confidential information about one of Yahoo's users to the Chinese government. The upshot was the imprisonment of two dissident journalists: both face 10-year jail terms.A former colleague of Yang's says: 'It was a low point for Jerry and it made him depressed. But he isn't someone prone to prolonged, painful introspection. Jerry always bounces back.'And bounce back he must. As head of one of the most famous web portals in the world, but one that is out of favour on Wall Street, where the stock price has languished, Yang is staring down the barrel of a $44bn (&pound;22.6bn) hostile bid from Bill Gates' Microsoft. What Yang must decide is whether this is the moment to sell. Looked at selfishly, a sale would benefit him personally to the tune of $2.2bn as he retains a 5 per cent stake in the company. So too does Filo.But Yang, aged 40, is treading on thin ice. By his own submission, he reckons the company is undervalued. If he accepts a bid now, history could judge him harshly, viewing him as the man who sold out at the wrong moment, when the shares were on the floor. But can he take the risk? Many of Yahoo's stockholders say no. They are happy to take the money and run. Wall Street is not renowned for its patience.The funny thing is that Yahoo has been courted by Microsoft for two years. But when Yang took a phone call 10 days ago from Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer, it caught him by surprise. An unsolicited bid was like a bolt from the blue and not at all what Yang expected from an erstwhile ally to fight the common foe, the seemingly unstoppable Google.Shell-shocked for two days, Yang gathered his wits and shot off a memo to the firm's anxious staff, which was received badly. 'There has obviously been a lot of talk about Yahoo, but we won't let it distract us from pursuing our transformational strategy.' Really? If ever there was a case of ignoring the elephant in the room, this was it.Further into the memo, Yang changes tack, encouraging his audience to look at the upside. 'Microsoft's interest highlights the tremendous strength of the Yahoo brand and assets; our half-billion users, our leading products and services, our open advertising network, our technology.'Yang was born in Taiwan in 1968, but tragedy hit two years later when his father died. At the age of 10, knowing no English except the word for shoe, he emigrated with his mother to California and she scraped together enough money to send her incredibly bright 18-year-old to Stanford University, where he gained a degree in electrical engineering. While studying for a doctorate he met fellow graduate Filo and the two, rather than studying for their theses, spent time indexing their favourite internet links and posting them on a website. Soon, people other than their friends were using the site and by 1994 it had logged a million hits. Yang and Filo frequently point out that technology, not money, was the motivator, but either way, they knew they were onto something big.Six months from completing his thesis, Yang took a leave of absence from Stanford from which he is yet to return, and 12 months later, with venture capital support, he and Filo launched Yahoo. The name was Yang's idea, reflecting his anti-establishment sense of humour at the time, with the letters standing for Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle.Ranked 217 in the Forbes rich list, Yang already has more than $2bn in the bank, but has started giving some of his wealth away. He and his wife, Akiko Yamazaki, pledged $75m to Stanford for the construction of an environmental studies building and a training centre for doctors.But what has happened to Yahoo in the past five or six years? It was all so different at the time of the high-tech boom, when Yahoo was viewed as the internet company of choice by web users around the world. Back in 2000, Yang told the Guardian, The Observer's sister paper: 'We say we don't like to be at the bleeding edge, because we don't like to bleed. But we like to be at the leading edge, introducing services, using technologies that can be exposed to millions of our users, rather than a smaller subset.'The internet is a very rough environment, so unless something is pretty battle-tested, we tend not to put it out there.'Those words will ring hollow to Yahoo's critics today. The company is perennially carpeted for trying to do too many things at once; critics liken it to peanut butter, spread too thin, and in too many places, satisfying no one in particular. And all the time Google has been hacking away at the highly lucrative search engine advertising market, taking its share to nearly 60 per cent  with Yahoo counting for 19 per cent and Microsoft 11 per cent. The enormous growth of social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace seems to have caught Yahoo off guard. Yang, who has long been in charge of corporate strategy, attempted to set up Yahoo's own social networking and music subscription service, but both have recently been closed down.Yang, always on the Yahoo board, only took over as chief executive in June, after Terry Semel stepped down. Ten days ago, he confirmed that the group's profits were down and that he was laying off 1,000 employees. Inside Yahoo's headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, morale is said to be at rock bottom.But Microsoft is at the gate, and observers are doubtful that Yahoo has an independent future. Whether Yahoo goes to Microsoft, or allies itself with Google (here, Yang would run into anti-trust issues), or breaks itself up and sells bits to the highest bidder, the company will probably be consigned to history.Scott Rosenberg, a technology expert and head of Miro Consulting in New York, doesn't envisage a happy outcome. He says: 'These big takeovers - AOL/Time Warner was the biggest - are always about failure in the present and fear of the future. And they nearly always end badly.'If Microsoft wins Yahoo, you will see most of Yahoo's smart people depart, and its customers gradually parcelled out to attempt to bolster Microsoft's ever-faltering efforts to build an online business.'Rosenberg dismisses the danger to Google of a tie-up between Yahoo and Gates, saying: 'Google needs to worry about the drag on its stock from the broader market troubles, and the drain on its brainpower by the lure of new start-ups. Microhoo is hardly a threat.'As for Yang, assuming a deal is done, he'll be able to play a little more golf, make more of those after-dinner speeches and, perhaps, return to the half-finished thesis that he left to gather dust all those years ago.
'Not even one ox, nor one cow, nor one pig was left out.' But what William the Conqueror didn't have in the Domesday Book was an easy way of searching its reams of data. It has taken more than 900 years, but at last the internet has provided a solution.An academic at Hull University has produced the world's first complete, freely available online version.Professor John Palmer, whose work on the Domesday Book stretches back 25 years, has transformed its handwritten parchment pages into a database with searchable indexes, a detailed commentary and the ability to organise all its statistics in a tabulated format.The Domesday Book, the oldest and most famous public record, was based on the 1086 great survey of England which investigated 'how the country was occupied, and with what sort of people... how much each had... and how much it was worth'. It covered 13,418 settlements south of the rivers Ribble and Tees.As with the Last Judgment, all were called to account - hence the name, Domesday, Day of Judgment. There would be nothing like it in England again until the censuses of the 19th century.But for nearly 1,000 years it has been inaccessible to most people and difficult to understand. There are costly CD-Rom translations, and the National Archives provides online searches, but Palmer set out to create a new format to bring the book into the digital age. Whereas the original has information listed under headings, Palmer has coded and tagged terms so they can be automatically retrieved and analysed. His software makes it possible to isolate certain variables and conduct several searches at once. The results can be displayed as a map, table or translated text, or as a combination of formats.The three-year project was funded by a &pound;250,000 grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Council.Palmer, who worked on the project with his son, Matt, said: 'My interest in Domesday began in about 1980 as a teaching project. My son was getting interested in computing at the same time. It developed into a research &lt;interest for the 900th anniversary in 1986, but computers weren't powerful enough then. In the mid-Nineties, the improvements in computers revived my interest and I managed to get some funding.'Written in Latin, the Domesday Book is the starting point of history for the majority of towns and villages in England. It lists places, landowners and tenants, tax assessments, cultivated land, numbers of oxen and plough teams, property values, legal claims, illegal activity and social classes such as freemen, villeins, smallholders, cottagers, slaves, priests and burgesses.The total value of all property in England in 1086 was calculated at &pound;75,000 - which in today's money would be &pound;1 trillion. The dozen wealthiest individuals were each richer than any later billionaires in English history, with fortunes ranging from the equivalent of &pound;56bn to &pound;104bn today.Palmer said: 'No English medieval historian can ignore the book because it's such an important source for social and economic medieval history. It's like a giant skyscraper surrounded by mud huts in terms of significance. If you want to know how many pigs there were in each county, the Domesday Book is the best record there is of who owned what, right down to people who owned a few shillings.'Anyone who looks at it is stunned by the speed and coverage: it was completed within a year and Englishmen were generally in awe of it. All through the Middle Ages it was used as the permanent record: there were all sorts of appeals to it to resolve property disputes.'&#183;The Domesday Book is available online via Essex University's Arts and Humanities Data Service atesds.ac.uk/findingdata
Beware a St Valentine's Day massacre - in your inbox. Computer users have been warned to be suspicious of seductive emails that appear to promise undying love but in fact carry the cyber equivalent of a sexually transmitted disease: the most advanced 'worm' yet seen on the internet.Called Storm, the malicious piece of software is believed to have enslaved tens of millions of computers around the world. Most users do not know they have been infected and  unwittingly pass the worm on. The world's leading internet security experts have been striving to kill Storm, but it is constantly evolving to stay one step ahead.Storm started in January last year with a message bearing a simple subject line: '230 dead as storm batters Europe'. When internet users clicked on the file attachment to learn more, they unknowingly allowed cybercriminals to take control of their computers. Other emails announced the death of President Bush and war breaking out with Iran.Storm has already exploited Christmas and Halloween, and there are fears of an onslaught in the build-up to Valentine's Day.'It's often tied into Christmas or New Year or sports events,' said Greg Day, an analyst at the security firm McAfee. 'We've seen Valentine's messages appearing in the last couple of weeks with a big image of a heart. It's trying to install a "Trojan" on your system which can then be used to send more spam to others.'Cybercriminals can then commit identity theft, trick users with fake websites and use key-logging 'malware' to capture personal details.
Peugeot 4007&pound;29,995Miles per gallon:39.2Seats:7Good for:muggersBad for:huggersBoasting all the social can-do of John McCririck, SUVs are about as welcome on Britain's congested roads as a rogue investment banker would be at a charity Whist night. But the good people at Peugeot clearly know something we don't. And so they have leapt feet-first into the controversial 4x4 sector with their first ever off-roader.If the 4007 looks vaguely familiar - from the layout of the dashboard to the chunky wheel arches, and from the tinted windows to the split tailgate (so useful it should, in fact, be mandatory) - then that's because it is. It is the non-identical triplet of the Citroen C-Crosser and the Mitsubishi Outlander. In an innovative, and no doubt cost-saving venture, all three models share the same DNA. They are built on the same factory platform and simply get a different badge and a nose tweak as they roll off the production line.For a manufacturer determined to plunge into such troubled waters, Peugeot has done well to hitch its wagon to Mitsubishi. The Japanese company has been making rugged offroaders for decades and knows all there is to know about building vehicles that expect to get their own way. Thus the Outlander, sorry the 4007, knows how to handle itself. It's capable and purposeful; a seven-seater with a third row of fold-flat seats and a responsive diesel which produces a paltry cloud of emissions that a herd of flatulent cows would consider shameful.Inside, it's well appointed and roomy, boasting the usual 'command' position so beloved by sneering 4x4 drivers. One gadget that caught my eye, or rather my ears, is the 4007's sound system. It comes fitted with its own music server. This means every time you play a CD, the server automatically records it so you can then access the album whenever you like. Shove a fresh CD in on each journey and after a month or two you'll have a decent playlist permanently available. Many cars are now MP3-compatible, but you still have to remember your iPod - and risk having it pinched. As an antidote to the car's more macho excesses, I loaded Kenny Rogers's entire oeuvre during my test week...Round at the front, Peugeot's designers have worked hard to create some clear blue water between their new baby's 'face' and its two near-identical siblings. Unfortunately, they have had little room to manoeuvre: Mitsubishi had already bagged 'functional' and Citroen had gone for 'friendly'. So Peugeot seems to have opted for 'fiendish'. The vast metallic grille makes the 4007 look like a deranged ice hockey goalie or possibly Hannibal Lecter.Price-wise, the Mitsubishi is &pound;3,000 cheaper. Though it sells fewer cars than Peugeot and Citroen, which both cost the same. So which of the triplets will you plump for? If I were you, I'd hold fire: 2008 is an exciting year for 4x4 drivers with Audi, Ford, Mercedes, Renault, Seat and Volvo all bringing out smaller, more economical and less intimidating models... SUV doesn't always have to stand for 'Socially Unacceptable Vehicle'.martin.love@observer.co.uk
You might have thought that US border controls were simply focused on keeping out the likes of Lily Allen and Amy Winehouse, who might well reduce the entire country to rubble (OK, theyrecanted).But some companies now have a different issue. According toThe Washington Post, Radius has now "tightened its data policies so that traveling employees must access company information remotely via an encrypted channel, and their laptops must contain no company information." Also:At least two major global corporations, one American and one Dutch, have told their executives not to carry confidential business material on laptops on overseas trips, Gurley said. In Canada, one law firm has instructed its lawyers to travel to the United States with "blank laptops" whose hard drives contain no data. "We just access our information through the Internet," said Lou Brzezinski, a partner at Blaney McMurtry, a major Toronto law firm. That approach also holds risks, but "those are hacking risks as opposed to search risks," he said.The problem is that the US border authorities now argue that they can search (or even take away and copy) your laptop, mobile phone or other device just as though it was a suitcase."It should not matter . . . whether documents and pictures are kept in 'hard copy' form in an executive's briefcase or stored digitally in a computer. The authority of customs officials to search the former should extend equally to searches of the latter," the government argued in the child pornography case being heard by a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco.The Post quotes Mark Rasch, a technology security expert with FTI Consulting and a former federal prosecutor:"Your kid can be arrested because they can't prove the songs they downloaded to their iPod were legally downloaded," he said. "Lawyers run the risk of exposing sensitive information about their client. Trade secrets can be exposed to customs agents with no limit on what they can do with it. Journalists can expose sources, all because they have the audacity to cross an invisible line."I thought the US appeal courts had already established that US border officials could do whatever they liked, followingthe Romm case. Also, I'd argue that companies shouldalreadybe making sure that no sensitive information is accessible on a portable device simply because these are so easily lost or stolen. That applies regardless of any border controls, though they might remind a few companies of the risks involved.Incidentally, there's nothing new about this from a UK point of view. Britain is on track to become the world's leadingsurveillance society, and Her Majesty's Customs and Excise have already triedscanning traveller's laptopsfor pornography, though apparently it's not as fruitful as just intercepting emails. According to a report from The Daily Telegraph,quoted in 1998:A spokesman for Customs and Excise said officials would routinely scan laptops for illegal material such as pornography. Encrypted files will be treated in the same way as a ordinary luggage. "So far as we are concerned, there is no difference between an encrypted file and a locked suitcase," said the spokesman. "All travellers entering the country should be prepared to have their equipment scanned."I've always had outstandingly good service from the US Embassy in London, and I've never had any equipment scanned at a border. Have you seen it happen, or has it happened to you?
The board of Yahoo conferred by phone last night over Microsoft's controversial $44.6bn (£22.4bn) bid for the company amid speculation that the software group will increase its offer if the search engine's chief executive, Jerry Yang, and the rest of senior management reject the initial approach. Yahoo's directors will hold a face-to-face meeting next Wednesday.This week, shares in Yahoo rose above the level at which Microsoft pitched its cash-and-shares bid, for the first time since the company announced its approach on January 31.Although the top-line value of the deal was $31 when announced, it is split into equal portions of stock and cash. Microsoft's share price has dropped over the past week, reducing the value of the stock portion. Some on Wall Street believe Microsoft may have to make an offer as high as $37 to seal a deal.Yang told employees in an email this week that the board of Yahoo "is thoughtfully evaluating a wide range of potential strategic alternatives in what is a complex and evolving landscape". Google is believed to have approached Yahoo about a possible tie-up to fend off Microsoft.Separately, the parent company of British internet service provider Tiscali said yesterday it had not received a bid approach, putting an end to recent speculation that pushed up the company's share price to more than 40% on the Italian bourse over the past two days.Several firms, including Vodafone and domestic rival FastWeb, had been suggested as possible buyers of Tiscali but the company's board said last night "it has not received any acquisition proposal".
There were two very different snowstorms that blanketed China in the run-up to this week's Spring Festival. The first, reported by the state media, was a natural disaster heroically battled by half a million troops and Communist Youth League volunteers. It left 5.8 million people stranded, but the people ultimately prevailed.The second, reflected through the prism of internet cynics, was a calamity exacerbated by official incompetence, indolence and optimistic weather forecasts. While the old media have quoted "heartwarming words" of appreciation for the government's response and praised its own "heroic" reporters, the internet has been abuzz with furious denunciations of state broadcasters, forecasters and officials for getting the picture wrong.Such competing public opinions - unheard of 10 years ago - are becoming familiar in China these days as the world's biggest censor struggles to cope with the explosive growth of the internet. With 200,000 new netizens every day, China's online population is on the brink of overtaking the United States as the biggest in the world.That landmark could come today, next week, or next month. According to the China Internet Network Information Centre, there were 210 million internet users at the end of last year, just 5 million behind the US. But China is adding 6 million new users a month - more than 10 times the pace of US growth.In an Olympic year, and at a time of surging economic growth, the new figures are taken by some as proof of Beijing's irresistible rise. Not everyone likes it. Free speech activists fear it will increase the influence of China's censors in the virtual world. Foreign governments have raised concerns that the country has become a breeding ground for pirates, hackers and cyber spies.It was not supposed to be like this. After the internet was connected to China in 1987, civil rights campaigners hoped it would be a catalyst for political reform. But 21 years on, the Communist party is still in power and its model of a tightly controlled internet is gaining ground, if only by force of numbers.The world's most popular blog? Lao Xu, written by the actor and director Xu Jinglei, which boasts 137 million visitors. The biggest distributor of online video? Tudou, which claims to have overtaken YouTube with over 1bn megabytes of data transfers every day. Then there is Baidu, which has trounced Google in the Mandarin search engine market, and Alibaba, whose boss Jack Ma is a national hero for humbling eBay and taking over Yahoo's operations in China.Language, culture and the Great Firewall of China - the state's information shield - protect the government and big business players from competition. Instant messaging and social networking are dominated here by Tuscent's QQ service. The game world is ruled by Shanda Entertainment and Giant Interactive rather than Nintendo and Sony. Sina and Sohu have a lockhold on the news. In every sector in China, domestic players are on top. Some are now starting to look overseas. Baidu recently launched a Japanese service.Experts say that by overtaking the US as the world's biggest user base, China will attract investment, commercial traffic and technology. With this will come influence."This is a big landmark. The US has almost reached the point where it has not much room to grow. China is the opposite. In terms of new connectivity and economic growth, China is definitely the place," says Xiao Qiang, the founder of the California-based China Digital Times.Beijing is thought to have the planet's most sophisticated blocking equipment, which is used to guard virtual walls against external threats. Internally, it relies on a system of official monitoring and corporate self-censorship. Most of the routers and other parts come from US companies, such as Cisco. Campaigners suspect China is passing its censorship know-how to Cuba, Vietnam and several African countries."China is exporting a model where the internet is a tool for economical development, social networking, marketing business and propaganda, but not for free expression. China is very proud of this. They spent dozens of millions of euros to build firewalls, cyber-police and cyber-censors," says Vincent Brossel of Reporters Without Borders.PassionateHe says China is lobbying at an international level for more state control of the net, which is currently managed by a US-based independent organisation. "If this happens, it will be the end of the freedom of expression on the web."But the internet is also changing China and taking on characteristics not seen elsewhere. Compared with their counterparts in the US, surveys suggest Chinese netizens are more passionate about the web, three times more likely to feel freer in the virtual world than in reality, and more than twice as likely to consider themselves addicted.With an average ago of 35 - seven years younger than in the US - they are primarily interested in entertainment, and believe the net is more satisfying in this respect than TV, movies or meeting friends. Pornography, a key driver of the internet elsewhere, is less of a factor in China, where the government routinely announces sweeps of online "spiritual pollution". Last month, state media announced the closure of 44,000 websites and arrests of 868 people accused of providing "unhealthy" content.The web in China may be far from puritanical but while "sex" is the most popular search term in many countries, Google reports that in China the most sought-after themes are related to money and technology. "Stock" is in the top six, along with the names of three leading banks.The means of access are different too. The fastest growth last year was in rural areas.  A third of users go online at net cafes, known as wangba (web bars).The scene this week at a suburban wangba in Beijing was typical: scores of young people hunched in front of screens in a dimly lit room; the men in hoodies and parkas jabbing at their keyboards, blasting aliens and soldiers, while the women are transfixed by weepy Korean soaps and Taiwanese gameshows.A few sleep at their consoles. One woman knits. There is an occasional grin, the odd laugh. But for the most part, the only sound is the clicking of mice and keyboards amid a motionless, expressionless multitude. However, the visitors say the wangba fills a hole in their lives."My life would be very boring without the net," admits Yang Jing, a 19-year-old art student from Anhui, tearing herself away from a glitzy movie. "It's just occupied with school and this - I watch films, play games and chat to friends. If we didn't have the net, I wouldn't know what to do."The Yi You cafe opened only a year ago, the newest in a chain that boasts half a dozen branches in Beijing alone. In the evenings the 300 chairs are quickly claimed; other outlets have even more screens. "The internet cafe business has developed very quickly in the last two years. They're everywhere," says the manager, Zong Cheng.Jeremy Goldkorn, founder of the media blog Danwei.org, says the surge in users is changing China. "It is extremely significant that the internet growing at this rate because it makes it easier for information to get out," he says. "I believe Chinese society in general is opening up. The internet is a cause of that, but it is also an effect. It won't lead to revolution, but it will play a part in the evolution of public debate."Roland Soong, whose Zonaeuropa blog is one of the most respected sources of information about mainland websites, believes people in China have higher expectations of the internet."In other countries, there are other platforms for ordinary people to express themselves. In China, the internet is the sole platform for citizens to raise their voices."FabricatedThis enthusiasm sometimes manifests itself in alarming ways. Soong believes more stories are fabricated by people who want to promote themselves or their companies than in other countries. Online campaigns often turn into mob witchhunts, such as the recent targeting by BBS (bulletin board system) groups of a 13-year-old girl who was used by the authorities to justify tighter restrictions on online video content. In an interview with the state broadcaster CCTV she described it as "very yellow [pornographic], very violent", which is fast becoming one of the slogans of the year.But other cases suggest the net is proving a positive social force, by making unelected local governments more accountable. The recent killing of Wei Wenhua, who used his mobile phone to film a fight between municipal officials and villagers, rapidly became nationwide news thanks to the fury of internet bloggers. The authorities had no choice but to arrest four suspects and fire a local official. A Guangdong newspaper reports the case of a judge being supended after pictures were posted online of him chatting on his mobile phone during a court hearing. Forestry officials in Shaanxi face a furious backlash after confirming new pictures of the endangered South China tiger that later appear to be faked.The proliferation of mobile phones, internet messaging services and bulletin boards has been cited as a major factor in recent middle-class street protests. The biggest last year saw a demonstration of thousands in Xiamen, Fujian province, against plans for a chemical factory. Mindful of public opinion, the authorities have backed down.At a national level, the State Council Information Office - which overseas the internet - can still exert a tight grip. The recent detention of human rights campaigner Hu Jia and the house arrest of his wife and two-month-old daughter made headlines around the world. In China, it is as if it never happened. The two main news portals, Sina and Sohu, make no mention of the case. Searches on Baidu and Google produce a list of pages, many of which are blocked. Others are censored by the search engines themselves, but only Google admits this alongside the results. The authorities keep a permanent block on some sites, such as BBC news, Amnesty or non-government sources of information on Tibet, Taiwan, the Tiananmen Square massacre and Falun Gong. Propaganda officials send weekly lists of restricted topics to web administrators, who are then expected to censor themselves.But with the internet expanding so fast, there is a limit to the number of blocking orders the government can send out or how widely it can impose its authority on small websites, such as blogs and bulletin boards. For that, it must rely on self-censorship, which is far from guaranteed.Hong Bo, who blogs under the name Keso, says the opportunity to speak out online is cherished by a growing band of bloggers and BBS users."The Chinese internet has a distinctive character. Its one of the most strictly controlled in the world, but netizens' behaviour still confounds the government's expectations. They ban websites and delete posts, but they haven't got everything under control."Isaac Mao, a pioneer blogger and researcher, says the number of users is less important than the quality of their online experience, where he says there is a big gap with the United States.His organisation encourages netizens to connect their real and their virtual lives through blogs and discussions of social issues, including censorship."Rulers believe they can build a better system and get others to follow. But even though they want to change the internet, it is part of a globalised world and nobody can afford to build an isolated system."I believe the internet will change China more than China changes the internet."Popular searches: love or bankingMost popular search words in world1iphone2badoo3facebook4dailymotion5webkinzMost popular search words in China1qq (an instant messaging service)2China Merchants Bank3Industry and Commercial Bank of China4stock5xiaoyouxi (game site)Most popular "what is" questions in the world1what is love2what is autism3what is rss4what is lupus5what is sapMost popular "what" questions in China1what are blue chips2what are stock index futures3what is cpi (consumer price index)4what is qfii (qualified foreign institutional investors)5what is gdii (qualified domestic institutional investors)&#183;2007 Google report
The Yahoo board of directors met telephonically on Friday to consider asking Microsoft for more money or, alternatively, doing a deal with Google. Given the way Silicon Valley works, I think the latter is more likely, but who knows?This would be funny because it's competition from Google, not from Microsoft, that has demolished Yahoo's business. Even funnier, Yahoo would be joining up with the company that already has a monopoly market share in search and search advertising, so this would reduce competition, rather than increasing it. Neither of these things matters, of course, because it's all about using Microsoft as a bogeyman. Ooooh, scarey.Yahoo might be trying to wangle a bit more cash out of Microsoft, but that's far from certain: Yahoo would have got $50 billion last year, and next year it might be lucky to get $25 billion, unless its performance is transformed. As Om Malik points out:A 62 percent premium to Yahoo's stock price is as good an offer as Yahoo can hope for. The company's turnaround efforts, the Peanut Butter Manifesto, and Jerry Yang's 100-Day Plan are all delusions of (lost) grandeur. After all, the stock's value had been sliced in half long before Steve Ballmer showed up on the door, dragging bags of money behind him.Yahoo should have teamed up with eBay when it had a chance, but a $44.5 billion offer is pretty darn good. Yahoo is simply delusional if it thinks it can find someone more desperate than Steve Ballmer &amp; Co.Whether it makes sense for Microsoft to pay so much for a company that can't execute (and seems to be rather short of grown-ups) is another matter. There doesn't seem much argument for the deal, beyond the point that no matter how badly Yahoo has done in search and advertising, Microsoft has done even worse.The only new thing I've seen on that front isa post on Todd Bishop's blogat the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. It seems Ballmer took questions during Microsoft's latest Minority Student Day in Redmond. According to the post, Ballmer said:What our goal is, is to provide, what I would say, great innovation and great competition, particularly in the search and advertising area, to Google. ... There's already about $40 billion a year sold in search advertising, and in our desire to be a world leader in Internet search and Internet advertising, it helps us a lot to acquire Yahoo.What are the challenges? There's a group of 13,000-plus people who work at Yahoo, and they have their goals and their ambitions and their desires and their thoughts and their software and their everything else, and we have to kind of mate up their goals, desires and ambitions with the goals, desires and ambitions of people here, and that's generally referred to as the integration process. If we do that well ... that will be a very good thing for customers, our shareholders, etc., and if we do that poorly, we probably shouldn't have tried this acquisition, so really doing that well is a high priority, and we're really focused in on it -- assuming that Yahoo accepts our bid, which has yet to happen.As I saida week ago, it's the execution that matters.... and that's the big unknown.
A legally enforceable cinema-style classification system is to be introduced for video games in an effort to keep children from playing damaging games unsuitable for their age, the Guardian has learned. Under the proposals, it would be illegal for shops to sell classified games to a child below the recommended age.At present only games showing sex or "gross" violence to humans or animals require age limits. That leaves up to 90% of games on the market , many of which portray weapons, martial arts and extreme combat, free from statutory labelling.Ministers are also expected to advise parents to keep computers and games consoles away from children's bedrooms as much as possible, and ask them to play games in living rooms or kitchens facing outward so carers can see what is being played.Ministers are also expected to recommend blocking mechanisms to protect children from seeing unsuitable games, emails or internet sites. Discussions have already been held with internet service providers to see if an agreement on a standardised filter can be reached.A review of violence and video games has been commissioned by Gordon Brown from the former television psychologist Tanya Byron. She is officially due to report next month, but education and culture ministers have a sense of the report's direction. She has previously said she would examine the current classification system to see if it is confusing for parents.The report's contents, which include a lengthy review of the literature on the impact of video games on children, has been discussed between the Department for Children, Schools and Families and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Ministers are anxious to strike a balance between the entertainment, knowledge and pleasure children gain from highly profitable internet and computer games, as well as the dangers inherent in the unregulated world of the net and its overuse by children.Under the Video Recordings Act, most games are exempt from the British Board of Film Classification and only lose this exemption if they depict, to any significant extent, gross violence against humans or animals. Other games can be classified by a separate, entirely voluntary pan-European scheme administered by the Video Standards Council.Policing such regimes is difficult as it is possible to buy games over the net and simply tick the box stating the purchaser is over 18.A new British Standards Institution specification proposed by Ofcom, the communications regulator, and the industry is expected to allow the developers of filtering products to test them against the standard designed to protect children and other users from illegal or unsuitable content. Companies that pass the test will be able to display a child safety online kitemark.Ministers hope the Byron review will act as a way of calming the debate about video games which has become increasingly polarised and based on prejudice. They say they are also willing to examine proposals made by a Tory MP earlier this week for an internet standards authority to be set up to ensure that service providers offer a two-tier system with users able to pick content suitable for adults or children.In a further sign of Tory concern, Julian Brazier will bring forward a private member's bill this month giving powers for a new body to appeal against decisions of the BBFC in its classification of video games and DVDs.Hugo Swire, a former shadow culture secretary, has  suggested that the default setting for internet content would be for children, with a password or pin needed for unfiltered material.
Diesel engines, we can all agree, have - like British cooking, personal stereos and budget air travel - never been better. They keep getting cleverer - which is to say, less and less separable from petrol engines and less and less embarrassing. Quickly identifying the presence in a car of a diesel engine these days is becoming a bit of a challenge. Many of the old, reliable signifiers no longer work for the new generation of soft, smooth, ever more deceitful, ever more petrol-like diesels.Imagine, for instance, that you were snatched one day by (just for argument's sake) a deranged former car showroom assistant, who pushed you behind the wheel of a new BMW 1 Series Coup&eacute; and required you, on pain of death to cherished pet, to state whether this stylish and altogether rather embraceable, small-scale, German fun-machine had in it one of the new BMW diesel engines.Now, in the bad old days this wouldn't have been a big deal. You'd have turned the key and listened. If you had heard, emerging from the bonnet, a noise as of a long succession of fully-laden milk floats passing over a cattle grid, you would have known that you were in the presence of diesel. And if everything in the interior, from the rear-view mirror to the accelerator and your trouser legs, had begun to vibrate like a bashed gong, you would have all the further confirmation needed.Otherwise, you would have been able to say straight away that it was a petrol-driven car. And then, released from captivity by the deranged former car showroom assistant, your terrible personal ordeal over in a gratifyingly short time, you would have rushed back to the open paws or fins or whatever of your much-loved pet.Today, though, you've got a problem. Activate the racy start button on your 1 Series 123d and the response is clank-free - suspiciously petrol-like. (Incidentally, the very fact that firing up a diesel-powered car with a sporty prod of the thumb doesn't seem comically contradictory is itself an indication of how far the diesel has travelled towards charisma and acceptance in our time.)So you will be required to engage the second test for diesel, accelerating in search of the traditional lag between pressing on the accelerator and going faster (historically somewhere between 14 seconds and a fortnight). But there's none of that in the BMW - only instant access to the power. So, how are you to know what you're driving - apart from in the long term, when those pleasing, petrol-topping figures come back on your consumption and emissions? I have no idea any more.Actually, there is one thing I can think of. When the engine is idling, the gear stick trembles. Ever so slightly. Almost imperceptibly, really. But it's something. Remember this tip. It could save the life of your pet one day.This new coup&eacute; is a slick, quietly handsome take on the original 1 Series hatchback, or "Baby Beamer". In the back are two perfectly reasonable seats and two portions of perfectly impossible legroom. But that's coup&eacute;s. For the driver there's ample energy, entertainment and impeccably constructed comfort. And if you buy a diesel one, you won't believe it's not petrol. On my cat's life.
Vodafone yesterday became the latest mobile phone operator to try to head off a clash with regulators over the cost of using the mobile internet abroad by cutting its data roaming prices.EU telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding is expected to use her appearance at next week's mobile world congress (MWC), the industry's annual get-together in Barcelona, to accuse the operators of overcharging customers to send texts and access the mobile internet while overseas.Ofcom boss Ed Richards recently said he thought rates for texting and accessing the internet put people off using these services abroad because they are so expensive.The average price of one megabit of mobile data - enough to view up to 200  web pages - is about &pound;1.50 in Britain, but the average price charged by British operators for using data roaming services within Europe last summer was &pound;4.11 per Mb, higher than the European average of &euro;5.24 (&pound;3.90).Vodafone said yesterday that from June this year, the maximum price its European companies (including Vodafone UK) will be able to charge business customers who access the internet outside their domestic market will be reduced by &euro;15 to &euro;60 per month. The price offered to individuals in Britain is expected to be significantly below this figure.The company is also increasing the amount of data that a customer can use from 100Mb to at least 150Mb, meaning that the price per megabit will in effect drop by about 45%.T-Mobile is expected to reduce its tariffs for data roaming at MWC. One rival, 3, recently announced a tie-up with networks including E Plus in Germany and Base in Belgium to reduce the cost of data roaming. Telef&oacute;nica, which owns O2 in Britain, announced last month that for a flat monthly fee of &euro;50 customers can use up to 50Mb overseas. It cut text prices, saying no customer will pay more than &euro;0.32 - a reduction of up to 49%.Well over 200bn text messages were sent across western Europe last year. While the average cost of sending a text message within Britain is 5.6p, the average cost to a UK customer of sending one when abroad is 21p.
MondayCan sports games predict the scoreIBM says hello to HiPiHiTwo strange gamesTuesdayThe treachery of timePS3 gets budget rangeBecoming enlightenedWednesdayKonami explains Wii controls for PESThursdayeXperience112Spielberg gets his Blox outAre virtual lives wasted lives?FridayChannel 4 gets ready to educate
Of all the important questions facing America in this election year — whether some of the candidates are too liberal in their views, whether one who thinks climate change is a lot of hooey might be a contender, whether one who thinks evolution is a load of hooey might be a contender, whether any of them has any policies that you could write down on a blank sheet of paper — apparently none is so important online as this one: Mac or PC, which do the Republican candidates prefer?Yes. That's the question that confronted me, along with a photo of John McCain, as I browsed a story about Napster on Yahoo the other day. (Napster's not looking happy.Beware my prediction, people.)To which the only sensible response has to be: you're suggesting that perhaps people should make their judgement about how well-fitted a candidate is for the most powerful job on Earth by what desktop operating system they'd rather use?Now, the Yahoo team asking this question were doing it in a spirit of irony. Well, except they weren't. They were asking them these questions (plus "what's your favourite film?" — possibly there wasn't time to ask about favourite colours) to try to triangulate on the candidates' personalities. You know, the person underneath the politician. As if what film you like will inform their policy for the Middle East, or on the question of subsidies for biofuels. McCain's choice of Casablanca tells us everything on the latter, don't you think?You can find precisely the same rubbish going on elsewhere in the political field (I almost said "on the other side of the fence", but I don't think there are any fences in this year's US politics; the divisions are mostly imaginary). Clinton or Obama, PC or Mac? Yes, the venerable New York Times hasweighed in:"On one thing, the experts seem to agree. The differences between hillaryclinton.com and barackobama.com can be summed up this way..."I'll let you guess which. The Huffington Post had earlier cut out the middle man (aka web designer) and portrayed the two frontrunning Democratic candidatesas "being" one or the other.Haven't we got better things to do with our time? Such as wondering quite how the world got so bent out of shape? It's not that we're anthropomorphising our computers. It's the precise opposite: instead of assigning human characteristics to inanimate computers, we're assigning the characteristics ofcomputerstopeople. And we're judging them by it. Don't pretend you're not: for some people, knowing what operating system someone uses is enough to set up a prejudice. (See thecomments on this storyfor a typical response.)That's not to say that knowing who someone is doesn't set them up for prejudice. Hillary Clinton's surname would be enough for some people; her efforts to fix the US's byzantine healthcare system during her husband's first presidency do the rest. Barack Obama, should he win the Democratic nomination, is going to have to struggle against a lot more than whether people think he's like a Mac.But what's common across this spurious "analysis" is how we seem to want to be able to think that people are like computers. Would Hillary be compatible with many more sites around the world? Would Barack give less loquacious error messages?Do you really think that's how the US president works?Actually, I can't decide which is the more worrying: that people would try to characterise people as operating systems; or that operating systems have reached a stage where we can assign some sort of "personality" to them. It's like people would vote for anyone who sounded calming enough, who could give them a message that they were going to make everything all right, not to worry.Indeed, if you built a computer that sounded like it could set the world to rights, in a gentle persuasive manner, you could probably get people to vote for it. After all, time was when George Bush was seen as a nice enough guy, "affable and charismatic", without empire-building ambitions beyond America's borders. Then it all turned to aggression and, well, killing. Did anyone think to ask whether he's a Mac or PC?Maybe it's the wrong pair of choices. Remind me: what operating system did HAL9000 run on?
The BBC has appointed its first permanent San Francisco technology reporter to cover the "second renaissance" of creativity and business in Silicon Valley.Maggie Shiels has already covered Silicon Valley for the BBC on a freelance basis, as well as undertaking science and business reporting for TV and radio.Shiels will be reporting mainly for the BBC News website but will also file multimedia reports for the corporation's TV and radio outlets.Darren Waters, technology editor for the BBC News site, said the corporation needed a reporter on the ground in San Francisco to stay on top of the highly competitive technology news industry."It has become increasingly clear from the last five years that there is a second renaissance in technology and the web around Silicon Valley," Waters added."Business and journalism are done by meeting people still. There's a very strong community in San Francisco, and especially among the Web 2.0 firms where everyone knows everyone. The BBC needs someone on the ground in SanFrancisco to raise the profile of its coverage and get closer to the big and emerging players."Waters acknowledged that technology news sites like TechCrunch and GigaOm dominate the Valley, but said there is a need for different kinds of journalism."Those guys do a fantastic job and they are incredibly close to the initial investment, the movement and the players, but they provide little context for people outside the industry," he added."The BBC's main audience needs that context and background - but it's a different audience and needs a different kind of journalism. So are we in competition? No."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you have actually been waiting for HTC's take on the ultramobile PC (UMPC) form factor thenThe Registerpoints out that it "will be available from online retailerExpansyson 19 February, for a device-only price of £885 (€1185/$1720)." Yes, "more than three times the price of an Eee"!The communications features are quad-band GSM/GPRS/Edge, 3G HSDPA, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 2.0.If you've forgotten what the "shift" bit is about, the machine has a second processor that provides PDA (ie PocketPC) functions. However, the world of mobile gadgets has changed such a lot in the past year, It has probably missed whatever opportunity it had.
The founders of 20 of the UK's most promising internet start-ups are to be invited to Silicon Valley in April as part of a joint UK government and technology industry initiative to support upcoming entrepreneurs.Web Mission 2008aims to encourage partnerships between UK web talent and influential San Francisco-based firms.The initiative is being backed by the government's UK Trade &amp; Investment Department, the enterprise campaign Make Your Mark and tech giant Microsoft.Coinciding with the industry's Web 2.0 expo, the UK entrepreneurs will have one week in San Francisco with meetings scheduled with major web companies, start-ups firms, journalists and investors, as well as informal drinks receptions and events at the conference.The initiative has been more than a year in the making, organised by entrepreneur Ollie Barrett.A panel including UKTI executives, Dragon's Den entrepreneur Doug Richards and TechCrunch UK editor, Mike Butcher, will select the Web Mission delegates based on their market potential, strategy, their management team and their commercial viability.The application process is open to all UK-based web firms looking to expand to the US and opens today. Travel costs are subsidised but not free.Michael Birch, who moved from the UK to San Francisco before he founded social networking site Bebo, said the mission is a great opportunity for UK entrepreneurial talent."They can learn for themselves the differences that make the US a breeding ground for innovation and, more importantly, successful execution of ideas," Birch added."With a spark of inspiration the UK has every opportunity to replicate that success on UK soil."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The latestFortunemagazine cover features the former Melinda French, the Microsoft employee who married the boss and is now helping to run the biggest ever charitable foundation. It's her first "public profile".
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Earlier this yearI sat on a panel at BETTorganised by Channel 4's education team. Whilst there, I got a taste for interactive things forthcoming from the broadcaster and grabbed Commissioning Editor (and Wonderland creator and geek in chic clothing) Alice Taylor to get the skinny on just what the channel has in mind for the future of public broadcasting gaming, and how they intend to support new industry talent.Why games and education?There's often a funny reaction to the word "education", although learning something new is usually incredibly satisfying. Games -especially sociable ones - are often key to how we figure out the world, and the people in it, so if we can use games to teach useful things, and the learning becomes a fun process, then that has to be something to be pleased with. Channel 4's target audience for educational output is the 14-19 age group, who we know to be extremely fond of the odd game or two, so this approach makes even more sense: dedicated television consumption in this age group is not what it once was, so in order to reach them with useful stuff, we should look to all the platforms and formats that they're interested in.Why are Channel 4 involved and what can the Channel contribute to this sphere?Educational television programming on its own isn't reaching enough of our target group, so we're broadening our output in order to figure out what appeals. Of course, with this comes new challenges and problems, as well as the opportunities, so it's going to be an interesting few years ahead! As for what Channel 4 can contribute, I see it as perfectly placed to do what it's always done with television: ferret out the new, the exciting, the unusual. We're going out there looking for emergent gaming talent, to support new ideas, to back some innovative technologies, the sort of thing Channel 4 has always liked to get behind. Since the consoles came online, and digital distribution is a sensible alternative to boxed, retail games, we won't have to go the trad publishing-retail route either, which means some of this is even affordable.Who are these games aimed at?Primarily 14-19 year olds in the UK, but we will have a few projects that may appeal to a broader audience too. The material will be designed to be educational, which means we're at great pains to make sure that the content is both fascinating but not factually wrong. Or mindless. Or simplistic. Or denigrating, or any number of things that might slip into something purely designed for entertainment if the creator wasn't really thinking (or didn't really care). We do care, a lot: the material we're commissioning should challenge, make the player think, consider, learn something new - and all while thoroughly enjoying herself.Where will they be made available?Generally where they can be reached by as many people as possible, and as free as possible too. The digital world is everywhere and anywhere, so gone are the days when stuff flowed by like a river, and you watched it in order. The internet is like the ocean: massive, never ending, free and open, so that's where we'll put most of our output. Getting attention will be hard, but technically reaching people will not. We'll look to proprietary platforms like Xbox Live and Sony's Home too, of course, and mobile phones; plus - despite some early misreporting, we're not switching off any of the televisual output on the morning schedule, that too will continue to exist.What's the first to launch?We got cracking with commissioning some ideas in late 2007, so you'll see some output in the first half of '08, but the majority of it will turn up in the second half and beyond. First in line isBow Street Runner, a point-and-click detective game set in the late 1700s in filthy old Covent Garden. We commissioned it while the television showCity of Vicewas being made, and the two, while not directly connected, complement each other quite nicely. The show is post-watershed and for adults; the game is designed for teens, and introduces the player to the early policing methods of the day.Bow Street Runnergoes live this month, on February 11th.Which are you particularly excited about?Okay, it's predictable to say "all of it", but I really am: we're commissioning a broad range of ideas to get us started, and I think the collection as a whole is looking varied and interesting. We have our early-policing detective game, which really pushes the boundaries of what a web-based flash game can look, feel and sound like, all while representing what real street life was like in 18th C London town. We have a huge romp of a alternate-reality treasure hunt in development, with a central theme of genomics, cartography, patent busting and DNA experimentation (one inspiration there wasAlias, but avoiding all of the made-up junk pseudoscience: all our science will be real and cutting edge stuff). We've got an SNS-style thriller game designed to explore themes of privacy, security, surveillance and freedom - players will learn things about SNSes they might not have considered, as well as about their own civil and personal liberties. Other potentials could include a PC game aiming to explore isolation, emotional development and space/time bending, a Bluetooth game and some playful widgets aimed at subculture teens who want to explore facets of their personality and personal relationships.What steps are you taking to ensure that these games are as high quality as the games people expect commercially?Without vast reserves of cash to throw at projects like purely commercial channel brands might have, we have to be very careful. It's true that your average teen will expect high-end graphics from a traditional game on a disk. But this is also a very experimental age group, who in my experience are willing to explore new things, or try something different. As long as our games feel good, I think we'll be okay: what we'll absolutely try to avoid is any cheap bandwagon-jumping, where we end up making a second rate version of something better that has gone before. That's the copycat game, and we don't want that. We want the new and unusual, the indie and creative, so hopefully some experimental flavours will be both forgiven and appreciated.What other kinds of gameplay experiences are you experimenting with?I'll tell you next year ;)
What's your favourite piece of technology?Probably myiPhone. I just got one recently and it's really cool. The coolest thing about it is that it has the iPod sort of built into it so when you're listening to music – and I know I'm sounding like an advertisement, but this is awesome – and somebody calls, the music fades out really gently and segues into the call. That's sweet.How has it improved your life?The thing with me is that I tend to disappear for hours to write and I don't check my email, so I used to come home to 90 emails stacked up. It was so daunting I just ignored them all, which is like committing career suicide, so the iPhone is good because I can hear the emails arrive and deal with them one at a time.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it to call my husband back home in the States. And probably paid an exorbitant amount of money for it.What additional features would you add if you could?It should have a pair of human hands that extend from the case that can give you a loving touch, because it's a pretty cold little implement. It's evil.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely not. I think everyone will be using that exact model. Heaven knows Steve Jobs is not a real innovative man, so it's probably just going to stay the same ...What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Wow. A  tip to give to non-iPhone users? I don't know. To each his own?Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I consider myself to be a nerd. I definitely err towards nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?That's a toughie. It was probably a guitar and amp. Does that count as technology? You did one of these with the guy from Air Guitar Nation and he picked air guitar as his technology. Does he not know that air's an element? Mind you, so is metal, I guess. God bless him.Mac or PC?Mac. I just think they have a more elegant interface and I first started using them in 1998 when they had those candy-coloured iMacs and no teenage girl could resist. That got me hooked.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Solitary Man by Neil Diamond. I was actually asked that question the other day and I was compelled to check the play count and I listen to Solitary Man a LOT.Will robots rule the world?Yes. It's inevitable. Haven't you seen Terminator 2?What piece of technology would you most like to own?I don't know if this really counts as a piece of technology but I saw this amazing rodeo-riding simulator, one of those things you sit on and it bucks you like a horse and you have to struggle to stay on. Supposedly it tones your ass. I would like that. But not to exercise.Junoopens across the UK todayJuno delivers a bundle of joy:Guardian critic Peter Bradshaw gives his verdict
CNN hasa familiar articleon its website, looking at those sad souls who become addicted to online games and begin to neglect their 'real' lives. The writer talks to staff from the Illinois Institute for Addiction Recovery where MMORPG fanatics are being treated. From the piece:Other gamers live more precariously. Libby Smith, a trainer at the institute, is helping a World of Warcraft addict in his mid-20s who's dropped out of college, lost numerous jobs, lost his girlfriend, and is on the verge of homelessness. "He maintains he has no problem," says Smith. His family finally intervened and brought him to the institute.The use of the word 'intervened' is interesting here, recalling, of course, the term 'intervention' - the forcible removal of a friend or relative from the clutches of a religious cult. CNN is not the first news sources to draw parallels between virtual world addiction and cult membership - both have similar symptoms: the withdrawal into a world that separates the victim from his/her family; an arcane new set of values and objectives; isolation and alienation... And with cultist interventions, too, the rescued parties often claim that they were perfectly happy.Furthermore, as with many stories that look into online games and virtual worlds, lazy distinctions are drawn between the 'real' and 'virtual' worlds. "Some of the better relationships have crossed over intoreallife," the reporter sniffily notes, referring to the fact that in-game friendships can often extend beyond the confines of the game world. And it's only at this point that they become valid, right?But what is real life? Seriously. From an ontological perspective, the foundations of this 'real'/'virtual' divide start to crumble pretty quickly. Philosophers from Plato to Alain Badiou have grappled with the fundaments of reality - Descartes' standpoint was to reject the reality ofanythingoutside of his own consciousness. George Berkeley would later argue that all physical objects are, in fact, just ideas. If only itwereas simple as, 'well one of them takes place on a screen with virtual people, and one takes place in the world with 'real' people'. But whatisthe real world, and, wait a minute, whoarethose people? Personally, I question the veracity of any reality system in which 15 million people voluntarily sit down four nights a week to watch Eastenders.So no. It isn't that simple, because relationships - because life - is more complicated. "Relationships formed within the game are a key part of that draw," goes the CNN article, refering to one man's experiences within Final Fantasy XI (pictured). "While parts of the game require intense focus, less hectic periods allow him to text-chat with other players from around the world about politics, religion and other topics. Some friendships form, as do some animosities." This sounds like pretty healthy stuff to me - a vibrant interchange of ideas and experiences. Is it any 'less' real than slumping silently in front of the TV with family or friends?And what gives friendship its value? Physicality? That's what seems to be suggested by repeated insinuations that virtual relationships are mere shadows of what's possible when the computer is switched off. "We are seeing more and more adults and adolescents struggling with real world relationships because of virtual world relationships they have created," says Eric Zehr of the Illinois Institute. But then, we're also seeing people having difficulty with relationships due to the breakdown of traditional communities, the rise of single occupant households, the birth of cubicle culture. Real-life is moving people apart quicker and surer than the virtual world ever could.Ten million are now signed up to World of Warcraft. In South Korea, online gaming is a national pastime. There needs to be a paradigm shift in the way 'virtual' lives are viewed and assessed. Black and white definitions of 'reality' are as shoddy here as they are everywhere else.
I had to help a friend buy a new computer the other day, which meant escorting her around the Apple store. Since she is on broadband and knows nothing about internet security, it was the obvious thing to do. It's perfectly possible to run Windows securely and reliably and I do so myself, but if you don't want to bother with security at all, a Mac is undoubtedly less trouble.For one thing, it comes without any of the expensive and inefficient "security" programs that clutter up most mass-market PCs.Whether it is in any other way better than a modern PC is a question with an unobvious answer. It's very hard to think of anything that is possible only on a Mac, and the idea that one interface is more intuitive than the other seems to me palpable nonsense. Both are reasonably consistent, and both rely on conventions that have to be learned.But there is one difference that has me tempted to move over myself, and that is the existence of a real software market on the Mac. On Windows, this hardly exists. I know that sounds an outrageous statement, since there are hundreds of thousands of programs available for PCs. But almost all of these sell in tiny quantities: all the stuff you actually need to run your life on a Windows computer is either free or compulsory.Web browsers are free, obviously. The same is true of most communications programs, whether messengers or email. The office software market consists almost entirely of Microsoft Office, which is either bundled or bought by your employer. If you are not using that, there is OpenOffice, which is free, and about which I've written previously (If this suite's such a success, why is it so buggy).With the exception of some copy-protected music and graphics programs and some high-end programming tools, there's no more need to spend money on modern Windows software than there is on Linux; the cynic might say there was even less need, since I would pay happily for Linux software that was responsive to users' needs and not programmers'.But Mac users do pay for the software they use. They even pay for their operating system upgrades. There is much less of a tradition of cost- bundling on Macs than on Windows, and the result has been that software is built to appeal to people spending their own money.There are real alternatives to Microsoft Word, not just from Apple, such as (Mellel), a word processor for people who write books. There is an abundance of notetaking programs: this is also an area where there is a market on the PC, but it seems much less vigorous and innovative than on the Mac, partly because everything that grows sufficiently complex to be useful withers under the shadow of Outlook.I know that Apple, just like Microsoft, has crushed utility programs by incorporating their functions into the operating system; but it has not been as strong, and so its malevolence has done less harm.Perhaps the smaller size of the Mac marketplace explains its vigour and diversity. Most of the really interesting and useful programs in the world seem to have been produced by five people or fewer. There is no substitute for a programmer who talks with his customers directly, and they will only exist in a market where the customers are the users, and not the people running the users' employers' IT departments.Beyond that, there is the imponderable factor of snobbery. Mac users so sincerely believe themselves superior to the rest of us that it's possible that this makes them pay more attention to style and finish.Style isn't a superficial characteristic that can be changed like an overcoat. It is something much more like skin, organically connected to the deep structures within. And in the best programs, there is a sense that what you see is directly related to what the program does; and this seems to me more common among Mac programs than PC ones.It is the kind of design that is so good it disappears that might be worth paying for.&#183;thewormbook.com/helmintholog
EA has officially announced the release date forBoom Blox, the Wii-based block-chucking puzzler designed by Steven Spielberg. It'll be out in May. "My inspiration for this game came while I was playing the Wii for the first time," explains the veteran movie director. "From the initial concept to what the game is today, it's always been built around the innovations the Wii brings to playing games. BOOM BLOX plays on the enjoyment of building and knocking down blocks, something that can appeal innately to kids and adults of all ages."From the press release:Players can experience the visceral gameplay - perfectly suited for the Wii's interactive motion-sensitive controls - through brain-twisting challenges. They can interact with entertaining characters such as the block-laying chickens or baseball-throwing monkeys across four themed environments - Tiki, Medieval, Frontier, and Haunted. Additionally, players can remix any level of the game in Create Mode using props, blocks, or characters that have been unlocked during the game. Players can also virtually build anything they can dream up. Plus, their designs can then be shared with friends or used to challenge others to solve their newly created puzzle via WiiConnect24.Hmmm, sounds (and looks) like a combination of any block-sorting casual title on the web, plus the sandbox games that DMA Design started churning out in the mid- to late-nineties - the likes of Wild Metal Country (which you can download for freehere) andSpace Station Silicon Valley. There are 300 levels, though, so whatever it's like, there's going to be a lot of it.The game will also be arriving on mobile, where it'll be joined by a host of other EA titles. The company has just announced a new line-up, including Sims 2 Castaway, Sims Pool and NBA Live 08, as well as the more intriguing Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars and Orcs and Elves II, sequel to what many believe is the deepest and most satisfying mobile adventure title ever made. And no, thatisn'ta benchmark case of damning with faint praise, so shut your gob.
