As part of the promotion for Microsoft Windows XP Media Center 2005, Bill Gates did an interview with The Hollywood Reporter where he said: ""Broadcast TV is under a challenge. That's news to no one." Copy protection and digital rights management (DRM) controls still seem to be the focus of Microsoft's sales pitch to the studios.Reutersversion of the article says:Microsoft has identified several issues that need to be addressed in order for its vision to become reality. One is the willingness of studios to make content available, Gates said. "We're trying to get them to be more aggressive in putting video titles out on the Internet at better and better resolutions," he said. "And we're going through the various digital-rights approaches and how they ought to look at that."Another is working with content owners to determine the next generation of physical media, which will offer high definition probably in either the Blu-Ray or Advanced Optical Disc format. "It would be nice to have a generation after DVD, but I think they're rightly insisting that this time, they're going to want better rights protection than the DVD ended up being," Gates said. "They didn't think the DVD was as vulnerable as it turned out to be."[Update]There's a transcript of Remarks by Bill Gates, Chairman and Chief Software Architect, Microsoft Corporation at the Digital Entertainment Anywhere Event, Los Angeles, California (October 12, 2004)here.
David Munns's attack on the illegal actions of music filesharers (Letters, October 14) might not ring so hollow if record companies and their parent groups were not complicit in providing technology that enables music to be copied; or if the extortionate prices charged by EMI and others for new music product didn't leave the British purchaser with the sense that they were being robbed blind.Julian HammondManchesterThe issue is about preserving an archaic business model for the benefit of the existing music industry cartel. When a song is played on the radio a flat fee is charged. Record companies support this compulsory licensing as it formalises their role as broadcast gatekeepers. Harvard Univer sity professor Terry Fisher (tfisher.org/PTK.htm) has proposed extending compulsory flat-rate licensing to domestic use. Record companies oppose this use of compulsorily licensing, as it threatens their control of the distribution of music.Currently, it costs more than &#163;10,000 to fill an iPod. It is sad that record labels are not responding positively to advances in technology.Philip CunninghamLondonThank you for the excellent explanatory article on how to download music (Record industry sues fans for illegally downloading music, October 8). I always wondered how they did it, now I know and I can't wait to become a pirate.S HunterAddress supplied
It seemed too good a bargain to miss, a spanking new Bugaboo baby buggy, the favourite of fashion-conscious parents, for less than half the normal price.Yusuf Hatia and his wife Sarah Taylor, who are expecting their first child, were among the many who spotted the offer on the internet auction site eBay and dashed off an email expressing their interest.But, of course, as the consumer experts are always at pains to stress, if it seems like too good a bargain to be true, it probably is.Mr Hatia, a 32-year-old marketing consultant, and Ms Taylor, 30, a teacher, were drawn into a simple but clever scam involving fake websites and cod emails.They are not alone. There have been scores of cons in the UK and many hundreds across the world in which eBay bargain hunters have been ripped off.The potential dangers were highlighted this week when it emerged that a teenager from south Wales tricked site users out of &#163;45,000 by promising them electrical goods which turned out not to exist.But the fraud does not stop there. The virtual auction house, beloved of Cherie Blair who used it to buy designer shoes, has become an online flea market for illicit goods ranging from pirate music to antiquities of dubious origins.The company insists it is doing all it can to clamp down on the sale of illegal goods - it told the Guardian that only this week it caught a person who was trying to illicitly trade a very large hoard of coins.But eBay acknowledges that its size - it has 114 million users across the world and 10m items on sale at any one time - makes it difficult to police.Not all are convinced it is doing enough. One expert in pirate DVDs, whose job involves liaising with the company, said: "On the one hand eBay is willing to cooperate when it is pointed out that something is not right but it does not seem to be very pro-active about nailing the bad guys."Mr Hatia's and Ms Taylor's case is a good example of how buyers hoping for a cut-price deal are tempted away from the relative safety of the site.After expressing his interest in the buggy via the site, Mr Hatia, of east London, was contacted directly - not through eBay - by the supposed seller and offered a red Bugaboo "Frog" for $550 (&#163;305). The "seller" told him she would hand over the buggy to the carrier, TNT. It would notify Mr Hatia when it had the buggy and he would send the cash to her   via the transfer service Western Union and give TNT the payment details.Once TNT had delivered the buggy, he would instruct the carrier to release the payment information so she could collect the money.The trick in such cases is that the real, respectable TNT carrier is not involved at all. Emails purporting to come through TNT come straight from the con artists. The links to sites which are included on the "seller's" email are to fake TNT sites created by the fraudsters. The victim is releasing the payment details straight to those behind the deception.Mr Hatia became suspicious and pulled out. As a marketing expert he sees the skill in tempting him with a clever choice of product. Not only is the Bugaboo a la mode, it is increasingly hard to come by. He said: "I could see many people falling for this kind of trick. It seemed genuine."TNT has come across around 40 such cases in the UK, involving a range of   goods. The giant American carriers have received many hundreds of complaints.Tony Lugg, TNT's regional security manager for Europe, said it was working hard to stop the scam, reporting incidents to the Metropolitan police's hi-tech crime unit and the international Internet Fraud Centre. It takes down the fake sites and registers all the possible site names including TNT which it can think of to stop fraudsters getting control of them.But he said eBay could do more to flag up the hazards of dealing "off site" and making money transfers through the likes of Western Union.While TNT worries about the Bugaboo scam, Roger Bland, head of treasure and portable antiquities at the British Museum, is becoming more concerned about the relics which are on sale on eBay.Mr Bland said the site is the biggest vehicle for people selling hoards of coins and other treasures. The suspicion is that many of the deals are illegal.When concerns are raised with eBay, Mr Bland claimed it refused to take action unless it could be conclusively proved the objects had been illegitimately obtained, which is very difficult.John Giacobbi, managing director of Web Sheriff, which patrols the internet for illegal music recordings on behalf of record companies, said eBay was pre pared to get items removed when they were pointed out to them but added: "They don't, from what we can see, proactively police things."Garreth Griffith, head of safety for eBay in the UK, said only 0.01% of the transactions carried out on the site could be confirmed as fraud.He had not come across the TNT scam but pointed out there were warnings on eBay about the dangers of trading off-site and sending money by electronic transfer.Mr Griffith said 1,000 people around the world worked on security issues for eBay. Hi- and low-tech innovations were continually being introduced to make fraud more difficult.But the bottom line for the company is that buyers in the virtual world should use the same common sense they would use in an East End street market.How eBay made net profit&#183;eBay was launched in the US in September 1995 after a conversation between Pierre Omidyar and his wife, who told her husband it would be great if she were able to collect sweet dispensers and talk with other collectors over the internet&#183;eBay came to the UK in 1999 and had a slow start. In 2001 there were 350 items for sale on the site at any one time; in the first three months of 2002 there were 5.6m items&#183;eBay created a new market of one-to-one trading in an auction format on the web and is the world's largest personal online trading community&#183;There are more than 42 million registered users&#183;Users buy and sell items in more than 9,000 categories worldwide, including collectables, antiques, sports memorabilia, computers, toys, beanie babies, dolls, figures, coins, stamps, books, magazines, music, pottery, glass, photography, electronics, jewellery and gemstones&#183;There are more than 10m auctions every day, with more than 1m new items joining the for sale list every 24 hours&#183;On the UK site a car is sold every four minutes, a teddy bear every two minutes and an item of women's clothing every 20 seconds&#183;eBay began its first advertising campaign in the UK this month to celebrate its fifth birthday
There's an exhaustive supply of fashion wrongness online for trainee Trinnys and Susannahs to enjoy.Uglydress.comstarted off as a site where the author uploaded a couple of hideous bridesmaids dresses she was forced to wear, but soon became a place where other women could confess their Crimplene sins. More vintage disasters can be located atbadfads.com, which has pages dedicated to tank tops, poodle skirts and Bono-style wraparound sunglasses, whiledrokk.comhas an excellent selection of ads for 1960s trousers - what man wouldn't enjoy owning a pair of Securo-slax by Life O'Ease. A footwear faux pas that seems particularly popular among the middle-aged male is the combining of sandal and sock;www.sandalandsoxer.co.ukhas a vast supply of photos of this phenomenon in action, including celebrity users.
Pikmin 2Game CubeTaking place in a series of garden environments, Pikmin 2 is a real-time strategy game that involves herding tiny plant creatures to search for "treasures": bottle tops, marbles and the carcasses of local denizens they mob along the way. The premise (lob Pikmin at puzzles, bad guys and obstacles) remains, but in a much more elegantly structured framework. Getting rid of the 30-day time limit imposed by the first instalment gives the game's exquisite design and mellow pace room to shine, while new levels and an excellent two-player modes make this a title no Game Cube-ist should be without.Myst IV: RevelationMAC, PCRenowned in the industry as a love-it or hate-it game, Myst and its three sequels have a remarkable ability to appeal to those who have never played a game in their lives. Requiring little or no dexterity, Myst is about wandering through beautifully rendered but essentially dead environments, looking for coldly esoteric puzzles to solve. Myst IV adds real actors, the power to "zip" between key locations rather than soldier through hours of empty cut sequences, and a built-in help function to un-stick you when the going gets too tough. On the downside, the point-and-click interface hasn't evolved in 15 years, many puzzles are abstruse enough to make the Guardian crossword look straightforward and you can spend hours tinkering with what turns out to be a red herring. Hate it.&#183;Ubisoft £35OutRun 2PS2, XBOXThe much-loved original OutRun saw you and your female passenger driving a Ferrari on an increasingly tortuous arcade road trip. OutRun2 adds a selection of Ferraris from the ages, a memorably designed set of branching courses that take in virtually the entire globe and a set of finely honed challenges that anyone who's played Super Monkey Ball or Crazy Taxi 2 would already expect from Sega. The most important thing about it, though, is the driving, which has been crafted to let you pull off tyre-shrieking, G-force defying 10-second power slides from the first time you pick up a controller, making OutRun 2 rapturously engaging from start to finish. Not quite the equal of the truly awe-inspiring Burnout 3, this is still a fabulously accomplished and satisfying racer.&#183;Sega, £40
The way IBM and Microsoft got together over the IBM PC is being raked over for the three billionth time in "They Made America, a serious coffee table history book by renowned author and former newspaper editor Harold Evans," according to a story fromBusiness Week Online.BWO says: "Evans' book falls short of clarifying exactly how Kildall lost out to Gates. He relies primarily on Kildall's memoir, his family, and his friends. Evans says he requested an interview with Gates, which he says Microsoft denied. He didn't make contact with IBM or Paterson, but tapped previously published accounts for that side of the story. IBM would not talk to BusinessWeek for this article, but former IBMers take issue with Kildall's version of events. Microsoft calls the book 'one-sided and inaccurate,' and says the company is proud of the 'foundational role' it played in the industry. Paterson denies he stole Kildall's intellectual property. He says he's stunned that the authors failed to get in touch with him. 'You'd think they might have asked. I'm not hard to find,' he says."The BWO story points out that Killdall's memoir -- written just before he died --does not tally either with IBM's version (from people who were there) or Kildall's lawyer's version (who was also there). It obvously doesn't agree with earlier histories that conclude that Digital Research didn't get the PC deal because Kildall wasn't there at all.Even if Kildall had been there, he wouldn't have done the deal: his wife Dorothy dealt with hardware suppliers. As ex-DR employee (and ex-boss of Symantec) Gordon Eubanks recallshere: "Gary was very laid-back. He didn't care that much. Dorothy ran the business and he ran the technical side and they did not get on."In any case, the idea that Kildall could have been Bill Gates is ludicrous. Even if Kildall had got the deal, he wasn't remotely capable of doing what Gates did, which was systematically convert a lucky break into a dominant position in desktop software. He was a nice guy, and all that, but from a business point of view, Kildall didn't have a clue.DR was finally finished off, as a serious market force, by Apple, which sued (or threated to sue) DR over the similarity of its GEM graphical environment manager to the Macintosh. Whatever the merits of the case, DR didn't have the resources to fight, and crippled the PC version of GEM to get Apple off its back. Since GEM was vastly better than Windows at the time, this was ultimately a big help to Microsoft. Bet that's not in the book.
"Desktop Search does three things in particular that could compromise your privacy when someone else uses your computer," says the Mercury News'sMike Langergin an early review from SiliconValley.com."First, the software keeps a copy of all your AOL Instant Messenger conversations. AIM, for many users, is like talking over the water cooler at work -- you say things you don't want preserved for posterity. Until now, AIM conversations with your buddies disappeared from your computer the moment you closed the discussion window. Desktop Search, however, makes a copy of AIM conversations and keeps them forever."Second, the software keeps its own copy of all your Outlook and Outlook Express e-mail messages -- even after you delete them from within Outlook or Outlook Express. A confidential company memo, in other words, will still pop up during Google searches after you've emptied the Deleted Items folder in Outlook."Third, the software keeps a copy of every Web page you visit and lists those pages in search results with the date and time of your visit. This even includes Web pages that are supposed to be secure from prying eyes, such as those run by online banking sites."
Mr Horniman would be mortified. One mention of his name, and internet filters are consigning the museum founded by the blameless Victorian tea merchant to the outer reaches of the web.Museum staff at the south London museum have discovered that up to a tenth of all emails sent to or from the museum are being hoovered up by spam filters.Visitors trying to access the website,www.horniman.ac.uk, are being blocked or, worse, redirected to more specialist-interest sites.It is true that among the museum's many startling treasures there is an eye-popping warrior's shield from Papua New Guinea - the image of a copulating couple was apparently intended to put enemies off their stroke - and a Spanish torture chair, bought as a genuine relic of the Spanish Inquisition by Horniman himself, now believed to be a fake.However, Mr Horniman, philanthropist, collector and Liberal MP, was the soul of propriety, respectably married twice and renowned for good works.He was an inveterate collector - of antiquities, scientific specimens, anthropological objects, works of art, a Tibetan skull cup, musical instruments, and the first stuffed walrus in Britain. The museum is said to have been founded when the collections threatened to swamp his large house, and his wife said either they left or she did.The Horniman, which opened in 1901, now has collections of international importance, and has always had a reputation for being child and family friendly.Antony Watson, a spokesman for the museum, said that its IT consultants were grappling with the problem and appealed to anyone experiencing difficulties to contact them.Director Janet Vitmayer said: "It is a sad sign of the times when a well-established and cherished museum cannot share its unique collections, wealth of educational resources and vibrant programme of events with the public because of technological advances that are supposed to achieve just the opposite."
Edited, uncorrected extracts of emails between Yusuf Hatia and the supposed buggy sellerHatiaI'm interested in the Bugaboo "Frog" you have for sale. Is it new/nearly new? What colour it is? Is it available for delivery to the UK?XHello there, If you want to buy I will ship you a brand new stroller. It's in the original box and have all the accessories. I have many Bugaboo for sale. I have all the colour and lett me know what colour do you prefer? The price is $550.HYes I am interested in a new red Bugaboo frog. Can you let me know how you operate? I need to be sure the transaction is secure.XAfter I receive your name and address, I'll go to a TNT location and leave the stroller on to your name. You will receive notification from TNT as a confirmation that the stroller is in their custody. After that you will make a money transfer via Western Union on my name.HThat all seems fine. I would like to order a red Bugaboo Frog stroller.XI have complete the transaction few hours ago. TNT will contact you soon. Please let me know after everything is taken care of.H &#91;who by now is sceptical&#93;I received an email from TNT and the payment details are to &#91;a name and address in east London&#93;. If so, I live about 10   minutes from this person and can arrange payment directly.XI'm sorry but I can't meet with you because my boss donat accept that. We can make the deal via TNT and you can trust me because you are based in London and I can't run. So please go and make the transfer and send the info   to TNT. reply me soon and lett me know wen you will make it?&#91;At this point Hatia drops out of the deal. The address given by the seller turns out to be a supermarket in east London. The owner has no knowledge of the person whom Hatia was supposed to pay&#93;
If you've been absent and are keen to find out what the Gamesblog was up to this week, check out the links below:MondayFIFA scores on Xbox liveAleks gets physical with Donkey Konga and dance mat games over the weekendTuesdayGTA hits the block again with another accuasation from lawyer Jack ThompsonGames are good for kids...part 145Greg reports on game culture's way of saying goodbye to SupermanWhat the Gizmondo has to offerWednesdayVideogames with an AgendaMotorola offers hot sixSports interactive releases an amusing Football Manager promoThursdayGreg rounds up the Online section's weekly reviews - Donkey Konga, Pro Evo 4 and Tony Hawks Underground 2Women in games article at the NYTGreg gets excited about Friday's releases a day ahead of time - Donkey Konga, Sega Superstars and (again) Pro Evo 4FridayMarketing and its malcontents
"MP3 is still the overwhelming favorite of file traders, but the once-universal format's popularity has been going quietly but steadily down in personal music collections for the last year. According to researchers at The NPD Group's MusicWatch Digital who track the contents of people's hard drives, the percentage of MP3-formatted songs in digital-music collections has slid steadily in recent months, down to about 72 percent of people's collections from about 82 percent a year ago," saysCNet."People are still getting MP3s and putting them on hard drives but are deleting them at a rate faster than they're acquiring them," said Isaac Josephson, a researcher at NPD MusicWatch Digital. "People tend to think that downloads are more disposable than rips (copies from a CD), and currently, the lion's share (of MP3s) are downloads."Later it says:"NPD researchers estimate that there was a net loss of about 742 million MP3 files from US hard drives between August 2003 and July 2004, despite people acquiring billions of songs from file-trading networks and their own CDs. By contrast, Windows Media files showed a net gain of 537 million files on US hard drives, Josephson said."The current score, according to the pie chart with the story, isMP3 -- 72% WMA -- 19.6% AAC -- 4.3% * Other -- 3.9%* includes both rips and downloads from Apple's music store.It's accepted that many consumers neither know nor care which format they are actully using.
Digital Bridges has officiallyannouncedtwo new mobile games based on 'classic' eighties movies, Robo Cop and Platoon. The former arrives as a picturesque scrolling shooter (quite similar to Probe Software's Robo Cop title for the Mega Drive in the early nineties), the latter is a squad-based tactical shooter. Elsewhere, Kuju is still working on its conversion of Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. If you looked at your mobile recently and thought, 'what I really want to do with this thing is play videogame conversions of eighties movies', then it appears your wish is being granted.
Anyone who has been following the Indymedia saga which I wrote aboutin yesterday's Online- and from the email I've been getting, there are a lot of you - will have been wondering what happened to the UK servers seized by the FBI last week.Unfortunately I was away yesterday, so I couldn't blog it - but the FBIreturned the seized servers:"In a huge initial victory for Indymedia, the two servers recently seized by the FBI were returned this morning to Rackspace (the hosting service where the servers were first taken from). Indymedia is now weighing additional legal options after this illegal seizure of its servers."Like or loathe Indymedia (and there are plenty of both), this is about freedom of expression. And the questions still remain about how, or why, the servers were confiscated in the first place.
After seeing Microsoft's announcements earlier this week about its brand building efforts for digital media and home entertainment, I was interested in what this meant for the future of technology. We're all well aware of Microsoft's capability for taking over a market, and in terms of leisure spend - both time and money - there is probably nothing bigger than getting control of the living room.Imagine if one company can get into your living room, and help control your television, video, audio and computing systems. Imagine the direct power they would have; imagine the control they could exercise over the broad span of culture and leisure activities.In the PC market, Microsoft have managed to become massively successful by knocking out both the hardware manufacturers and the software providers out of the equation. In the home entertainment market, however, they are likely to have serious competition from those content producers (including broadcasters, music labels, etc) and hardware manufacturers (TV sets, VCRs, digital cameras etc) who might well be classed as MS "allies" at the moment, but aren't prepared to give up their slice of the home entertainment pie.So what will be the key battlegrounds in the war for control of the home?Security:To say that security has never been MS's strong suit is an understatement: but if computing hooks up to home entertainment, take whatever problems afflict your home computer and then multiply them tenfold. Microsoft - and anyone else making a play for the home market - has to prove that they can protect you better than they do now. After all: imagine your kids are watching and then some porn spam manages to broadcast straight down your tube. That's not going to be a nice feeling.Stability:When I stretch my PC too much, it gives me the blue screen of death. When I'm in full flow on my Mac, it can't handle the load. People accept this problem with computing, but they're not likely to be so forgiving. Imagine if your TV crashed and took two minutes to reboot. It's not something people are going to be happy with.Trust:Unlike home computing, Microsoft isn't going into an infant market with home entertainment; there are already a large number of trusted providers in both content and hardware. Whoever takes control of the market will need to recognise that. For example, some people already have incredible brand loyalty to the likes of Sony. So what happens if Sony decide to take on Microsoft? A battle that's far bigger than anything Bill Gates has come across before, that's what.It's going to be a fascinating battle; watch this space.
I'm up to my left eyeball with the promotional materials of this interactive world. You know the ones I'm talking about. BMX XXX. Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. Boy-centred, sexually aggressive, niche. What about the great stuff that's inside? The diversity of players? The possibilities that are, potentially, endless? I'm putting myself out on a limb here, but I think games ads are shooting the industry in the foot.Take, for example, the campaign forFear Effect 2: Retro Helix. Perhaps someone felt there was something to hide because the advertisement ignored the dynamic action adventure between two powerful females and instead focussed on a non-existent lesbian relationship between the characters, and plastered that all over the London Underground.Need anything be said aboutDead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball? A title, it has been claimed, which should appeal to a female audience for the "character development" possibilities? Unfortunately, the emphasis on "realistic breast-bouncing action" had the opposite effect on the potential consumers, and women stayed away in droves. This game has never entered my wish list, not even for the "possibilities".What aboutBMX XXX, a game in which the female characters were only clothed for a downhill mountain bike racing because major retail distributors refused to carry it? And the ill-fated Lara Croft images, that had Tomb Raider 4 promoted by the digital bombshell wearing only a towel?Strangely, it seems very little attention has been paid to this issue. As far as I'm aware – and please correct me if I'm wrong because I really want to know more – only one study has explicitly explored the effect marketing has on girls' use of gaming tech. Gareth Schott recently presented his and Siobhan Thomas' research paper "'For Men': Examining female reactions to Nintendo's marketing for GameBoy Advance SP" at theNew Zealand Game Developers Conference, and suggested that the advertisements have a real impact on why women stay away from games. Once women engage with the games, they have as much fun as the men do.Check out some real ads for real game products and see if you think they're appealing to girls:Fear Effect 2: Retro HelixBMX XXXGameboy Advance SPDead or Alive Beach VolleyballAnother point to ponder is where the promotional materials enter into public consciousness. Women are less likely to be aware of the breadth of computerized entertainment and are often solely exposed to titles that are owned by male relatives or colleagues. Only exceptional titles that are expected to have a wide appeal, like the 2004 European release of Sony's karaoke gameSingStar, are placed in traditionally women's magazines or are advertised during "women's" television programming; the propensity of the marketing and PR departments is to publicize the release of games in male-valenced and specialist genres, thus directing the product towards the audience which is most likely to produce substantial revenue. That's OK if you want to continue the status quo. I've been led to believe (up the garden path or not) that this isn't the intention of the interactive entertainment industry.Admittedly, it is exceedingly difficult it is to get any games-related material into female lifestyle magazines, and congratulations to those who have been able to do it. However, surely there are ways to spin the product so it appears positive, empowering and worthwhile. Why can't there be more clever, genderless ads, like those for Playstation's "The Third Place" (an mpeg ofTim Hope's "The Wolfman" ad),Dreamcast's online service (apologies to the Germans) and Xbox's (banned) "Life's too Short" ad?While there are many other issues to address when it comes to expanding the games market, a primary solution to the problem problem is to focus on the marketing. I can't comprehend why this isn't at the top of the agenda, considering the number of women employed as games PR people.Please, if anyone has any information on this issue – of campaigns that have worked, of companies they think are particularly good at doing it, of research that's been carried out, do post it and let us know. There's something here that can be cracked, as long as we know where to start.
"Who wouldn't want a full-featured PC the size of a PDA? That's the promise of OQO's long-anticipatedModel 01 Ultra Personal Computer, a 14-ounce handheld device that runs a full version of Microsoft's Windows XP. Unfortunately, poor design decisions and sluggish performance make the Model 01 a better concept than an actual product," saysPC World.com."I tested a preproduction version of the $1999 unit with Windows XP Pro (the XP Home version sells for $1899). At launch the 4.9-inch-wide by 3.4-inch-tall unit comes in just one configuration: 256MB of RAM, a 20-GB hard drive, integrated 802.11b Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, and a 5-inch (measured diagonally) touch-sensitive display with 800-by-480-pixel resolution."One major drawback is the use of Transmeta's 1GHz Crusoe chip. "You can't blame the CPU entirely for the 01's poor performance, but it clearly plays a role in the unit's painfully slow application launches and leisurely Web page refreshes."
"In the latest change to its product lineup, Intel Corp. canceled plans Thursday to release a 4-gigahertz computer microprocessor, saying it would rely approaches besides faster clock speed to improve the performance of chips," reportsAP."In the meantime, the company plans to release a 3.8GHz Pentium 4. Besides a small increase in the frequency, it will feature 2 megabytes of onboard cache memory — double the amount on today's standard Pentium 4s. Currently, the fastest Pentium runs at 3.6GHz."The latest change in Intel's roadmap follows a string of adjustments and missteps by the Santa Clara-based company."
"For the three months ended Sept 26, Sun lost $174 million ... compared with a loss of $286 million [last year]. For the second consecutive quarter, Sun's revenue increased, from $2.54 billion last year to $2.63 billion," reportsAP."The loss includes charges of $108 million for previously announced restructuring, $82 million for a recent settlement with Kodak over Sun's Java technology and a $4 million loss on investments. It also includes a $7 million tax-related gain. Excluding those items, Sun's profit would have been $13 million."
This week I had my second chatroom experience. Chatrooms have a kind of notoriety among the uninitiated. Isn't this where shadowy men groom naive young girls for elopement and seduction? Isn't this where people with odd tastes congregate to share their perversions?My first chatroom experience was much along those lines. It took place in a porn factory in Amsterdam that was selling sex around the world. Callers made requests by email of nubile young girls who then acted them out in the isolation of their little studio. "So much better than working the wet streets of Glasgow," one of them told me. "Here there's no risk of broken glass in your face, no exchange of bodily fluids." A modest enough improvement, but significant none the less.I was making a television film about censorship at the time, and was interviewing - fully clad, by the way - the young women about their work. Unsuspecting, I drifted within reach of the cameras. The response from the chatroom audience was instant. From as far away as Indonesia came the queries: "What's that old lady doing there?" You will understand why I didn't find it congenial.This week's chatroom was as different from that as possible. And it took me back to a time in the 70s when the late Dr Chris Evans - scientist, writer, inspiration - took me along to his workplace somewhere in west London and pointed at a small, matchbox-like object mounted within a display case in the foyer. "That," he said, "is a chip. It's about to change everything." He then sat me down at a computer and got me to type my medical details on to the screen, and then add a question concerning my health. Miraculously, in a few seconds up came a reply. "And that," he declared triumphantly, "came from California. Just imagine how this is going to transform medicine."And so it has. That's how this week I was able to get together with Professor Mike Richards, the national cancer director at the offices of Breast Cancer Care in London, and join him in fielding questions coming up on the screen from women all around the country who had particular issues they wanted to raise. I learned a lot that day - first about the illness. There is already so much knowledge out there. Talk of taxanes and letro zole, of HER2 and sentinel node biopsy flowed freely. Women want to know - and insist on finding out. Breast Cancer Care is dedicated to telling them.Once doctors were the high priests of medicine. The faithful flock didn't question their dogma. Now people - especially patients - are much more directly involved. Here were Shirley and Juliet, Pat and Carolyn Anne, coming together from different parts of the country to put their questions and discuss among themselves something of critical and intimate importance to them all.Naturally, I kept an ear alert to information that applies specifically to my age group. I'm glad I did. I had always believed that once beyond a certain high-risk age group, you had somehow ridden out the storm, and your chances of developing breast cancer diminished thereafter. This is absolutely not so. To my alarm I discovered that the chances go on rising after 70. Perhaps many over-70s didn't know that. Well, they do now!I was impressed by how easily personal familiarity becomes in the chatrooms, and can see how naive teenagers can mistake this virtual contact for the real thing. I was also touched by women's concern for each other and their ease at talking personally. As the taxi driver said when I left, "You women are so good at getting together and helping each other. But who's worrying about my prostate cancer? That's what I want to know."And what about another group, I wondered, made up of people who could readily benefit from coming together to share, not just their problems, but their outlook, their memories, their place in the world. I mean, of course, the old. These are the very people who are less adept at modern technology, but might find plenty to share if they got the hang of it. We already have book groups spilling out all over the place, and gardening clubs and such. Perhaps that's all many of us want. But the issues of ageing don't occur to you until you're there. And so many - bereaved or simply single - face these issues alone. Perhaps there's a place for chatrooms among the elderly. Perhaps they already exist. You tell me.joan.bakewell@virgin.net
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:The Pensions Commission report says workers will have to pay more tax, save more, retire later or suffer a poor old age. How will you plan for your retire-ment? Our financial expert DrMoney is here to help.LadeezMan:how much do you have 2 put inDrMoney:it's up to you - but &#163;20 a time is the minimumBronco:do u stick it in her bra or wotDrMoney:or pants, or some wear a special garter, depends on the placeChris2 has entered the NewsRoomHost_Chris2:sorry! I got an email saying there was a package for me in reception, but no one knew anything about it.LadeezMan:so r u allowed to touchDrMoney:the principle?LadeezMan:yeahDrMoney:no you get kicked outHost_Chris2:what are we talking aboutDrMoney:of the defined benefit schemeLadeezMan:I seeHost_Chris2:it's great to see you taking an interest in your pension LadeezManBronco:DrM what abt extra servicesDrMoney:by special arrangement only. Depends on the employer.Host_Chris2:You could also consult an independent financial adviserBronco:LadeezMan has u ever been to 1LadeezMan:going next week as part of a stag weekendHost_Chris2:really? How very responsibleBronco:whereLadeezMan:cardiffHost_Chris2:wouldn't the legal requirements differ in Wales, DrMoney?DrMoney:I can email you a list of cool placesLadeezMan:nice 1Bronco:DrM I hav a v v v important questionHost_Chris2:financial planning - the new rock &amp; roll?LadeezMan:hang on a ticDrMoney:OKHost_Chris2:sorry, just got an email about ANOTHER package! brb!Chris2 has left the NewsRoomBronco:how did u get his emailLadeezMan:just geussed it: chris2@permachat.co.ukDrMoney:what was the question?Pashmina has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:hi roomBronco:wot if the man gets exited?Pashmina:i'll come in again shall i&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
Security testThe Central Sponsor for Information Assurance (CSIA) group is introducing an accreditation scheme for security products. The initial phase of testing will ascertain if firewalls, anti-virus software and disk encryption systems fulfil the manufacturers' promises before the Claims Test Mark is awarded. This will help government departments and local authorities make informed decisions based on a product's security, integrity and ease of use. There will be no mandatory requirement to buy tested products, and the results of the programme will also be made available to the private sector. Once the scheme is established, the CSIA hopes to measure performances against the ISO7799 standard.www.softbox.co.ukExtended supportVIA has joined Intel and AMD in supporting the extended x86 architecture for 64-bit computing in future chips. This makes the architecture a more attractive proposition for software developers, especially with its backwards compatibility with current 32-bit software. Intel and VIA are following AMD's lead in supporting Execute Disable Bit (EDB). This chip-based anti-virus measure, supported in Windows XP SP2, is aimed at shutting out worms such as Sasser and MS Blast.www.via.com.twPhone linkHewlett-Packard and Mitel are joining forces to sell internet telephony hardware. The partners have been training their technical staff and selected resellers in how to install the Mitel hardware and HP ProCurve switches. The move has been triggered by the growth in interest in the VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol ) market shown in the healthcare and financial markets. Jon Weatherall, the UK manager for ProCurve, says that the market will expand as more companies find home workers easier to support through the flexibility of IP-based telephone networks. Mitel says that the partnership is the best way to serve customers who are worried about one-stop shopping because it allows them to change suppliers if they choose.www.hp.com/rnd/mitel/hp_Mitel.htmThin edgeWyse Technologies is claiming that any moves towards fitting "desktop" PC blades into blade servers will harden the case for thin clients. Stephen Yeo, director of marketing at Wyse, says that   moving the PC from the desk and into a closet will still require a desktop presence for the keyboard and screen. "The cost of several PC blades and the desktop products will prove costlier and harder to maintain than using one server blade running several thin clients," he says. Yeo bases his argument on total cost of ownership, and claims that independent market research by Winmark shows that thin clients work faster than PCs.www.wyse.co.uk/sc-computing/benefits.htmlVideo messagingPolycom is extending its reach beyond proprietary video conferencing and deeper into the internet world of VoIP. The company has been working with Microsoft to make the Polycom conferencing software applicable to a wider range of users. In the past, Polycom has insisted on the use of its webcams for video but it has now released Polycom PVX software to allow almost any desktop webcam to share the network. Also, the WebOffice portal software has been adapted for use with Microsoft instant messaging software, MSN Messenger. This allows IP phone and video conferencing users to see which of their contacts are available before making a call.www.polycom.com/company_infoFree payrollClockwork Software of Sutton Coldfield has launched PayThyme, which it claims is the first full-featured payroll system to be released as free/open source software under the GPL license used for GNU/Linux. The payroll has been used in a bakery with 70 shops and more than 600 employees since April last year. The company is hoping to make money by selling support on a subscription basis, like Red Hat. Clocksoft also offers an open source Government Gateway Signer.www.clocksoft.comFree securityGFI has released a freeware version of GFI LANguard Portable Storage Control, a network security program designed to stop unauthorised users from stealing information or uploading viruses to a network, via removable media such as USB memory sticks, CDs, floppy disks, etc. It allows administrators to control access to iPods, smartphones, digital cameras and handheld organisers. This is the full version of the product but it only works with up to five PCs. For 25 users, the price is $295.www.gfi.com/lanpsc
HardwarePocket powerFinding a way to back up and protect your data is increasingly important as the files on our computers are worth more and more to us. Numerous firms have come up with portable hard disk drives to help fill that gap, and the latest to hit the market is Fujitsu's 100GB Handydrive, right. It's a departure from the usual Handydrive family, with sleek brushed metal styling weighing in at a mere 200g. Priced at &#163;150 and pocket-sized, the unit's capacity means it should be able to contain most of the things you can throw at it, while the speedy USB connection makes copying your data quick and easy.Carry allFor those who need to carry around large amounts of data, Disgo is to debut the UK's first USB memory key with a storage capacity of 2GB. On sale for &#163;199 from the end of the month, the Disgo Pro 2 weighs 15g, is compatible with Mac and Windows and has read/ write speeds of 24Mbps and 14Mbps respectively.www.mydisgo.comMusicJoybee jukeboxTaiwanese manufacturer BenQ is to become the next company to offer a hard disk based digital music jukebox. Unveiled at the Ceatec show in Japan, the player, which will be sold as part of the company's Joybee range, sports a 4GB hard disk and will play back both MP3 and WMA music files. It also features a colour TFT LCD screen that can display album artwork and JPeg images. Its owners can transfer their pictures to the player via its integrated Secure Digital (SD) card slot. The player is expected to retail for around &#163;200 when it goes on sale early next year.www.benq.co.ukZen for CreativeCreative is the latest manufacturer to take on Apple in the race for the Christmas market, with its colourful Zen Micro player aiming to threaten the iPod Mini's reign. It carries on the aesthetic of the Zen range, combining a vertical touchpad with 5GB of hard disk space, a range of body colours and a built-in FM radio. And if its rechargeable, removable battery gets anywhere near the Zen Touch's staggering 24-hour lifespan, it should be ready to compete on all fronts. Prices were yet to be confirmed at the time of going to press, but expect something in the range of &#163;175.EZ listeningKorean manufacturer EZmax has unveiled the first 2GB Flash memory digital music player. The EZMP-4100 is compatible with both MP3 and WMA music files and features an OLED screen and a USB 2.0 connector. There's no news on a UK launch.www.samsung.co.ukCamera phonesImage consciousSamsung has announced that its SGH-D500 megapixel camera phone will go on sale in the UK in November. The handset, which is finished in black, features a slide-down keypad, is an updated version of the company's SGH-D415. The megapixel camera is supplemented by an integrated flash and a 7x digital zoom, with images it takes displayed on its 176x220 pixel TFT LCD unit in 262,000 colours. Other features include Bluetooth, an MP3/AAC player and storage of 80MB - significantly more than rival handsets. There is, however, no storage card slot and, at the time of writing, no news on price and network availability.Stat of the week:Pushing out piratesSix weeks after the launch of the Official UK Download Chart, there's good news for legal downloading in its fight to outmanoeuvre the pirates. The chart is now tracking more than 150,000 sales per week, which marks a massive 2,000% increase on last year.
Is AI undergoing a renaissance?The academic pursuit of AI seems to have been in the doldrums for some years. It's seen as having failed to deliver, yet public interest in it has spiralled, particularly among the young.Tell us about JabberwackyAs a teenage machine-coder in the time of Sinclairs, one project that soaked up my time was a chat program that was hard-coded and fixed, like many remain today. I started working with databases and one night something clicked. I saw how to make my machine learn: a feedback loop - today's conversations building better ones tomorrow. I believed immediately in its potential.How did it evolve?I started working on data-driven websites. In 1997 Jabberwacky.com went online, with 20,000 entries made by friends and myself. It took until 2003 to achieve a million interactions, yet now there have been well over 5m, of which about 3.5m have been kept. It's growing rapidly through word of mouth, blogs etc. The data is far more important than the program, but that, too, has developed, with new layers of context-searching and association-forming code being applied, always pushing at the limits of available processing power.What sets Jabberwacky apart from other chatbots?It learns and it entertains. Most chatbots are limited and finite. They may seem to make sense, but you start to see the patterns and it becomes pointless to go on. That never happens at Jabberwacky.com. To some extent, it reflects its users back to   them, and its huge, constantly growing repertoire makes for original conversations. Jabberwacky isn't for AI buffs to test, but for people to just have a chat.How do you envisage Jabberwacky evolving?With a base of 10m interactions, Jabberwacky will appear human to most people most of the time. Not to those who specifically test it, perhaps, but to those who come for a chat. Will it be thinking, and be intelligent? No, it will have "borrowed intelligence". To help it achieve that and more, a number of things will happen, including downloadable versions that help spread the processing load - probably the biggest single impediment to the emergence of true "strong" AI.Are you aiming to go one better next year?I'm aiming to win, which means Loebner's Bronze prize for the "most human bot". I'm set on the silver prize, to prove the Turing Test can be passed.And how is that done?A chatbot must talk to human judges via a text-only interface, and convince them it is human. A common interpretation of success, and the one adopted by Hugh Loebner, is that 50% or more of the judges should consider the bot to be at least as human as a real human, who is also tested.Visit:www.jabberwacky.com
There's only one game that really matters this week -Pro Evolution Soccer 4on the PS2. The latest version of the classic footy series is the best yet, with even more intelligent AI and licensed teams. Elsewhere there is the EyeToy gameSega Superstars, bling basketball title NBA Ballers and the bongo bashingDonkey Konga. Oh and Dukes of Hazzard: Return of the General Lee...Pro Evolution Soccer 4is predictably great. I reviewed it forOnlineand thoroughly recommend it. Xbox owners may want to wait for the Xbox version though, which has online play.If, for some bizarre reason, you don't fancy getting your footy kicks from Pro Evo thenClub Football (PS2, Xbox)series may tempt you. Focussed aroundindivdual clubs(Man Utd, Arsenal, er, Tottenham etc) this is essentially the same game with a different kit. But while the emphasis on each club is good for the fans - only Birmingham fans will love the graphically accurate close-ups of Robbie Savage - the action on the pitch is no match for Pro Evo.Another example of EA trying to bling up their staid image isNBA Ballers (PS2)- a basketball game concerned as much with the lifestyle as the sport. The action is one on one, which makes this simple to play, andBallersdoes have style. But there's only one sports sim worth your money this week, and this ain't it.ElsewhereSega Superstars (PS2)takes Sega characters into the EyeToy environment. Similarly amusing isDonkey Konga (Gamecube)a music game that comes with a set of attachable bongo drums. Kiddies will enjoyDigimon Rumble Arena 2- a Super Smash Brothers-style beat-em-up using the Digimon characters. Last, and most certainly least isDukes of Hazzard: Return of the General Lee (PS2/Xbox)- the sequel to the dire originalDoHgame. Oh, nearly forgot, there is a hack n' slash role-playing game calledMacfalane's Evil Prophecy (PS2)coming out today too. I know nothing about it and haven't seen it, but my hopes aren't high.
"Google on Thursday unveiled its long-anticipated desktop application for searching through files, e-mail messages, and Web histories on the local PC, beating competitors like Microsoft and Yahoo to the punch," reports TechWeb."Google Desktop Search, which can be downloaded free of charge from the Mountain View, Calif.-based company's Labs site, lets users retrieve e-mail from Outlook and Outlook Express, documents from Microsoft Office apps, chat sessions from AOL Instant Messenger, and Web pages viewed with Internet Explorer."Later, it says:"Google's desktop search is integrated with the familiar Web search, with a new Desktop tab appearing at Google.com, and results culled from a search of the local drive added to the top of any search through the Web. The local results are displayed at the top of the list, marked with a new logo, and tagged with the phrase, 'stored on your computer.'"One of its key features, said Price, is its ability to search through previously-viewed Web pages. Google Desktop Search searches through Internet Explorer's History file, and displays matches, including thumbnails of the relevant page in many cases."Comment:Google Desktop Search only works with Windows XP and Windows 2000 and Internet Explorer. It indexes the full text of Microsoft Outlook and Outlook Express, and files in TXT, HTML, DOC, XLS, and PPT formats (Office 2000+). There's aFAQ. Also, you have to agree to the privacy policy before you can download it fromhere
It's only the first hand of my Guardian poker challenge and already I have a tight decision to make. I'm holding the three of clubs and the four of diamonds, normally a junk hand to be discarded without a second thought. But the flop - the three community cards - is potentially a monster: it's four, four, five, all of different suits. I'm sitting on a three-of-a-kind, potentially a big hand. Online has given me $360 (&#163;200) of stake money and we could be off to a flyer.The player to my right bets $8 into the $8 pot. It smells like a bluff: I don't believe he's got the other four. I call, planning to move in for the kill on the next round of betting. Then comes the counter-punch: a player to my left raises to $32, an aggressive move at these stakes. Suddenly my big hand looks a big problem.What to do? The first player instantly folds, confirming my suspicion he had nothing. But the raiser clearly has something. Should I call? Or re-raise, say to $64, and see if he blinks?Except this game of no-limit Texas hold'em is being played in cyberspace, albeit with real money deposited by credit card. If my opponent blinks, he could be blinking in front of a laptop in Lyon. Maybe he's dancing around his kitchen in Kansas because his pair of fives has made him a full house. If so, my set of fours is virtually dead. Nor do I like my chances if he has an ace or another high card with the four I'm now convinced he's got."You have 10 seconds to respond," flashes the message from the virtual dealer at pokerineurope, a site run by British bookmaker Victor Chandler. Online poker is played at speed and 30 seconds of thinking time is   generally the maximum. I opt for discretion and fold.Maybe I was bluffed, but I don't want to jeopardise my Guardian bankroll that easily. Be patient, I tell myself, and better opportunities will come.In this, I like to think I am playing in the conservative manner of Lee-Anne Smyth, a 25-year-old mathematics graduate from Belfast who has created a sensation in the world of online poker by claiming to be averaging &#163;4,500 a week at Ladbrokes' poker site. That's &#163;200,000 a year, even with six weeks' holiday.Reactions to her claim have ranged from "good on ya" to hostile disbelief. I think her story is just about believable. Poker on the internet is populated by wildly over-aggressive and rash players. You would be hard-pressed to guess that the point of Texas hold'em, the dominant and most subtle form of poker, is to be sufficiently skilful to minimise the element of chance.Smyth's style seems perfectly   designed to exploit the excesses. She has been described as "a rock" - an ultra-tight player who will usually only raise when she has a strong hand or "the nuts", the best possible hand. It requires patience and I am told Smyth often reads a book to help her through her nine-hour stints .My patience is rewarded just two hands later. I am dealt a pair of queens and raise to $20. One player calls and this time the flop really is a thing of beauty - four, seven, queen, two of them spades. I have a three-of-a-kind again and this time it is the best possible hand at this moment.I bet $25 and am stunned to find my opponent bets his entire stack of $70. I make the easiest call in the world and the cards are turned over. He is chasing a spade flush and the odds dictate he will win this situation a little less than one time in three. Happily, this is not one of them. I collect the $175 pot and the Guardian is showing a $90 profit after four minutes of play.These are the joys of poker, a game that has been transformed by the internet. Exact figures are hard to establish but the website operators calculate that about &#163;20m a day is wagered in Britain alone, hardly a country with a strong poker tradition. It is reaching unexpected places. Charities dealing with gambling addiction talk of bored housewives logging on for their mid-afternoon fix of hold'em. Students are thought to be a prime source of new players, too.Nobody would applaud such social trends, but it is hard to see how they will be reversed. The internet poker revolution is spreading back into mainstream media, with Sky covering tournaments with large prizes and celebrity participants. This relationship was demonstrated last year when an American player called Chris Moneymaker - a genuine surname - won the big one at the World Series of Poker in Las Vegas, scooping a prize of $2.5m. He had qualified via a $40 internet tournament.My introduction to the game was via Channel 4's Late Night Poker series a few years ago. Under-the-table cameras, enabling the viewer to see the hidden cards, provided a stunning demonstration of the card-reading skills of top players. I had to give it a go, and the internet was the obvious place. There is only one bricks and mortar card room left in London's casinos but at Ladbrokes' poker website, you will find at least 3,000 players logged in at any time of the day or night.Pokeroom, another site that promotes itself heavily in Britain, says it is Sweden's 19th most profitable company and, again, the claim is credible. Poker sites take a rake from each real-money pot - typically 1% to 2% - and it adds up. Ladbrokes' site, for example, has dealt 100m hands in less than three years.After the early success for the Guardian poker fund, the cards run cold. Mostly, I am dealt   junk - and when I do get decent cards, the other players fold into my raises. After an hour's play, $90 profit has been whittled back to $50 and patience requires real effort.Another half hour passes before I get some action. I am dealt ace-king of the same suit, a favourite hand because it is easy to play: raise and, if an ace or king hits, bet big; if not, slow down.Two players call my $10 bet and the flop brings the king of diamonds plus the jack and five of clubs. I bet $30 and a player - an 18-29-year-old male in Glasgow, according to the factfile that is available if I click on his name - re-raises me another $40.I call, worried he has a pair of jacks. The turn brings another five and he bets $60. I call again and now there is $289 in the pot. The last card is the 10 of hearts and I am relieved to see my opponent from Glasgow check, his first sign of weakness. I check behind him and the cards are exposed: my ace-king beats his king-queen and the fund is now $159 to the good. Dollars being the currency of the internet, I set a mental target of $180 for a clear &#163;100 profit.There is no fear that the money will fail to arrive from Gibraltar, the low-tax haven of Victor Chandler's computer servers. I have been playing online for two years or so and my winnings have always arrived promptly and accurately via a deposit back to my credit card.Nor am I concerned by the recent scare stories about robots, armed with sophisticated computer programmes, fleecing the innocent. I don't believe it would be possible in a full-handed game of no-limit poker, involving nine players, dealt two   cards each at random. Poker is not like chess or backgammon, where all the pieces and counters are exposed.The bigger worry is two or more players colluding via telephone. I have seen a few suspicious situations, and the only sensible response is to move tables and ask the website operator to investigate. The sites are making so much money they have an incentive to ensure the game is clean.The final push to reach $180 takes an age and is preceded by another slow slip back down the ladder. On the crucial hand, I am lucky enough to find an opponent "on tilt" - betting wildly after a series of losses. Poor old "lalaa" has blown about $500 in the past 15 minutes and now he or she is trying to bluff me out of a $300 pot when my queen-jack of clubs has made a full house.It has taken almost two-and-a-half hours to make a profit of $190, even with that blistering start. I have mostly been playing two tables simultaneously, which means I have played about 250 hands but my profit has been generated largely from just three of those hands. If that sounds like a grind, you'd be right. Online poker can be dull and an hour or two is usually enough for me.If, on the other hand, you want to give it a whirl, do the sensible things. Play on a site run by a reputable operator and start at the "play money" tables for beginners. Before you even think of risking real money, read some books on poker strategy and odds. If they make no sense, don't do it. Smyth and her like are waiting for you.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.&#183;Nils Pratley is associate city editor of the Guardian
If you've got the Women in Gaming bug and want to know more more more, check out today's article from theNew York Timesby Katie Hafner on the very subject.What exactlydowomen game designers want? If there are any out there, please let us know!
Price of piracyWith the news that the British music industry is launching legal action against file sharers, I have still to hear a single word from them about those who have bought the same record on several formats. This is my case: when I emigrated from Britain, I copied most of my LPs on to cassette for practical reasons.When they wore out, I bought them on cassette and finally I converted to CD. I have paid three times for the same music. What would be the industry's reaction if it were asked to refund the copyright I have overpaid? Would it be willing to sell CDs at a reduced price to anyone who hands in a previous copy of the same record? Would it be willing to refund the copyright surcharge levied in Spain on all blank CDs? I think I already know the answer.David BainesSevilleAge is no barrierI think Michael Cross (Public Domain, October 7) is being unfair with his comment about MPs and ministers being averse to computers, writing that "they come from a generation that never had to understand computers". Not unfair to them, but to others of their, and my, and his, generation. I don't know what the average age of MPs is, but the average age of cabinet ministers is 57, and I'd guess the average for MPs is five to 10 years younger.That means Cross and I are of much the same generation as that bunch in the House. We both earn our living using computers, and I know many   people of our generation and older, who are confident with IT. I don't think it is their generation that makes MPs and ministers fear computers. Maybe it's just that they live in a different world from the rest of us.Alan Burkitt-GrayLondonPaddy's passionMichael Cross's observation that "politicians and IT don't mix" is certainly not true of the former Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown, who was famed for never being separated from his computer. Admittedly, his affection for the device was not shared by all his followers. However, this did not prevent technology being widely employed in the successful Lib Dem tactic of identifying groups of voters, such as pensioners and council tenants, for targeted letters addressing their particular concerns.Bob HeysHalifaxRedundant ringMy kind telco sent me a smart new Nokia 6610i phone, complete with camera and radio and all sorts of goodies I'll probably never be able to use, plus a seemingly endless list of ringtones. All very nice, except there isn't a traditional "ring-ring" tone appropriate to an oldie like me. Nokia's website offers downloads of all sorts of musical ringtones, so I contacted customer services, who tell me they can't send me an ordinary telephone ringing sound. Their suggestion? That I download a program, Nokia PC Suite, from their website and compose the ringtone myself!Gerald HirstGlasgowVery Content ReaderMay I add my comments to those already concerned with video recording when analogue signals are switched off (Feedback, October 7). I have a very satisfactory stereo VCR that enables me not only to record   one channel when watching another, but also to programme the machine to record up to eight items on different channels while I am away.I have no intention of subscribing to Sky or any other satellite channel and I certainly would not want the Sky+ box or similar with its insidious ongoing subscription and other unwanted features. I think the Pace DVD dual machine comes closest to my needs, but I still don't think it can be programmed to record various channels during my absence. When such a recorder becomes available, I may go digital.Derek RoughtonNorthumberlandiMacd offBrian Seaver's paean of praise for Macintosh (Feedback, October 7) prompted me to put in my ha'porth. After many bad experiences with a dodgy PC, I was persuaded by starry-eyed friends to switch to an iMac. Unfortunately, the much-vaunted stability eluded us. We have had frequent errors and crashes, and my teenage son has been completely put off Macs forever. I have had to do four complete re-installs in as many years, and now I am being told by the support line that my three-yearApple Care protection plan cannot be renewed because the computer is too old. Is that what one should expect from computers in the 21st century?David PowellLondonOn the fenceBeing the happy owner of both a desktop PC and an Apple iBook laptop, I have enjoyed sitting comfortably on the fence while following the debate over Macs v PCs. I have been able to agree with every comment made by both sides and am irresistibly drawn to the following highly technical conclusion: I'm a very lucky boy.John EdgarWolverhampton
Three reviews, four stars each - it's a high qualitygameswatchthis week. Rhianna Pratchett has a bash with Nintendo's new game, Donkey Konga, which comes with a set of bongo drums to connect to the Gamecube. "Pure fun, good party entertainment" is how she describes DK, and you can't say fairer than that. Totally different, but equally impressive, is Tony Hawks Underground 2 (or THUG2 to you, me and the marketing team). This is the sixth Tony Hawk's game and Steve Boxer began by praising its dogged longevity. "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater is the videogame franchise that will not die" he said, no doubt plagiarising his review of the last Tomb Raider game. He puts this down to "the franchise's enduring gameplay". I reviewed another franchise with enduring gameplay - Pro Evolution Soccer 4. This is still the greatest footy game around, mainly because, "it is the only one that feels like football and the only one you can play for a year and still find new ways to score." Pro Evo 4 would have had five stars if the menus and amateurish presentation had been sorted, and is definitely game of the week.
"Apple Computer Inc's iTunes remains the leader in paid digital music downloads, but the number of paying customers for this sector overall has decreased since April, research firm NPD said Tuesday. The Port Washington, New York-based market information company said the number of consumers paying for downloads fell to nearly one million users per month in May, June and July from a peak of 1.3 million in April 2004," reportsReuters."NPD said the downturn coincides with the end of promotions and trial price incentives offered by several services."Meanwhile, NPD cited no slowdown in the number of households with a member using peer-to-peer (P2P) sites to download music for free, with 6.4 million tallied in July 2004, compared with 5.1 million in August 2003."Comment:The press release (with graph) ishere.
"Apple Computer Inc on Wednesday reported its quarterly profit more than doubled as it sold more than 2 million iPod digital music players and said results for the current quarter would top Wall Street estimates," reportsThe New York Times.Net income for the fiscal fourth quarter increased from $44 million to $106 million. "Revenue rose 37% to $2.35 billion, which Apple said was its highest fourth-quarter revenue in nine years."PowerBook revenue climbed 20% to $419 million, while iPod revenue more than quadrupled to $537 million and accounted for 23% of total revenue."Yahoo Inc's third-quarter profit nearly quadrupled, reflecting a continued boom in online advertising," reportsAP. "The Sunnyvale-based company said Tuesday that it earned $253.3 million for the three months ended in September, up from net income of $65.3 million at the same time last year. The third-quarter profit included a $191 million pretax windfall that Yahoo realized by selling part of its stake in Internet search engine rival Google Inc."Through the first nine months of the year, Yahoo earned $476 million, or 32 cents per share, on revenue of $2.5 billion. At the same point last year, Yahoo earned $162.9 million, or 13 cents per share, on revenue of $961.2 million.""Intel Corp's third-quarter revenue came in a little higher than the company had expected after a midquarter update in September but was still lower than hoped earlier this year, as inventories rose at its customers amid a weaker market for microprocessors," reportsIDG News."Third-quarter revenue was $8.47 billion, up 8% from last year's third-quarter revenue of $7.83 billion. Intel shipped a record number of processors in the quarter, but it had forecast even higher growth when it released its second-quarter earnings. Net income for the quarter was $1.91 billion, up 15% from last year's third-quarter net income of $1.66 billion."
The government's estimate of the cost of running the NHS's giant new IT systems doubled again yesterday when the Department of Health said the eventual budget could be &#163;40bn over 10 years.This followed two days of confusion in Whitehall about the running costs of systems that are about to be installed for booking hospital appointments, holding patient records and transferring medical data.On Tuesday the health minister, John Hutton, dismissed as "speculation" a report in Computer Weekly that it would cost &#163;18.6bn over 10 years to train staff and keep the equipment in good order. This greatly exceeded the procurement cost of the technology, which was set two years ago at &#163;6.2bn, when no mention of running costs was made.Mr Hutton told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the implementation cost would be &#163;1bn a year. "We think it's going to cost the same as ... trusts currently spend on operating 5,000 separate IT systems across the NHS."This suggested the cost over 10 years would be &#163;10bn. Mr Hutton appeared to be at odds with an estimate given to the Guardian on Monday by his department. It put the running costs at between 1.5% and 3% of an expected NHS budget of &#163;1,000bn over the next 10 years: a price tag of &#163;15bn-&#163;30bn.Officials were asked to explain the discrepancy. The department replied yesterday: "We have always made it clear that we anticipate spending up to 4% of the total NHS budget, in line with the recommendations of the Wanless report." That put the bill at &#163;40bn.The department later refined its statement to make it clear that the &#163;40bn applied to the whole NHS IT programme and not just the clinical systems to deliver better patient care.Ministers were understood to be putting pressure on Richard Granger, the health service's IT supremo, to produce figures showing how much of the &#163;40bn would be used for clinical IT and how much for other functions.Although the yo-yoing estimates baffled NHS finance managers, the aim of the statements was to reassure them that the trusts would be able to   afford the systems. "The national programme for IT is on track and on budget ... any suggestion that vast unforeseen expenditure has been incurred, or that patient services will be robbed to meet this is a complete nonsense."The NHS Confederation, representing the trusts, said it hoped extra spending on IT would be largely covered by savings. Gary Fereday, policy manager, said: "As yet there are no clear figures for the costs facing NHS organisations. Finance directors, as the people responsible for making the budgets balance, are concerned at this uncertainty."This is not the same as saying that costs will escalate or that the national programme has not delivered, but simply shows that finance directors are being rightly cautious."Tony Collins, editor of Computer Weekly, said: "IT executives in trusts are telling their boards that there is a risk that money will have to be taken from other hospital budgets to help pay for local implementation of new national systems. If they are wrong, the Department of Health should tell them unequivocally."Yo-yoing estimatesMonday: &#163;15-30bn"Over the 10-year period from 2003-04 we would expect total NHS spend to be around &#163;1,000bn. The cost of the national &#91;IT&#93; programme over the 10-year period will equate to between 1.5% and 3% of trusts' expenditure." -  Dept of Health statementTuesday: &#163;10bn"We think it's going to cost the same as we are currently spending - a billion pounds a year"  - John Hutton, health minister, on the Today programmeWednesday: &#163;40bn"We have always made it clear that we anticipate spending up to 4% of the total NHS budget on NHS IT in general ... in line with the recommendations of the Wanless report" - Dept of Health statement
The NHS IT boss, Richard Granger, was in the US this week to address the users' conference of Cerner, a healthcare software firm. As Cerner is a crucial subcontractor in the NHS's e-booking project, he no doubt took the chance to remind executives of the stink he will cause if its system doesn't do what it says on the box.Granger has visited the US regularly over the past two years, and not surprisingly. The majority of the &#163;6bn he has agreed to spend on new IT systems and services for the NHS is with companies based in the US, even though, in the case of Accenture, they have headquarters in tax-friendly Bermuda.There was never any secret about this. From the beginning, the NHS National Programme for IT set out   to procure industrial strength technology from global suppliers. It made a deliberate effort to lure multinationals back into a market dominated by UK-based small and medium-sized enterprises.It succeeded. The programme's only major UK-based prime contractor is the behemoth BT. Isoft, Britain's biggest home-based healthcare software firm, operates in the programme only as a subcontractor to Accenture and Computer Sciences Corporation. Isoft gains status from its association with Microsoft, which is helping fund the development of new software.Dozens of innovative start-ups, some of which regarded themselves as world leaders, have in effect been given notice to quit.There was surprisingly little fuss. Companies were told that making   noises in public would imperil what future they had as subcontractors. So far, only Emis, which supplies more than half of GPs in England, has risked it. The Department of Trade and Industry half-heartedly grumbled that the NHS was wrecking its efforts to promote the British healthcare informatics industry overseas. The NHS responded with a token gesture to engage with small and medium-sized firms.Although the NHS is an extreme example, it is in line with government policy towards awarding IT contracts: an openness to overseas-based multinationals that may be unique in a major industrial country.The economic arguments for openness are familiar. So are the practical benefits: Fujitsu is a better company today than it was in the early 1980s, when as   ICL, it lobbied to try to keep US competitors out of NHS contracts.The Office of Fair Trading revealed this week it is getting interested in the way government procurement policy favours a small number of large contractors. This is welcome. Other countries have shown it is possible to nurture local innovation through public procurements: Oracle was once a start-up.The British government is mid-way through a massive programme of spending on IT-enabled transformation. Taxpayers' dosh has helped the IT industry through a rough patch. Yet, over and over again, the public sector has shown its preference for dealing with multinational "strategic partners" rather than local start-ups. We are entitled to ask whether any other major economy would give such a leg-up to its competitors.
Text-messaging yesterday became the latest form of technology being exploited to boost sales of tickets for the national lottery.The game's operator, Camelot, announced that players would be able to send in their chosen numbers using mobile phones - in addition to existing remote services on the internet and interactive television channels.The self-help group Gamblers Anonymous, however, expressed concern about expanding access to the lottery.The new service, called Play by Text, can be used for either the Lotto, EuroMillions or Daily Play games. "It's quick to register," Camelot's publicity promises. "We'll check your numbers and send you a text when you win. We'll send you free Rollover text reminders."Yesterday's launch coincides with figures showing ticket sales for the past six months up 4.7% compared with the same period last year. Sales in the first half of this financial year grew from &#163;2,249m to &#163;2,354m.The money collected for good causes was up 8.5% to &#163;629m over the same period. Ticket sales currently stand at rather more than &#163;90m a week.Text players must register online or over the telephone by providing their name, date of birth, home address, email address, and debit card details. Camelot says software is in place to prevent under-16s or those living abroad entering. Each message costs 20p to send.Payment is deducted from a personal account set up by users, into which they deposit money using a debit card. Camelot's response to the issue of problem gamblers is to allow players to set limits on how much they allow themselves to spend in a day or week.
Bridlington is bracing at this time of year. However, its citizens no longer have to brave the Yorkshire weather to find out what's going on at their local council, East Riding unitary authority.The council's online service, MyEastriding, allows residents to log in securely to systems providing personalised information from internal IT systems. Householders can log in to pay council bills, track the progress of requests they have made for services and find information relating to their homes.Although the service is still under development, it heralds a massive step forward in useful e-government. This is the stage when citizens or businesses can log into a one-stop web portal and serve themselves in transactions with government.Up to now, most such efforts have been hampered by the difficulty of authenticating citizens' identities online and by linking a web portal to government's "back office" systems. East Riding restricts its accounts to local residents. Access is controlled by password and a customer relationship management system controls the link to back-office systems. It holds data for all types of transactions with the council, whether by web, phone or digital TV.This week, MyEastriding won top prize at the annual prize for IT innovations in local government, the IT Excellence awards run by the management body SocITM and the computer trade association Intellect.The judges said MyEastriding "helps to resolve the issues of rural isolation and encourages the use of e-technology, in a supported environ ment, to improve access to facilities and services for everyone".East Riding's web portal,www.eastriding.gov.uk, was also commended for making a real effort to become a front window to other online public services, such as the NHS and police. Another link is with the one-stop, change-of-address servicewww.iammoving.com.The two runners-up show other ways in which IT is helping reform local authorities, which are responsible for most daily contact between citizens and government.Bracknell Forest borough council in the Thames Valley, already famous for issuing smart cards to all its citizens, won an award for a project that helps council staff work from home.   A web portal, BF AnyWhere, allows employees - and elected councillors - to log into the office from anywhere. The council says the portal improves the work/life balance and also saves money on accommodation: need for office space has fallen by one fifth.The other runner-up suggests an even bigger cultural shake-up in the world of local government. Two councils in Staffordshire were highly commended for swallowing traditional rivalries and commissioning IT services jointly.Lichfield district council and Staffordshire Moorlands say they saved &#163;800,000 by working together in a &#163;3m contact with ITNET, an IT services firm, earlier this year.Central government would like to see these innovations taken up by all of the UK's 468 local authorities. On top of the target to put all public services online by the end of next year - a handful have already done this - it has published a new set of "priority outcomes" that councils must achieve through e-services.The 14 sets of outcomes include targets such as online applications for school places in the 2007 school year, checking council tax balances online, and joining up benefits systems so that people who claim housing benefit will not have to apply again for free school meals. The idea, according to local government minister Phil Hope, is not to set new targets but to link   e-government to real local services.Councils seem divided over whether they will reach this e-nirvana. A survey carried out by the local government Improvement and Development Agency, found that 49% of council "e-champions" are confident they will meet the 2005 target and 50% are confident they will meet priority outcomes.Central government is now cracking the whip by requiring every authority to say how it plans to achieve the outcomes if it wants to qualify for the remaining central subsidy for e-government projects: &#163;150,000 per council.The money was originally earmarked to help councils reach the 2005 target, which simply required them to make e-services available. To meet the outcomes, councils will have to show that people are using the new channels. The latest signs are not particularly encouraging.Cabinet Office minister Ruth Kelly revealed earlier this week that while about 28% of the adult population visit government websites - an improvement on previous figures - the vast majority do so only to view information. About 8% download forms and 6% "transact", which covers processes such as filing tax returns and paying bills.And thereby hangs another tale. From the beginning of 2006, local authorities wanting to spend money to emulate East Riding and the other pioneers honoured this week will have to come up with the cash themselves. This will probably come from higher council taxes or, more likely, ruthless cuts in staff. Either way, local e-government will be cause for controversy as well as celebration.
Pro Evolution Soccer 4PS2, &#163;39.99 Konami&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;One perk of this job is getting to play games before release. Friends are not impressed when this involves the latest F1 sim, but tell them the new Pro Evolution Soccer has arrived and they're banging down the door. You can't blame them: Pro Evo has consistently been the only football game that matters.It is the only one that feels like football and the only one you can play for a year and still find new ways to score. Unfortunately, a lack of official team licences and a combination of amateurish presentation and arcane menus has meant the game has always been outsold by the glossy Fifa series. This time around, things have improved. There are more official licences and the menus are slightly more navigable. But it's still not good enough and desperately needs an overhaul.Luckily, the action on the pitch is as good as ever. Pro Evo is still the best footy game around, basically because it lets you play any way you want. The cruel and random nature of football is replicated, with deflections, last-minute winners and ground-out away wins all possible. Intelligent artificial intelligence means team-mates make clever runs into space as well as tracking back.Xbox owners will want to wait for their version - due in November - as it will be online for the first time. Pro Evo 4 is still top of the league but Fifa, and particularly its online implementation, is closing in. Complacency is not an option for Pro Evo 5.Greg HowsonDonkey KongaGameCube, &#163;39.99 (includes bongos) Nintendo/Namco&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Although the Dancing Stage dance mat is the most well-known of the rhythm-action peripherals on the market in the UK, a host have been released here, such as Sega's Samba De Amigo, Konami's BeatMania and Guitar Freaks. Nintendo now brings us a Pal edition of its latest crazy rhythm-action game, Donkey Konga, which comes with bongo drums.While it takes imagination to pretend the peripheral that came with Guitar Freaks was a guitar, at least the bongos look real. Consequently, it's a lot of fun playing along to the music and you don't look as silly.Tunes include Queen's Don't Stop Me Now and the Hungarian Dance No 5 in G Minor! There are more conventional numbers such as Oye Como Va and mixes of classic Nintendo game themes. This eclectic mix belies the fact that the game seems aimed more at the family than the average gamer.Yet Donkey Konga has challenges: there are three difficulty levels, plus jam modes where you have to recall the right drum beats for each song. You can also plug in up to four bongo sets. Donkey Konga is pure fun, good party entertainment and the bongos will also come in handy for playing DK: Jungle Beats next year.Rhianna PratchettTony Hawk's Underground 2PS2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99 Neversoft/Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Tony Hawk's Pro Skater is the videogame franchise that will not die. By rights, its sixth incarnation should be so tired it makes you cringe. The fact that it doesn't pays tribute to Neversoft's canny powers of reinvention, and the franchise's enduring gameplay.The plot dictates that Tony Hawk and Jackass's Bam Margera captain underground skateboarding teams that earn points for puerile stunts such as pelting pedestrians with rotten tomatoes. The new levels and goals are excellent, with plenty of variation and more destructible environments. You can also unlock secret characters with bizarre vehicles capable of enormous jumps.Another innovation is a slow-motion "focus control", which proves handy when attempting to land complex combos. You can also scan your face into the game using Sony's Eye Toy, and play human opposition online. Best of all, there is a Classic Mode, which lets you play the new levels (and some old ones) in the style of the original games.Steve Boxer
Upgrading AOL mailAOL 7 allowed one to search for emails containing specific text, but in AOL 9, Search Email only searches email address and title. I don't want to transfer AOL 9 mail to AOL 7 to search it, but AOL technical support cannot suggest any alternative.Peter del TufoJack Schofield replies:I don't know of an alternative either. However, AOL's mail software is very limited and does not follow internet standards, so I think it would be better to switch to a program that does. This became possible in April when AOL announced support for the IMAP and SMTP protocols (but not POP3), which means you can use programs such as Outlook, Outlook Express and Eudora. There are also non-official instructions for using Mozilla Thunderbird and other clients, so you can choose the one that gives the search facilities you need. The Unofficial AOL Email FAQ has details athttp://members.aol.com, and gives the relevant UK server addresses as imap.uk.aol.com and smtp.uk.aol.com. Remember to move mail to a local (PC) folder if you want to keep it permanently.Radio errorWhenever I try to listen to a radio show on a website, I receive an error message saying: "cannot open. Please verify that the path and filename are correct and try again. (error=8007000D)". My system is Windows 98SE.Brian CarrJS:Error 8007000D means "The data is invalid". Usually that's because you are trying to play a type of file that Windows Media Player can't handle, and with web radio services, that is what happens when it is streamed in a RealAudio format. You will have to download a (free) RealPlayer to listen to them. BBC Radio has a good help page atwww.bbc.co.uk/radio/audiohelp.shtml, and this has a RealPlayer link (Go to Download Realplayer page) near the top.Expensive memoryI want to upgrade my two-year-old Dell Dimension 8250 to 512MB. Dell referred me to the sole UK supplier who quoted me &#163;130 for two 128MB modules. Is there an unreported memory shortage?Ruka ShenjeJS:This particular Dell uses Rambus RIMM memory, which Intel was once keen on, but must now be considered non-standard. If you search Google. co.uk for PC1066 RDRAM you can find cheaper sources (eg upgrade kits athttp://www.pc-memory-upgrade.co.uk. Double-check with the Dell manual and the supplier to make sure you are getting the right chips and that they will work with the speed of your motherboard.Thumbs downI'm running Windows XP Home SP2 and have noticed a hidden file, Thumbs.db, being created in almost every directory where I have pictures stored. Is there any use for it, and can it be disabled from being made in the first place?Arvind.JS:Recent versions of Windows can show thumbnails of your pictures so you can see which ones are which. It takes time to make the thumbnails, so Windows saves them in the Thumbs.db file rather than reconstruct them every time. Go to Windows Explorer, select View and make sure Thumbnails is not selected. To disable this feature, go to Tools|Folder Options|View and click   the View tab. Look under Advanced settings and tick the box that says: Do not cache thumbnails.Backchat&#183;In response to Wired House, Tim Gossling writes: "If Adrian Mayer is going to install wires under the plaster, then he should put it inside conduits or ducts. If he installs the conduits first, he can decide on the exact type of wiring to put in at leisure, and even change it later. Another possibility is to use removable hollow skirting boards, using systems such as PendockProfiles. They can be removed for painting so paint doesn't get on the carpet."&#183;Maurice Zeegen asked about running his old Chambers Dictionary CD under Windows XP. Fraser Jephson and Mark Beed have reminded me that XP has a "compatibility mode" for running old software, which I'd forgotten. Press F1 for Help and search for "Getting older programs" for an explanation and a link to the Compatibility Wizard. Alternatively, right click the exe file, select Properties, and click the Compatibility tab. Jeff Acheson says he uses the Chambers in Microsoft Bookshelf 99, which runs under XP. Finally, Chambers Harrap Publishers - while pointing out that the Chambers 21st Century Dictionary is different from the Chambers Dictionary - says that a CD-Rom of the current Chambers "will be published in 2005".&#183;Following the discussion on renaming digital camera images, Michael Glover has written a free downloadable program called Renumber, which will rename images from PIC00456.JPG to 001-PIC00456-06Sept2004.JPG and so on. "It's then easy to load the files into IrfanView's Thumbnails program and change the PIC00456 strings to something more meaningful," he says. Go towww.bucina.netand click the link to Digital Camera images.
It is a story with components that would have most conspiracy theorists running for the nearest tinfoil hat shop: a radical media organisation, the FBI and an apparently anonymous foreign government.Last week, Rackspace, a hosting company with headquarters in Texas, handed two of its London-based web servers to the FBI after a subpoena for their contents was issued by a US district court. The servers contained material belonging to the Independent Media Centre - better known asIndymedia- a conglomeration of global radical anti-globalisation sites produced by ordinary citizens. Indymedia claims it was not informed of the decision to seize its content, nor has it been told the reasons, despite the fact that 20 sites and more than 1m pieces of content were affected.The FBI has said it was acting on behalf of a foreign government, though for the American subpoena to have power in the UK, it would need approval from either the British courts or the home secretary. Such agreements would usually be made over investigations into terrorism, though nobody involved has been able to confirm this.Rackspace said it is complying with a court order "which establishes procedures for countries to assist each other in investigations such as international terrorism, kidnapping and money laundering". Clearly, such serious allegations against any media organisation - even one produced by amateurs - could be devastating."The site crashed last Thursday at 4pm," says one Indymedia UK volunteer who asked to remain anonymous.   "Since then, the only official communication we've had was from Rackspace, but they would only say they couldn't tell us what was going on. No one at the FBI has talked to us about this, and we have not been told anything."With the situation shrouded in a legal fog, the often-controversial grassroots news organisation has struggled to operate its sites across countries including the UK, France, Belgium, Serbia, Portugal, Italy and parts of South America."This seizure has grave implications for free speech and privacy," says Kurt Opsahl, staff attorney of Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights campaign group working with Indymedia to uncover the root of the FBI action.It is not the first time Indymedia has come to blows with law enforcement. During the G8 summit in Genoa three years ago, buildings used by Indymedia journalists were among those raided by Italian police. Computers were destroyed and equipment seized in an action that international press watchdog Reporters Sans Frontieres described as unprecedented and incredibly violent.Founded as an anti-globalisation news source covering the protests against the World Trade Organisation summit held in Seattle in 1999, Indymedia quickly turned into an international network of citizen journalists. It provides a voice of underground political opinion around the world, though its open door policy has seen the occasional publication of unsavoury and offensive content, including anti-semitism and incitement to violence - though representatives are quick to disown these.The latest raid is more than just   emblematic of the conflict between one radical anti-government organisation and the establishment. It highlights the potential for conflict between law enforcement agencies and citizen publishers and sends a warning to anyone involved in web publishing operations."Certainly on face value it looks like an attempt to gag an independent media organisation," says Barry Hugill, a spokesman for civil liberties organisation Liberty. "It is just possible that there is a legitimate reason for this action, but we certainly need more clarification."At a time when mainstream media is being opened up to the masses, such crackdowns deal a blow to citizen journalism. Threats to the freedom of web publishers could damage the amateur investigators and webloggers who are the lifeblood of independent online journalism. The lack of information given about these seizures raises the potential threat that anyone could see their content removed without warning or explanation. It shows how fragile internet publishing can be - even in the hands of major media organisations."It is easy to go after the provider or the hosting company to close down a website," says Yaman Akdeniz, the director ofCyber Rights and Civil Libertiesand a lecturer at the University of Leeds cyberlaw research unit. "Unfortunately, arbitrary censorship exists. There are less risky places to publish information and there are more risky places. I do not recommend anybody to rely on a hosting company in the UK, and certainly our cyber-rights.org servers are run outside the UK for a variety of reasons."&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
It is hard not to feel sorry for Tokyo commuters who can spend hours on trains and buses each day. However, from next month, their journey may pass more quickly thanks to the arrival of a digital satellite TV service delivered directly to mobile devices.Mobile Broadcasting (Mobaho) will offer up to seven high-quality TV channels, 30 audio stations and data information to small handsets and, eventually, mobile phones. If the launch is successful, the company will roll its service out across the Far East and on to the US.The Ceatec exhibition in Chiba last week showed off the Mobaho hardware. Sharp unveiled the 4EMB1, a device that looks more like a personal video player than a handheld TV. It sports a 3.6in monitor, offers MPeg4 video and MP3 audio playback and has a battery that gives two hours' of TV. Toshiba's MTV-S10 is similarly specified, though smaller and lighter.Both devices include slots for Secure Digital cards, enabling consumers to record programmes and play them back later. Subscriptions to the service cost from   around &#163;2 per month. Several manufacturers are working on integrating the system with mobile phones.TV pictures on mobile phones aren't new to Japanese consumers. One of the hottest phones is the Vodafone Sharp V402SH, which features an integrated analogue TV tuner that can deliver an hour of footage. At the show, Sanyo also paraded its 2000 1X EV-DO, a prototype handset that can tune into digital terrestrial channels.There is a large market emerging for TV on mobile devices in the far east, but will it catch on in Britain? Most of the networks believe consumers will want to catch a few minutes of TV on their handsets. Vodafone has just announced the completion of a successful digital terrestrial to mobile trial in Berlin. Meanwhile, in spring, Nokia, Sony, NTL and O2 are teaming up to test in the Oxford area mobile phones capable of showing digital terrestrial TV.So will you be able to watch Big Brother Six on your mobile? You shouldn't rule it out.
Security is still the top priority at Microsoft, according to Steve Ballmer, the company's chief executive, who swept through Europe earlier this month.At a press round table in London, when Ballmer talked about the continued growth in sales of PCs and other devices, he admitted: "Security is the potential downside for the business. That is, do people have enough faith in the reliability and security of these intelligent devices that they will entrust &#91;them with&#93; a greater and greater percentage of the information they deal with every day?"If we don't get things right on the security front, (a) we're not doing what our customers want, and (b) I don't think we're doing those things which are   going to allow our industry to continue to grow, and us to grow with it."This echoes a memo Bill Gates sent to Microsoft staff in January 2002, when he launched his Trustworthy Computing initiative. There's been a long wait for any real benefits, but Ballmer cites Windows XP's long-delayed Service Pack 2 as one example.SP2, says Ballmer, was "a major browser release", which is why he thinks it is funny that people are complaining about the lack of new features in Internet Explorer. "We pushed them back a little bit, I admit that," he says, thumping the table. "Do I know that there is a list of features as long as my arm that people would like to see? Absolutely yes, we're hard at work on them. But we thought the immediate priority was to   address the issues around security and reliability."However, not every user is on Windows XP, and not every XP user will install SP2. "We can never say to people: 'the answer to all security problems is to upgrade to the latest version'," Ballmer replies. "That's why we talk about the need for isolation, with network quarantine technology, firewalls... More of this needs to happen."The biggest threat, "at least in corporates," he says, "is with machines that are on their networks sometimes and off their networks at other times. The machines get infected when they are off the network, and when they are re-attached, they bring the virus ... "At Microsoft, therefore, PCs are checked for patches and scanned   for viruses before they are allowed to connect to the network. Ballmer reckons this "quarantine technology" will be shipped "certainly by Longhorn, but the goal is to be before".Security threats can be reduced but not eliminated. "We will be working on Trustworthy Computing for the rest of my days at Microsoft, which I hope are many," says Ballmer. "There are bad people out there in cyberspace, so to speak: they're not going to go away. I'd love to tell you that all vulnerabilities will disappear in n years, but I wouldn't believe that, and nobody else would, either."Still, Microsoft knows it must make the cost and pain of dealing with security threats lower than the cost and pain of switching to an alternative. Will it make it?Useful linksTrustworthy Computingwww.microsoft.com/mscorp/twc/twc_whitepaper.mspxTrustworthy Computing for ITwww.microsoft.com/technet/security/default.mspxThe Bill Gates memo/www.microsoft.com/technet/security/default.mspx&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Pleaseinclude address and phone number. If you do not wantyour email address published, please say so.
It might not be the largest consumer electronics exhibition in the world, but the annual Ceatec technology fair, held lat week in Chiba on the outskirts of Tokyo, is among the most influential. The major Japanese players use it to unveil products for both local and international markets.In typical style, Sony dominated with a huge stand that was home to its range of audio/visual and IT devices. However, genuine new product was rather thin on the ground. Instead, the Japanese got their first glimpse of the company's so-called TiVo-killer, the Vaio VGX-X90P. Due on sale next month in Japan for around &#163;2,500, the unit is a PC-based home video server that has four 250GB hard drives and three TV tuners, which enables it to record up to seven channels simultaneously.The Japanese also got to see the NW-HD2, the second incarnation of Sony's 20GB hard disk-based music player, available in three colours.After a few years of precious little innovation in flat screens, Sony hit back with the Qualia 005, an LCD set that boasts a unique array of light-emitting diodes called Triluminos, which Sony claims provides a far wider spectrum of colour than standard LCDs.LCD TV sets dominated the stand of rival manufacturer Sharp, where pride of place went to a 65in model, the world's biggest. At the other end of the scale, Sharp paraded the V602SH, a two megapixel camera phone with swivelling screen and a 2x optical zoom lens. It will be available in the UK in an altered format as Vodafone's flagship 3G handset, the V902SH. Also on display was the Sharp GX25, a mid-range GPRS clamshell phone with VGA camera that will go on sale in the UK shortly.Toshiba's stand was dominated by its range of hard disk-based technology, including its F Series GigaBeat MP3 players, due to launch in the UK in the spring. Toshiba also paraded its tiny 0.8in hard disk and showed how the disk could be integrated into a mobile phone to enable it to store video, audio and images.No Japanese consumer electronics show is complete without a robot or two. JVC obliged with J4, an upright red robot controlled via Bluetooth. It is being billed as a rival to Sony's similarly specified QRIO.Finally, a group of Japanese IT companies unveiled proposals for using light-emitting diodes - an upcoming standard for existing light fittings and traffic lights - to transmit data at high speeds over distances of up to 10 metres. The idea is that, in the future, someone trapped in a room could point their mobile at a light bulb and rescuers would know exactly where they are.
Being able to dictate letters down the phone is the feature of Pannone &amp; Partners' new telephone system that Carol Jackson, head of personal injury at the Manchester-based law firm, likes best.The company has replaced its conventional telephone arrangements with a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) system - which converts ordinary voice calls into packets of data that can be sent over the net - from Canadian company Mitel. This has provided increased flexibility for the firm's 74 partners and 495 employees.Now it is quick and easy for people to move their extension number to a new desk or take calls that come into the office when they are at home. And one bonus is that it is easy to dictate letters and other legal instructions over the phone and have them arrive on the right person's desktop PC."From the car after a meeting works for me," says Jackson. "It's easier than sitting in front of my secretary while she waits for me to gather my thoughts. The dictation appears on her PC, or can be routed to another secretary."Jackson adds: "I use the &#91;VoIP&#93; system not just in the office but at home over broadband, too. It means that if I've been to a meeting in Leeds, I don't have to go back to the office in Manchester just to send an urgent fax. Then when I log on from home, I can check what my secretary's typed up and can, if I need to, fax off a few documents."Some of these features are achieved by using Citrix software to connect the law firm's home-based   users to the company's case system, but there is no doubt that VoIP makes the system more versatile.Pannone &amp; Partners first considered integrating VoIP with its IT system when its contract for the Centrex switching service expired early this year. It negotiated a one-month rolling contract while it looked for an alternative.At that time, the firm had to pay every time a lawyer changed desks and needed the telephone extension moved. It also took 10 days for the company they were using to make changes to the pick-up groups, which enable any lawyer in a department to answer the phone for another.Today, all the company's VoIP handsets plug into its data network, and a separate telephone network is not needed. To move a handset, all the user has to do is plug it into an Ethernet socket at their new desk, plug their PC into the handset, and change some parameters in the VoIP software. New pick-up groups can also be set up using the software.Chris Styles, the technical systems manager, says: "The new system is more adaptable, costs less to maintain and integrates better with IT systems such as Microsoft Exchange (email) and Outlook (contacts)."When a phone call is received in the office, the recipient can see the phone number/person calling on their PC screen. They can transfer the call to a colleague either before they've answered it, or afterwards.To ensure the client gets a quick response, they can also see, from a small icon on the screen, whether the lawyer they intend to transfer the call to is already on the phone.These features - as well as confer ence calling and being able to see if a colleague is away from their desk - will be available to most of the firm's lawyers from home this month. Styles says the VoIP system also records the length of calls for onward billing.The Mitel system cost &#163;250,000 and was installed over a weekend. The external phone lines were simply connected to the firm's data network rather than to its old telephone network. For resilience, the 180 incoming lines are now connected to three linked switches, so if one goes down, the others can take over.Styles says: "I did not find VoIP difficult to get my head around as I come from a data background, but I do advise any company thinking of putting in a system to get a thorough assessment of their local area network, to make sure it can cope with extra voice traffic."We got 360 Solutions &#91;communications consultants&#93; to do an assessment for us, and though we did not need to spend extra on expanding network capacity, we did have to prioritise voice traffic on the network, so there would not be a delay of even a second while people were speaking."The system could also help some of the firm's employees who are parents to balance work and family commitments by being able to work from home when they need to. Of its staff, 74% are female, and its managing partner, Joy Kingsley, has two young children.The old Centrex phone system isn't missed. Styles says: "All it provided really was a handset on a desk - costing us money in maintenance, and in moves and changes."
Be careful what you wish for. That was the lesson learnt by Jonathan Schwartz, president and chief operating officer of Sun Microsystems, earlier this month. The day after he defended software patents on his weblog, his company lost a patent case against Kodak, and gained a potential damages bill of $1.01 bn, half of Sun's operating profit between January 1998 and June 2001.At the heart of the case are three patents Kodak bought from Wang Laboratories in 1997. These patents, Kodak claimed - and the jury agreed - were infringed by Sun's Java programming language. Java is free, but Kodak is claiming the cash on the basis that the sales of Sun's hardware products were based on the way they could run Java. Sun is appealing against the   decision: many analysts are incredulous about the patents, which cover instances where an application "asked for help" from another application, saying that this concept is the basis of much of modern computer programming.Sun might not worry about the cash so much, since it is up to its own patenting activities. Another mainstay of the modern software business is per-employee licensing, where software is charged depending on the number of people working at a company. Sun has applied for a patent on this licensing scheme, according to a recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the US financial watchdog.While the lawyers fight among themselves, more cases are coming to the fore. The online auction site   eBay is appealing against a $30m damages award, that said it infringed a patent on a form of electronic auction. The Buy It Now button, which you can press to buy the lot immediately at a set price, was patented by MercExchange in 1994, but eBay says the patent does not exactly pertain to its operation. The case is continuing.Meanwhile, Microsoft is also in the patenting fray, but this time it is not winning. One of its patents was withdrawn at the beginning of the month after a re-examination of the application. The patent covered the FAT file format, used by MS-DOS but also used by the removable storage devices inside digital cameras and such gadgets. The Public Patent Foundation, a lobbying group, forced the re- reading after becoming concerned that such a patent would allow   Microsoft to shut down open source software efforts that interfaced with such systems.Microsoft had been charging manufacturers 25c per unit for anything that used the FAT format. The company is also appealing against the decision.Patents have become a major focus for Microsoft over the past few months: its chairman, Bill Gates, says it hopes to file 3,000 applications this year, up from 2,000 a year ago. That would take his company close to IBM, which holds the record for applying for the most patents over the past 11 years. It was granted 3,415 patents in 2003, with Hewlett-Packard the only other technology company close, with 1,759 to its credit.&#183;Jonathan Schwartz's weblog:http://blogs.sun.com/roller/page/jonathan/20040930&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
Most business travellers expect to be able to work from their hotels, even if it is just sending and receiving a few emails. No surprise, therefore, that hotels are increasingly competing to offer the most reliable high speed internet access in both guest rooms and in public areas.A spectacular example is the 880-bed Park Inn hotel at Heathrow. Next month, it will become the largest internet-ready hotel in the UK, with all rooms and public areas covered with wireless services via Wi-Fi hotspots, as well 360 rooms cabled for Ethernet access.The hotel is owned by Rezidor SAS, one of the largest hotel groups in Europe, and a subsidiary of SAS airlines. Rezidor SAS has 18 hotels in the UK, of which about 80% are "internet ready", using hotspots and Ethernet direct to rooms. Rezidor says internet services are used by between 4% and 20% of guests, with the higher levels usually occurring when conferences are held in a hotel.Competition in the Heathrow area is intense. The 350-bed Hilton London Heathrow already has full connectivity. A hotspot covering all common areas has been supplied by BT Openzone, and every guest room has an Ethernet connection, supplied by STSN, hotel connectivity specialists.BT and STSN have teamed up to become two of the leading providers of internet services in the hotel sector. BT Openzone has supplied hotspot connectivity to almost 200 hotels, including many Hilton, Ramada Jarvis, Corus and Regal hotels. Typically, hotspots cover foyers, bars, restaurants and conferencing areas. STSN has provided wired and wireless services in 150 hotels, notably in Hilton and Marriott properties.BT Openzone also has a roaming agreement with The Cloud, a Wi-Fi hotspot provider with services in 300 UK hotels including JD Wetherlodges, Young's Inns and Enterprise Inns, plus connectivity in the bar areas of 10 Village Hotels.These examples are still at the leading edge, but the pattern is being followed across the country in many four and five-star hotels. Three-star business-oriented hotels and upmarket tourist hotels are also beginning to install basic hotspots services.Although most admit that hotspots make little profit, international hotels increasingly see connectivity as a new revenue stream, especially when it comes to attracting conferences.The Hilton chain is one of the most aggressive in trying to become known as a leader in providing inter net and other high-tech services to customers. It has even created an internal business, Hilton Connections, which has teamed up with BT and STSN to provide services to all 76 hotels in the group. Sixty are wired with the rest coming on stream by the end of the year.This internal team will also help the hotels provide more extensive services. Typically, this means laying on large amounts of extra bandwidth for conferences, when huge numbers of users can need internet access simultaneously. Hilton Connections is also working closely with mobile phone operators to boost coverage in their properties so that connectivity is improved during conferences.Graeme Powell, the European managing director of STSN, says the stakes are high: "We wired Marriott hotels and then advised the Hilton Group, after which they were able to dramatically increase monthly revenues. Flexible connectivity is now a must-have in such hotels."Most hotels claim that the best solution for customers and revenues is to have a mixture of hotspots in public places and wired connections in rooms. They report that usage is higher in wired rooms mainly because they can offer better bandwidth and because all laptops have Ethernet cards but only around 40% are Wi-Fi-enabled. Other hotels opt for internet provision bundled with entertainment services such as Quadriga's Genesis - an internet, TV and games platform used in 46 UK hotels.But with usage levels still relatively low, wireless access appears to be more of a value-added service, or loss leader, rather than a revenue   generator for most hotels.Outside of the big chains, most hotels opt for the cheaper option of extending hotspots to guest rooms. Eighteen months ago, the independent 205-bed Coppid Beech Hotel in Bracknell installed a hotspot, which extends from the public areas to every room via 24 base stations. It cost less than &#163;10,000 to install, compared with an estimated &#163;50,000 if all the rooms had been wired. Typically about 20 to 30 guests per day pay &#163;13 each for 24-hour access.The hotel's general manager, Alan Blenkinsopp, says it makes a big difference: "In this area, only 10% of our competitors offer internet access, so it gives us something extra. It took a while to get the technology right, and unfortunately itreduces phone revenue because people stop connecting using modems, but it definitely makes customers more likely to stay here."Blenkinsopp predicts the hotel will ultimately include internet access as a part of the room rate, thus providing it as a general service. He says the Wi-Fi installation cost has already been paid off despite the revenues being shared with the service provider, Liberty Europe Network.However, if the US is anything to go by, quality and service cost is likely to vary over the next few years. Research by STSN found that a tendency to include internet access in the cost of the room led to hotels having to take on the cost of the data line rather than share it with providers. Thus hotels picked cheaper connections with less bandwidth, increasing guest dissatisfaction. This was followed by a swing back to higher speed connections.According to STSN, US hotels are now considering two-tier services - basic speeds free of charge and higher speeds at fixed rates.But for the moment, any internet access in a UK hotel is the exception. Telecoms provider Nortel estimates that only 20% of business hotels in London offer a service.And those hotels thinking about getting wired face something of a dilemma over what to install. Ethernet connections are most frequently used, but are the most expensive to install. Wi-Fi is cheap, but many users do not have Wi-Fi enabled laptops. To make matters worse, some firms ban staff from using Wi-Fi due to concerns over security.But doing nothing may not be an option, if the UK experience follows the US. Research by Jupiter Research for BT in the US found that 87% of business travellers rate the availability of Wi-Fi in hotels as highly important.
Energy saverThe eighth annual Energy Efficiency Week is approaching fast - the dates are October 25-31 - and the Energy Saving Trust has launched a new website. Cunningly, this saves the energy required to visit what used to be three sites covering energy efficiency, renewables and transport. EST has sections taken from the Microsoft Book of Naming, such as My Car, My Home, and My Housing Stock, with those important links labelled "Get a grant". It also has many links to the established Save Energy site, which offers practical advice on things like cavity wall insulation.www.est.org.ukwww.saveenergy.co.ukDaily lifeRegrettable though it may be, you are probably not going to buy a paper copy of the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography - a 12-year, &#163;22.5m production published last month in 60 volumes - even at the generous introductory price of &#163;6,500. However, the DNB's website has a free section, Today's life, which provides a topical biography of the day. Alternatively, you can get it sent to you every day by email. Recent lives have included Princess Di, Jackie Milburn and Constantine the Great.&lt;A HREF="http://www.oup.com/oxforddnb/info/""&gt;www.oup.com/oxforddnb/infoGet clusteredMany words have multiple meanings or uses, so it can be useful to have a search engine that clusters the different meanings together. That's what Clusty does. It is a new meta-search engine, now available in beta test form, but the technology is familiar:   it's based on the Vivisimo clustering engine, previously used in its enterprise search product. Clusty also offers a toolbar and some personalisation features, and is well worth a try. If that doesn't grab you, you can Clush the web instead. Clush offers thumbnail previews and lets you rate sites, if you sign up in exchange for an email address. However, the results still leave something to be desired.http://clusty.comwww.clush.comSink-o-pationWhy does your singing sound great in the shower? It's all down to volume, reverb and bass boost, according to Science of Music: Exploratorium's Accidental Scientist. The Flash site has been added to the selection at the Exploratorium in San Francisco, and it lets you view short videos and try a bit of mixing with hand-claps and foot-stomps, or explore the use of pans, glasses and other kitchen utensils as musical instruments.www.exploratorium.edu/musicWiki plusMany people have become familiar with Wiki pages - editable web pages - thanks to the popularity of the Wikipedia community written encyclopedia. A Palo Alto start-up, JotSpot, reckons it is taking Wikis to the next level. For example, the editing works like Microsoft Word, it's mail-enabled, and you can use it to create little online applications. Suggestions include managing meetings, sharing calendars/to do lists and recruitment. The site is in early beta test mode, and when you request a log-on, you have to describe what you plan to do with it.www.jot.comhttp://en.wikipedia.orgPhone shoppingFew things are as confusing as buying a mobile phone, and Foneshop.com is trying to make it easier. This month, it has added a Reviews tab, so people can post mini-reviews of phones, accessories and services, much as they do at Amazon and other shopping sites. It has a long way to go: few reviews have been posted, and not even the common Sony Ericsson T610 (Aluminium Haze) has one, whereas Amazon.co.uk has 11. Amazon also lets you shop for discounted and used phones, and you can sell your own.www.foneshop.comwww.amazon.co.ukListmaniaCan you tell the difference between a Unix application and an outlawed paramilitary/guerrilla organisation? If you found that too easy, try to separate the paint colours from rappers.www.mcsweeneys.net/links/listshttp://www.mcsweeneys.net/linksNew &amp; notedVirgin Galacticwww.virgingalactic.comMap a planethttp://pdsmaps.wr.usgs.govSheffield International Documentary Festivalwww.sheffield2004.comRandom acts of poetrywww.randomactsofpoetry.comSix of the best:BooksAmazonwww.amazon.co.ukABEwww.abebooks.comThe Online Books Pagehttp://digital.library.upenn.edu/bookswww.arts.ed.ac.uk/chbProject Gutenbergwww.gutenberg.netDistributed Proofreaderswww.pgdp.net
Catchy title that, eh? Anyway, Sports Interactive has created one of those viral Quicktime movie things to give Football Manager 2005 a bit of 'below the line' pre-publicity. The clip revolves around the 'Everyone's a Football Manager' catchphrase that seems to be the cornerstone of the company's marketing push. Anyway, you can download ithere. It's quite funny, but I have the funnier version with all the swearing left in. Sega sent it out 'by mistake'. What fun it is to watch an old man in a flat cap use the 'f' word.
Motorolarevealedsix new clamshell phones today, and entertainment is clearly foremost in the company's mind. The top of the range V620 features an impressive 262,000 colour screen, and most of the models come with several in-built games including Wakeboarder and the carefully titled, Golf. However, gaming seems to take a backseat to video capture and sharing - all the models offer this option. Manufacturers seem to be determined that we're going to take and swap images on our phones whether we want to or not. You've no doubt seen the achingly stylish Sony Ericsson K700i TV ads with that foppish unsmiling couple wandering around a neon-sprinkled city, moodily snapping photos before holding their handsets up to each other with sulky pouts. All very interesting, but most people are yet to find compelling reasons to share their snapshots, and are worried about how much it'll cost to send 'em and whether they can transmit them across different networks. Until these issues are sorted, its going to remain a minority pursuit.In contrast, wealllike playing games on our shiny new high-end phones, don't we? Indeed, telecoms research company,Juniper, has released a white paper, speculating that, "Java™ downloads will generate over $4.8bn in mobile revenues by 2009, with Mobile Games accounting for the vast majority of revenues". So perhaps some more imaginative offerings than 'Golf' might be an idea.On the plus side, Motorola's press release mentions that its handsets will feature, "vibration technology for interactive feedback". Let your imagination run wild...
ThePlays For Surewebsite mentioned inAugustis now live. PFS is a sort of multimedia version of Designed for Windows, or Intel's Centrino branding, or the Wi-Fi logo campaign, and the plectrum-like logo is intended to show the compatiility of products and services from many different companies. The featured music stores are MusicMatch, MSN Music and Napster. The featured products include WMA-compatible players from Rio, Creative Labs, Samsung and iRiver, and there's a plug for the AudioVox SMT5600 mobile phone from AT&amp;T Wireless, "coming soon".
"Virgin Electronics, the consumer electronics arm of Richard Branson's Virgin Group, today unveiled the Virgin Electronics Player 5GB, a sleek hard-drive based digital audio player weighing in at just 3.1 ounces. With 25 percent more storage than the leading mini-sized player, plus a built-in FM tuner and dual headphone jacks, the $249 Virgin Player illustrates Virgin's renowned dedication to customer value," says thepress release.Comment:The US-only VEP works with Virgin Digital and other music download services, including MSN Music, Napster and Wal-Mart. It is apparently based on the same PortalPlayer technology as Apple's iPod Mini.
1Fifa 20052Fable3Pokemon Fire Red4The Sims 25Burnout 3: Takedown6Rome: Total War7Tony Hawk's Underground 28Star Wars: Battlefront9Pokemon Leaf Green10Def Jam: Fight for NYSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
