The girl in the black beret appears to be in her early 20s. Her eyebrows are thick and bushy and her lips, coated with a light lustre of pink lipstick, wear a lingering pout. If you look at her closely you can see her freckles and, closer still, the very pores of her skin. When she smiles, you may also notice that she has slightly chipped teeth.The girl's name is Kaya, but despite the image being rendered in explicit detail, she is not real. Kaya is a digital model, the painstakingly constructed effort of Alceu M Baptistao, a Brazilian animator and special-effects artist who is hoping to develop her career as a virtual star. Composed of tens of thousands of polygons, Kaya is one of the most perfect examples of a new generation of digital models about to head our way.What makes Kaya so interesting is not just the quality of her construction (which took more than 18 months) but the inclusion of her imperfections. What marks out Kaya from earlier models such as Lara Croft are the inclusion of her facial blemishes - the freckles, the bushy eyebrows, the slightly chipped teeth - tiny details that serve to create an illusion so convincing, you must look twice to decide if she is real.Kaya is currently among a troupe of digital beauties on show at the Waterman's Arts Centre in Brentford, west London. Perfectly Real is an exhibition exploring the phenomenon of hyper-realistic digital models such as Kaya. In a room in the upper gallery, around a dozen large colour prints of digital models hang from the walls. Behind a black curtain, a projector beams moving images of digital models walking down invisible catwalks. In the most popular   part of the exhibition, a group of schoolchildren create their own virtual idol on a computer using a basic animation package called Poser.The thing you notice walking round Watermans is that all but one of the digital models are women and all of the creators are men. "I think that there's one set of designers who are trying to live out their fantasies - to just create women they'd like to see," explains Niki Gomez, the show's curator. "But then you have another group who are trying desperately to create something that is believable."Gomez came across Kaya in Digital Beauties, a book by Julius Weidemann published earlier this year by the Anglo-German publisher Taschen. From huge-eyed Japanese cowgirls to Amazonian superbabes on motorbikes, Weidemann's book is a fascinating, glossy 580-page catalogue of digital models from nearly 100 animation studios across the world."One of the reasons why people started to make digital models is that there is no greater challenge than mapping a human body," explains Weidemann, whose accent veers between his native Brazil and his more recent home in Cologne. "I started the book while working for a computer graphics magazine in Japan in the late 90s. I kept coming across games designers who would spend their working day rendering landscapes for racing games and spend their spare time producing digital models to perfect their skills."Obsessive behaviour often creates obsessive subject matter. Which is perhaps why a fair chunk of Weidemann's book could be written off as coffee-table porn. For every hyper-realistic exploration of a digital woman, such as Kaya, Digital Beauties features three with unrealistically large breasts. But filter out the provocative imagery of scantily clad women and you will discover some of the finest examples of computer graphics yet produced. Take Daniel Robichaud's hauntingly real digital resurrection of Marlene Dietrich. The Canadian animator chose the German chanteuse as the subject of his digital model and brought her back to life a decade after her death. The effect is simply breathtaking.We have long encountered Kaya's digital sisters in the virtual worlds of computer games, but more recently, they have begun to appear elsewhere. On television adverts, in movies and, very soon, on your mobile phone, the use of ever more complicated digital models is becoming more commonplace.In Germany, the design studio NoDNA is populating European interactive TV channels with a   procession of virtual presenters. In France, the digital model Eve Solal has been signed by the Ford model agency and she even has her own Saturday morning radio show. Closer to home, the DA group of Glasgow produce what it describes as a range of "interactive agents". It, too, has a virtual pop star in the form of Tmmy (pronounced "Timmy") and it has also recently created Seonaid, an online news presenter for the Scottish Executive. The company's next plan is to bring digital models to mobile phones with a range of avatars that will perform instant messaging tasks. In Japan, digital models have been used to sell anything from cosmetics to computers to cash loans.The world's first virtual pop star appeared in Tokyo in 1996, created by the talent agency HoriPro, Kyoko Date (pronounced dah-te) blazed a trail to the top of the Japanese hit parade before burning out into cyber obscurity a year later. Then, in 1999, the Elite model agency signed Webbie Tookay, a virtual model created by the Australian designer Steven Stahlberg. According to her website, Webby was thought to be the first of a generation of supermodels that would "never gain weight, are never too tired to work, never late, never do drugs, never let their personal lives interfere with work and can be in many places at the same time."But Webby went the same way as Kyoko, although the legacy of both lives on. The science-fiction visionary William Gibson's 1996 novel, Idoru, was inspired by Kyoko Date, as is the bevy of virtual pop stars that have followed in her wake with names such as Nana, Nene and the phenomenally successful Terai Yuki.We are not yet at the   point where today's supermodels are about to be dislodged by digital rivals, the latter still take too long, and cost too much, to make. It took a dozen computer artists nearly two years to create Kyoko Date, while Columbia Pictures reportedly spent $9m perfecting the hair of its female protagonist, Dr Aki Ross, in the film version of Final Fantasy. Even then things were far from perfectly real.As the journalist Michael Burns pointed out in another recently published book, Femme Digital (Ilex), however real the digital models are, "the world has yet to be convinced. While near-perfect in still image form, both Aki Ross and Eve Solal have been criticised for a sense of 'lifelessness' when animated, with the unreal look and behaviour of the eyes being the main culprit and the plasticity of the face a close second".But the writer and curator Jasia Reichardt puts it another way. At a recent lecture at Tate Modern in London, she argued that digital models can have more appeal than their real counterparts: "This is why they had to give Lara Croft a human form, even though, with it, she becomes less interesting as a character. The fable needed substance. Angelina Jolie provided the flesh but lost the charm of the quirky cartoon." In the search for hyper-realism, says Reichardt, we lose our innocence.Fine artists are also exploring the possibilities of digital models. In 1999, Pierre Huyghe and Phillipe Parreno paid 40,000 yen (&#163;215) for the image file and copyright of Annlee, a rather forlorn Japanese manga character. The pair then "open sourced" the file, sharing her to a group of fellow artists who were free   to do what they pleased with the original image. The pair say the work highlighted new kinds of collaborative processes (hence the open source) as well as providing a critique on the use of copyright.As the critic Elizabeth Bard commented in the art magazine Contemporary, until the pair of French artists freed her from the Manga studio, Annlee was no more than an extra, "destined to live no more than a few pages in a comic book or frames of a film". Instead, Annlee has enjoyed a rather more illustrious career, showing at the Venice Biennalle, the New York Guggenheim, the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London before culminating in a solo show called No Ghost Just a Shell at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art earlier this year.What are we to make of these   digital women, these pixelated puppets manipulated by men? Will we ever accept them? In a way we already do. The fashion and magazine industries routinely manipulate images of both men and women with airbrushes and lighting and, more recently, software packages like Photoshop. Keep a look out for the current Dior campaign for its new range of handbags and ask yourself if the models in the adverts look real or not. They are, but the images exemplify how far the line between the real and the virtual is being blurred. Finally, consider this: which image is more "real" the image of warts-and-all Kaya or the Dior models who have had their blemishes removed?&#183;Perfectly Real runs until November 11. Details 020 8232-1010,www.watermans.org.ukKayawww.vetorzero.com.br/kayaEve Solalwww.evesolal.comIllusion 2kwww.illusion2k.comNoDNAwww.nodna.comDigital Marlenewww.danielrobichaud.com/marlene.htmlAmazon Soulwww.amazonsoul.caya
Trilogies are generally the province of fantasy authors, not academics. In William Mitchell's defence, his series of books about information/communications technologies and the city, just completed with the publication of Me++ (MIT Press), wasn't planned. Rather, it emerged as a result of what he calls "real time scholarship".Dean of the school of architecture and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and head of media arts and sciences at the MIT Media Lab, Mitchell says the aim was to put out books that might have "an effect on critical policy and design debates at moments of very rapid technological and social change".City of Bits appeared in 1994, as the net was reaching the mainstream, E-Topia in 1999 at the height of dotcom excess. Shot through with post-dotcom sobriety, Me++ describes the move from virtual reality - the old 90s idea of the net as a separate, alternative realm - to "augmented reality" (AR), in which ubiquitous computing and mobile wireless networks are used to reconnect us to the real world.Mitchell muses on how AR will change our sense of our selves. Me++ is "a play on C++, the popular programming language. Among programmers, + means incremented or extended, so Me++ suggests the computationally extended self." He suggests we should no longer think of ourselves as "fixed, discrete individuals", but as nodes in a network. "I am part of the networks and the networks are part of me. I am visible to Google. I link, therefore I am."AR is also changing our cities, which have always been products of boundaries and networks, he points out. But in the past, the boundaries were more important - the image of a city in medieval times is often one of city walls. Now, networks are more prominent: the London Tube map is one of the great icons of the city.As a result, architects need to learn a new flexibility. In the past, people had to go to a certain place in the city to get certain services. Now, through mobile technology, those services can   come to them and they can reconfigure the world to their needs.Similarly, programmers should think how networks might be worked into the immediate fabric of people's lives - via wearable computers and smart clothes.These ideas feed into the projects Mitchell is leading at the Media Lab. Take the concept car his students are developing with architect Frank Gehry and General Motors. The car will be "an intelligent interface to the resources the city offers. Like a good London taxi driver, it should know what you want, know what the city has to offer, and have the capacity to relate the two. It's as much electronics and information systems as mechanical engineering and styling."There have been murmurs that the Media Lab, the place that invented   the 90s future, may be a thing of the past. The dotcom crash did cause problems, says Mitchell. "But we cut expenses and redefined priorities." The Media Lab continually reinvents itself, he adds, tracking new areas such as nanotechnology, viral networks, embodied intelligence and human augmentation.The commitment to bring together ideas and people from the arts and   the sciences remains, though in the economic climate, corporate sponsors might see this approach as fuzzy."When corporate sponsors are more cautious, we take on a greater component of government research funding," Mitchell responds. Does that change the research focus, especially since 9/11? "We're interested in issues of security and surveillance, but I think our view is more nuanced, multisided and critical than that of, say, Admiral Poindexter", who is behind the attempt to use surveillance and data mining to identify, track and stop terrorists of the future.Certainly, Me++ covers the downsides of ubiquitous networks. Written before the recent power cut in New York, the book is prescient in its coverage of network vulnerability and how small faults can cascade through a network to produce major problems."Many of our current networks are vulnerable but they don't have to remain that way." Mitchell also tracks the rise of increased surveillance, and suggests that as RFID tags and cameraphones spread, we will need to work hard to create zones of privacy.The rise of decentralised surveillance, via cameraphones and moblogging, is also changing things. "You can't draw a clear distinction between the subjects of surveillance and those who employ surveillance. Increasingly, we are all both."That's not necessarily a bad thing, says Mitchell. The Rodney King videotape showed that "the powerless can sometimes turn surveillance dramatically against the powerful."Mitchell's approach is hopeful (rather than hype-ful), a world away from the glib futurology that dominated writing about technology over the past decade. "I see technology as a human process that continually opens up possible futures," he concludes. "The point is to provide a critical guide to those futures, and to spark debate about the decisions that will produce those futures."MIT Media Labwww.media.mit.eduWilliam Mitchell's biographywww.media.mit.edu/people/bio_wjm.html&#183;William Mitchell will be speaking at the Tate Modern (in the Starr auditorium) at 6.30pm on November 19.See:www.tate.org.uk/modern/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
There is something uniquely British about a prewar-styled, canvas-topped Morgan sports car. Its anarchic handling and barely adequate creature comforts are outweighed by the excitement and sense of freedom generated behind the wheel, so lacking in much modern machinery. Customers wait years to buy one and, extraordinarily for a producer of fewer than 1,000 cars a year, the Morgan Motor Company is renowned around the world.Presiding over this eccentric marque for more than half a century was Peter Morgan - "PM" to everyone he knew - who has died aged 83.It was somehow fitting that he was born in a house next to the company's factory in Worcester Road, Malvern, where his father, HFS Morgan, had established the business 10 years earlier. After the Link school, Malvern, and Oundle, he studied at the Chelsea College of Automobile and Aero Engineering (1937-40), and joined the Royal Army Service Corps. From the motor shop, he was posted to Freetown, and later Nairobi, where he was put in charge of army workshops.Demobbed with the rank of captain, and following a brief period with the United Africa Company, Peter joined the family firm in February 1947. Under his father, it had been successful in the three-wheeler market that the tax policies of the day encouraged. Peter's arrival coincided with its decline, and so he focused on the development of the Morgan 4/4 - four wheels and four cylinders.A skilled draughtsman and engineer, he took an interest in all aspects of the motor manufacturing process, which, on a Morgan, still involves many craft techniques. The postwar years were difficult times for car manufacturers, with exporting a priority; even today half the firm's output goes abroad.In 1951, the Morgan Plus 4, a two-litre development of the 4/4, was launched, eventually adopting the more streamlined bodywork produced today. Peter campaigned relentlessly for the new model in trials and rallies, achieving a premier award in the Exeter trial and team prize in both the 1951 and 1952 RAC rallies. His enthusiasm for motor sport later led to the involvement of Chris Lawrence, whose class win at Le Mans in 1962, driving a Plus 4 Super Sports, was factory-backed.Following his father's death    in 1959, Peter became chairman of the company, by which time the world of car manufacturing was going through fundamental change. Manufacturing efficiencies and improvements were producing major competition for Morgan; both MG Sports Cars' MGB and the Triumph TR4, for instance, offered similar performance and more comfort, with wind-up windows and quick-release hoods. One of Morgan's attempts at a solution, the Plus 4 Plus, a closed coupe with fibreglass body, was not a success. On the other hand, the Plus 8, launched in 1968, became the "in" car of the moment; it was bought by the likes of Mick Jagger, and enjoyed   35 years in production.Peter took a gentlemanly approach to management, concluding deals with handshakes or murmured agreement. During the industry's most turbulent period of labour relations, in the 1970s, the Morgan workforce soldiered on, content in their attractive Malvern environment; they felt part of the family business.Peter's love of the simple life - operating his garden railway, collecting stamps, driving with his dog in the passenger seat or campaigning for the RSPCA, particularly against the live export of animals - moderated any desire to increase car production or profits. Whether by accident or design, this meant that   demand for Morgans always exceeded supply, making their ownership a financially attractive prospect.When asked at motor shows why he had not produced more user-friendly models, better protected from the elements, Peter maintained that there were only ever going to be a small number of people who would be happy owning a Morgan, which, in any case, was more comfortable than a motorbike.Always putting charm ahead of litigation, Peter built a worldwide network of dealers, who served him loyally, often preferring not to process warranty claims they had fulfilled for fear of offending him. However, he was also a shrewd negotiator,   notably with Rover in obtaining the use of their coveted all-aluminium V8 engine to make the Plus 8 so special.In a celebrated television programme in 1990, the BBC's small-business trouble-shooter, Sir John Harvey-Jones, for once found no welcome for his recommendations for improvements at Morgan, in this case that the company try to double its production and raise prices by a third. But while Peter had no interest in seeing how sales would fare in an open market, in subsequent years output per week rose from eight to 11, the highest level since the 1920s, with each vehicle produced in 17 days rather than 48. Ironically, the attention generated by the   programme boosted the order book still further, and, three years ago, Harvey-Jones himself saluted the new, all-aluminium Aero 8 model in a follow-up series.In 1999, Peter passed operational control of Morgan to his son Charles, who became managing director, while he stayed on as chairman. As well as Charles, Peter is survived by Sonya and Jill, the two other children of his marriage to Jane Christie, who died last July; and by his second wife, Heather Williams, whom he married in 1983.&#183;Peter Henry Geoffrey Morgan, sports car manufacturer, born November 3 1919; died October 20 2003
American software house Novell Inc is buying Germany's SuSE Linux AG for $210 million. The move "follows on the heels of its acquisition of open-source developer Ximian Inc. in August. These two acquisitions will make Novell, according to Novell representatives, the first billion dollar Linux software company."IBM and Novell will apparently continue to follow SuSE's path as a major IBM Linux partner; Novell also announced that IBM intends to make a $50 million investment in Novell convertible preferred stock as soon as Novell officially acquires SuSE." SeeeWeekfor more.Comment: Novell has bought and sold a lot of software in its day: it used to own Unix and WordPerfect, and brought together the applications that became part of WordPerfect Office before selling them to Corel. However, over the past five years it has been going nowhere fast, and in the past two years, it has lost money.As for being "the first billion dollar Linux software company", Novell will be a billion dollar software company whether you include SuSE's $35 million to $40 million annual revenues or not. On the same basis, IBM is the world's first $81 billion Linux software and hardware company, and Microsoft is the world's first $32 billion computer games company.
"Breaking ranks with Intel in the video game business, Microsoft said Monday that it would use IBM's processor technology in its next-generation Xbox video game console," says theMercury News. "It isn't clear why IBM won the business from Intel. Kevin Krewell, an analyst with Micro Design Resources, says IBM is 'hungrier' because it runs a money-losing chip business and needs high-volume chip deals to become profitable."Comment: Both companies were apparently careful not to say that the Xbox 2 would switch from x86 chips to PowerPC, though that's the most interesting possibility. It would also be interesting to know what rights IBM still has to make x86 chips (it used to own about 20% of Intel), and whether Microsoft has been careful to keep the Windows XP kernel -- used for the Xbox operating system -- independent of the processor. In the early days of Windows New Technology, it was available for four types of processor: Mips, Alpha, PowerPC and Intel x86.
Looks like Apple's ongoing quality control issues are getting worse. Earlier in the year there were the extensive problems with iMovie. Then there were grumbles about iTunes for PC. Now Apple's crown jewels - the OS itself - is under fire. My gripe is that my iMac nowdrops its internet connectionvery frequently, requiring a restart of the base station to get a few more minutes' surfing. But I've escaped quite lightly. More than a few people havelost all their databecause of an incompatibility with certain external FireWire drives which causes them to be wiped clean. And today Tony Smith atthe Registerreports another problem with the new encryption system, Filevault.
Ebookers is paying a cash bonus of nearly &#163;1m to a co-founder of the online travel agency, in case she feels "taken for granted" as a woman.The company, which yesterday revealed a &#163;3m third-quarter loss, said it was making a one-off payment of &#163;880,000 to Tani Dhamija following her work in integrating recently acquired businesses.Mrs Dhamija founded Ebookers alongside her husband, Dinesh, who admitted that the couple had little financial need for the money. Mr Dhamija said the payment was necessary because "firstly she's a woman and secondly she's my wife".He continued: "Women these days don't like being taken for granted. It's very important they get credit for what they do."A former air stewardess, Mrs Dhamija helped build the business from a single shop in Earls Court. The couple's 42% stake is now worth &#163;131m.Her responsibilities have included restructuring the company's UK operations following its purchase of rival Flightbookers. She has also taken charge of Tecnovate, an Indian outsourcing business.The company had planned to hand her share options amounting to 1.5% of the business. But, following advice from independent remuneration specialists, it opted for a cash payment.Ebookers' sales in the three months to September were up 86% to &#163;145m.
Nanotechnology, the science of the small, has become one of the biggest new fields in science. It's also become one of the most hotly contested. Warnings abound of how nanosized machines will one day run amok, reproducing and spreading out of control, covering the planet in a grey goo.There are warnings that nanoscale pollution will pose new threats to human health. Some groups are suggesting all work on nanotechnology be put on hold until we know more. In this special investigation, we get inside the labs doing the work and find out what is really going on in the world of nanotechnology. Are the fears all technophobic hype, or are researchers really meddling with a dangerous new science?Find out in Life, the weekly science, environment, medicine and technology supplement, with science jobs.  Only in the Guardian on Thursday.
It sounds like a pitch for a reality TV show. Eight strangers thrown together in an exotic location with live updates of their progress available - where else? - on the internet.But forget Big Brother. Meet "Big Blogger", an ambitious British Council initiative in which an unlikely combination of western and Middle Eastern journalists will join forces to report from the ground at the first World Summit on the Information Society.The journalists - most of them twentysomething and with no previous experience of web-logging - will be responsible for a single news site,www.dailysummit.net, providing instant news and comment from the three-day event in Geneva in December. The summit, which will attempt to do for the global "digital divide" what last year's earth summit in     Johannesburg sought for sustainable development, will reconvene for a second phase in Tunisia in 2005.The British Council - better known overseas than it is in the UK for its work in cultural and educational development - hopes the initiative will encourage dialogue between young people in the west and Muslim worlds, and within the Muslim world itself."What they produce will be a very important take on what is happening, and very different from the one you would expect from journalists covering the event officially," says Robin Baker, deputy director general of the British Council."I think most people would agree the more sharing of views and the more understanding of each others' opinions we have in the 21st century the better. One of the aims of the British Council is to engage and extend our dialogue with the Muslim world."We are committed to enriching and inspiring dialogue across different countries and cultures. It's not about agreeing with each other, but understanding where each of us is coming from."More than 50 heads of state and government are expected to attend the Geneva summit, which is endorsed by the general assembly of the United Nations.A draft plan of action has already set out some 140 action points and a list of objectives to be achieved by 2015. By giving developing countries access to information and communication technology, goes the theory, they will be able to "leapfrog the crucial missed stages of development by allowing them to reroute on to the digital expressway."But there is some way to go. Only one in 200 people in developing countries has access to a telephone, while the cost of running a computer in Bangladesh is eight times the average yearly salary."The divide between technology's haves and have-nots threatens to exacerbate the gaps between the rich and poor, within and among countries," the UN secretary general, Kofi Annan, has warned.The team of eight journalists heading to Geneva includes representatives from Qatar-based news channel al-Jazeera, the National Press Agency in Tunisia and newspapers in Egypt and Nigeria.UK representatives come from the Western Daily Press in Bristol, the Belfast Telegraph and the BBC World Service, and they met for the first time at the British Council's headquarters in London last month. The weblog will be printed in Arabic and English and will be supported by a professional IT team."We did a blog at the World Summit on Sustainable Development &#91;in Johannesburg&#93; but we wanted to do it differently, we wanted to involve young journalists," explains Rachel Roberts, head of the British Council's information society team."The men in grey suits will be there and the old hippies will be there. But we wanted to hear the voice of the younger generation. They are the ones who are going to inherit the information society."Their mission is to report in their own words what is going on. We brought them together but there is no control from us. It is theirs to do with what they want. It is their blog."One of the journalists the council is taking, al-Jazeera's Khalid Al Mahmoud, is under no illusion about the scale of the task ahead."To a great extent people in the third world have lost their passion for change. It's called the developing world but I don't see any developing going on," he argues."I hope to say to people, 'don't depend on only what your government is doing, you have to do something for yourself.' I'm not trying to dictate, I am just trying to do my job as a journalist."I was very interested to see what the NGOs &#91;non-governmental organisations&#93; had to say when I covered the earth summit in Johannesburg. They are not politicians but they know the problems which the world is facing and they are presenting some solutions."In true Big Brother-style, the webloggers will live together in Geneva and will have to decide between themselves how they operate the site and prioritise their news agenda. Unlike Big Brother, there will be no opportunity to vote each other out and the only daily tasks there'll have to face will be journalistic ones."Each one of them will come to this with different beliefs and different experience," says Baker. "But it's about recognising that fact and weighing your own opinions and views against the opinions and perceptions of your colleagues." A joint blog between western and middle eastern media is one step towards greater understanding, says Adel Darwish, a writer on foreign affairs, but it is only one step."First of all there is no homogenous body called the Arab world any more than you can say the English world refers to Australia, Canada and Britain. It's more of a virtual world, a preoccupation of the media," he says."But by working together you realise that human needs are basically the same, that human preoccupations are basically the same, regardless of language and so on, and that is much stronger than the differences. That is a very useful thing."But they won't be in a position to influence public opinion just yet. This is a long-term project."
Sophos has announced its top 10 viruses and hoaxes for October, and the top viruses are:1. W32/Gibe-F (Gibe variant) 22.7% 2. W32/Dumaru-A (Dumaru virus) 13.6% 3. W32/Mimail-A (Mimail worm) 12.4% 4. W32/Sobig-F (Sobig variant) 9.0% 5. W32/Klez-H (Klez variant) 4.4%There's the usual Windows monopoly but Sophos says: "Gibe-F and Dumaru-A -- both of which pose as security patches from Microsoft support -- are threatening to destroy computer users' trust in Microsoft."Also, for the first time this year, there's a Trojan on the chart: CoreFloo-C, "which allows a remote intruder to access and control a computer via Internet Relay Chat (IRC)."
The glass was definitely half-full for an ebullient David Edmonds last week when he announced that 50% of UK users now accessed the internet from home. The Oftel director general praised the UK internet industry as well as his own organisation for reaching the milestone. "Growth in internet access, coupled with some of the lowest prices in Europe, is excellent news," he crowed.While the internet community no doubt celebrated the news with a collective decaf latte, government spinners are more likely to have been relieved that Tony Blair's vision of a digital Britain was at last showing signs of life. But though the figures look impressive - just five years after the launch of Freeserve, the ISP that arguably turned the UK on to the world wide web, 12.5 million UK households are connected to the internet - the big issue for ISPs and politicians alike is what, if anything, they are they going to do about the rest?Research from internet providers says the internet is still largely the preserve of young, wealthy higher-income individuals, who are mainly men. The latest research from Jupiter Media   Matrix, for instance, shows that 55% of the home internet audience is made up of 18-49 year-olds compared with just 5% of 65 year-olds. While few ISPs are prepared to release confidential demographic breakdowns on their users, organisations such as Citizens Online, a national charity that promoted the benefits of internet access, say low income families are often excluded from the net.John Fisher, chief executive of Citizens Online, says:"You need to look at the 50% who aren't online. If you start to segment people that are left it's probably older people; those on lower incomes and people with not such high educational attainment levels. Paradoxically they are probably the people who would benefit most from new skills, new job opportunities, consumer goods and services, better health advice and better access to the government agencies they deal with.""If you don't carry them along they will become further disadvantaged as time goes on because, like it or not, society is becoming increasingly dependent on technology."Surprisingly perhaps, given the relatively high up-front prices of computers and a monthly outlay of between &#163;15 for dial-up to &#163;30 for broadband access, cost isn't the biggest barrier. "It's more a question of priorities," says Ian Fogg, internet access analyst at Jupiter Research. "Pricing does have an impact in lower-income families, but they are coming down. Compared to monthly expenditure like utilities bills or what you might spend on cable or satellite TV, it's not that much to be able to go online, use email and do a bit of home shopping."Research from the Oxford Internet Institute released last month also says cost isn't a significant factor, and that age and indifference are the key factors in who goes online or not. The survey found that the average person has access to the internet in at least two out of four places: home, work, school or at a public library, but that 41% of people don't use it.The biggest factor says Professor Richard Rose, who directed the survey, is age; 98% of schoolchildren - including a large chunk of the 25% who are defined as illiterate or innumerate - use the internet, as do 67% of those of working age. In contrast just 22% of retirees go online. "What we are saying is that it's age then education; social class or income isn't really that important."Charities like Help The Aged and Age Concern say older people are put off by the perceived complexities of using new technology. Many may also be held back by physical disabilities such as Parkinson's disease, arthritis or strokes. Visual impairments also play a significant role. The RNIB says blind and partially sighted people are being excluded from the net. Despite 1999 legislation requiring service providers to make information available to blind and partially sighted people, a test of 17 store, bank and supermarket sites by the RNIB last year found that none passed the mandatory requirements.While physical impairments are a serious barrier to some, for many retirees it's a question of motivation and overcoming fear. "Fear is the most serious because it's the one single factor that will prevent people from even considering going online," says Ian Goodall, founder of silversurfers.net, a non-profit site specifically designed for the over 50s."PCs are not the world's most friendly devices even with a bit of hand-holding, and once you add the need for some sort of live connectivity for many people it's a minefield."Once they have overcome that hurdle he says the next problem is the difficulty many older people experience in finding "what's there that's going to be helpful". Goodall says Silversurfers.net users get everything from nursing homes to chat rooms (among the most popular areas for older people) within four clicks of a mouse, plus a helping hand for new users. "We try to make it easier. If people perceive that the internet is a difficult place then they are never going to be persuaded to use it."While sites like silversurfers are helping educate many older users, Goodall and others say more could be done both by government and the industry to educate those currently not online to make the switch. "The government needs to look at itself. It talks about joined-up government but so far its online offerings are difficult and not particularly attractive. It needs to change and recognise that what motivates people to get interested is probably not doing your tax returns online," Fisher argues. However he also suggests that the internet industry, "relatively immature in terms of its corporate social responsibility", needs to recognise that a significant marketing exercise is needed.ISPs, meanwhile, argue that while they can play a key role, the government needs to take on the wider educational message, especially when it comes to broadband. "The only significant activity I've seen explaining broadband to the masses has come from the industry which has used some pretty significant expenditure to drive awareness of broadband from 20% of the population two years ago to 80% plus today," says Bill Goodland director of internet at NTL Home. "The government, despite its promises, isn't doing enough."But it's not just the government and the IT industry who could be doing more, suggests Professor Rose. The current debate on whether British workers are backward in their use of the internet, he says, comes in part from a reluctance by managing directors and business owners to make the internet part of many workers' lives. Rose says around 50% of the working population doesn't use the internet at work largely because their employers won't pay for it. "There's a big non-take up at work but if more firms, employers and managing directors begin to see value, by which I mean bottom-line value, they can be a significant force for change by encouraging and making sure more workers go online."But without more collective action that seems unlikely. Much has been written about the effects of the digital divide in an economy increasingly based on information. Getting 50% of the population connected at home is at least one step towards ensuring the UK becomes an information society rather than merely an information economy. Labour's plans to bring the internet to "all that want it" by 2005 sound impressive, but it's a long way from getting everyone online. Unless the disadvantaged and over 50s, who by 2010 will make up over 50% of the population, are encouraged to get on board then the gulf between digital haves and have-nots can only widen - an outcome that will present no reason for celebration at all.
It seems there's something of an inquest going on in America's TV land. AsABCnews reports, there's been an "unprecidented" fall-off in viewers, despite it now being three weeks into the big networks' new seasons. The biggest drop in viewing has been among young men aged 18-24, which is a pretty important demographic for advertisers. Twenty percent fewer are watching this year compared with last, and there was a 12% drop last year too."A displacement of this magnitude very possibly signals a massive shift taking place just below the surface of our society. It may even mark the beginning of the end of the dominance of television in American life," says ABCnews."What's causing this cultural earthquake? It's called, appropriately, Counter-Strike. It's a computer game, and even as you read this, thousands of young men (and a few hundred young women) are playing it on the Internet — instead of watching TV."Now, the author isn't really suggesting that those hundreds of thousands of young men arealloff playing Counter-Strike. But heissuggesting that there's a cultural shift afoot: the immersive, participative entertainment offered by online gaming is ready to cause real problems for established, passive forms of fun. Havingwitnessedhow far online gaming's gone in South Korea recently, it's a thesis that's quite believable.
Julian Dibbell:"The proposition: On April 15, 2004, I will truthfully report to the IRS that my primary source of income is the sale of imaginary goods -- and that I earn more from it, on a monthly basis, than I have ever earned as a professional writer... Here you will find a regularly updated record of one man's attempt to get rich selling, literally, castles in the air."
Now David Pogue has had a look at the competing services, including the new Napster, in theNew York Times[free reg req'd]. He likes Apple's iTunes....
"A man riding a Metro-North train dropped his cell phone in a toilet and got his arm stuck trying to retrieve it Thursday, forcing the train to stop and delaying the evening commute for thousands of people," reportsAP.
The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania checks out some research atCNet.
"Ludologica. Videogames d'Autore is pleased to announce its call for papers for a book on soccer games that will be published in Spring 2004," according to the blogMBF Todayin an entry dated October 17. It concludes:Possible topics may include (but are not limited to):The logics and aesthetics of soccer simulations: "real", "televised" and "virtual" soccer East vs. West: Pro Evolution Soccer vs. Fifa Soccer A socio-historical approach digital soccer A study of of the multiple incarnations of soccer games and its conventions Simulated soccer fandom The role of product placement in soccer games Ideology and soccer games Interrelations between popular culture, globalization of sport culture and electronic simulations Virtual soccer tournaments Phenomenology of virtual soccer playing
The phenomenal success of Google, the internet search engine, has attracted the attention of the biggest name in hi-tech business, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates.Microsoft is said to be pursuing talks to buy the Silicon Valley firm. Google, which was started from scratch five years ago by two Stanford computer science graduate students, was recently valued at between $15bn and $25bn.According to a report in the New York Times, Microsoft executives have approached Google about a range of options, including a takeover by the software company, at meetings in the past two months.The discussions were said to have gained "little traction" but they underline just how   important a player Google has become in a relatively short space of time. It handles around 150m searches a day and has become the first point of reference for net users looking for anything from obscure quotations to health advice.Google whetted the appetite of Wall Street when it emerged recently that the company plans a stock market flotation early next year.It would be the most eagerly anticipated share offering since the boom days of the late 90s, ranking the business alongside other established internet operations such as eBay, Amazon.com and Yahoo.Although Microsoft's advances were reportedly rebuffed, it could still pursue Google once it is a public company. Neither company would comment on the report.The conspicuous success of Google has attracted the attention of rivals. Yahoo recently acquired Overture, which sells advertiser-sponsored search results, for $1.6bn and Microsoft is spending millions of dollars to develop its own search technology. Its MSN web portal currently relies on search services provided by Overture and another company, Inktomi.The story of Google's rise recalls the tales of internet entrepreneurs during the gold rush of the late 90s. Sergey Brin and Larry Page were just 25 when they set the business up in 1998 from Mr Brin's dorm room. Its name was a play on the word "googol", coined for the number represented by one followed by 100 zeros.These days the business operates from offices, called the   Googleplex, which bear the usual hallmarks of a dotcom firm, including the lava lamps and staff on scooters.But Google differs from the other dotcoms that rushed to join the stock market in a key respect: it is making money. It is expected to produce around $800m in revenues this year and up to $200m in profits, generated by selling advertising that appears alongside search results. It also licenses its technology to companies such as America Online.The search business is one of the fastest-growing online sectors. Google has launched new services recently, including Google News, which gathers information from more than 4,000 news sources, and the shopping service Froogle.
Academics in California have confirmed what every office worker in the land has known for years: we are drowning in a rising sea of information.Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, say the amount of information being generated worldwide has increased by 30% each year since 1999, and that the amount being stored has doubled in that time.That means 800 megabytes of data - roughly equivalent to 800 books - was created for every man, woman and child in 2002.The research team studied information stored on paper, film, and optical and magnetic media, and measured the vast flows of information across the internet. They found the   new information, stored on everything from hard disk drives to paper, added up to 5m terabytes - or 5 million million MB - last year alone.Attempting to make that figure a little more imaginable, the team estimated this adds up to the contents of half a million new Libraries of Congress.These libraries, however, would not hold many masterpieces in their electronic soup. Much of the information came not from books and journals, but from the more mundane: office documents and mail.Peter Lyman, one of the leaders of the research team, said the surge in information was due to a new-found desire to document all that happens around us. "All of a sudden, almost every aspect of life around the world is being recorded and stored in some information format," he said.But last night David Lewis, a psychologist who works with big business to tackle stress and information-overload problems, said: "I certainly think there's a data overload - and an awful lot of the data that is generated is entirely redundant. Information is something which is valuable, which you can use. Data is just junk."Dr Lewis said today's infonauts would need to learn new ways to sift through information by developing reading skills to rapidly extract useful information. "Have a reading purpose in mind when you go to any piece of information," he advised. "If there is no purpose, and you're not reading for pleasure, then just don't bother."And William Dutton, director   of the Oxford Internet Institute, also warned the numbers used in the report could be a little misleading. "Clearly the report puts some numbers on an essentially valid trend," he said. "But it lacks some base validity by measuring it in bits - the complete works of Shakespeare is less than three high-resolution photographs."
EasyCar boss Stelios Haji-Ioannou trumpets his service as the low cost, low hassle alternative to renting a car from an established firm, but a growing backlog of customer complaints is threatening to undermine the bargain bucket enterprise.Jobs &amp; Money, the BBC's Watchdog programme and the company itself have seen complaints pour in from angry customers appalled at what they describe as    "shoddy" service. Readers have told us about their experiences of turning up at easyCar depots only to find the car they booked months in advance was not available.In some cases, the depots had been closed when they should have been open or the single member of staff supposed to be on duty was nowhere to be found. One Jobs &amp; Money reader who booked a car so he could drive to a job interview was distraught after turning up at the easyCar Glasgow depot only to find no member of staff, no information and five other people also waiting for cars. Several of the stranded customers spent a small fortune calling the easyCar helpline - a 60p per minute premium number - but to no avail."After spending two hours trying to track down a second Glasgow location, I was forced to find another company which was more expensive," the reader told us. When contacted by Jobs &amp; Money, a spokesman for the company admitted there was a "backlog of communication with customers," offered some compensation and said they were sorting out the delays in responding to complaints.Cue more letters from readers. It appears the problems have not been sorted out at all. Other readers got in touch and not only had never been able to hire the car they booked, but are also still waiting for a refund months later. The easyCar customer services department has failed to deal with their enquiries either by phone or email.One reader wrote to us to say how he waited for two hours at an NCP car park in Bromley for a car that never materialised and no member of staff could be found. Another two angry easyCar customers, Naomi Simcox and Peter Barrow, also wrote to us. The transcript of their frustrating dealings with the firm is testimony to the difficulties many customers encounter. The couple were on their way to a friend's wedding when they arrived to pick up a car from the easyCar depot in Battersea, South London.They were greeted by a car park full of cars but, when they approached the single member of staff (who was sitting in a white van - there was no permanent office), they were told there were no cars available. Ms Simcox told us: "I was astonished that we were being treated in this manner and I was disgusted that when we tried to get our money back we got nowhere and still have not got our money back."Ms Simcox says the customer service staff were "unhelpful, rude and unsympathetic." The couple eventually went to the trading standards office in Battersea and were told to take easyCar to the small claims court. "I am outraged at how we have been treated and by the fact that we may have to go to the trouble of taking legal action just to get a refund," she says. When we spoke to easyCar they promised to look into our readers' claims for refunds, but could give us no guarantee of a timespan when the backlog of complaints would be dealt with.Mr Haji-Ioannou told us he hoped his decision this week to outsource the firm's call centre to India from December 1 would help clear it. The company, famous for its low rental rates, has 50 outlets across Europe, 35 of which are in the UK. But it has struggled to make money, and reported losses of &#163;20m in 2001, after which it made 50 people redundant.Mr Haji-Ioannou says he has now hired more people to be at depots to deal with customers and expects less problems in future as a result. However, if a planned new strategy of introducing some depots with no staff at all comes to fruition, it may mean that a new batch of problems are just around the corner.There is little sign of a commitment to better quality service in the long term from Mr Haji-Ioannou either. In a recent interview with the BBC when he was quizzed about poor service standards at his London Euston branch, he said: "If you really want a low cost car you might occasionally have to make alternative arrangements."If you have had a bad experience with easyCar or are still awaiting a refund, please email us at:jobs.and.money@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft approached Google, the internet search engine, two months ago to discuss a partnership or even a merger it emerged today.According to the New York Times, Google showed little interest in overtures from the company that dominates the market for operating systems. Instead, Google is pushing ahead with plans for a £9bn flotation in March next year in the biggest hi-tech public offering in years.But the paper says Microsoft may still be interested in pursuing Google at a later date. While neither company has commented on the report, such an approach would be typical of the way Microsoft operates, when confronted by a competitive threat.When Netscape appeared on the scene in 1995 with a software browser that threatened Microsoft's overwhelmingly dominant operating system, Microsoft - according to testimony during the US government's antitrust case against the software giant - made an improper offer to split the browser market between them.When the softly-softly approach failed, Microsoft forced manufacturers into making Internet Explorer the default browser on their computers. The strategy worked brilliantly as Internet Explorer now dominates the browser market.Microsoft and Google could turn into competitors if Microsoft decides to integrate search features directly into its coming Longhorn operating system. Anticipating such a challenge from Microsoft, Google is branching into new areas to broaden its source of revenues. The Times reports that Google has approached Friendster, a silicon valley social networking company that has grown rapidly.Launched five years ago by two Stanford University dropouts, Google has grown into the most popular search engine on the web. Wall Street investment banks have been salivating at the prospect of an initial public offering for the search giant, which deals with 150 million inquiries a day, because it is one of the few dotcoms to have flourished.The company is considering selling a 10 to 15% stake to the public to raise money to invest in the business and reward employees, venture capitalists and early investors. Banks competing to underwrite the flotation include Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston.Google has also explored bypassing Wall Street and selling shares directly to investors in an online auction, although the company is expected to use the traditional Wall Street route of a public offering when it comes to the crunch.Unlike the dozens of companies that floated at the height of the dotcom boom, Google already has a profitable business, making around £90m a year thanks to the sale of sponsored links to advertisers and a large, loyal user base.
Computer giant Microsoft approached Google within the last two months about a merger of the companies, it has emerged.And Bill Gates' company could renew its interest in the search engine company after it floats on the stock market, according to a report in the New York Times today.But Google, which last week unveiled plans for a massive £9bn sale of its shares on the open market, told Microsoft it preferred to go ahead with the initial public offering.Microsoft's existing search services involves a partnership with Yahoo!-owned Inktomi, and it is working on building its own search engine.If the software giant became a competitor to Google in the web search field, Google's potential market value could be damaged.Google, which was launched five years ago by two Stanford University drop-outs, has grown into the web's most popular search engine.Wall Street has been pushing for a flotation of the company, which deals with 150 million inquiries a day, because it is one of the few profitable dotcoms with a loyal worldwide user base.But the company's founders hesitated to take the plunge because of uncertainty in the market, question marks over Google's revenue-generating potential and the fate of many of its contemporaries in the dotcom boom and bust.Unlike the dozens of companies that floated at the height of the dotcom boom, Google already has a profitable business, making around £90m a year thanks to the sale of sponsored links to advertisers and a large, loyal user base.The company was founded as a hobby by Sergey Brin and Larry Page and launched from a garage in Menlo Park, California in 1998.With little or no advertising, it quickly overtook established rivals such as Yahoo! and Alta Vista, stealing a march on its competitors as they diversified into new areas.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
"Early sales of a BMG Entertainment music CD that allows buyers a limited number of copies and downloads have been promising enough that the company plans to continue the experiment with bigger musical stars in the coming months. Anthony Hamilton, an R&amp;B singer on BMG's Arista label, released Comin' From Where I'm From in late September. The CD marked one of the music industry's first attempts at what it calls copy management -- using special software to permit buyers certain rights to make copies and distribute online," reports theWashington Post. The Hamilton CD allows buyers to make three copies, but nothing stops them from copying the copied CDs.
Two new US government studies show that "about 90 percent of people aged 5 to 17 use computers and 59 percent of them use the Internet - rates that are, in both cases, higher than those of adults," reportsAP.
"Apple released an advisory that indicate that the Mac OS X 10.3 upgrade--which adds an improved Finder menu, better synchronization of files and a tool to help users find a specific window on a crowded desktop--also includes more than a dozen 'security enhancements'. However, Apple apparently doesn't intend to fix the flaws in previous versions of the software: Apple's Security Updates Web page doesn't list fixes for the flaws in Mac OS X 10.2 and earlier," saysCNet. "Microsoft provides support for its products for about five years and releases service packs every year that include all the enhancements to the software. Microsoft doesn't charge for the service packs."Update:"Apple Computer said Friday that it plans to issue an update to older versions of Mac OS X to fix security flaws that were patched as part of the new Panther OS," saysCNet. For info on some of the security flaws in Jaguar, seeMacCentral.
A blogger who posted an"Even Microsoft wants G5s"story with a picture of palettes of dual G5 Macs being unloaded at Microsoft was later told"you're no longer welcome on the Microsoft campus".Comment: hard to raise any sympathy for either side, here. It sounds Draconian, but someone apparently supplied by a temp agency to work in Microsoft's copy print shop is far from indespensable, and blogging pictures of deliveries arriving at your place of work is probably impossible to justify under any serious US employment contract. In this case, it's also dumb. Of course Microsoft has Macs -- thousands of them. It's the biggest Macintosh software house there is, and has spent the best part of two decades keeping Apple in business.
WhatBillsaid.WhatJim Allchinsaid.CHRIS ANDERSON:I'd be honored if you wouldn't mind being my code monkey for this leg of the lap.JIM ALLCHIN:It depends, do you have like a good editor in here?CHRIS ANDERSON:Well, as you know, we have EMACs, if you were watching back stage, we have god's editor, I think.JIM ALLCHIN:How about vi?CHRIS ANDERSON:Let's see what we have. Why don't you bring up the editor of your choice. Windows is a big tent, we love everybody here....WhatEric Ruddersaid.
It's Thursday, so this week's Online isOnline. On the cover, Jack Schofield asks ifGoogle might be overtaken by competitorssometime pretty soon. Inside, Tom Steinbergunveils a cracking ideacalledMySociety.org, to bring together people with ideas, people with coding skills and people with money to create useful new bits of "civic software". And Pat Kane wonders what effect Wifi will have on ourperception of train travel. There's tons more I could tell you about but - hey - that would just spoil the surprise...
Police in Sydney today arrested an Australian man suspected of being part of a global, multimillion-dollar scam that dupes victims into believing they can claim some of the foreign assets of the Nigerian president.Hundreds of people in Australia and in countries including Malaysia, Japan, Norway, Greece, Indonesia and England have fallen prey to the scam, police said.The scammers send letters and emails asking people to help the Nigerian president recover funds that have long been deposited in foreign bank accounts, saying they will be financially rewarded if they help cover the costs of recouping the money.Jennifer Thommeny, commander of Australia's assets confiscation unit, said that victims "in many cases have been conned into handing over hundreds of thousands of dollars".Police believe today's arrest was the first in which an Australian was implicated in the fraud.The man was not immediately charged and police did not release his identity.Detectives from the state crime command assets confiscation unit arrested the man after searching a property in the central west of New South Wales state.They also raided two homes in Sydney's south-west, seizing a number of computers and documents.Cmdr Thommeny said the arrest was the result of a four-month investigation into a syndicate that also carried out other frauds, including lottery scams."West African-type frauds such as lottery scams and 'business investment opportunities', have netted millions of dollars from thousands of unwitting victims around the world," Cmdr Thommeny said."Traditionally police have found it difficult to apprehend offenders who carry out these frauds because victims usually live overseas and in most cases are too embarrassed to come forward," he said.
Online government is letting down the people who need it most, according to an authoritative survey of government websites published today. Anyone needing internet help in such crises as getting into debt or applying for state benefit will have trouble finding and using the relevant government websites. An inquiry for impartial advice on consumer debt lead to a money-lender's site, for example, while a benefits site carried warnings that its contents might be out of date.Not all the findings are bad news. It finds several gems among public sector web sites and suggests simple steps, such as additional links, that could lift others to the same standard. However, it will not be welcomed by the Office of the e-envoy, responsible for the e-government programme. Its portal site UK Online came in for criticism as "patchy" and for not taking   citizens' perspectives into account.The survey is significant because it was carried out by Citizens Advice, which represents citizens' advice bureaux (Cab), and SocITM, the local government IT managers' association, to test e-government from citizens' points of view. Until now, evaluations of online government have nearly always assessed progress by agency or specific function.The survey, Better connected: advice to citizens, sets out the 10 most common problems that take people to advice bureaux, ranging from debt to troubles with benefits, employment terms and conditions and the breakdown of relationships.For each "life event", the survey team investigated what a citizen would find from a Google search in everyday language, on a search limited to .gov.uk websites, and what government and local authority websites catering for the problem offered.The most frequent reason for people to contact Cab is consumer debt: enquiries about consumer credit and debt have risen 46% in five years, and continue to rise. But entering "money problems" in Google took researchers to a Guardian report on Cambodia. "Debt advice" found a site describing itself as a free source of help, but promoting unsecured loans. However, when researchers did find theFinancial Services Authority, they found it gave useful advice and is relatively joined up.The second most common problem is disability benefit. A Google search on "disability benefits" got through towww.disability.gov.uk, a site from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). This won praise for clarity and forms available for completion online. However, the effort was marred by a notice at the foot of each page warning the site was likely to go out of date as legislation changed. The verdict was that this warning "totally undermines confidence in the value of the site". The reviewer commented: "Surely it is incumbent on the DWP to keep its own forms on its own site up to date?"Local authorities did less well: only two of the 15 reviewed were able to point people to the DWP for benefit."This is a key area where local councils should be signposting local people to relevant central government information," the report said.A search for employment terms and conditions - an area in which 250,000 people contact offices each year - leads to three universities' personnel pages and three local councils. This bizarre because the Department of Trade and Industry's site -www.tiger.gov.uk- is specially designed to give a user-friendly guide to employment law. This site scores highly -if you can find it.Other government sites that had good reviews were the community legal advice sitewww.justask.org.ukand the utility-comparison sitewww.energywatch.org.uk.However, people seeking information on housing benefits (claimed by nearly 4m) have a tough time. The Google search found an out-of-date link to the now-defunct Department of Social Security. Most local authorities, which process claims, had little more. None provided a link to the DWP's generic housing benefit form available on its site.The study concludes that all parts of government should restructure their electronic information around questions that citizens are likely to ask.   "Just the list of common problems and the questions that might be linked to them are in themselves valuable sources of information."Online forms, in particular, need attention. These must be guaranteed up to date. "It is difficult to interpret this in any other way than as evidence of a culture within the department that has not committed to... the new ways of thinking demanded by the... practice of e-government."UK Online is due to be replaced by the Online Government Store: Citizens Advice makes a case for "intermediary" organisations such as itself playing a role in the new service. UK Online is supposed to contain information based around real life events. However, reviewers could find no information about disability benefit (claimed by 2.5m people) or debt.The government has a double target for going online: by the end of 2005, all its services (where possible) must be available electronically and the most important must be heavily used. David Harker, chief executive of Citizens Advice, says the way electronic public services are designed make it unlikely the target will be achieved.Better connected: advice to citizenswww.socitm.gov.uk
Has Google left it too late? The web's favourite search engine is expected to go public in March, with a value somewhere between $15bn and $25bn, about the same as Amazon.com. On the net, it will be the most closely followed sell-off since Netscape and Red Hat. But while it will leave Google's coffers bulging with cash, and make co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin two of the world's richest men, it may not be enough to fight off Yahoo and Microsoft, which also covet the search business.In information and communications technology markets, companies usually want to grow as quickly as possible. They often do this by acquiring lots of other companies - ones that have developed products and services they need. Cisco is a classic example: at one stage, it was buying a company almost every month. Both Netscape and Red Hat also hit the takeover trail. As a private company, Google has bought a few small players such as Kaltix Corporation, Sprinks and Blogger. But by the time it has the cash and shares to embark on a real spending spree, there may not be much left to buy."Google's IPO &#91;initial public offering&#93; is going to be spectacular in any case," says Jim Pitkow, president and chief executive of Moreover, a news aggregator, based in San Francisco. "But they've missed a whole bunch of buying opportunities, and they've woken the sleeping giant, Microsoft."Yahoo, of course, was wide awake, and it snapped up most of the hot technology available. It bought Overture Services Inc, the market leader in pay-per-click search advertising, for $1.6bn, completing the deal on October 8. Along with that it got two   big search engines: All The Web (Fast) and Alta Vista. Earlier this year, it also bought Inktomi Corporation, which is a leading supplier of search engine technology, for $235m. Yahoo had already taken over a long string of companies to add features to its portal, including GeoCities, eGroups, Broadcast.com, RocketMail, Four11, WebCal, ViaWeb, Log-Me-On.com, and Yoyodyne Entertainment. But its latest purchases send out the clear signal that Yahoo plans to compete in the search engine market.In its press release, Yahoo said: "Search is a central part of Yahoo's user experience and business strategy. The &#91;Overture&#93; acquisition furthers Yahoo's objective of becoming the leading end-to-end integrated search provider, combining assets capable of generating, distributing and monetizing search results."That's fighting talk.The acquisitions create problems for Yahoo's rivals, Google and Microsoft. In the first case, Yahoo uses Google to provide its search results. It is now expected to drop Google, and use its own Overture/Inktomi technology to compete head on with its former supplier. In the second case, Microsoft uses Overture and Inktomi in MSN. That puts it in the uncomfortable position of depending on a rival for its technology. We can therefore expect it to invest heavily in developing its own.Robin Kellett, search business manager for Microsoft's MSN UK, says: "We are serious about search. We are already working on search technology in the US, and there's an MSN bot &#91;software robot&#93; out there crawling sites. You can draw your own conclusions."One obvious solution would be for Microsoft to buy Google, but that   won't happen now. Microsoft always makes a straight calculation of how much it would cost to develop a technology, if there's time, against how much it would cost to buy it in. It's not going to cost anything like $15bn to create the technological equivalent of a Google. Last year, for example, Ask Jeeves picked up Teoma - a search engine that can produce better results than Google - for only $4.4m. In any case, Microsoft wants to do better.Kellett says: "There's huge room for improvement in search: the best that's on the market at the moment is not the best that can be done. Relevance is our main goal, and we'd like to do it in a fresh and innovative way by using personalisation and geo-location: personalised results that are relevant to you, where you are."Even so, analysts think it will be hard for Microsoft to displace Google any time soon. Hellen Omwando, a Forrester Research analyst based in Amsterdam, says: "So far, Google is a   clear winner, based on relevancy and the credibility it has gained among consumers. It has one of the most visited websites in Europe, on a par with MSN and Yahoo, and you can see it is moving beyond search. It is creeping into the portal business."In its expansion, Google has adopted the volunteer-run DMoz open directory, which categorises things in a similar way to Yahoo, and converted the Deja News database of Usenet newsgroups intoGoogle Groups. It has developed software to automate the creation ofnews pagesto compete with the syndicated news services offered on Yahoo and other portals.It is developing shopping services based onFroogleandmail-order cataloguesearches.Location-basedsearches are on the way. It does not have a home page farm, but   it bought one of the pioneering blogging companies, Blogger, which is even better. It lacks personalisation, but it has just bought Kaltix, a company that specialises in personalisation and context-sensitive search."The only thing that Google really lacks is email," says Moreover's Pitkow. "It's going to have all the bells and whistles, so it will be the portal that doesn't admit it's a portal."Does that mean we can expect Page and Brin to launch an email service?"It's a pretty good bet that they will," says Pitkow, "because of the advertising potential. An email service is a great place to post ads: that's why email is still free."The question everyone wants answering is: who is going to win? It is a tricky one because what Microsoft sees as a straight fight between "us, Google and Yahoo" is actually a fight between three very different companies with different views of the world. And one of those companies, Google, could   change dramatically following its IPO.Microsoft doesn't have a problem: it is a software company and search is a software problem. It has by far the biggest research organisation, proven marketing skills, and usually executes well. (It typically starts off behind but by version three it is usually level or ahead.) It's also implacable: as Netscape found, it will do whatever it takes to win.Microsoft also has an edge because most people use its browser, and by default, this delivers a vast number of searches to its MSN search engine. Indeed, in the future, many users will run their searches from inside Microsoft Office applications, without going to a web search page.Yahoo doesn't have a problem because it long ago decided it was a media company, albeit one that grew up on the web. Yahoo makes its living by delivering eyeballs to advertisers, just like ITV. Inside Yahoo, technology is just a means to an end, and it doesn't have any hang-ups about using things it didn't develop or invent. It could do a better job of converting page impressions into cash, but Overture will help with that. Anyway, its revenues should grow as the web becomes a more important advertising and marketing medium, at television's expense.Google is harder to call. It sees itself as a technology company, but technology doesn't make money directly - people don't pay for search and they don't spend much on search software. However, it has been enormously successful at converting searches into cash without resorting either to paid-for search results (which lead to a lack of trust) or bury ing its site in graphics-heavy banner advertising (which looks horrible and leads to slower downloads). You could argue that Google is a media company like Yahoo, but it doesn't look or act like one. That gives it an advantage over Yahoo and Microsoft.Against that, Google's search is stuck: its database is not getting bigger, and its search results are not getting better, they are getting worse. Things that were simple when Google had just a few geek users are now hard because it is under continuous attack from thousands of people who track its every move and will resort to any trick they can find to get their sites ranked higher. The technology that won the last search engine wars won't be enough to win the next one, as Google surely knows.According to Pitkow, the one most likely to win in the long run is the one that can increase its "switching costs" by adding personalisation. At the moment, anyone can search at Google or Teoma or any other search engine, and there is no penalty to switching. That's different from, say, Amazon, where things like one-click ordering, intelligent book recommendations, wish lists and other personalisation features discourage users from defecting to rival sites, even if they are cheaper.It's hard to switch from Yahoo if you use its personalised My Yahoo service, email, instant messaging, chat and shopping facilities. It's hard to avoid Microsoft if you use its operating system, browser and Hotmail email service. It's easy to switch from Google. Whether they know it or not, the people who plan to buy Google shares could be taking a gamble on it solving that problem, and soon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Smartphones are getting so big and palmtops so small that one day they will meet in the middle and we won't be able to tell the difference. This convergence is highlighted by two eagerly anticipated new mobiles - 02's XDA II and the Sony Ericsson P900. We decided to compare the devices' merits.XDA IIThe long-awaited XDA II, marketed by O2 but manufactured by HTC of Korea (which also makes the Orange SPV) fits into the palmtop category by virtue of a lack of a keypad, but differences with the latest smartphones stop there. In fact, the XDA II is so dinky that when it rings, you can stick it to your ear and not feel stupid (although the handsfree is very good).The XDA II brings with it an integral camera, twice as much memory (128MB) and the inclusion of Bluetooth (although this was missing from my review copy). With an Intel PXA 263 processor running at 400 MHz, the XDA is very quick. The most innovative feature is the camera display that makes use of the full screen.Like its predecessor, the XDA II runs Windows Pocket PC, an unfussy and fairly intuitive operating system that allows you to run Microsoft applications like Word and Excel. It also includes Internet Explorer, meaning you get full colour websites (though it cannot access pages that use fancy Java or Macromedia Flash) although the backlight often switches off before the page has finished loading.The XDA's advantage over many smartphones is the touch screen. The on-screen buttons are too small to use with your finger, so don't lose the stylus. But the handwriting recognition is the best I've ever used - it's   not much slower than writing with a fountain pen. There's also a tiny virtual keypad, which offers a useful word predictor that's only fault is that it tends to get in the way.The only disappointment with the XDA II is the Windows Media Player. I had imagined it capable of turning the XDA into a tiny TV and radio. But a video I downloaded was almost unwatchable and the sound was tinny.But it would be harsh to blame a device for the limitations of a GPRS network. The XDA II might not be the portable media player I expected, but it is a very handy handset with a large    touch screen that you can sync with your PC. Price: &#163;349 including 12 month contract. Available from O2 stores andwww.O2.co.uk.Usability: &#42;&#42;&#42;Value for money: &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Looks: &#42;&#42;&#42;Sony Ericsson P900The Sony Ericsson P900 is the best phone I've ever seen, and if I spend a month with the 192-page manual, I may even become competent at using it. It's not that it is hard to use: the   Symbian 7 user interface is not as friendly or straightforward as the new Handspring/Palm Treo 600, but it is very much better than the Windows CE-powered Orange SPV. However, the P900 offers a daunting number of features including Bluetooth, GPRS, SMS, MMS multimedia messaging, email, music and video players, and games. I'd like people's photos to pop up when they ring, but I haven't figured out how to do it yet.The P900 weighs 150g and looks and feels like a normal phone but is slightly wider. It switches into PDA mode when you pull down the   hinged keypad. This reveals the machine's main appeal: the big, crisp 208 x 320 pixel 64K colour screen. It's not much below Compaq iPaq/XDA standards and dramatically better than the Treo.The built-in VGA still/video camera also works very well, and results look great on the small screen (not so good if you move them to a PC). I am a bit unhappy about losing the Treo's qwerty keyboard, but the P900 has working text recognition so you can write on the screen. Again, it's not up to PocketPC standards, but it's a feature the Orange SPV doesn't have.It was easy to synchronise the P900 with Outlook on a PC, though it was a bit slow and the cradle is horrible. The phone appeared in Windows Explorer so I could drag and drop files not only into the 32MB of removable storage but also into the phone's 16MB of memory. This made it easy to transfer MP3 and MP4 files, though it doesn't support the Windows Media Video files that infest PocketPCs.The Sony heritage is visible in the appearance of a Jog Dial, which works well and made it easy to scroll through phone numbers. You can then call someone single-handedly by pressing the Jog Dial twice. I'm much less happy about the use of expensive Sony Memory Stick cards when SD - now used in Palms, Pocket PCs and lots of cameras - is far superior.The other let-down is the music player. The sound quality was much worse than I'm used to from Windows-based handhelds which may be down to the in-ear phones supplied. Price: TBA. Estimates are about &#163;500 without contract, or &#163;230-330 with contract.Usability: &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Value for money: &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Looks: &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;
It's great being a music fan online. There are endless tools, legal and illegal, to improve your listening experience.But people who want to engage with civil society aren't so lucky. Music fans get Napster and KaZaA. But what     tools are there for people who want to make civic life better? All they have is the ill fitting cast-offs of the business     world, such as Outlook. Why don't they have Napsters?Many people, myself included, believe such tools aren't appearing as often as they should or could. So, we are     setting up an organisation you might think of as a charitable incubator for those who want to develop software to     make society better, and who want to pay the bills while doing it. We're calling it MySociety.org. And we need     your help.Why is such a thing necessary? Isn't this a job for caring governments or clever companies? In an ideal world, it     may well be. But we are faced with an uncomfortable reality. Examples of "civic software" are thin on the ground.     Britain is a world leader with sites such as UpMyStreet, FaxYourMP.com, and TimeBank.org.uk. However, it is a     leader in a remarkably uncrowded field.This suggests there is a blockage in the market.      Companies don't produce these tools because there isn't money in it. Government has a different problem. It     doesn't seem able to take advantage of what the internet is best at - applications that are cheap to produce, that     do something peopleneed and cost roughly the same no matter how many people are using them. Sadly, the     public sector seems bound by all sorts of obligations that prevent it from being able to create such cheap and     cheerful services.Complaining about this isn't any good - we need to demonstrate how it can be done. Which is where     MySociety.org comes in.      We are trying to bring together great project ideas, enthusiastic developers and visionary funders to produce     cheap, effective services with a demonstrable real world impact. Projects are only limited by the need to have     clearly positive social outcomes, and to have costs that barely increase when more people use them. All projects     will probably be released under open source licences, to allow their code to be modified and improved by anyone     willing to help.One simple example would be a site that connects people who wish to get rid of books, clothes or equipment     with charities that could benefit from them. All the user would do is enter their postcode, and the specific     category of stuff they wanted to give away.MySociety.org can't work without your help. First and foremost, we need project ideas that fit the description.     Next, we need to speak to enthusiastic developers. If you're rotting in a dead-end database job, this could be for     you. And last, we need funding or help in kind. This is certain to be an exceptionally high social bang- per-buck     exercise, as well as a chance to keep an eye on cutting edge social technologies.You can submit ideas, register interest, ask questions, comment on other people's ideas or read the FAQ atwww.mysociety.org.
As an early adopter, has the net lived up to your expectations?Absolutely. It has eliminated the "rock star". It has bridged the gap between the listener and the artist. It has set new rules and a new order and is saying that if all you are doing is making music we can get that, you have to give more. We have to be able to almost reach out and touch you. You can't be aloof any more.What about piracy?You have to become a brand that people subscribe to, in the same way you would subscribe to a monthly magazine. They've got to like what you're about rather than just your music. If we're just selling the   music, then people will just download it. So in becoming that brand and becoming that philosophy, people perceive the value, and they want to buy it. They won't want to steal it.Does this mean the end of the CD?Ultimately, I feel that music will move to a time when there is no physical inventory. I think CDs will die out. If you talk to a kid in eight years time they will say: "What, you used to have these things? You used to have to physically carry music around? How bizarre!"What might replace them?I believe that eventually music will be just like satellite TV, just like the BBC Archive and HBO on demand - a subscription model where you will pay a fee each month. All your playlists - such as Ian's favourite tracks that he likes to listen to on his way to work or 'Ian's favourite tracks that he likes to listen to    when he's about to go to bed - will exist in cyberspace and you will access them from theiPod. But the iPod will be linked to the internet. You will be able to access them when you go to your hotel room. You'll just put in your password and your username and all your playlists will be there and you will listen to music.Microsoft or Apple?I'm a Mac devotee and it's not because they give me free gear or anything like that! Their advances into technology are superb. Their initiative towards dealing with the whole copyright violation issue in music is unbelievable. The Microsoft operating system can never be as intuitive asOSXor Apple. The smartest thing Apple ever did was that they decided, "Right, OK, we need to rebuild the OS from the ground up. Throw everything out of the window."Instant messaging?I use iChat. My last album - Human Beings - had a really interesting approach to liner notes. I included a series of transcripts and instant message conversations, conversations I overheard between my producer and my manager at the time, letters, emails to really close friends, segments of emails, all linked with bits of my least pretentious poetry.Seal's bookmarksBBC archiveHBO On DemandiChatiTunesVisit:www.seal.com
Can doICan, the new BBCi community website aimed at helping grassroots political activism, launches on Monday. You can find support for local campaigns as well as practical advice on a range of subjects, such as how to deal with nuisance neighbours, or challenge being struck off by your GP. The Beeb says it will use iCan to keep its ear to the ground and combat what it sees as a rising tide of political apathy. The site, which requires registration, has been in beta test for the past six months.www.bbc.co.uk/icanBig ListAfter the successful launch of ABCtales.com - a site dedicated to amateur storytelling, with 32,413 stories and poems online - Jonn Bird MBE, pioneer of the Big Issue, is back with a new site based on lists. It offers, in PDF format, more than 100 essential lists, ranging from things to do before you go on holiday to how to apply for a job, with tips for further reading. The site has lively discussion forums and lets you suggest topics for future lists. The first 10 lists are free, the remainder cost between &#163;1 and &#163;3 each. Half the money raised goes directly to help homeless people via the Big Issue Foundation.www.bigissuelists.co.ukwww.abctales.comwww.bigissue.comGo undergroundAs Bill Bryson once observed, an out-of-town visitor using Harry Beck's famous London tube map to get from, say, Bank station to Mansion House would "quite understandably board a Central Line train to Liverpool Street, transfer to the Circle Line and continue for another five stops to Mansion House and emerge 200 yards down the street from where he started." A geographically based map, showing the stations where they really are, was produced by Simon   Clarke in December 2000, but it has only been available on the web. You can download his fascinating interpretation at the fan site listed below.Meanwhile, London Underground's customer charter states you are entitled to a full refund if your journey is delayed by 15 minutes or more when it is their fault. But, says Paul Hatcher, a software consultant and frustrated Central Line commuter, "they do not make it easy to claim, resulting in only one in 10 forms taken by passengers actually being handed in". So Hatcher set up a simple website to make it easier. First you send a text message. Within minutes you get an email with a link to the claim form.www.tuberefund.co.ukhttp://tube.tfl.gov.uk/contenthttp://rodcorp.typepad.comMapping mediaMeasuring media bias by recording how much attention major news organisations give to different parts of the world has been a staple since Noam Chomsky took a ruler to the columns of the Washington Post. The global attention profiles (Gap) website is an attempt to take the ideas a stage further and present a live update of exactly where the news media attention lies. The site, the work of Ethan Zuckerman, a graduate of Harvard Law School, performs more than 1,700 daily web searches tracking the countries each story mentions. It then compares its findings with a range of statistics, including national GDP and population, and presents the results in a colour map.The site's major flaw is that it does not include the US. However, Zuckerman notes that the BBC demonstrated radically different attention patterns from its US counterparts, as the BBC's attention is closely correlated to the size of a nation's population and not its GDP. He also notes that violent conflict draws attention to a nation, but less than might be expected.http://h2odev.law.harvard.edu/ ezuckermanwww.zmag.org/chomskyWorld tourTito Dupret is a multimedia photographer travelling the world with his Nikon 4500, Macintosh PowerBook, and a daily budget of $12. He has set himself the task of producing virtual reality movies (using the QuickTime plug-in) of all the world's heritage sites. In all, 52 World Heritage sites - or 7% - have been covered. The results are breathtaking examples of how good such movies can be.www.world-heritage-tour.orgAnd finally...What to say to boss when caught reading Web watch at work:www.adminprof.com/howto/caughtsurfing.htmNew &amp; notedResources on hermits and solitudewww.hermitary.comTime to confesshttp://grouphug.usHow pencils are madewww.pencilpages.com/articles/make.htmSix of the best:HalloweenThe Simpsons Halloween episode guidewww.sprynge-fielde.co.ukSafe sites for kidswww.links4kids.co.uk/halloween.htmDon't Panic!www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2/A175385Jesus-O-Lanternwww.christiancrafters.com/craft_jesus_lantern.htmlThe pagan festivalwww.witchvox.com/holidays/xsamhain.htmlThe day of the deadwww.azcentral.com/ent/dead
Advance Wars 2Game Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Nintendo &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's RevengeGBA , &#163;29.99 THQ, &#42;&#42;&#42;If you thought handheld gaming consisted of Tetris and Snake, then these two new releases for the Game Boy Advance should enlighten you. Both Advance Wars 2 and Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge offer hours of entertainment, especially the former. Advance Wars 2 follows in its successor's deceptively cute footsteps, offering a turn-based strategy challenge unlike any other handheld game.Players get to control army, navy and air forces in a battle for supremacy. By choosing what to deploy and when, handheld generals can cook up a surprisingly detailed battle strategy. Even the tutorial section is a game in itself, although veterans of the original game will be annoyed having to retread old ground here.But Advance Wars 2 is a masterfully designed and horribly addictive title that hides a huge amount of depth behind its garish exterior. More superficial, but still good fun, Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge sees the return of the N64 platform heroes. And it says a lot for the developers that so many of the original elements have been shoehorned in. The majority of moves are included and there is a large world to explore. A confusing perspective, which makes it hard to judge jumps, does detract, but Banjo, like Advance Wars 2, offers a good reason to play handheld games.Greg HowsonWorms 3DPS2, Xbox, GC, PC, &#163;39.99 Team 17/Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Since the terminal devaluation of Tomb Raider, there has been a gap in the market for a British blockbuster. You could not get more fundamentally British than the Worms franchise - possibly the only game in which characters can speak comedy Welsh, Geordie or, this time around, Big Ron-speak.However, with its 2D graphics and old-skool gameplay, Team 17 had to drag it into the 21st century - a process that involved turning it 3D. The result remains as traditional as an England middle-order batting collapse, yet boasts gameplay as tactical as anything on offer this Christmas.It is classic Worms, except in 3D. You manage teams of worms, armed with a selection of idiotic weaponry (exploding sheep and grannies), and try to eliminate teams of AI worms or teams controlled by your mates before your last annelid expires.The move to 3D brings a greater need for precision when manoeuvring, but adds feel to the weaponry. With a selection of gloriously tongue-in-cheek missions that constantly surprise you, plus a set of tough but varied challenges, a vast amount of gameplay is contained in each disk. It will leave you cackling manically.Steve BoxerAge of Mythology: The TitansPC, &#163;24.99 Ensemble/Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;Sometimes a publisher can be its own worst enemy. No sooner had Microsoft released Ensemble's Age of Mythology than Big Huge Games knocked it off top spot with Rise of Nations. Now the counter-attack begins with a mission pack for Age and an array of gigantic new heroes.The good news is that Titans is more of the same: more missions, scores of new units and another cracking mythological storyline. It is still one of the easiest games to enjoy.However, Age's thriving fan community regularly churns out campaigns for free downloads, making Titan's 12 new levels look meagre at this price.If this were a movie it would be Matrix Reloaded: competent but underwhelming. Most levels find you trying to survive while an enemy Titan stomps around the landscape, smashing your empire to bits. Reach the pre-set time limit, however, and your own Titan shows up with significantly greater strength.Never do you get the battle of the giants you were expecting and the time limits convey the impression of a game that might be happier playing itself. Ironically, for a series praised for its narrative powers, Titans is too much story and not enough game.Mike Anderiesz
Super!Cray Inc, the supercomputer manufacturer, plans to produce a commercial version of Red Storm, the massively parallel supercomputer it is building for America's Sandia National Laboratories. Red Storm will do 40 trillion calculations per second. The commercial systems, which will be announced next year, will also be based on thousands of 64-bit AMD Opteron processors running Linux.www.cray.com/news/0310/rsproduct.htmlMini PCAntelope Technologies is releasing a complete Windows XP Professional PC about the size of a PDA. The basic Modular Computing Core (MCC) has no output or input devices. To access standard keyboards and monitors or LCD screens, the MCC fits into various shells to change its function from a pen-based handheld PC to a desktop or a portable computer. The basic unit weighs 280g, measures 7.6 x 12.7cm and is 1.9cm thick. When slotted into the handheld shell with an LCD screen, the weight increases to 740g and the dimensions double in size. The MCC will cost &#163;2,340 with a desktop cradle, foldable keyboard, handheld sleeve and carrying case.www.antelopetech.comPin moneyRetailers have increased their IT spending by 27% to &#163;1.8bn over the past year. A survey of the top 100 outlets by Retail Knowledge Bank shows an increase from 1.1% of annual sales being spent on technology to 1.4%. Most of the money is believed to be in preparation for Chip and Pin payment systems. This promises to reduce credit card fraud by requiring customers to key in Pin codes when paying for goods. The report also says there's an increased use of space management software to optimise store design.www.itinretail.comStingerMicrosoft is holding a Professional Developers' Conference in Los Angeles this week, and IBM is showing an early version of Stinger, the next release of its DB2 database, running on Windows Server 2003. The aim is to show how it can be used to develop Windows.Net applications using updated compatibility with Microsoft's Common Language   Runtime (CLR) and other features of Visual Studio. Stinger is expected to be ready around the same time as Yukon, the next release of Microsoft's SQL Server. IBM has made Stinger available on its DeveloperWorks web site.www7b.software.ibm.comUpwardly mobileThe European mobile device market is booming with sales of PDAs (personal digital assistants) up by 26% and "converged devices" based on mobile phone technology up by 36% in the latest quarter. Figures released by IDC, a market research company, show that Europe is bucking the worldwide trend, which showed marginal growth of 1.1%. Hewlett-Packard boosted its share of the European market with its iPaq/Pocket PC/Windows Mobile handhelds and it has overtaken Palm, but trails behind Nokia's 44% dominant market share. Sales of Nokia phones have made Symbian the market-leading operating system, with just over half of the market, but Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system for Smartphone and Pocket PC grew by 73%.www.idc.com/getdocCensus databaseNational Statistics, the government's statistical office, last week proposed an "integrated population statistics system", linking data from several government sources to track everyone in England and Wales, from early 2013. The database would be based on the 2011 census, along with administrative, survey and address data and a proposed national population register. It would primarily be used for statistical and policy research, such as deciding on government spending for different areas. The proposal notes that the legality of linking personal data, along with political and public acceptability, are potential risks to the plan. National Statistics has asked for comments by November 28.http://www.statistics.gov.uk/downloads/theme_population/ipss.pdfFair repairIf you need your house repairing, you should be able to call up a web page that shows diagrams of various rooms, labelled with common problems. Click on a problem to request a repair, and say when you will be at home. That's the idea of the repair reporting system that the London borough of Brent has developed to help tenants of Brent Housing Partnership, the council's social housing unit. Brent says 50 repairs have been ordered through the system since it went live in May. The service, available only in English, will soon be provided in six other languages.www.brent.gov.uk/bhp.nsf
TimeMy computer clock needs to be frequently adjusted as it tends to run fast. How can I get it to automatically adjust to the correct time? This needs to be accurate when reporting problems to my ISP. I am using Windows 2000 Pro with the Zone Alarm firewall.JS:There are lots of alternatives but World Time Server gives away anAtomic Clock synchronisation programthat I have found works well. The program was written byChaos Software of Time &amp; Chaos fame. It uses Port 13 to connect to the NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) Atomic Clock servers. If Zone Alarm blocks the request, it should ask if you want to give this program permission to access the net, so just say yes.Not divertingI am trying to access a site hosted by Web1000 using Internet Explorer but keep getting diverted to a different site, or else the page just displays "About blank".Name withheldJack Schofield replies:Many companies do this, and while it is supposed to be helpful, it is really very annoying. In this case, the site is redirecting you according to the language set in the browser - apparently it does not like Europeans. You can fix that in Internet Explorer: go to Tools|Internet Options and click the Languages button at the bottom.    Changing the first entry to read English (United States) (en-us) should get you to the site you want. Another idea is to use a "proxy server", so your route goes via another computer - a proxy. There are lots of websites with lists of proxy addresses, such asProxy Checker.In this case, choose a US proxy. You will have to enter the proxy address as one of the settings on the Tools|Internet Options|Connections sheet in Internet Explorer. However, proxying website such asMegaproxyare much easier to use - you don't need to change your browser settings - so this is the first thing to try. Sites such as Megaproxy can be useful in other circumstances. For example, they enable you to read up-to-date news pages when your internet service provider's cache insists on delivering week-old versions. They can also let you get to sites your ISP has blocked.Just annoyingI run Windows XP - an English version. But I live in Denmark, so when I look for updates at Microsoft's website, I am automatically redirected to Microsoft Denmark, which offers me updates in Danish!Loz RineJS:If you are lucky, you may be able to download the updates you need by going towww.microsoft.com/downloads. If not, change your language settings and perhaps try using a proxy as described above. (Unfortunately the Windows Update site will not work via Megaproxy.) Try to get to the Windows Update Catalog page, where you will be able to choose the updates you want, then download and install them separately.Thumbs upA file called Thumbs.db has suddenly appeared in My Pictures in Windows XP Home. I deleted it but it returned almost immediately after. What is it?Patrizio FranchinJS:Thumbs.db is the hidden file that holds the thumbnail images that Windows displays in folders where you have selected a thumbnail view. Windows keeps a little database of the images to save wasting time recreating the thumbnails whenever you open the folder. It is harmless.Backchat&#183;Paddy Murphy asked about sending video clips to his grandchildren in New Zealand. Roger Cornwell adds: "I have used Real Producer Basic, which is free, to encode AVI and audio files and this reduces their size quite dramatically, making emailing them a realistic possibility. Depending on the compression, a 10-minute video might come down to 5-10MB. Readers can download the free Helix Producer Basic (an updated version of the software I used) fromwww.realnetworks.com". The drawback is that the resulting file requires a Real Player to play it, so I'd be more likely to re-encode the video in Microsoft's WMV9 (Windows Media Video) format. This gives an excellent quality/ file-size ratio and will play in the "classic" Windows Media Player 6.4. However, both formats are proprietary and therefore bad in principle.&#183;Dave Wood wanted to reduce the number of background programs running on his PC, and I recommended Pacs-Portal. Helen Oldland says: "I had the same problem and found an excellent website, Answersthatwork.com, which was user friendly, although it did not list all of the programs I had running. It also offers a free download of Startup Manager, which caters for PC idiots like myself." Mark Sheldrake says he uses PC Magazine's Start Up Cop, which "simplifies the removal process". I tracked it towww.pcmag.com/but was not able to download it. However, I did get azip fileof  StartUp Manager.
For a quarter of a century, the floppy disk has been the standard way to carry files around. The capacity has increased from 8in disks that stored about 80K to 3.5in "stiffies" holding 2.8MB, but they are now becoming redundant. Users often want to carry larger MP3 music and image files around, and there are faster, more reliable and more convenient ways of doing that.The change is being driven by the ubiquity of USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports on PCs, and by the arrival of portable devices that need robust storage in small packages. These include MP3 players, digital cameras, PDAs (personal digital assistants) and mobile phones.Today, the simplest way to carry files around is to use a USB Flash drive: a small, light device based on non-volatile Flash memory chips.   Plug the USB drive into a USB socket and it should be recognised as a removable storage device (with Windows 98SE, Mac OS 9 and later operating systems). USB devices are "hot pluggable": they can be inserted and removed without having to restart the computer.USB drives are sold by capacity. You can buy 16 megabytes for about &#163;13.50, whereas a 1GB USB drive costs from &#163;200 to &#163;350. At the moment, 128MB devices are good value. Dabs.com offers more than a dozen models at prices from &#163;27 to &#163;76 (ignoring the special-order Fujitsu-Siemens MemoryBird USB keyring at &#163;151). Cheaper models only support USB1.1 rather than the much faster USB 2.0 standard.Flashier USB drives may also offer password protection and built-in compression, and one even includes email software.Mobile devices use a plethora of similar storage formats: CompactFlash, MultiMedia Memory Cards (MMC), Secure Digital (SD), Extreme Digital (xD) picture cards, Sony Memory Sticks and so on. Few PCs have slots that accept these cards, but most mobile devices now come with a USB cable that allows files to be transferred to and from a PC.An alternative is to remove the card and slot it into a multi-format card reader, which plugs into a PC via a USB cable. Most readers can handle five or more types of card. Thus almost any type of Flash memory card can be used as a floppy replacement, though not as conveniently as a USB drive.CompactFlash memory cards can hold up to 4GB, but at prices that only professional photographers and similar users can afford. However, many companies now offer hard   drives that are small and cheap enough to provide gigabytes of portable storage. You can get a slimline external 80GB drive for about &#163;150, for example, with 10GB to 40GB versions typically a little cheaper.With such large capacities, it is generally essential to get a system that connects via a USB 2.0 port or, preferably, a 1394 (FireWire) port. If your PC does not have one of these high-speed ports, you should be able to install one or both via an accessory PCI card.The drawback with all these systems is that you can't just stick one in the post and forget about it, the way you could with a floppy disk. However, most PCs nowadays have CD writers, and with blank CDs available for 30p or less, you can usually send one of those instead.
Unless you have a strong and enduring interest in the bulk purchase of Viagra or dubious get-rich-quick schemes, then the chances are that you find so-called spam emails to be an irritating and occasionally offensive waste of your time. It ought to be good news then that the government is poised to crack down on senders of unsolicited email advertising. And about time too. Last week a court in California fined a company $2m for sending out spam. Under the privacy and electronic communications regulations - expected to come into force next month - it will be illegal to send commercial messages to consumers via mail or SMS unless the recipient has granted prior permission.Enacting an EU directive, the new legislation will move the goalposts for internet marketers. The current regulations are based on the so-called "opt out" principle. In other words, sending unsolicited email is legal provided the recipient is offered a means to prevent further communications. Come November, consumers must actively opt in to receive mail shots before the marketing department can even think of hitting the send button.The exception to this is in cases   where a commercial relationship already exists. If a consumer buys services through a website and an email address is collected, it will be OK to send email updates on similar products without permission.Meanwhile, marketers also have to contend with increasingly stringent conditions set by internet service providers. While the Department of Trade regulations will apply only to business-to-consumer marketing, a code of practice drawn up by network infrastructure operator Linx classifies all unsolicited email as spam, including business-to-business. Many companies could face having their service cut off if they are accused of spamming.According to figures published by Microsoft, spam accounts for more than 50% of email traffic and costs European business &#163;1.75bn in lost productivity every year. But as Ruth Phypers, managing director of online marketing company Hyper, points out, the new legislation will do little to stem the flow of ads for porn sites and penis enlargement services that characterise spam in the public mind. "It is not authentic marketers who are the problem, it is spammers who are operating outside the UK and the EU."Phypers argues that while the   major-league spammers of the US and Far East will continue to send out messages with impunity, the relatively unobtrusive and carefully targeted marketing activities of UK and EU firms will be curbedMalcom Hutty, head of regulation at Linx, accepts that action at national or EU level will not solve the wider spamming problem, but he argues that the new laws lay down a vital marker on acceptable practice. "It is important to embrace the 'opt-in principle' and establish international leadership on this," he says.Not everyone agrees. Marcelle Speller, joint managing director of Holiday-Rentals.com, says a strict adherence to "opt in" will hit her business hard. Her company's website advertises holiday homes around the world on behalf of their owners. Email has proved an important route to finding new clients. "If we see someone advertising a holiday home in a newspaper or magazine, we mail them and ask if they'd like to also put the property on our site. As they have identified themselves as being interested in renting out a property, I believe this is a legitimate way to contact them," she argues.While this is a long way from indiscriminate spamming, it could well be   in breach of the new directive - depending on whether the recipients are deemed to be members of the public rather than businesses.Even when consent has been given, furnishing your ISP or the DTI with evidence in the event of a complaint may prove difficult. "How do you prove that someone has opted in," says Phypers. "We have sent emails where consent has been given in telephone conversations - but how do we prove that? What if someone forgets they've given consent?"Jason Gambling, managing director of marketing list provider G-Tec, says that once the directive comes into force, marketers will have to provide more information on emails. "Consumers will have to be told where the data was gathered and how it was gathered." In practice, this means that when an apparently unsolicited email arrives in your mailbox, it will remind you exactly when, why and how you opted in. Providers such as G-Tec collect names through online registrations and competitions and they have been preparing for the brave new opt-in world. "If you enter a competition, the terms and conditions of entry will require you to opt in to receive email advertising." However, Gambling expects a higher   opt-out rate, something that will push up the cost of collecting data. "It will become more expensive to maintain lists. Higher costs will make it more difficult for small companies to use email marketing," he argues.Concern about the new rules is not universal. Robert Dirskovski, head of interactive media at the Direct Marketing Association, says: "Most advertising is permissioned now. This just reflects best practice." George Karibian, managing director of online office supplies company Euroffice.com agrees, arguing that sending mailshots without prior consent or even buying in targeted lists tends to be counterproductive. "We send a quarter of a million emails a month. They are all opt in and it is very easy to opt out. In the early days we tried using lists but the results were awful."The new directive adopts the principle that, regardless of the nature of the contents, unsolicited mail is an intrusion. The same principle guides a good many marketers but it won't work for everyone, especially small firms hungry to build brands and market share. "They tend to be more entrepreneurial," says Phypers. "By their nature, they will be doing things that might be considered on the line."
Ctrl-Z. If you know what that does in Microsoft Windows, and you are a friend of Tony Blair, you could save UK businesses hundreds of millions of pounds a year. All he has to do is give a speech about how often it can save your bacon when you make a mistake: it works as an "undo" command.Sesame Street could probably do an even better job by adding some control key functions to its coverage of the alphabet. Well, today's column is brought to you by the letter combinations Ctrl-Y and Ctrl-Z, because I'm pretty sure you don't have a clue what Ctrl-Y does.You should. The regular use of keystroke combinations can provide almost any computer user with a dramatic increase in   productivity while reducing the risk of debilitating RSI (repetitive strain injury). The problem is that you have to learn them, and today's mouse-driven graphical user interfaces don't encourage that.When computers were first introduced into the workplace, everyone knew they were hard to use, so staff usually received training. That seems to happen less and less, now, for two reasons. First, given a "user friendly" interface, people are supposed to be able to "discover" how to do things themselves. Second, most office workers now have access to a PC and the internet at home, so they should already know how to use them.Well, they do, up to a point, but the vast majority are like new Ferrari drivers stuck in first gear. Worse, most don't even know they can step up several gears by using   quick keystrokes. However, organisations that can find a way to publicise these features to their users will benefit immediately from increased productivity, a reduction in errors and probably, in the long run, fewer people with keyboard-related disabilities. Since the cost of doing this is close to zero, the potential ROI (return on investment) is enormous.The point about keystrokes is that the mind can turn them into reflex actions, and do them without thinking. Hitting Ctrl-S to save a Word document takes a fraction of a second. You don't even have to think about it. Reaching for the mouse, moving to the File menu, clicking to pull it down, moving the cursor down to Save and so on takes about 10 times as long. And you can't use "motor memory" to handle the physical act of moving a   mouse pointer to a File menu in the way that you can automate pressing Alt-F.This is not, of course, a new idea. Early Apple Macintosh users quickly discovered the limitations of the graphical approach, and the smart ones bought programs such as QuicKeys, which lets you string sequences of keystrokes into macros. QuicKeys is also available for Windows.Users don't have to learn very many key combinations to get significant benefits. The obvious ones in Windows are Ctrl-A (select all), Ctrl-X (cut), Ctrl-C (copy), Ctrl-V (paste), Ctrl-P (print) and Ctrl-S (Save). To those it is worth adding Ctrl-Z (undo) and Ctrl-Y (redo).When you have made a mistake, Ctrl-Z won't always undo it, but it works often enough to be worth remembering.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Down With GUIs! by Jef Raskinwww.wired.com/wired/archive/1.06/1.6_guis_pr.htmlKeyboard shortcuts for Microsoft productswww.microsoft.com/enableKeyboard shortcuts for Apple Macintoshhttp://developer.apple.comKeyboard shortcuts for Googlehttp://labs.google.com/keysQuicKeyswww.cesoft.com/products
Of all the things the government keeps secret from its citizens, none is more bizarre than the extent to which public services are available on the internet. Few people have any idea it is possible to report crimes or check local NHS waiting lists electronically.Over the past couple of weeks, I have been cultivating an already dangerous reputation as an e-government bore by asking everyone I meet if they know their local council's URL. Nobody - nobody - has a clue.Evidence of this ignorance isn't just anecdotal. Usage figures of government websites are embarrassingly low. For example, the portal sitewww.ukonline.gov.ukhad 522,000 unique users in   September (3.3m page views). That's for a site supposed to be a regular first port of call for the entire population. (The Guardian manages around seven million unique users a month and 83m page impressions.)Other government sites are even more secretive. The softly softly award should go to the national police portal,www.police.uk. It has been running since March 2001, offering at least two services for the public: information on police appeals and notifications of non-emergency minor crimes. The Police Information Technology Organisation, which runs the site, says it has about 5,000 unique visitors per month to the site's crime reporting function.Another great but unknown site iswww.nhs.uk, which lists details such as waiting times for consul tants and doctors' qualifications as well as contact details for every NHS organisation in the country. To be fair, the NHS Information Authority, which operates the award-winning site, plans to launch a marketing campaign next week.A bit of advertising can work wonders. Medway Council in north Kent began marketing its improved site -www.medway.gov.uk - in August, with advertisements on buses and local newspapers and radio. The council has also put banners on municipal buildings. Since then, the number of page views from a population of 240,000 has doubled to more than 500,000.There is growing evidence that people are not using e-government because government websites are difficult to find. This is one disturbing finding of a study   published today by Citizens Advice and the local government IT association SocITM. Incompetence? Perhaps. But many organisations have a deliberate policy not to shout too much about e-services lest they go wrong. The buzzword is "soft launch".Fear of overload, and merciless press reaction, is understandable. It's less than a year since the Environment Agency's flood web site was overwhelmed by an electronic deluge. Last year, we had a similar sad story with the 1901 census site.No doubt there will be more. But commercial web sites fall over regularly, too. If anyone is ever going to take e-government seriously, public bodies are going to have to stop cowering in terror at the thought that it might actually become popular.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Nokia has unveiled two radical new handsets at its annual mobile media conference this week. First up is the 7700, an open-faced, touch-screen replacement for the company's Communicator range. The widescreen device, the first to sport the new Series 90 user interface, will be tailored for viewing and receiving video (making it, in effect, a portable TV) and the company expects a number of broadcast services to be online before the device goes on sale in spring. The handset, which also comes with an FM radio and 64MB of memory, will cost around &#163;350.Nokia also introduced the 7200, the company's first "clamshell" model. This style-conscious handset, costing around &#163;320, comes with integrated camera, two screens, FM radio and a new service that will allow users to share their whereabouts. But the 7200's most innovative feature is that it comes clad not in plastic, but in a suede-like textile with leather strap. If Mondrian designed a mobile, it might look a bit like the 7200.
Gimmick freeIn response to Nico Macdonald (Second Sight, October 23), he seems to have confused innovation with complexity. He thinks we should go "beyond the text- and list-based interface of Google". Why? Google is so popular because it doesn't alienate people with gimmicks. The innovation is under the bonnet. Usability can't drive innovation? Rubbish. An innovation is worthless if it can't be used. The best innovations are often the most simple. But as a "design strategist", we can hardly expect Macdonald to realise that the key to the web is information, not flashy design.Rob MintoLondonOne step backwardWhile the list of integrated features in Office 2003 seems impressive, I wonder how long it will take before this is compromised by Microsoft (New outlook on office, October 23).Outlook XP and service packs in previous versions of Outlook are a useful case in point. It was once possible to automate the features of this program to allow emails to be sent from databases and other programs to alert users or administrators to the state of the program or other important information. Due to new security features, user intervention is now required in all emails sent using Outlook. While I can see the reasons for this - to stop the malicious effects of the Mellisa virus and others - it does ruin the seamless integration that automation provided. Similarly, as software exists to click a button in a message box, it can't be   too long before this kind of feature is built into the viruses - the very behaviour this was designed to stop.By Microsoft's tinkering, I wonder how long the kind of integration Mary Branscombe describes will persist through the lifetime of Office 2003.Stephen ConnellGlasgowDifferent strokesIn Apple third time lucky (October 23), Andrew Spark claims that Safari has become more closely integrated into the operating system "in a similar way to Windows' integration of Internet Explorer". That's not true. All that Apple has done is to separate the HTML rendering engine from the browser, so that it can be used in other applications. This makes the writing of third-party applications easier - as evidenced by its inclusion in Omniweb (a competing web browser) and SubEthaEdit (a fantastic collaborative code editing package). Apple also uses the engine in its mail application - but this is  not part of the operating system.What Microsoft has done is very different. It has made Explorer part of the operating system, so you often can't tell whether you are using its file browser or a web browser.Ian EiloartSussex UniversityBound by contractRegarding the debate on the BBC's use of audio formats and the recordability of its programmes (Feedback, October 23), while there may be technical issues at play, there is a more fundamental reason why the BBC is probably making it difficult for people to download or record programmes: contracts and rights.The BBC, when broadcasting a play or book, will have negotiated a contract and fee for the actors and writers. This is usually based on a one-off broadcast and a supplementary repeat fee. This contract won't cover repeated free use and, most importantly, could include   ties to a geographic region.In theory, that shouldn't prevent domestic users downloading the files - after all, we've already paid for it, right? Unfortunately, we all know how easy it is to copy and distribute digital files, which means that without too much trouble, the programmes could end up all over the world. In theory, if one could prove the BBC had done little to prevent this happening, it could be argued it is in breach of contract. It could also potentially deprive the BBC - and, in turn, the licence payers - of lucrative distribution deals via BBC Worldwide once contracts have been renegotiated.All of which is a shame, as I do a lot of travelling and would love to be able to download a series of The News Quiz or Jazz Line Up to my iPod!Michael SandersLondonSound inequalityAnnoying program though it is, my main beef about the BBC's use of RealPlayer is not that it's a proprietary protocol, but that the sound quality is so bad. To hear the difference you only have to compare a BBC radio stream at 44.1kbps with one of the many available at 128kbps via iTunes - it's as if the BBC has decided we must listen to its programmes on medium wave. I know not everybody has broadband (or iTunes), but it ought to acknowledge that more and more people do.Mike PettyLondonFree for allI am puzzled by recent claims by Roland J Young and John Yardley (Feedback, October 16, 23) that "obtaining a free copy of RealPlayer is becoming almost impossible". Why not download a free copy fromwww.real.comas I have just done? Or have I missed something?Pat MartindaleBridlington
For this month's IT Clinic, in which a panel of experts answers our readers' IT difficulties, we look to Luke Roberts of south London IT support agency SupportPlan; Andy Wooles, managing director UK, FutureSoft; Allan Poot, european sales director, Ipswitch and Terry Doherty, CEO of Doherty IT Solutions. We're always keen to hear from readers with IT woes - send them to the address at the end of this article and we will put them to our volunteer experts who offer independent, jargon-free advice.&#183;I've been thinking about equipping my staff with hand-held computers but am concerned they might get viruses and our virus checker doesn't seem to cope with PDA systems - at least it doesn't say so and I don't want to take the risk. What's on the market to help?LR: Although your virus checker may not run on your hand-held computer it will probably be able to detect and remove viruses from your email system or PC before they can get onto the hand-held computer. If you do not receive files "beamed" from other hand-held computers or connect to the internet directly from the hand-held your existing virus checker is probably all you need. If you plan to use hand-held computers with a wireless internet connection then you should either ensure that email is only collected from an email system with virus protection or purchase one of the hand-held specific virus checkers. These include: F-Secure Anti-Virus (Pocket PC and Nokia Communicator), KasperSky Security (Pocket PC and Palm OS), McAffee VirusScan (Palm, Pocket PC and EPOC), Symantec Antivirus (Pocket PC and Palm OS), Trend Micro PC-cillin (Pocket PC, Palm OS and EPOC).&#183;I run a recruitment agency and have become concerned with how my employees are using the email server at work and am thinking about banning its use. But is this wise? I allow personal use of the phone and am getting a little confused.AW: The recent Phones 4 U case has certainly brought to the foreground the importance of email usage policies in the current climate. However, what must be remembered is that there is not just one quick fix. Rather than simply shutting down the email servers, organisations must implement a usage policy to its specific circumstances and business processes.Content is king and information is power, therefore organisations in market sectors such as healthcare, finance and government in particular require stricter usage policy guidelines. Implementing an additional email monitoring tool is imperative to ensure that they adhere to external responsibilities.In the current climate it would be a case of "cutting off your nose to spite your face" by banning the use of email altogether as, I would presume, most of your customers and partners rely on it as a communication avenue.&#183;I run a publishing house and have seen a lot written about the use of instant messaging in a business environment, but feel that implementing a system could open a security risk. Are my fears founded? And if so, should I get a corporate IM solution or stick with Yahoo?AP: While many companies and business users have recognised the benefits of instant messaging (IM), not all are aware of its potential shortcomings. For business use, consumer IM services provide too much information where they should not - because the communication through these systems is not secure. At the same time, they provide not enough information where they should - because communications are not logged, and users can never be sure of who they are communicating with. Specific corporate instant messaging such as our own eliminates these drawbacks, and makes instant messaging a viable, and valuable, business tool.Many organisations are already using such solutions effectively for a wide range of common business uses, including customer service, technical support, and product development. Others are finding that it provides them with a competitive advantage as they use it to address the specialised requirements such as communicating with your colleagues when working to tight deadlines and drafting the perfect headline.&#183;I run a small business with a five user network and have got a web storage account which we use for backup but I have been told that it may not be enough. Is this right?TD: Web storage and backup are fundamentally different. Web storage safeguards important documents. They're easily accessible online and protected from computer crashes. However, as the number of computers and applications used grows, web storage doesn't provide the backup businesses require.With crashes, you'll still have your documents. However, if burgled, you'll need to rebuild the entire system including your contact database, email and accounts. In this case, you'll need backup files to access all your network information.  Backup software conducts scheduled backups - usually nightly when the system's unused. This copies all data, programs and network information: user names, logins, printer configurations, etc to magnetic tapes. These should be cycled daily and stored offsite.Backup solutions aren't expensive. The Windows 2000 server includes it. Then you just need suitable devices (a 24 GB DAT costs &#163;350) and tapes. You must change the tapes and take them home, but if you arrive Monday to find empty offices, there's a reasonable chance that your company's "back up" by Tuesday.Business SolutionsThe Guardian119 Farringdon RoadLondon EC1R 3ERonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
You might have heard from me before. Not through these august pages, necessarily, but before that. In a past life and indeed a past century - OK, about six years ago - I was one of those repulsive spammers sending out junk mail and clogging up people's inboxes. It seemed a good idea at the time. I'd better explain.I had this start-up business. I call it that because that's what it was and it never really got any further: Clapperton Publishing Limited. Basically I inherited an existing publication but launched my own - the inelegantly titled SME Business IT Update, later changed to Small Business IT Update at the reasonable request of another publication called SME Business.The idea was to inform people of things they could do with their IT systems that would save bits of money here and there: things like designing your own letterheads in Word, using your PC as a fax - stuff that might, if you did it all and added it all up, save four figures or so by the end of the year. Not bad for a 60 quid investment in a newsletter, you might think.At first it went well. The readers who saw it liked it, it gained a couple of mentions in the press and 200 people responded to mailshots sent out in a couple of accounting system companies' newsletters. Which, given that these were basically enclosures within what might already have been regarded as junk mail, might be thought a pretty good result. Except the business plan was predicated on 600 people responding.Nevertheless it looked good: about 20 people a week were responding so I bought the new computer and a nice plasma screen (quite a luxury at that point) - and the orders stopped. Dead. And all of my marketing ideas depended on at least some small cash flow coming in.This would be about when I got a piece of spam. From a spammer. Suggesting they could help my business by approaching business owners and managers from this high-quality, regularly-cleaned list they had. For 90 quid.OK, with hindsight it was crazy. But when you're up against it and convinced you're not going to survive unless you do something drastic, you'll believe anything - and as a start-up you're living and breathing the business to the extent that you think everyone's secretly already convinced by the value of your product (and in my case never mind that they've survived perfectly OK without it so far). You won't let it die, and if you're working by yourself - I wasn't paying myself, let alone employing other people - there's no-one to tell you it's not going to work. Or indeed telling you that the internet was about to throw out a massive amount of free information, making your product look overly costly.So I went for it. I became that faceless spammer. And I took a lot of their advice - no point in hiring these people if you're not going to take their advice after all. Put "urgent" on the subject or it won't get read, they said, so against my instincts I did so. Don't put a real reply address in, they said, let us take care of that - actually I drew the line there. If people were going to receive mail from me about something I thought worth drawing their attention there was no need to hide.I think it was when an 11-year-old friend of the family asked me why I'd been sending him entreaties (he used words like that) to subscribe to a newsletter for business owners that I twigged that the quality of the list may conceivably not have been all I'd been led to believe.I still have no way of knowing how many bona fide managers received my mail; as far as I recall none of them replied. But I made some interesting other contacts. One individual threatened to take me to court: I pointed out that I'd done nothing illegal (which I hadn't, just been incredibly na¿ve) but he had an uncle who worked in the Home OfÞce so wouldn't be persuaded otherwise. I'm still waiting for the writ.The thing is, I was close enough to my business to be utterly convinced of the value of my offering. Nobody in business should spend more than is needed on their IT and my publication would help them, surely? And there's the problem. For every 10 invitations to increase your bust or willy size a thousandfold, for every assurance that snoring is normal and curable by a simple nasal amputation procedure, there's some poor sap with a genuine business idea that he or she believes, honestly, would be a help to you..And if that's you, then the thing to do is not to be tempted no matter how bad sales get. If you're down to a record low in your marketing coffers then let's be honest, you have a business problem that's not going to be resolved by a quick spend of marketing anyway - unplanned spending is usually a good way of simply removing cash from your account. Spamming can be tempting and it's appallingly easy to persuade yourself that's not what you're doing - this is you, after all, not some ignoramus sending out obscenities.Except that's how you'll be perceived. Reputations are easy to damage, embarrassingly so, and it can take a while to recover. And if you ever do something unwise, whatever you do don't draw attention to it - writing an article in the national press raking it all up again is a terrible idea, for example, no matter how nicely your editor asks.Hey, hang on...
Finding an unused domain name can be difficult. At the end of September, there were 4.1m registered .co.uk names, making it the most popular UK domain class, as well as 303,000 .org.uk names and 48,000 of the newer .me.uk names. As well as these, many UK businesses and individuals own addresses with a global suffix, such as .com.Many businesses paid big money for a domain name during the dotcom boom. In the US, business.com changed hands for $7.5m and UK bank Halifax paid $1m for if.com.Things have calmed down: the registrar for .uk domain names Nominet recorded 75,133 registrations in September, well below its record of 245,967 in March 2000. But if you want a "generic" English word (in other words, not the name of someone or something) - particularly in .co.uk or .com - you will probably have to make an offer to the existing owner.Some are keen to sell. Name-shop.co.uk buys generic .co.uk domain names, in the hope it can sell or lease them. Director Angus Hanton says he sold three.co.uk to Hutchinson's mobile phone service 3 for &#163;102,000.However, this is at the top end. Hanton says he sold cheap.co.uk, cheaper.co.uk and cheapest.co.uk for a total of &#163;18,000, to Braintree insurer Insure and Go - the firm confirms the sale, but would not comment on the price.Angie Barrow, proprietor of name warehouser Any-web, says generic .co.uks, such as driedflowers.co.uk, can sell for &#163;2,000 to &#163;5,000. "The equivalent is a car registration," she says. "People want them, and the value goes up."   If this still sounds expensive, domain name registration firmwww.UK2.netadvertises domain names priced from hundreds to tens of thousands of pounds. Auction sites such as Ebay.co.uk have some quite strong names selling - and failing to sell - for a few pounds.If you need to cast around for ideas, you might be as well finding a free name and building it up through marketing. But what if your established brand name has been taken by someone else - known as cybersquatting?You may be able to retrieve it without paying a ransom. Nominet operates a dispute resolution service for .uk names, and says that 70% of users are businesses with fewer than 50 staff.The first stage of the Nominet service, in which a mediator tries to find a mutually agreeable resolution between the complainant and the respondent, is free of charge, and solves 55% of cases. Nominet can then organise an independent expert decision for &#163;750, followed by an appeal panel costing &#163;3,000 (neither price includes VAT).Emily Taylor, company secretary of Nominet, says that complainants and respondents improve their chances by providing good evidence. The complainant might show that it had lost potential customers to the cybersquatter or that it had traded under the name for a long time, and the respondent could demonstrate a reason to register the domain name.There is an equivalent process for the generic global domains such as .com: the uniform domain name dispute resolution policy (UDRP). Decisions are made by bodies such as the Swiss-based World Intellectual Property Organisation: Wipo's fees start at $1,500.Taylor says that many problems arise from sloppy administration rather than maliciousness. To protect against mistakes, check to see who the named owner of a .uk domain name is through the "whois" search, atwww.nominet.org.uk. An alternative, which can also check names for many domains worldwide, is available atwww.nic.com/cgi-bin/wp.cgi.
Traditional coffee roasters don't usually have much time for the web. The Coffee Exchange Company in Blackburn is an exception.Each month it buys about eight tonnes of coffee beans and hand roasts them in small batches for restaurants, cafes, railway stations and pubs across the country. Traditional coffee roasting methods have served the company well over the years. But when managing director Mark Smith decided to franchise the business, he opted for the unfamiliar territory of the web.About four years ago, he decided to set up a sister operation called Caffeine Rush which offers mobile coffee-making units. "You can drive them into a shopping precinct or railway station and within a quarter of an hour, you can be banging out as many coffees as you want."The Caffeine Rush franchises are promoted on a dedicated website where interested franchisees can see photographs of the mobile coffee-making units and download documents about the profit-sharing splits and the support they will receive. "We supply everything apart from the milk," Smith says. The site is simple to navigate around and is presented in a humorous way. You click on virtual coffee beans to get updates.The web-based marketing initiative began about two and a half years ago and Smith has been pleasantly surprised by the results. So far he says 16 franchises have been sold and the franchise operation is now worth about &#163;200,000 a year in additional turnover. "It has grown the business immeasurably," Smith points out, adding that all the cups now carry the site address.The web is proving to be particularly effective as a pre-sales tool. By reading material on the site, people can quickly make up their minds about the product and see photographs of it in action. "Potential franchisees can log onto the web and read what they need before they come onto us. They can be 60% down the line before they talk to us."The ability to provide downloadable brochures on the web is becoming an increasingly attractive option to SMEs like Coffee Exchange. Online marketing brochures can be quickly and easily updated for particular customers. And it avoids the pitfalls of traditional glossy brochures which would all too often end up gathering dust.To get to this stage in its development, Coffee Exchange was helped by grants from Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council. Steve Hoyle, assistant director of regeneration for Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council explains: "There was a low take-up of e-commerce in the borough about three years ago. We looked at how we could accelerate the take up of e-commerce. We set up a team to support companies who wanted to develop new technologies."Coffee Exchange was awarded a grant of &#163;5,000 to develop the mobile coffee making units and also received support to build a website to promote Caffeine Rush.  The company is now growing at such a rate that it is considering branching out internationally. But Smith is apprehensive about going overseas with the coffee making units. "It would be nice to do that if we can keep control. Keeping control is the important thing."Tony Fish, an adviser for UK Online for Business, says that many small and medium sized companies who market themselves effectively on the web can soon find themselves confronted with the option of serving international customers. To guide SMEs through this predicament, the government has introduced an initiative called "Passport to Export" which provides grants and independent advice on breaking into overseas markets."It will help you diagnose what the company wants to do and will help plan the route into that market," Fish says. "SMEs need to initially limit themselves to developing a particular market in a particular country." He believes that companies like Coffee Exchange would be making a mistake if they adopted a scattergun approach to lots of different countries from the outset." Get it sorted in terms of one market," he advises, "and use that as a springboard to get into another country."While they are weighing up whether or not to go overseas, Coffee Exchange is using email to deepen links between its growing UK franchise community.   Denise Chilton, who is a Caffeine Rush franchisee, distributes online templates to new franchisees so they can easily work out the profitability of taking a mobile coffee-making unit to a particular event. "More and more people are using the web. Over the last 18 months, it has become a fundamental business tool for me."But Chilton points out that the internet franchise marketing operation has attracted some unsuitable candidates. In order to assist SMEs who are marketing franchises over the web, UK Online for Business is encouraging companies to use online credit checking companies. Fish says, "They give you a good idea of the credit worthiness of a company and how big they actually are. This is vital information before you enter into a franchising agreement."Despite the growing success of his  operation, Smith is keen to point out that the web has its limitations. "The web can open up the world. And if you have the right product, it's fantastic. A lot of people think the web is the answer for everybody but it isn't."Luckily for Smith, and his 40-strong team, most people still can't log onto their computers without their daily caffeine fix.Links:www.caffeine-rush.co.ukwww.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.ukwww.council.blackburnworld.com
A newsletter is a good sales promotion vehicle, a way to tell recipients about your products or services. So long as you're offering them information of value in your newsletter, they'll take a look at what you have to sell.But most newsletters are more than an extended plug. They give you the chance to address your reader directly,  show them what you're like, how much you know. It's all part of building your brand.So what's involved? The first requirement is a commitment to publish it regularly. Second, you need to maintain a high standard. And third, realise that it's going to take time and effort to do it well.ContentA good newsletter has something useful to say. As well as the "new product sale now on" features, you should have some items that your audience will find valuable - tips and tricks, industry comment, briefs on the latest news in your field.You could also include some entertainment. Contests are always popular. You don't have to offer too much - a magnum of champagne always seems more impressive than its actual cost. Depending on your target readership, jokes might go down well. The tone of voice used in the articles will also vary according to the audience. In general, newsletters should be chatty and informal (the personal touch) or terse and clipped (for a cool, businesslike air). But either way, content is king: you need to say something worth saying.None of us have enough time, so make the newsletter easy for the reader to scan - use short paragraphs, bullet points, white space between topics, clear article titles and section heads. For e-newsletters, use links and highlight them.The toolsYou can produce a perfectly acceptable newsletter using Microsoft Word, and there are some decent ready-to-go templates to get you started. You'll need Word 2002 for most of them. For more control over formatting, try Microsoft Publisher: it too has some good templates, and they come on the CD.But if you're doing a paper newsletter, think about the printing. Single-sided inkjet output with stapled pages might just about be ok for a short run newsletter with a roll-your-sleeves-up feel. Otherwise, use a commercial printer: expect to pay 75p to &#163;1.50 per copy for a 500 copies of good quality full colour eight-pager.Jobbing printers and print shops might not be able to take your Word or Publisher files, so check what format they require.Both Word and Publisher can be used for email newsletters, but there are some caveats. Word is good for plain text e-newsletters: just save the document in that format. For the full fancy formatting, you save as a web page - and while this works, it does produce a very large HTML full with lots of extraneous Word-related gubbins. Bigger files mean more expense on sending, and they're slower to open.Publisher's "create website" facility also does a reasonable job and with less baggage, provided you use Publisher 2000 or later. Earlier versions turn everything into images, including text.You get a bit more control over formatting and much smaller HTML files if you use a pukka web editor like FrontPage or Dreamweaver - or for that matter one of the less well known freebies, like AceHTML Freeware or 1st Page 2000.The listYou also need to build a mailing list. An emailed newsletter needs email addresses for recipients, and the simplest way to collect them is to invite people to subscribe online at your newsletter website.All your current customers, suppliers and professional advisors should be on the mailing list as a matter of course. So should the local newspaper, chamber of commerce, industry associations and maybe the tourist office too.   But don't forget - junk mail is bad, opt-in is good. For paper or email distribution you must provide an easy way to unsubscribe.List managementIf your mailing list is small, under 250 names or so, you can probably manage it using software you already have. Excel is a surprisingly effective option, with one line per subscriber and information fields for name and address in columns. Outlook is a better solution: it lets you set up several contacts folders, so you can have one exclusively for newsletter subscribers.As your mailing list grows, maintenance will become more of a chore - adding new names, deleting the dead addresses, unsubscribing people. You might also want to add extra information and relate subscribers to customer records. Use a true database application like Access or FileMaker for that. And don't overlook Microsoft Works, which includes a surprisingly nifty mailing list application as a sample for its database.Email or paper?Given the amount of email that people receive, your newsletter will have to be pretty distinctive to avoid being "trashcanned" - so the to and from lines are almost as important as the subject, the subject should enable the reader to see the main topic and distinguish legit email from spam at a glance, and your strongest story had better be the first thing that is read.Email can (probably should) include links, so the newsletter itself might be an extremely short message with brief synopses of the articles that can be read at the website.Email isn't great for a graphics-based message, though. And since email addresses go out of date very quickly, there will be a lot of list maintenance to do.  Paper is more substantial, slightly less easy to bin, an object that the reader might return to more than once.There's no reason why you should try to do both email and paper versions - except that very quickly you'll see how the cost of print and postage tilts the balance.
Let's assume you're more likely to have a website than not. We can say that because BT Openworld's latest Pathfinder research says 59% of its small to medium sized business customers have their own website, as opposed to 51% last year. So it's still marginal, but less marginal than it was in 2001 - you're slightly more likely to have one than not. Business Link for London says 51% of small businesses have websites.The more interesting question is what you're doing with it. Large numbers of websites are still largely at the "brochureware" level - in other words they look like an online version of a paper brochure with no chance to order products online or to engage with the company very much.The same BT figures suggest that customers with non-trading websites rose from 21% to 33%, while customers with trading websites went from 11% to 20%.   Business Link for London puts the number of businesses with sites from which you can actually order something at 31%.Do bear in mind the Business Link figures are exclusively London-based, while BT found an unusually high preponderance of web activity in Wales and the west. And, in spite of the variance within the figures, they do suggest that most people who opt to use technology in their business are using it for publicity and little else.In fact there's plenty of room for doing something more sophisticated without necessarily spending a fortune. And it needn't all be web-based - have you thought, for example, about using text messaging to keep in touch with your customers?By far the most important thing to ask before embarking on any electronic campaign (or, as is more likely, an ordinary campaign with electronic elements) is how sophisticated you actually want to be. WebtraffIQ is a business that analyses clicks onto websites and customer behaviours associated with them. European director Marcos Richardson is cautious. "Basic is not necessarily bad," he says. "The website needs to put across the key benefits of business and site navigation needs to be simple and interlinked. It needs to effectively and efÞciently produce the results that are sought from the business."But the central message Richardson is keen to promote is that sophistication doesn't necessarily mean technical complexity, and that whatever you plan to do with a website needs to be done as part of a coherent business strategy. There are in fact still a lot of organisations that have a website purely because they think they ought to. David Harrison, managing director of search engine marketing campaign company WSPS, says: "Too frequently people have a website built but don't integrate it with the rest of the business. By making links between your website, marketing and customer relations activities, you can start to judge your return on investment."He offers a number of means of measuring the success of a web campaign.Publicising an email address on your hard copy materials that is different from the one on your website, for example, will enable you to find out exactly who's coming to you from each avenue at a glance. "I've often found that a contact form page or pop-up rather than a simple email hyperlink can encourage people to email immediately; potential clients can fill in a request without having to open their email programs."Well, maybe, but they can also have pop-up killers installed on their systems which frankly won't help. If your web designer is up to it, though, there are other ways around getting in touch. The "call me now" button, in which a viewer clicks on a link and fills in a number which then comes to your company is useful as long as there's a real person on the end of it at all times to answer. "You could rent a new telephone line that is only advertised on the site," says Harrison. "That way whenever it rings you'll know where the lead has come from." Web-only offers are another way of tracking when people have seen your site - if they haven't logged on they don't know about it, so if they ask for the right discount you can track them easily.E-commerce is a complex area. But, in brief, if you wish to sell products over the internet the standard advice is that the technology is easier than the logistics. E-shopping products like Actinic Catalog, Shopcreator or Erol will allow you if you have the right skills or a web developer to put a shop together online that looks and feels exactly like the rest of your site, and the starting price is around &#163;350 for a 10-product e-catalogue from Erol. The tricky bit is in keeping the customers satisfied. They won't want to wait around for product and are accustomed to books arriving from Amazon within a day or two; they'll expect the same for you or a good explanation as to why not.Customer relations can often be enhanced electronically and not just through email follow-ups to purchases. A sales process that's integrated with your website can allow customers to log on and look at the progress of their purchase: link into your courier's website and they'll be able to track product when it's left your premises as well (see Creative Labs' online shop and its links with Parcelforce, for example - enter your package number on the Creative site and the Parcelforce site pops up and tells you where it is in the delivery process).  Something that is often overlooked is the idea of using text to keep in touch. A product that has just launched in the UK is Q200 from Quios, which should bring this within the reach of small enterprises. Chief executive Marc Vanlerberghe explains that it's not a spamming tool but a way of saving money: "Clubs, for example, can use it to tell local people there's a promotion on that evening - you get a text message saying there's 10% off beer during whichever is your slack time and you go along." Once again he stresses this needs to be done with the full knowledge of the participants, although he stresses that this sort of marketing is unlikely to attract the spammers. "It's best for local customers - someone texting about a club, for example, is going to be looking for local people."The concern about spamming via text is a valid one, but to a lesser extent in this country. Massoud Marzban, EMEA marketing director for messaging specialist TeleCommunication Systems (TCS), explains that in the UK and the rest of Europe the mobile phone companies operate closed systems. They have cross-billing agreements and other commercial arrangements that would make it all but impossible for someone to send out mass texts without costing themselves a fortune. In the US it's not so regulated and the spamming problem is starting to grow.On October 31, much of this will become academic at least as far as Europe is concerned when the Communications Directive comes into effect. This will legislate for marketing electronically only through lists into which customers have opted. "The problem will be how you define a soft opt-in," says Marzban. For example if a company you've never heard of offers you Viagra then of course that's junk mail. If on the other hand a company from whom you've bought items previously offers you something they could argue it as customer care. Another interesting wrinkle for text marketers will be the element of the new law that says you must explain how people can get off a list; it's fine if you're using email, you have the space. Too many words on how to get off a text message list and you've used up all the available characters.Presumably someone will work out a way around that - it's only giving customers what they want anyway. In the meantime people with static sites should be aware that for a minimum cost they can start doing a lot more with them.Keswick FlooringSome goods, such as books and CDs, are obvious candidates for internet selling. But one firm has made a highly profitable business out of selling something much less likely online - floors.Adrian Lee, managing director of Keswick Flooring, had been running a profitable two-man business in Norfolk for 14 years, selling and installing wooden floors, when he decided to set up a website in 1999. The first site just had information about the company and a few prices; a few months later, the company started to sell their products online, and by 2000 was offering home deliveries. "It started taking off immediately," says Lee. In the four years since creating the site, the company's turnover has increased from &#163;250,000 to &#163;4m a year, with roughly 98% of that business coming as a result off the website.Knowing that no one outside Norfolk would have heard of Keswick Flooring, Lee registeredwww.flooring supplies.co.ukandwww.woodenflooring.co.uk. "Because we were in quite early, when people did searches for wooden flooring, we started getting to the top of the searches on Google." That, plus word of mouth reputation, means that Lee no longer bothers with conventional advertising, and isn't even in the Yellow Pages.The site itself benefits from being "clear and uncluttered" and "incredibly customer-focused," says Annalize Cuthill, managing consultant at web marketing firm Skill4. "I can see what it looks like once I've put this floor down. I can imagine what the end result would look like - a difficult thing to achieve on the web."These days only about 5% of the company's customers are based in Norfolk. Keswick Flooring promises free next day delivery to anywhere in the country, and has just started taking orders from Holland, France and Germany. Only about 15% to 20% of orders come over the website, however, because people prefer to look at the products on the site, then phone the company to discuss their choice.Coping with rapid growth hasn't always been easy. Lee now employs 10 other people, including two full-time IT staff. The hardest part of the expansion, he says, is fulfilment. He has had to build up a network of installers throughout the country, and went through 10 courier firms before finding one he was happy with. "Many people come into this and think there's money to be made, but then to sit down and try to deliver a ton of flooring from Norwich to Cornwall tomorrow, and get that organised so it's all picked up and packed properly and the customer knows what time it's going to be there - you only get round that with years of doing it."The Gentleman's ShopIn 1997, Robert and Charlotte Johnston began selling a few shaving brushes and toiletries in a little room adjoining their barber's shop in Hungerford, Berkshire. The products proved surprisingly popular, particularly among American visitors to the town. So, in 1999, the Johnstons bought their first computer and set up The Gentleman's Shop (www.gentlemans-shop.com).They set up their own site using Actinic Catalog software at a cost of &#163;350, and paid a further &#163;500 annual fee to have the site hosted. Then the orders started to pour in - not, as they expected from people who had visited the shop, but from a completely new set of customers.The Johnstons had identified and tapped a niche market. A shop selling luxury grooming products for men, costing &#163;50 or &#163;100, is not going to attract much trade on the high street. Put it on the internet, however, and you have access to a global market - more than half the site's income is from customers in the US.Much of the company's trade comes from repeat business, says Robert Johnston, and perhaps this is the real key to the site's success. The Johnstons set huge store by customer service. They pack and send out deliveries as soon as the orders arrive. Emails are checked throughout the day - right up to 11pm.In 2001, says Johnston, the website saved them during the foot and mouth crisis. when fewer people visited the town.Earlier this year the Gentleman's Shop moved to bigger premises, which now bring in as much business as the website. "Suddenly we've got the shop that meets people's aspirations."Langloffan cheeseLeon Downey had been making cheeses in Llangloffan, Pembrokeshire for 20 years when he set up his website,www.welsh-cheese.co.ukin 1997. By that time, he had built up a solid reputation as an independent producer offering high quality cheeses, so the website was a natural extension of his existing family-run business.The initial outlay was small: the site cost &#163;350 to set up, and at the beginning ISP charges were only &#163;300 a year. Downey got in early - he was the first Welsh cheesemaker, he says, to have a website, and he was astute enough to register the domain name, reasoning that no-one would have heard of Llangloffan cheese. "If someone's looking for Welsh cheese, they're going to put 'Welsh cheese' in the search engine." The decision has paid off - the site now gets 29,000 hits a month.Customers based in the UK can buy cheese directly from the website, but the site is also an important a way of letting people know about Llangloffan Cheese. Downey points out that despite the remoteness of the business's rural location, the internet has given it a much wider reach. "The whole world finds out where you are." What happens, he says, is that people visiting Pembrokeshire look around on the internet first to see what they can visit, and discover his website. "They come and see the cheese making, then they buy the cheese and some of them order for Christmas."Despite the popularity of the cheeses, he has no plans to expand. Instead, he hopes to improve profitability by selling a higher proportion of cheese directly rather than through retailers. "We are artists and cheese makers. Quality has to come before quantity."The do's and don'ts of electronic marketing&#183;Don't send out vast amounts of unsolicited commercial mail - this will become illegal in November as the new European directive comes into play&#183;Do tell your customers you'll be using their information for marketing purposes&#183;Do consider list swaps and sales but make absolutely certain your customers agree to this in advance - it's not law yet but it will be, so if you're doing it already you'll be covered&#183;And when someone asks you something by email, remember to reply - amazing amounts of sales are lost through e-marketers taking days to respond and seeing their customers go elsewhere as a result
