There's much to be said in favour of predictive text, the bit of software in your mobile that guesses the word you're aiming for so you don't have to spell it out letter by letter. It's much simpler now to form coherent sentences and phrases and not have to use awkward SMSese expressions such as "l8r". A shopping list, a rendezvous switch, a billet doux, all have been rendered easier by predictive text.A limit, however, is placed by the size of the dictionary in the phone. And this is where you notice oddities creeping in. Not just what the phone dictionary doesn't have, but what it does. My 2005 Nokia won't recognise the words "Mozart" or "Beethoven", for instance. But it does recognise "Wagner" and "Strauss". It is familiar with "Nazi" and "communist"; but it hasn't heard of "haddock" or "avocado". It knows Picasso and Gaugin, but seems to be unacquainted with Raphael and Leonardo. Likes Elvis and Dylan; hasn't heard of the Beatles. Seattle, Quebec and Tampere (Finnish city, pop 200,000), yes; Newcastle, Cardiff and Sheffield (English city, pop half a million), no.If you expect your Nokia to know what you're on about when you message your partner, "That shop in Bolton has the grout we need," it will begin grumpily demanding, "Spell?" If, however, you want to say: "Who's your favourite dictator, Stalin, Hitler, Franco or Napoleon?" the mobile understands exactly what you mean. My phone goes all talk-to-the-hand if I try to message somebody to remember to get the emulsion, and that Sainsbury's has guavas. But write: "Marxist dogma relies too heavily on the dialectical approach," and the Nokia begins, figuratively speaking, to nod in agreement.On the basis of its vocabulary, in short, my 21st-century Nokia phone, if it were a person, would be a heavily bearded lecturer from the London School of Economics in 1975, smelling strongly of pipe smoke. And I'd be the last person to want that academic out of my mobile. I just wonder whether he might not be joined in there by someone a bit more UK 2006-specific.Nokia's text dictionary for the English-speaking world (there aren't separate ones for Britain and America), like that for most mobiles, is provided by a Seattle-based outfit called Tegic Communications, now owned by the AOL empire. The original database of words - it has grown to 34,000, including plurals and different forms of the same word, against more than 600,000 in the OED - came from a pre-mobile piece of software which speeded up communication for disabled people only able to tap one letter at a time.Tegic won much publicity last month when it boasted about adding funky coinages such as "lifehack" and "podjack" to its predictive dictionary. I asked AOL's Erin Gifford whether there was any chance of getting perhaps less trendy, but more useful words, such as "Wolverhampton", "plaice" or "Heathrow". It turned out that Tegic's methodology was quite old-media."When we put the dictionary together, we pay attention to current newspaper data," Gifford said. "It's not the 34,000 words most used in texting, it's the words most commonly found in print. Heathrow and Sheffield aren't in there, but London and Edinburgh are. It just depends on how frequently they occur in the media. Avocados are not written about enough to have made it."Gifford said Tegic might respond to a write-in campaign urging the inclusion of a particular word, but given the firm's usual method, it might be better to use the last bit of space I have left to add usage heft to the vocabulary of the rejected: avocado! Cardiff! Can you hear us in Seattle? Haddock! Mozart! Mozart!
"Most brand-name PCs that use Intel processors take part in the 'Intel Inside' program, which gives the computer makers marketing dollars for displaying the chipmaker's logo on their products and in their advertising. But Apple decided not to sign on to the program with the lineup of Intel-based Macs that CEO Steve Jobs introduced Tuesday," saysIna Fried at CNet."We chose not to take part in the Intel Inside campaign," Phil Schiller, Apple senior vice president of worldwide product marketing, said in an interview at the Macworld Expo here.So, no bongs in Apple's MacIntel advertising either.... Later, the story says:Along with forgoing the Intel Inside program, Apple is also not a part of Intel's latest marketing push, Viiv, which is centered on entertainment-oriented PCs. For now, that program is limited to PCs with Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition, though Intel Vice President Deborah Conrad said Apple had a chance to take part in Viiv."They looked at Viiv," Conrad said in an interview. "We were very up-front with them...It's not like they were surprised or that they couldn't have been part of it if they had wanted to."Comment:Not only could Apple have signed up for Viiv, it could have supplied its PCs with Windows XP Media Center Edition, which is openlyavailable for licensing....
"Representative Christopher H Smith, a New Jersey Republican and chairman of a House subcommittee on human rights, plans to hold hearings next month on reports that US Internet companies, including Yahoo Inc and Microsoft Corp, aid efforts by the government of China to suppress free speech," reports Hiawatha Bray atThe Boston Globe.The international organization Reporters Without Borders last week urged American Internet companies to establish a voluntary code of conduct that would promote resistance to censorship demands from authoritarian governments. If that doesn't work, the organization said, Congress should pass a law to make such anticensorship policies mandatory.Smith said such a law is probably the only way to stop US firms from cooperating with overseas censorship. He said that no US company should ever comply with China's political censorship policies, even if it means they lose the right to do business in China.''Call them on their bluff," Smith said. ''We want an amelioration of your behavior, or we will not do business with you."
AsGregreported earlier in the week, the future may look rosy for the interactive industry in general, but there are signs that software sales are slowing down, with major publishers revising their initial bullish predictions for Q1 2006 to more cautious levels.PublishersEAandTake 2made public that they anticipated too much from their releases in 2005, with both companies coming in low on their fiscal predictions according to trade paper MCV.According to theBBC, a Forrester Research Report suggests that the dream of attracting new gamers to digital convergence through newfangled games consoles is misplaced, and the future of games technology in the mainstream is the handheld console. Making a profit in future on traditional hardware may be reliant upon the creativity of games developers to attract new audiences or to adopt advertising in-game to balance the budgets.
Photo: Seattle Post-Intelligencer"In a first for Microsoft's hardware group, the company is developing a keyboard designed just for the Mac. But regular Mac users will notice there's no Apple key," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer"To be clear, there is a key to the left of the space bar that will do everything the regular Apple key does. But the customary Apple icon is missing. Asked about the situation at the Macworld Expo this week, a Microsoft representative said Apple declined the company's request to use the iconic symbol on the wireless keyboard."Update:Here's a clip of a newLogitech keyboardshowing what Microsoft isn't allowed to show:
The last 1,000 pixels on Alex Tew'sMillion Dollar Home Pagehave been sold, but not for $1,000: they went for $38,100 on thiseBay auction.I notice I first blogged the page here onSeptember 12, 2005, which represents a pretty impressive earning rate.The Washington Post has marked the event with another article,A Million to One-- no doubt the first of many.Update: The site has just suffered some outages because of a major "distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, reportsNetcraft. "The DDoS attacks raise the prospect that operating milliondollarhomepage.com may prove more expensive than Tew originally envisioned. Tew will not be charged for any additional bandwidth consumed by the attack. But as Weiss noted, defense against DDoS attacks is typically a paid service not included with basic hosting accounts."
The Comments and Search facilities on the Guardian blogs will be down for 90 minutes from 3pm, so anyone wishing to voice their views about theNintendo DS vs. PSP debate, therelative value of the GameCube to nasty thievesand any other titbit we've run thus far this week, or to search for a recap on allXbox 360 newsand views will have to hold their horses.We expect full service to be up and running at 4:40pm GMT.
Google, Google on the wall, who is the fairest of them all? For once, you won't need to look at a search engine for an answer because everyone already knows it.The world's favourite search engine was even more favoured by online shoppers this year (taking 11% of December site traffic, a 27% rise on last year) and is the darling of Wall Street even more so than a few months ago as its share price heads for the stratosphere.This week it unveiled yet more goodies in the form of Googlepack (free software for PC newbies) and a point-and-click site to view and buy videos on demand. By the time you read this there will doubtless be something else as the creative machine burns into the night at the Googleplex.By any standard it is the most astonishing company to hit the planet (will we have to rename it Google Earth?), the 20th century's version of the philosopher's stone, turning the useless ones and noughts of computer code into shareholders' gold and consumers' enlightenment.It is also evident that The Force of creative energy has moved to Google's headquarters from Redmond where it once resided. Microsoft is left battling to save what the courts found to be an illegally maintained monopoly while Google is dispersing knowledge as it works out ways of putting a Trojan Horse behind Bill Gates' battlements.Among the shoal of rumours swimming around the web, the one I like most is that Google will offer computer manufacturers not only a free version of Linux (such as the one going into MIT's $100 computer in which Google has a stake) to bundle into their machines alongside Windows, as well as a stake in any profits made from revenues arising from Google advertisements in future. Cool, that.I should have declared an interest. I use Google and other search engines (some of which seem almost as good); I use Google's customised newspaper to keep abreast of things that interest me; and I am even typing this using its beta email service, Gmail (invitation needed from existing users), because it provides all I need from a word processor (except for a word counter - get that sorted, Sergey!) without the maze-like complexity of you-know-what.Beneath all this, Google remains a slightly dodgy long-term proposition. Although it is diversifying in all directions, it remains essentially a one-product company. Just as Google, a second mover, dislodged AltaVista only a few years ago so a newer, better, more intelligent search engine could do the same to Google.Also, its existence is predicated on the fact that most of its sources (such as Guardian Unlimited) allow Google to search their information for nothing. If the content providers were able to devise some micro-payments system when their data was trawled by a search engine, Google's revenue stream would not be so attractive.But for the moment that doesn't matter because Google's mission statement - to make all possible information available to everyone who has a computer or mobile phone - is mind bogglingly important. Taken together with the falling cost of computers and the imminence of sub-$100 models, there could be a real opportunity to close the digital divide - within countries and between them. And if Wall Street investors get rich on the back of providing free knowledge, who cares?When Francis Bacon first coined the phrase "knowledge is power" books were confined to a few rich, literate people. If Google succeeds then all knowledge about anything will be available to practically anyone as long as they have the motivation to look. And you won't need to stray from your home.But success also breeds hubris. We haven't heard so much recently about Google's founding philosophy, "Don't be evil", and they have started to do unGoogle-ish things, such as caving in to censorship demands in China (along with other companies such as Yahoo! and Microsoft).So take care Google because we will be watching you. Maybe you should put on your desktops that oh-so-true axiom of Lord Action: "All power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely". Or, as WB Yeats might have said: "Tread softly, because you tread on my dreams".
Andy at Bentuser has posted a neatcomparison of Windows XP and the public build of Vista (b5270)side by side, with the photo above showing Windows Media Player 11. Vista is not feature-complete and Microsoft has been wary of revealing too much too soon (it's too easily copied). However, it does provide a good idea of the overall change to the user interface, and some insights into the major changes under the hood.
Bill Gates doesn't like to lose. When the Microsoft chairman and his chief executive, Steve Ballmer, played a game onstage at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas last week recreating the classic fight of Muhammad Ali against George Foreman, it was Gates (as Ali) who won, and Ballmer who threw his controller to the floor.But there was a bigger fight going on at CES: to set the standard for the coming generation of high-definition video discs. And just as in the Rumble in the Jungle, where Ali came in as the underdog but stole the title, last week the Microsoft-backed underdog, HD-DVD, landed a few blows on its rival Blu-ray, which had looked the favourite, backed by Sony and most of the Hollywood studios.First Microsoft announced it would offer an HD-DVD drive for the Xbox 360. Then Toshiba America said it would ship its first two HD-DVD players in March at $499.99 and $799.99. By contrast, the first Blu-ray player, a Pioneer Elite model, is expected this summer at $1,800, along with a Samsung player at about $1,000. HD-DVD suddenly looks within the reach of most HDTV owners, and Blu-ray doesn't.These were not knockout punches, but they follow Hewlett-Packard's decision to support HD-DVD, instead of exclusively backing Blu-ray, and Intel and Microsoft joining the HD-DVD camp. Sony's Blu-ray system has many more supporters - including all but one of the major Hollywood studios, Philips, Apple and Dell - but now it has a fight on its hands. More importantly, the announced prices for HD-DVD could make Blu-ray into a suicidally expensive proposition for Sony, whose profits have fallen by a quarter in the past five years.Ted Schadler, a principal analyst and vice-president at Forrester Research in Boston said his team re-evaluated after CES. "They've made it more attractive - a lot cheaper - to get into HD-DVD instead of Blu-ray," he says, "but that's just going to prolong the battle. The fact that Blu-ray has more studio support means that HD-DVD doesn't have a chance."But he's also called it a pyrrhic victory: "Eventually they both lose."The final formatSchadler reckons the format war will discourage consumers from buying any next-generation player until they are confident of the winner. In the meantime, they will expand their use of video-on-demand services, video downloads, and watching video over the net. And Gates recognises that: in an interview with the Daily Princetonian college newspaper last year he said that whichever format wins, "this is the last physical format there will ever be. Everything's going to be streamed directly or on a hard disk." With the launch of the Google Video Store and Starz' Vongo movie download service, and the growth of video-on-demand cable services, some might wonder why we need a new format.The answer is that the entertainment industries want to move to high-definition TV, offering 720 or 1080 lines per screen (rather than the 625 lines of PAL in Europe). There just isn't room to put an HDTV movie on a DVD disc. Both Blu-ray and HD-DVD can store from three to five times as much data: HD-DVD can store 15GB on a single-layer disc, and 30GB on a dual-layer disc, while Blu-ray manages 25GB and 50GB - rather than 4.7GB on a DVD. Blu-ray offers higher capacities, but the two systems should offer the same picture and sound quality: both use the same codecs.But while broadband users are prepared to download movies - especially if they are not paying for them - these tend to be low-resolution 1.5GB DivX rips. They are less likely to download 15GB HDTV movies, and they don't have the hard drive space to store them.The problem for the rival camps, though, is that even if consumers accept the need for a new DVD format, they need not rush to buy it. Most people do not, in fact, have HDTV or even HD-ready TV sets, and most TV channels are not broadcasting HDTV pictures. The Hollywood studios would love users to buy HD copies of the films they paid to see in the cinema, bought on VHS and now own on DVD; but there are no HD movies in high street shops.Sony's answer is its Trojan horse strategy of fitting Blu-ray drives in its forthcoming PlayStation 3 consoles. Games developers can use the extra storage space, and if PS3 sales go as well, millions of homes will have devices that can play Blu-ray movies when they become available.However, Blu-ray drives are expensive, and Merrill Lynch Japan has projected this will lead to Sony losing &yen;30bn ($1.18bn) in the first year of the PS3's release. And if Microsoft cuts the price of its Xbox 360 console when the PS3 appears, this could bring "an additional loss of &yen;80bn ($730m) in its second year and &yen;50bn ($457m) in its third year," according to Gamespot. Compare that to Sony's profits in the past three years - &yen;220bn - and you see this strategy could cripple its instigator.Given Sony's reliance on profits from its gaming division, and the size of Microsoft's bank balance - including $37bn cash - this could get nasty. Life would be simpler if both sides backed one system. That's what the two factions - led by Sony and Toshiba - did to create DVD (see below). A format war is, as Schadler says, silly. But in this case, the two sides cannot agree.Peace talksThe first problem is copy protection or digital rights management (DRM). With DVD's encryption cracked, piracy is widespread. (Though this hasn't stopped DVDs being a huge revenue stream for the studios.) They don't want that to happen again, and they are backing Blu-ray as the most secure system. Blu-ray enables the encryption to be changed so that if (or when) it's broken, it isn't broken forever. Blu-ray also allows discs to be watermarked to make piracy harder.This approach has less appeal to Microsoft and PC makers who want to sell products that people can use to download, display and edit music and movies. It especially hits Microsoft's plans to sell PCs as home hubs. In his Princetonian interview, Gates said: "The inconvenience &#91;of Blu-ray&#93; is that the studios got too much protection at the expense of consumers."The HD-DVD side is also keen on DRM, of course, but has won the support of Intel and Microsoft by agreeing to "managed copy". This idea allows an encrypted copy of a movie to be stored on a PC hard drive and streamed to another device - not necessarily a free copy. Some worry this could be the achilles heel in HD-DVD's security.Another complication is the system used for interactivity on the new format. The Blu-ray group adapted a version of Sun's Java used in set-top boxes. Microsoft, Disney and the DVD Forum then developed a cross-platform XML-based system called iHD, which they expected the Blu-ray camp to add. However, in a secret vote, iHD did not receive a large enough majority. This led to HP complaining about the "unreasonable cost we have to bear in supporting the Blu-ray format", which Maureen Weber, general manager of HP's Personal Storage Business unit, told EE Times was $30 per PC drive. Microsoft then said it would add the iHD code to Windows Vista, free.The battle to decide the next-generation disc is about technological breakthroughs and consumer benefits, of course. But it's also about vast money streams from sales of players, PCs, consoles and phones, the content that makes them useful, plus all the royalties and patent fees. Companies are going to fight for those, even if consumers suffer.The difference here, though, is that we can ignore the fight - and stick with our DVDs. That won't hurt Bill Gates. But it will hurt Sony.Background: Fifty years of shiny discs and format warsOptical storage has changed the way we listen to music, watch video and use computers. But if its days are numbered, it will end a story nearly 50 years old.Inventor David Paul Gregg imagined the "videodisk" in the late 1950s,but it took almost 20 years - plus record firm MCA and electronics manufacturer Philips - before the analogue DiscoVision arrived in 1978. It wasn't very good, though, and by 1981 the name was Laserdisc - appropriate since it involved a laser reading information from a metal disc. Despite benefits over other formats, Laserdiscs were ungainly, expensive and unrecordable: the more flexible VHS tape won out as the dominant video storage.Industry was working on an audio equivalent. Philips and Sony joined forces in the late 70s to create the compact disc - probably the most important format for bringing optical to the mainstream. 700MB CDs hit the shops in 1982, with CD-Rom following several years later.A plethora of formats continued to roll off the production line, including Sony's under-performing Minidisc and Sega's Dreamcast GD-Rom. But the next real shift came when DVD became a success.There were fights behind the scenes over what was best to replace VHS, and by the early 1990s, two contenders had emerged. Sony and Philips had the Multimedia Compact Disc, and a range of others - including Toshiba - backed the Super-density Disc. Fortunately, IBM boss Lou Gerstner recognised that nobody wanted to see another format race like VHS v Betamax, and united both standards behind the DVD. Today history is repeating itself - but Gerstner is not around to make peace. The rise of web-based content and huge hard disk storage could spell the end for the optical disc.Bobbie Johnson&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Where can I host my own website without going through an ISP? Mustafa TurusYou don't need an internet service provider (ISP) to host a website, and many people got started with major hosts such as GeoCities (now owned by Yahoo), Tripod and Angelfire (both owned by Lycos). However, many small companies now offer free web space, usually in exchange for serving ads to your visitors. There are lists atThe Free Site,100Best Free Web Space, and other places. To choose a site, create a simple page using a free editor such asNvuand see how easy it is to upload.The main problems with free web space are that you probably will not get a desirable web address, the monthly bandwidth may be limited (meaning your site ceases to be available when you have used it up), and most will only host personal not business sites. Also, free space providers tend to come and go, so it's important to keep a backup copy of the site on your PC. It is therefore a good idea to buy your own domain name. First, this will give your site a more attractive address, and people will take it more seriously. Second, you will be able to move hosts without all your addresses changing, and you will be able to direct users to your front page.There are lots of sites to help you get started. TryThe Site WizardorDavesite's HTML tutorial. Site-Helper (www.site-helper.com) provides clear guides to the more technical problems. When you have a good idea what you need, and of your site's potential, you will be in a good position to choose a commercial web-hosting package.
I'm thinking of upgrading to a hard drive MP3 player with a rechargeable battery. Do these eventually wear out and have to be replaced? Mike PigottMost drive-based players now use Li-ion batteries that can be recharged roughly 500 times, and their performance degrades gradually even when not being used. Their useful life can vary dramatically according to treatment and use, but batteries may well need replacing after three years - and there was a furore over Apple's iPod when some users' batteries failed after 18 months or so.It would therefore be wise to check whether the battery can be replaced at a reasonable cost, and whether the machine has to be returned to the manufacturer to do this.The Battery University has advice onprolonging Li-ion battery life. Also bear in mind that small MP3 hard drives are about as likely to fail as batteries, not necessarily from wearing out, but from being dropped.
Yesterday evening I received the following press release from Relentless Software, the makers of hit music quiz game, Buzz:"Relentless Software has proven that originality still sells. Their innovative trivia quiz title - 'Buzz!: The Music Quiz'-not only took a coveted spot (no.4) in the Full Price PlayStation 2 Christmas top 5 and no. 15 in the Full Price All Formats charts but was the ONLY original i.e. non-sequel, non-licensed game in the entire Top 20!"Of course, Relentless had Sony behind them, providing a decent advertising budget and helping with the research and manufacture of the game's big button peripheral. But it makes you think, doesn't it? Pummelled by experience, we all now accept as fact the proposition that sequels and tie-ins are the easiest products to sell because they have built in brand awareness - which is half the battle in getting Joe Gamer to put his hand in his pocket. But the theory behind Buzz - that a simple, highly inclusive multiplayer quiz title is going to fly off the shelves over Christmas whether it has a brand or not - seems so mind-numbingly obvious now you wonder why the market isn't flooded with them every year.I mean, are publishers really,reallygiving original ideas a chance these days, or are they just happy to trot out the received mantra that new brands are more expensive and riskier to market? I wonder, in reality, how much more expensive it is to put a team on an offbeat new title for 15 months, than it is to buy the rights to a blockbuster movie? Obviously, the latter makes some kind of financial sense or companies wouldn't be doing it. But is this theonlyfinancial sense? It would seem there is another...
"This is one of the defining blogs in the industry. When I go to conferences and mention the blog, and the author, I get an 'oh yeah!' kind of response. Everyone knows this blog. It's no Engadget, but it is in the top 100 blogs in the world (in every measure but Technorati, which is inherently flawed since it counts all time links), writesJeremy Wrightat Ensight."It's made every other top 100 list out there, receives numerous awards, is quoted in major newspapers around the world on a weekly basis, has a PageRank of 7 and currently makes about 2,000$/month. Though, with the traffic it was, there's no reason it couldn't make 2-3 times that with the right manager, designer, etc."Now you get to play a little game:Guess The Blog (with prizes). Unless, of course, you have at least $40,000 -- the minimum bid -- and can play a much bigger game....
The Korean games industry is a giant enigma to many observers and professionals in the western market. Their industry is so massive, so socially-accepted, so utterly all-encompassing that it makes legal tiffles in the US look like something out of a parallel Eastern interactive cultural Stone Age. I've often talked with games thinkers, designers and insiders about what goes on in Korea and more often than not they seem to slip into a kind of strange reverie, drooling slightly at the sides of their mouths as they look into the middle distance while a vague shadow of ""What if" dances across their faces. So not a lot of sense out of them, then.I was terribly pleased, therefore, to discover Jim Rossignol's PC Gamer article,Sex, Fame and PC Baangs: How the Orient plays host to PC gaming's strangest culture. It's almost as good as getting the info first hand.Here's a snippet:While RPGs attract many players from all walks of life, the real fanaticism is to be found in the competitive games that have made it onto TV. Early on a Friday night in Seoul's vast COEX mall complex, Interpreter Yang and I stand amid the television show audience at a regular Starcraft league game. One of five major leagues, and one of the key events for gaming television, the Ever Starleague has gathered an audience of about five hundred people, with a few more standing outside watching the game on large screens. This is a small but regular occurrence, a far cry from the stadium events in which [RED]Nada Terran must defend his crown. For those events, says TV show manager In Ho Yoon, people will camp outside the night before, just so that they get the best place to sit when the thousands of fans file into the stadium. Vaguely mesmerised by the fast-paced RTS action, I a, jolted from my reverie by a sudden roar from the assembled fans. Men and women, who a moment previously had been silently and studiously watching the build up of Zerg and Marines, suddenly erupt into screams and chants. The chubbier of the two stone-faced players is in trouble, and will soon concede defeat.Well worth the read.
Webcams have come a long way since 1991 when Cambridge University geeks linked their computers to a camera near the coffee machine. This enabled people in far parts of the building - and the rest of the world once it was linked to the internet- to check out the coffee. Webcams have since slowly become better and cheaper, and may now be poised for liftoff.Last week, I tested a service that would have seemed implausible 10 years ago: video phone calls to anywhere in the world for nothing - yes for nothing, assuming only a broadband link. Skype 2.0 (beta) has good quality video - as webcams go (ie moody). Used with a Creative webcam (&pound;27.99), it can shrink the video image or make it full screen and can mail you automatically if it detects movement where the camera is monitoring. You can also take photos or videos.Just how many people would use all this is a moot point, but a visitor from New Zealand I met at the weekend was knocked out by the prospect of a free videolink from the other end of the earth. It is only free, however, if Skype is used at both ends. Skype is now owned by eBay and there are obvious benefits in showing punters what the auctioned product actually looks like and examining imperfections.This is the latest example of an invisible revolution as formerly complex products become easier to set up. Companies are realising that usability is the best way to create a mass market. Skype software can be downloaded from its website with a single click, and the webcam installed easily from a disk and powered up without trouble from a desktop icon.This came shortly after the launch of Pupillo (Technology, December 15), another advance in ease of use. You simply dial from designated 3G mobile phones to a remote webcam to see or listen to what is happening. The camera can't be swivelled remotely, however. It has an infrared function with good night vision - and worked first time. If future models can connect to multiple cameras, swivel or be left outside, then the uses - from home security to watching remote lectures - are mind-boggling.After suffering user fatigue from early experience of mobile applications, it is great to see things changing so fast. We are experiencing an explosion of (mainly) free sites to which you can easily upload photos from your digital camera, phone or hard disk. Skype is setting one up with Kodak while Nokia's Lifeblog - for some phones with Symbian software - lets users keep their life history in photos, audio and video files on a hard disk. They can send photos from a mobile to signed-up weblogs (eg Typepad) with few clicks. It worked easily - though not as well as Shozu, which sends a photo from a mobile to a website such as Fickr in a single click. It can't get easier than that. As a result, I have been turned from a Flickr sceptic into an addict, as it can be used not just as a public way of exchanging snaps around the world but a pictorial diary of your life or holidays.This improved usability comes when I have stopped using word processors for routine writing, as Google's free Gmail (invitation needed from an existing member) meets my needs. I have also watched TV and read books (with ICUE) on my mobile.Not even 3G has made browsing from phones satisfactory as reception is still patchy. But the Opera browser, which is scaled to fit the phone's small screen, makes mobile search easier, and there are many useful downloads that give glimpses of what is to come. Soon, technologies that have been struggling for user acceptance, such as GPS (global positioning system) and buying goods from your phone, could take off. Meanwhile, the once-hated Wap is now a hit thanks to ringtones. No one talks about the technology but they are grateful for an easy user experience. There is a moral there somewhere.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One morning, I rang up a spammer to complain about the emails he kept sending me. His name was Dave Mustachi; and as I was calling from London at about 9am and he lived in Florida, then five hours behind, I was delighted to catch him groggy and tired from being roused by his telephone."Your emails," I said to him, "are really annoying me because I've never asked for them. I have emailed you to ask to be removed from your mailing list. If you don't, I'm going to keep calling you randomly at this sort of time.""Um, OK," he said, still half asleep, but awake enough to realise he didn't want to hear any more. "What's your email?"I gave it to him and never received another spam I could trace back to him.This was, however, about 10 years ago. Such an approach couldn't work now, for a number of reasons: there's much more spam, from different people; they tend not to do it on their own account; and they don't leave their phone numbers in the details that describe which domains they own. Mustachi owned one calledloveofmoney.com, which is appropriate enough; there's no other reason for spamming, since it won't win you any friends.I began musing on this point when I realised over the new year that I have long since ceased to worry about email spam. I think there are two reasons. First, there are multiple spam filters between me and the outside world: some at the companies that forward my email (Google Mail does a very good job), some on my machine, some in the email programs I use. I therefore get perhaps two spams a day - from an average of 200 predominantly generated outside my workplace. More importantly, I have come to accept spam as part of the internet landscape, like graffiti. With spam, though, you can wipe it away instantly. I certainly wouldn't waste time trying to track down a spammer now.Yet the amount of spam seems to be declining. Postini (www.postini.com) keeps real-time data on the amount of spam it stops. A few years ago, it said spam made up around 80% of all the email circulating. When I looked last week the figure was about 60%.While it is premature to suggest that spam is cooked, I think more people have, like me, begun to ignore it. Spam isn't the surprise it once was. Emails offering the usual three Ps - pills, pornography and poker - aren't going to find an amazed western audience, because many of the people who would want such things went online in the past few years.Instead, the three Ps are being replaced by two others: phishing and penny stocks. But unlike the other Ps, which rely on desire, these rely on credulousness, which has a finite supply. If you don't have an eBay account but get an email saying it's been suspended, you should naturally feel suspicious.Similarly, common sense suggests that unheard-of stock probably won't boom; and I think that after the stock market deceptions of the 1990s, people won't get fooled again. (The volume of spam touting stocks doesn't necessarily indicate that people are buying them - only that people trying to pump them have hired a spammer to spread the word.)The other fascinating thing about this change is that it has, to some extent, fulfilled Bill Gates's prediction of January 2004 that "Two years from now, spam will be solved" (http://tinyurl.com/9bgrk). He thought it would be done by instituting tiny charges per email, or by making an email sender solve a small cryptographic puzzle, or by using a simpler system that would automatically confirm the identity of the sender.Instead, ad-hoc filters, plus education, have done the job. While it was a nice dream that we would all install cryptographic programs to send our email, or implement a method to identify ourselves, the internet is above all about pragmatism, not idealism. It does what it can because it's a human-built object, with all the flaws that implies. Spam hasn't been solved. But I think our attitude to it could be. And that's easier to do. Then we can all - even Dave Mustachi, wherever he is - sleep easy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Starting a websiteWhere can I host my own website without going through an ISP?Mustafa TurusJack Schofield replies:You don't need an internet service provider (ISP) to host a website, and many people got started with major hosts such as GeoCities (now owned by Yahoo), Tripod and Angelfire (both owned by Lycos). However, many small companies now offer free web space, usually in exchange for serving ads to your visitors. There are lists at the Free Site (www.thefreesite.com/Free_Web_Space), 100Best Free Web Space (www.100best-free-web-space.com), and other places. To choose a site, create a simple page using a free editor such as Nvu (www.nvu.org) and see how easy it is to upload.The main problems with free web space are that you probably will not get a desirable web address, the monthly bandwidth may be limited (meaning your site ceases to be available when you have used it up), and most will only host personal not business sites. Also, free space providers tend to come and go, so it's important to keep a backup copy of the site on your PC. It is therefore a good idea to buy your own domain name. First, this will give your site a more attractive address, and people will take it more seriously. Second, you will be able to move hosts without all your addresses changing, and you will be able to direct users to your front page.There are lots of sites to help you get started. Try The Site Wizard (www.thesitewizard.com) or Davesite's tutorial (www.davesite.com/webstation/html). Site-Helper (www.site-helper.com) provides clear guides to the more technical problems. When you have a good idea what you need, and of your site's potential, you will be in a good position to choose a commercial web-hosting package.Power mattersI'm thinking of upgrading to a hard drive MP3 player with a rechargeable battery. Do these eventually wear out and have to be replaced?Mike PigottJS: Most drive-based players now use Li-ion batteries that can be recharged roughly 500 times, and their performance degrades gradually even when not being used. Their useful life can vary dramatically according to treatment and use, but batteries may well need replacing after three years - and there was a furore over Apple's iPod when some users' batteries failed after 18 months or so.It would therefore be wise to check whether the battery can be replaced at a reasonable cost, and whether the machine has to be returned to the manufacturer to do this.The Battery University has advice on prolonging Li-ion battery life (www.batteryuniversity.com/parttwo-34.htm). Also bear in mind that small MP3 hard drives are about as likely to fail as batteries, not necessarily from wearing out, but from being dropped.Backchat&middot; Veronica White asked about accessing secure websites. Dave Budd says: "At our (Man United) site, we've found that a common reason for being unable to access https sites is that the user is running Norton Internet Security. Sometimes a full product update (not just the definitions) fixes it."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Another quiet week for games in theTechnologysupplement, although anin-depthlook at the HD-DVD vs Blu Ray format battle is relevant for gamers. Meanwhile, Aleks takesanother lookat virtual worlds - is their population growth a cause for concern? As someone who regularly has to queue to get into Azeroth I can only conclude yes.
Two tribes go to warMicrosoft is backing HD-DVD. Sony is backing Blu-Ray. But if Microsoft loses, it still wins; if Sony wins, it loses.Jack Schofieldexplain why "the last physical format" could be a pyrrhic victory.Gear change speeds AppleSteve Jobs announced Macs based on dual-core Intel chips - but does Apple now face a piracy problem?Spam passes its peakCharles Arthur:While it is premature to suggest that spam is cooked, something's happened: our indifference is slowly killing it.Will logging your email combat terrorism in Europe?An EU directive to retain internet and phone data to aid police investigations has been condemned as misguided and intrusive.A spineless performanceThe government's vision for the NHS was shamed by the inconvenient failure of its new "spine" IT system as it was unveiled - prompting users to ask why it was needed at all.We all want to take the easy optionVictor Keegan:It is great to see companies realising that usability is the best way to create a mass market.Population explosion puts our virtual worlds at riskGamesblog:Aleks Krotoski explains that as more people join multiplayer online games, the designers are less able to control them.TechnobileMike Anderiesz:Why do my gadgets make me feel as though I'm the one who's becoming obsolete, rather than them?Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.In short...Will Slashdot be overtaken by Digg?The idea that the "News for nerds" site at slashdot.org could be usurped by a technology news site that has only been around for about a year would have seemed laughable - a year ago.Are downloads creating apathy?Researchers from the University of Leicester are warning that near-instant music acquisition is creating a generation that does not appreciate songs or live performances.Can I buy a £600 camera for £100?No, you can't - although plenty of people who saw an Olympus E-1 digital SLR advertised on Apple's UK website put in orders, hoping the company might be having a January sale.Short shriftDid Google launch its own PC? | What does 'podcast' actually stand for? | Is Windows really more secure than Unix?
Few people noticed the new directive passed by the European parliament at the end of December. Christmas was coming, and the grinding of bureaucratic gears in Brussels seemed, as ever, unimportant.But the directive, which all member states - including the UK - must implement within 18 months, requires every telephone company and internet service provider (ISP) to save call records and internet logs up to two years. The purpose? To "aid law enforcement".The directive covers what is known as "traffic data". For telephone companies, that means details of numbers dialled, call duration and location (for mobile phones). For ISPs, it includes websites visited, the header information attached to every email detailing sender, recipient, date, time, and the internet address you were assigned at the time. However, it does not include the content of calls or messages.The Home Office welcomes the directive, highlighting the fact that content is not retained: "It really doesn't encroach in an unnecessary way on people's privacy, but will be very effective in combating terrorism and crime," says a spokesman.However, privacy advocates say that traffic data can be far more revealing. What tells you more about a relationship? An email message saying, "Dinner at seven?" or records showing that the two correspondents have exchanged email 12 times a day for four years?The war on terrorBritain has been interested in data retention since at least 1998, when the idea came to attention in a leaked document. In 2000, the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) was passed after much wrangling; while it didn't allow data retention, it did supply rules for access to existing data. The Anti-Terrorism, Crime, and Security Act (ATCSA), passed in December 2001 in response to the September 11 attacks in the US, included provisions for voluntary data retention, to be made mandatory later if necessary.At the time, opponents assumed the next step would be to make the requirements mandatory. Instead, Britain began pursuing data and traffic retention at the EU level, most intensively since the Madrid bombings on March 11 2004 and its assumption of the EU presidency in July that year. At the EU level, the policy is driven by Britain, France, Ireland, and Sweden.But why does the government want to retain more data about us? "We are not doing it on a whim. We are doing it because we have a duty to protect the public interest," John Gamble, now deputy director of the National Crime Squad, told a meeting of the all-party Parliamentary Internet Group at the time.Data preservation - the practice in the US, where ISPs and telcos retain data once they have been served with a warrant from law enforcement (a power that also exists in Ripa) was not adequate, he said. "It may be some years before we find a piece of evidence that identifies the perpetrator. If we don't have it, we can't identify him. That's the key issue."Consultation concluded with what LSE fellow Gus Hosein, an expert on privacy, technology and anti-terrorism policy, calls a "code of practice that was negotiated with industry in detail". But then, instead of making the code mandatory in the UK, as everyone expected, the government took the issue to Europe. At the EU level, Hosein says, "there is no negotiated solution and no consideration of the burden to industry. It's particularly disingenuous that they went to the EU... when all they had to do was actually flip a switch and say it was mandatory in this country and have a little bit of debate in parliament."No one disputes that the data is useful to law enforcement. What is disputed is whether data retention on this scale is reasonable. "Yes, it's useful to have this data," Hosein says. "But is this the kind of society we want to live in?" Hosein would choose the US regime of data preservation. "The US is not blowing up every day because they don't have this policy."Reasonable scalePeter Sommer, a security consultant and expert witness in computer crime cases, explains that, "What they want as a matter of urgency is telephone data, because that still appears to be the primary means by which people communicate. The Ripa attempted to anticipate the use of the internet and how to incorporate it, and they want to try to collect all of that stuff. It's particularly true of the specialist police who are tracking paedophiles."Even so, he has doubts: "I would like to see more safeguards. I'm not particularly worried about the telephone stuff, because we have a good idea about how the warrants are issued and what the criteria are."For telephone companies, the matter is simple. Almost all the data covered by the directive is kept for billing purposes, apart from a last-minute change that now requires them to keep records of failed calls - data previously thrown away.When it comes to internet traffic, however, Sommer says, "I think in practice it's going to be extremely difficult to draw a distinction between data and content." Technically, he explains, what ISPs will probably have to do is capture everything and then throw away the content they're not supposed to have. "For ISPs, it's quite an elaborate filtering exercise."Richard Clayton, who has just completed a doctoral dissertation on data retention at the Cambridge University Computer Lab, says, "I think the EU hasn't a clue what they are doing. They've made a political decision that they want to trade some privacy to help the police. Unfortunately, they don't really understand the problem. They understand telephony but not the internet, so they've produced something so that nobody understands what they've said but if it is interpreted literally will push costs up. And now we get to debate in every single EU country what it actually really means."Clayton also queries how useful two-year-old internet traffic data will be: people change email addresses, and even whole domains change hands. In any case, he believes the entire process has been backwards. "We should have been setting out a list of the questions they wanted to be able to answer and telling the industry to work out how to answer them, rather than writing down what they wanted recorded and assuming it's good enough."Furthermore, although the original notion was that the data would be available only to those investigating the most serious crimes, such as terrorism, Clayton believes it will be most often exploited in civil cases. "The real point is that despite all the fuss we don't understand what the rules are, but we have a good idea of the general direction, which is that we are going to have an extremely recorded state."And the manner in which the directive was passed also concerns campaigners, because the European parliament overrode the conclusions reached in committee by the EU council - the result, it is believed, of a deal between the British government and the two major European parties. Florian Mueller, a leading campaigner against the software patent directive, says, "I'm not personally against &#91;the data&#93; directive, but I'm profoundly worried that the way this decision was made could result in many more situations in which the committees of the European parliament will be sidelined under the pretext of a sense of urgency."Of all decision-makers in the EU, MEPs remain the ones most receptive to the concerns of citizens and smaller companies. This way they become reduced to lemmings who have to vote whichever way their leaders want them to."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The idea that the "News for nerds" site atslashdot.orgcould be usurped by a technology news site that has only been around for about a year would have seemed laughable - a year ago. But in a blog post (tinyurl.com/axcl8) this week, Jeremy Zawodny, a respected engineer at Yahoo, noted that according to the Alexa traffic-tracking system, the number visitingdigg.comis approaching that of Slashdot. He adds that "2006 will be the year the once-great Slashdot dies".He's not predicting the imminent disappearance of the site that lent its name to the process by which half a million readers descend on a site, usually prompting the server to crash, creating the phrase: "You've been Slashdotted"."Slashdot will take years to die," he says. But he thinks sites such as Digg and Reddit offer something Slashdot can't: the ability for readers collectively to pick stories they think are interesting, generating a community feel and a sense of power. At Slashdot, started in 1997, stories are chosen by a team of editors."There's been a sense of frustration among those who submit news to Slashdot," notes Zawodny. "Sometimes your story is picked and sometimes it isn't. "Digg and Reddit understand that. Even the popular page on del.icio.us provides more insight into the collective mind of a small but active piece of the web. The only difference is that del.icio.us doesn't facilitate discussion. Digg and Reddit allow users to comment on any URL posted."Nobody in the geekerati seems ready to defend Slashdot. Steve Mallett, founder and managing editor ofOSDir.com, the open source news site, commented: "Good riddance... I was a faithful user, but Digg has everything right that Slashdot has had wrong." He also forecasts tough times for many editorially top-down websites.But Slashdot isn't falling behind Digg; instead, rivals are becoming as popular as it is - perhaps indicating that a new group of users is viewing the newer site, while Slashdot's fans are staying with it.Certainly the number of sites offering "user-driven news" is growing, with Reddit, Findory andnulltag.comentering the fray. And Slashdot's editor Rob Malda had to post an article about how Slashdot chooses its stories, and whether some people who submit them are "favoured" (tinyurl.com/cjdhm), noting that: "We can talk about Digg or moderation or what issues are of most interest next week."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's been an exciting few weeks in the virtual world. The FBI has been called in, 18,000 people have been banned, democracy has been established, a universe obliterated and the usual menu of sex and murder has padded out the entertainment.The stories - from massively multiplayer online games such as Second Life, World of Warcraft and Asheron's Call - easily filled a week's worth of Gamesblog posts. There hasn't been this much drama in virtuality for more than two years, when the mafia overran The Sims Online and began their reign of terror.These virtual worlds are three-dimensional, avatar-based environments that only exist online, and feature places of worship, courts, clubs, voting booths, transferable economics and populations that can top 5 million. These are real people connected via computers around the globe. With hundreds of these internet spaces active or in development, the population probably includes your next door neighbour, your children or your significant other. They may have already witnessed the splendour of Azeroth or the squalor of Seneca. It's breathtaking stuff.By the end of this year, most people will have probably heard of such places as Second Life or World of Warcraft. These two have been grabbing headlines because of their innovations, populations and scandals. Currently curiosities, these spaces are going to become household names if the predictions from various technology journalists are correct.The rise in awareness should mean a rise in population, which is not without problems. As more people enter these spaces, the designers are less able to control them, which means an increase in nefarious incidents, from viruses to server attacks. Increasingly, developers are dealing with wrongdoers. The details of a group of offenders in Second Life were passed to the FBI; they had repeatedly caused the world to crash, and the developers decided to treat their last offence as a denial-of-service attack. Recently, 18,000 accounts in World of Warcraft were banned for cheating.This stuff sells papers, but away from the spotlight, there have been user-generated innovations that educate, inform and entertain in ways beyond the imaginations of games designers.Virtual charity events have raised thousands for hurricane and earthquake victims; cancer charities have benefited from the generosity of players racing around digital versions of real-life tracks. An experiment in participatory democracy was established last weekend in Second Life to combine learning and labour, and a recent BBC Newsnight report explored a simulated bioterrorist crisis centre used for training medical staff.Counteracting the benefit of the unreality of these spaces is that it costs to keep them running. There's always the threat that developers will pull the plug. This happened last week in the once-thriving Asheron's Call 2, where dedicated players held a vigil to the very end. And then they were gone. But it was fun while it lasted. Expect more from virtuality as 2006 rolls on.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Did Google launch its own PC?Not at all. The rumours were wrong - instead, Larry Page announced that Google is setting up an online video store atvideo.google.comwhere you'll be able to download programmes from CBS, basketball games, music videos, news content and more. Although the Google Video Store will be accessible throughout the world, it will only be possible to buy premium content in the US, says Google. And rather than using an existing digital rights management (DRM) system, the company has developed its own, which will create more headaches.Alternatively, by using BitTorrent you might find the same content sans DRM in a higher resolution that you can save to a CD or DVD and watch free. In other words, Google Video is targeted at people who don't have much clue; and it is probably bad news for Apple's iTunes.What does 'podcast' actually stand for?According to Creative Labs, it stands for "Personal On Demand broadCAST" (fromwww.zencast.com/about). However, that interpretation differs significantly from that intended by web developer Ben Hammersley. He first used the phrase in an article in the Guardian on February 12, 2004, as a synonym for the unwieldy "audioblogging". He meant it as a contraction of "broadcasting" (because the content is sent over the net) and "iPod" (as a byword for MP3 players).Says Hammersely: "Creative are talking rot. The pod in 'podcast' was obviously and blatantly meant to refer to the iPod. The accusation that I'd use such a clumsy acronym invites another one: stfu, kthxbye." We're sure Creative will spell out what that means.Is Windows really more secure than Unix?The US-CERT Cyber Security Bulletin has published a year-end summary of software vulnerabilities identified in 2005. It reveals there were 5,198 reported operating system vulnerabilities: 812 for Windows; 2,328 for Unix/Linux; and 2,058 for "Multiple". Many aren't individual, verifiable faults; many are "updates" to some found earlier - which is true for most of the Unix, Linux and Mac entries. The grouping isn't precise: among the Windows vulnerabilities is an Apple Darwin Streaming Server Denial of Service - so open source Unix code packaged by Apple appears as a Windows operating system flaw. Finally, an advisory doesn't tell you whether the flaw was significant, or appeared in an important bit of software. Nor does it tell you if the flaw was fixed.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Scream if you want to go fasterI think perhaps Kieren McCarthy is a victim of bloatware on that sad slow PC (Technobile, January 5). Apart from the fact that Windows PCs are often not the best tool for the job, they aren't really helped by the regular load of eye-candy installed by most users.Then there are the virus problems inherent in using Windows. Alternatives do exist. You can use another computer design altogether, or if that sounds like too much expense, then getting hold of a Mandrake Linux CD would be a first step.Steve Pamplingvia email&middot; One thing raising Kieren McCarthy's blood pressure is a sneaky little deception built into Windows XP. To make the computer look snappier than it really is, XP puts up an (apparently) working desktop and mouse pointer as early as it can, so you then have to wait after the desktop has appeared before you get a response. Just another reason why I'm composing this email in my iBook.Andy Holyervia email&middot; There is one thing more irritating than a computer that doesn't do what one would like. It is seeing published articles complaining about such irritations written by people who apparently have not yet explored the options available.So for example, Kieren McCarthy wishes he could turn on his computer and find his favourite programs already open. With Windows XP he can! He needs to use the "Hibernate" option when he switches off.Bob Pearsonvia email&middot; A simple solution: buy a Mac and a broadband internet connection. Computers haven't been like he describes since about 1989.Jon Moorheadvia emailPutting music on the mapMark Lupton's article (Buy with a little help from your friends, January 5) was good, but he missed another site that does an excellent job of listing new musical avenues to explore -www.music-map.comshows a "map" for a selected artist, with related artists ranged around it. The closer one artist appears to another, the more frequently they appear together in peoples' record collections. To contribute your musical taste to the site, go to the main entry point atwww.gnod.net. Note that the same principle is applied to books and films. An excellent concept - it's very intuitive.Tom KennedyMontpellier, France&ge; Pandora is a fascinating alternative to Last FM, relying as it does on studied, human expert knowledge rather than software-based inferred connections. It appears to work very well at providing recommendations, which is the stated aim, though Last FM appears to be the more engaging experience and more scalable system. I suspect that welding the two approaches together into one coherent experience would deliver a very powerful system indeed.www.preoccupations.orgMust-not-haveIn his article (Love the new consoles, shame about the games,January 5), Keith Stuart stated: "A few original titles lurk in the shadows. If you own a PS2, the domestic robot sim Chibi Robo, the surreal collecting game We Love Katamari and the extraordinary Japanese adventures Shadow of Colossus and Okami should all be on your must-have list." Okami and Chibo Robot promise to be original, but PS2 owners will be unable to play them , unless they also own a Gamecube, to which both titles are exclusive.Dan Finnvia emailTorn curtain&ge; It's an enormous amount of work and orchestration, all to show off some shiny new software and cool new toys (Beyond the magic curtain, January 5).www.appleusersblog.com&ge; An interesting look inside of what it takes to be a mogul like Steve Jobs, an unreasonable perfectionist who terrorises people around him.www.sarahiwu.com/blog
I'm out of date again. My PC needs upgrading, as does my games console (every five years apparently) and my applications (every three), while my anti-virus software prompts me on a daily basis to get with the program (2005 is sooo last year), my PDA needs more Ram, my digital camera has a picture resolution that would shame an Etch-A-Sketch and my DVD collection is about to be rendered obsolete by Blu-ray. Oh, and my nine-month-old iPod needs more storage because music files are twice the size they used to be. Can I fit the new hard drive myself? Can I hell.Once, products were built to last a lifetime, or at least until you grew out of them. My Chopper bike lasted about six years, my TV and hi-fi over a decade, my VHS collection of rare 70s pornography nearly 15, but that's history now. Technology is moving on, and if you can't keep up it simply stops doing the things you ask it to - not with a bang, but a whimper of 'unrecognised'.It's not that I don't love my gadgets, it's just they have no further use for me. I'm not the sugar daddy they thought I was, happy to shower them with memory chips every time they flashed their baby blue screen messages. The pressure to upgrade is the pulse that keeps manufacturers alive and if you don't jump when they ask, it's you who is handing Silicon Valley to the Chinese or depriving the boss of his second Lear jet.Of course, technology is not the real problem - it's the people behind it. Manufacturers hunt in packs (usually called consortiums to make them sound less carnivorous) not to lend credence to a standard, but to force you into upgrading many products instead of just one. After all, what use is High Definition video if you don't have a High Definition TV? Why listen to MP3s on those cheap earphones the manufacturer supplied just to annoy you? "Ah, you'll be wanting our noise-reducing earphones, sir - that'll be another &pound;50."And according to Bill Gates, the techno-nagging is about to get louder. Enjoy your Aga oven while you can, because once it comes fitted with a wireless touchscreen telling you when your goose is cooked, it will need upgrading as often as everything else. If you thought e-commerce was bad for the environment, wait until you see stealth commerce, where networked fridges restock themselves by ordering products we don't need and the fumes of Tesco.com delivery trucks choke us.The future may not need me but it needs my credit card. Or someone posing as me, but with a better online credit rating. I guess my mistake was not taking up phishing while I had the chance.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It wasn't so much Hamlet without the prince as Hamlet without the theatre. When ministers last week proudly lifted the curtain on the new consumer-choice NHS, the centrepiece of Tony Blair's public service reforms, the IT supposed to make it all work was down.Officials admitted this week to a "significant interruption" in the system supposed to allow NHS patients to choose where they want specialist treatment and to book their appointment from their GP's surgery. Problems caused by a major software upgrade caused intermittent problems to the "choose and book" service for six days. Thus on January 2, when Patricia Hewitt, the health secretary, unveiled the new choice-centred NHS in England, the system was unavailable nearly all day.While downtime is hardly unusual in big new IT systems, this is an embarrassment to the NHS National Programme for IT, the world's largest civil IT programme. The system at fault was not the booking software as such, but in the underlying digital "spine" supposed to connect all parts of the NHS in England. Officials had previously boasted that the spine would be available 99.8% of the time, with recovery within 30 minutes of any crash. The NHS's apparent inability to achieve this, despite massive funding and the efforts of a highly experienced project team, does not bode well for other government IT schemes such as the identity card.The NHS compares the spine to "a single, big electronic telephone exchange", routing patients' information securely. In fact, the spine is much more than this: it is supposed to carry summary health records of all NHS patients in England for use in medical emergencies. The spine also controls access to NHS systems as well as providing a central resource of "demographic" data about patients: names, NHS numbers, addresses and dates of birth. This is essential for doctors to be certain that information from an NHS system applies to the patient sitting in front of them.This database, known as the patient demographics service, appears to be the source of the spine's downtime. The problems arose from "application misbehaviour" - a grief familiar to PC owners who upgrade a key piece of software and find that another application no longer works.Down gradedThe trouble began on December 18 with the installation of a major upgrade of the spine software. This included what should be the definitive, "strategic" version of the personal demographics service, replacing an interim system.The new software reacted badly with one of the many different systems used by GPs to manage their practices, and generated spurious messages that overwhelmed networks and servers. This rogue behaviour masked other incompatabilities between the new demographics service and the "choose and book" software. "We were into Christmas before we were able to start diagnosing," said one of the team who worked over the holiday to resolve it.The failure raises questions about whether any system as complex as the spine can be tested fully before implementation. Connecting for Health, the agency responsible for the NHS programme, admits that it wasn't.It also raises the question of whether the whole new NHS is vulnerable to a single point of failure.The spine is the responsibility of BT, which in December 2003 beat IBM to a 10-year contract worth &pound;620m to build and run the system. It is based on an Oracle database running on distributed Sun servers, an architecture "not dissimilar" to that of eBay, a source close to the project says. Last year, in response to worries about resilience, the system was adapted to "fail to local" so that NHS organisations could continue to function without the spine. This is what happened over Christmas and the new year - as relatively few doctors are using the new software, its non availability had little impact on patients.When the NHS starts using the system in earnest, however, there will be less tolerance for failure. Sources close to the NHS IT agency Connecting for Health said that the Christmas upgrade was a one-off event. "We were unlucky." The hope is that, with the infrastructure now installed, there will be no more need for fundamental upgrades and the service will stabilise.Not everyone in the NHS is so confident. Professionals reading the web news service e-Health Insider, called for a fundamental rethink. "The whole system should be taken offline whilst these problems are rectified," said one. Some began to question the whole system: "if the failure of spine functionality had no adverse impact on patient care, just what clinical benefit was it adding when up and running?" To which another responded, "It's like a bank saying outage of their ATMs had no effect on customer balances."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple has announced its first computers using Intel chips, unveiling new iMacs and a professional laptop - the MacBook Pro - based on dual-core Intel chips. Chief executive Steve Jobs said the machines would run between two and four times faster than the PowerPC-based iMacs and Powerbooks they replace.Speaking at the MacWorld event in San Francisco, Jobs also unveiled an upgraded suite of consumer-level applications, called iLife 06, and a remote control and separate FM tuner for the iPod digital music player.He announced that Apple has so far sold a total of 42 million iPods since their inception in 2001 - of which 32 million were sold last year alone - and 8 million videos since October 12.The new computers are based on Intel's Core Duo chip, originally codenamed Yonah. These have two processors on the same chip, allowing for almost twice the performance of a single chip.The chips in the new iMacs run at 1.83GHz and 2.0GHz (in the 17-inch and 20-inch screen versions respectively), and are priced at &pound;929 and &pound;1,229 inc VAT respectively. The MacBook Pro has a 15.4-inch screen and comes in two versions, one with 1.67GHz processors and another running at 1.83GHz, priced at &pound;1,429 and &pound;1,779 inc VAT.During his speech Jobs welcomed Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel, who came on stage dressed in a clean-room suit like those used by workers in chip plants.The introduction of the new Intel-based Macs had been widely rumoured, despite Apple only having committed itself to delivering them by June. The move is the third major shift for the Macintosh in recent history. In the early 1990s, it moved from Motorola 68000 chips to the PowerPC architecture. In 2001, it introduced a new operating system, the Unix-based OS X. And last June, Jobs said that Apple would move all its hardware over to Intel processors by the end of next year because its existing chip suppliers, Freescale (an offshoot of Motorola) and IBM could not - or would not - meet its needs for faster chips.Each transition has required developers to rewrite their applications to run "natively" at full speed. In the case of the Intel-based Macs, that process is still underway, and many key professional applications - such as Adobe's Photoshop - are not yet available in "universal binary" formats that can run on both PowerPC-based Macs and the new Intel-based ones.In the meantime, Apple is offering the Rosetta emulator, written by the British company Transitive, which can run programs written for PowerPC machines on Intel chips. However, there are no independent benchmarks on how quickly programs run under Rosetta - although they may arrive soon, as the new Intel-based iMacs are on sale immediately. The MacBook Pro machines will be on sale from next month.But the introduction of the new iMacs and laptops may also provide answers to a crucial question that has been unanswered since Apple said it would move to Intel chips last June: how the company will prevent hackers from copying its OS X operating system and installing it on other Intel-based machines.Over the past six months, hackers have repeatedly cracked the developer versions of OS X and installed them - against Apple's wishes - on Dell and Sony computers.If that happens more widely with the commercial version of OS X for Intel, it could undercut Apple's financial model, which relies on profits from selling hardware to offset the billions of dollars it costs to develop its own operating system and applications.Last September, Jobs said: "Don't use the &#91;hacking of the&#93; developer version as a proxy for the final version," implying that there would be stronger security around the commercial release than for that given to applications developers who were trying to create universal binary versions of their applications.The developer systems searched for a special chip before they would run, but there has been speculation that the Intel Macs will use up to a gigabyte of Flash memory, which stores data without power, to store an encrypted version of OS X. This would be decrypted as the machine ran - thus serving the user while defeating hackers.Other rumours ahead of the announcement had suggested that Apple would unveil a large-screen plasma TV, perhaps with some computer functionality. Some had expected a provision for full-length movie downloads through its .Mac subscription service, as part of a concerted push to make Apple a key player in the living room. Both expectations turned out to be hollow.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No, you can't - although plenty of people who saw an Olympus E-1 digital SLR advertised on Apple's UK website for &pound;98.70, rather than its usual &pound;600-odd, put in orders hoping the company might be having a January sale. Those who placed orders say the website said the camera was in stock and was ready to ship within 24 hours; at least one shopper received an email confirming his order and the &pound;500 discount.However, disappointment loomed: Apple cancelled the orders, saying the camera was "no longer available". But in some cases it did deduct money from credit cards, and then took up to a week to refund the sums. What rubbed salt into the money-saving wound was that after receiving an email saying the camera wasn't available, it popped up - at the normal price - and with 24-hour availability again.So had Apple made a contract when people clicked the button to buy the cut-price camera? According to legal experts, the answer is no - and the reason is the same as it has been down the years when websites (such as Argos and Amazon) offer goods at mistaken prices.The reason most of the would-be buyers don't have a legal leg to stand on is that the price on the site is known in law as the "invitation to treat", not an "offer" in the contractual sense, and does not bind the seller to a price. Clicking "Buy" is the purchaser's attempt to see if the seller does want to enter into the contract where they'll supply, say, a camera for an amazing knock-down price. But standard retail transactions aren't concluded until money changes hands.This means those who had money deducted from their credit cards by Apple could have a legal case if Apple had stocks of the cameras at the time: by taking their money, the company would have concluded the customer side of the contract, and might be obliged to fulfil it. The problem would be proving the cameras were in stock - a challenge that may cost more than &pound;500 to prove in court.Apple declined to comment.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Following a Christmas that saw more people than ever buying digital music players and downloading music, beware an outbreak of apathy, warn researchers from the University of Leicester. They reckon that near-instant music acquisition is creating a generation that does not appreciate songs or live performances, because music in whatever form - ringtones, TV ads and online stores - is so widely available. People who download music no longer get the excitement of discovering and playing unfamiliar work.They think that could explain the popularity of TV talent shows, where viewers get to see live performances and vote for winners - such as Shayne Ward, winner of the latest series of The X Factor."The accessibility of music has meant it is taken for granted and does not require a deep emotional commitment once associated with music appreciation," said Dr Adrian North, who led the two-week study - one of dozens into the "psychology of music" carried out by his team at the school of psychology. It suggests we are becoming more passive than ever when it comes to tunes - because so much is available.The team monitored 346 people to see how they related to music: they were sent a text daily, asking them to describe any music they could hear, or had heard since the previous message. It revealed that people are listening to a lot of music, most frequently on their own, and at home in the evening.A key difference compared to previous generations is that mass media has made music much more accessible, removing its aura of selectivity. To the MP3 generation, music is a commodity - produced, distributed and consumed just like any other.Dr North said: "In the 19th century, music was seen as a highly valued treasure with fundamental and near-mystical powers of human communication." But nowadays, "the degree of accessibility and choice has arguably led to a rather passive attitude towards music heard in everyday life".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"When editing my own Wikipedia entry got me smeared in the pages of The Register, the irony was too delicious. Andrew Orlowski's account of my editing of my Wikipedia entry was founded on a factual error, and it appeared in an editorial about how Wikipedia is untrustworthy because Wikipedia contained just that sort of factual error," writesCory Doctorow at Boing Boing."What's easier: correcting a malicious Wikipedia entry about you or correcting a malicious news-story about you? In the past year, I've had the opportunity to do both, and for me, it's clear that if you're going to have your name dragged through the mud, it's a better deal if it comes at the hand of an anonymous Wikipedia troll than from a paid journalist in a mainstream news-source."
While a beta was spied sometime in November (and quickly whizzed around the web; personally I found a copy last week..), Google hasn't had a version of Google Earth for the Mac.Until now.No indication on what's improved since the beta (of course nobody was meant to see that..) though the warnings do sayGoogle Earth is a broadband, 3D application that not all computers can run.Desktop computers older than 4 years old may not be able to run it.Notebook computers older than 2 years old may not be able to run it.Which is vague enough, yes? Here'sGoogle Earth for Mac OSX.Then, if you're in the mood to worry, download theAvian Flu map(created byDeclan Butler, a reporter for the science journal Nature). I'm not sure he's got the latest cases in Turkey there, but it's scary even without those.
OK, just to recap: Apple launched Intel-based Macs (using dual-core chips) on Tuesday and said they were between two and four times faster than their PowerPC siblings. And now, from Infoworld, Tom Yager posts onThe Mac performance shell game:In short, Apple used multiprocessor benchmarks to skew the performance advantage that its Intel-based machines enjoy compared to single-core PowerPC G4 and G5. Apple used the industry-standard SPEC suite components SPECint2000 and SPECfp2000, but here's the catch: Apple used SPECint_rate2000 and SPECfp_rate2000. Both tests spawn multiple parallel benchmark processes and are specifically intended for comparing multiprocessor systems. Single CPU, or single-core machines do positively lousy on SPEC*_rate2000 tests. That's predictable and universally understood. Add a second CPU or a second core and, as you would expect, SPEC*_rate2000 performance on any multiprocessor-optimized test skyrockets compared to a single-processor box.Apple uses SPEC*_rate2000 tests as a foundation for claims that Intel-based Macs outperform PowerPC G4 and G5 by a factor of 2 to 5. Well, yeah. A dual-core anything outperforms a single-core anything else by a factor of 2 to 5 in benchmark tests that make use of multiple threads or processes...Thus observes Tom Yager of Infoworld, who knows his stuff (read the rest of his blog to see that). But the idea that Apple might usefavourable benchmarks to talk up new kit... who would have thought?
Since the Million Dollar home page came out, at least a million people must have thought about ways to repeat its success. One of the handful that's getting attention is theThe Mile Wall, which is selling space horizontally, an inch at a time. It could become the longest page in Internet history. So far it's up to 8ft."At $1 per square inch for an entire lifetime online it's a real bargain, especially if you're used to paying $1 for a single pixel!" writes Travis Smith, the 19 year old college student beind The Wall.The site opened on January 1 and has just been featured byTechWeb News.A more Web 2.0-style idea is1000tags.com. According toTechCrunch: "1000Tags is different enough from MillionDollarHomePage that I think it will have a lot of sucess, too. They call it "the first commercial tag cloud". And that's exactly what it it. You can purchase a tag, pay by the character and font size, and hope that a lot of traffic to your site is the result."Shared tags cost $5 per character, with a minimum of $25.
There's been much outrage in the blogosphere about Declan McCullagh's story at news.com claiming that if you leave an anonymous comment on a blog (for example) then you could be done for "annoying" them under the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act; penalties include up to two years in prison.But never fear. It's a storm in a teacup. AsEugene Volokh (who's a lawyer)Orin Kerr, an associate professor of law at George Washington University, explains in ablog post, it's the classic storm in the blogosphere teacup.This is just the perfect blogosphere story, isn't it? It combines threats to bloggers with government incompetence and Big Brother, all wrapped up and tied togther with a little bow. Unsurprisingly, a lot of bloggers are taking the bait.Skeptical readers will be shocked -shocked- to know that the truth is quite different.What's different? TheUS First Amendment("Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.")It turns out that the statute can only be used when prohibiting the speech would not violate the First Amendment. If speech is protected by the First Amendment, the statute is unconstitutional as applied and the indictment must be dismissed.And guess what? "Annoying" people, or even being very rude to them in comments or emails, is legitimate First Amendment speech in the US, anonymous or not. (Of course in the UK we expect people to just behave, because that's, you know, British.)Eugene Volokh, the law professor at GWU, has aslightly different take; disentangling it is pretty hard, but it's clear that the First Amendment is still the iceberg that would sink all but the most titanic - and perhaps even all - of the cases that might be brought under this case re speech on websites. Even (because we had a brief spurt of hope)comment spam- non-deceptive commercial speech is still covered by the 1st A. (Doesn't mean we have to like it, though.)So, collapse of stout story. Yes? Well, we can but hope that the blogosphere will be self-correcting. It's all right, we'll wait...
We've updated the table atStevenote bingo- how well did we do? (Answer: about as well, and badly, as every other rumour-mongerer.)The most notable absence from the speech wasanythingabout video and the home - no Mac Mini updates at all, which either implies that it's on its way out, or that Apple is planning to do something much bigger in the next few months. Was the Mini just a bad experiment that hasn't done as well as was hoped?Or is Apple letting the idea of video in the home, via broadband, reach the same consumer acceptance level that it did with the iPod? Given thatSky launched a TV-via-broadband serviceyesterday, and that many cable providers in the UK and US already offer it, we'd have to say that that train's already in the station, and the guards are blowing their whistles.
When I worked for Edge magazine during the late-nineties I spent a lot of time going out and visiting developers. Amid the eviscerated dev kits, battered old skool arcade machines and gigantic server stacks, I'd almost invariably find a corner where the team kept piles of books and movies for inspiration. After a while I developed a mental checklist of what I'd be likely to find at each studio - and back then, rather inevitably, the list included the following:MoviesAliens Blade Runner Star Wars episodes 4-6 Akira (and other assorted anime, usually Legend of the Overfiend and Dominion Tank Police) 2001 A Space Odyssey At least one crappy early-eighties fantasy flick (e.g. Dark Crystal, Legend, Willow, Hawk the Slayer, Lady Hawke, that rotoscope version of Lord of the Rings…)BooksAny of those lavishly illustrated 'The Art of…' coffee table-busters based around hit sci-fi movies Cheap military encyclopaedias filled with pictures of guns, tanks and/or military uniforms Watchmen Dark Knight Returns Well-thumbed illustrated copy of Lord of the Rings Untouched copies of other assorted Tolkien works (especially, for some reason, The Silmarillion)Predictable, eh? But dated now. So this month I've been thinking about where designers will be able to look for their ideas during 2006. Which books, movies and real-world events will inspire the next wave of big multi-format franchise titles – the next gen's Splinter Cells, Resident Evils and Burnouts…Movie-wise, there are slim-pickings on the blockbuster front, just a few sequels (X-men 3, Mission Impossible 3, Die Hardest, Superman Returns, Indiana Jones IV…) and of course the inevitable animated biggie (this time Cars from Pixar) – a must-see for all videogame animators naturally.There are a couple of epic Sci-Fi novel adaptations – Foundation and Rendezvous With Rama – which may yield some new special effects concepts but that's about it. Oh, Ron Howard's take on The Da Vinci Code could inspire a new influx of adventure games with religious/mystical elements – but the Broken Sword series sort of has all that Knights Templar stuff covered.Perhaps current affairs may be a more reliable source this year. We are, after all, on the verge of a devastating pandemic – I mean, is bird flu the new T-Virus? There are some interesting conflict zones developing too - disputed Kashmir, USSR vs Ukraine, civil war in Sudan's Darfur region. Surely we no longer need rely on WWII, Vietnam and the hazy terrorist organisations envisioned for every Tom Clancy title. As for weapons, forget M16s and Uzis and thinkshoulder-mounted thermobaric weapons.Meanwhile, if no Next Gen racing games feature theBugatti VeyronI'll be very disappointed. I'm also hoping that Okami finally starts the trend for 'game graphics based on art movements' that Rez threatened all those years ago. Baroque shoot-'em-ups, Pre-Raphealite RPGs, cubist puzzlers… the possibilities are endless. And excitingly pretentious.Any developers out there want to tell me what you're watching or reading for inspiration this year?
"Sky by Broadband will initially offer 200 films for download including recent hits such as Spiderman 2 and The Day After Tomorrow, as well as more than 1,000 video clips of sports news and highlights, including Premier League and Champions League football. A film would typically take an hour to download with a standard connection and then be available to view for 30 days. Sky said that rights holders were becoming more amenable to flexible deals allowing it to deliver films and television in different ways," reports Owen Gibson onGuardian Unlimited."Initially, subscribers would have to watch downloaded content on a computer but the next generation of high-definition Sky set-top boxes would include a broadband connection and the service would be compatible with Microsoft's Media Center home entertainment system."
Back in September, in a post calledLoopy stuff, I blogged about FilmLoop, which is a way of sharing strings of photos using Windows PCs. At MacWorld, FilmLoop has just releaseda pre-beta of its Mac version. However, asDave Winerhas noted, it's not likely to get much attention, because Apple has just announced "photocasting".Small world dept: asCNet's FilmLoop storynotes, Guy Kawasaki, Apple's former evangelist, is "a board member and investor, as well as a high-school chum of [FilmLoop] co-founder Kyle Mashima".Kawasaki just postedLessons from Steve's Keynoteon his blog, with photos in aFilmLoop.
Tristan Louis has put togethera couple of tablescomparing the new 15 inch MacBook Pro with the old15 inch Powerbook G4, and the MacBook Pro with the similar Acer Travelmate 8200. Onthis, he concludes:This table does not seem to favor Apple. On a feature by feature basis, it seems the Acer beats. In the categories of CPU, screen resolution, memory, hard disk space, video memory, and resolution on the video camera, the Acer comes ahead. The same is true in terms of ports (S-video, TV-out, 4 USB2 (vs 2 on the MacBook), more audio ports, etc...). However, when it comes to weight and size, the Apple machine is much slicker. The MacBook offers a backlit keyboard but the Acer offers a modem. So if it's style you're after, the MacBook is your machine but if you're aching for raw power, another option may beat it.
Apple Computer has unveiled two new computers and said that sales of its popular iPod music players had driven a huge spike in sales.The two models are the first with Intel processors, marking the end of company's involvement with IBM and opening the future possibility of compatibility with Microsoft's dominant operating system, Windows. They include a replacement for the current iMac desktop computer, and a new notebook line called MacBook Pro."The new iMac is two to three times faster than the iMac G5," Mr Jobs told an eager crowd of around 5,000 Apple fans at the company's annual launch event in San Francisco. "We could not be happier with this."The new iMac, which should be on sale immediately from &#163;929, looks exactly the same as its predecessor but contains Intel's new Core Duo chips. The MacBook Pro, meanwhile - a replacement for the PowerBook line - will hit shops in February, for the higher price of &#163;1779. The company had originally scheduled to launch its Intel machines by the middle of 2006, and Mr Jobs was jubilant that had the machines had arrived earlier than expected.He had other reasons to be cheerful, as he revealed that the company had enjoyed its most successful Christmas period ever. More than 14 million iPods were sold in the final quarter of 2005, he said, bringing the total number of sales to more than 42 million. "That is over 100 every minute, 24/7 throughout the whole quarter," he said.Some, however, were disappointed that the company did not unveil any more hardware. There had been wide speculation before the event that Apple would update its low-end iPod shuffle music player, and that it would revamp its Mac mini into a low-cost home entertainment centre. Such movements would have mirrored a week of announcements made at last week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where companies including Microsoft, Google, Yahoo and Sony unveiled similar visions of converged home entertainment.But, say some observers, wild speculation had not taken into account the real situation. "They've completely regenerated their iPod market over the past 12 months," said Nate Elliott, a technology analyst with Jupiter Media. "I think it's hard to be disappointed with the lack of new iPods."
Sorry, Icouldn't resist. Bless 'em . If you can't bear to give theMailthe traffic - and hey, I don't blame you - then the gist is as follows. Boy aged 11 has fit while playing 15-rated Resident Evil 4. Paper blames violent videogames, parents, who are both teachers, blame the lack of warning on box. Sane people everywhere blame parents for not taking responsibility, and somehow failing to see the large 15 symbol on the front of the box.
ModelLexus IS 250 SEPrice&pound;25,400Top speed141mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.1 secsConsumption28.8 mpg (combined)At the wheelJohn MotsonThey'd rather walkDesmond LynamOn the stereoRadio 5 LiveEn route forLutonOh yes, there's hours of fun to be had in a new Lexus IS 250. And you don't even need to pull away. Watch this. When I press the start button, keep your eyes on the dials. See that? The way the needles and the rims of the dials light up white? And did you see the needles shoot right round the dials and back? And the way the rest of the backlighting slowly fades up to illuminate the dash, but only when the needles have finished doing their business? Brilliant, no? Again? Here we go. Woo!OK, so, on their own, needles that glow and go ping when you start the car probably don't constitute an out-and-out reason to lay down north of 25 grand. Then again, when you consider some of the things that do end up swinging people in favour of a car - its colour, its cupholders, sheer boredom with the business of looking at cars - then this little piece of theatrical pre-amble on the part of the IS 250 may not be such a bad selling point.At any rate, I reckon it would be at least a couple of years before I tired of the needles doing their happy-to-see-me dance and started seeing if it was possible to re-route the electrics and disable it. But what joyful and amusement-filled years those would have been, for me and anyone who knows me.Another way to get the maximum out of your Lexus without driving it: sit still and crank up the stereo. Lexus has always been impressive in this key area of enterprise and the new IS 250 amply continues in the company's hallowed traditions. There were 13 separate speakers plumbed into nooks and crannies in my SE version - including a neighbourhood-bothering sub-woofer sunk under the parcel shelf - which means you, and indeed your neighbours, could listen to Take That's Greatest Hits for ages without finding all of them. (All of the speakers, I mean, not all of Take That's greatest hits.)So, a rip-snorting stereo and some fancy start-up electronics: the odds are stacking up in favour of the IS 250 already. This might be a good moment to pile them on still further by mentioning the car's relative cheapness. You ought to be able to buy an IS 250 for less than a Jaguar X-Type, a BMW 325i or a Mercedes C230, without sacrificing such near-essentials as 17-inch alloys, heated door mirrors and eight-way adjustable electric front seats with a memory feature. Lexus's most high-profile British customer, Alan Partridge, will be honking his approval.Even so, there will doubtless come a time when you decide to capitalise on your investment and actually go somewhere in it. And it's at this point that the IS 250 will probably start dividing people sharply according to taste and desires. Not that the car suddenly rears up and becomes a cut-price Japanese rust-bucket the moment you select first and depress the accelerator. Nor, upon reaching 30mph in a built-up area, does it abruptly betray its origins as a social climber's Toyota. On the contrary, if the definition of luxury motoring is what the Carpenters once loosely described as "a kind of hush, all over the cabin tonight", the IS 250 couldn't be smoother, quieter or more luxurious.Even the sun-visors have perforated skins and allegedly serve as additional soundproofing, soaking up any noise that might leak in at the top edge of the windscreen. But when you combine these levels of insulation with the slippery slickness of the gearstick, the feather-light pedals and the airy power steering, you end up with a driving experience that is so indistinct, it all but erases itself from the memory as it goes along, as if it were on a loop-tape.Of course, this could delightfully convince you that you have crossed over into some kind of silky on-road heaven, where the ordinary contingencies of driving cannot affect you. But it could also leave you longing for some kind of bite from the Tarmac - or a hum, or even a complaint, from the engine - and wondering how it could be possible that the act of shifting around at great speed several hundred pounds of nicely slung-together metal could amount to such a non-specific event, coming and going like a Kenny G saxophone solo.Maybe the point, though, is not to disturb the carefully achieved design equilibrium within the car. This refashioned model, Lexus informs us, has taken inspiration from ancient Japanese culture. You think the side air vents look a bit stranded and out-of-place where they are situated, but that's "hazushi", which "expresses the notion of something that is part of a whole, but at the same time retains its independence". A lot to ask of an air vent, maybe. But, hey, this is a Lexus.
It is impossible not to feel haunted this week by the terrible story of the four cyclists killed in North Wales last weekend. Members of Rhyl Cycling Club were out on a Sunday training ride when a car lost control on an icy bend and ploughed into the group. A 14-year-old boy was among the dead.As well as the local grief caused by the Rhyl CC deaths, this awful news has repercussions far beyond. Thousands of other cyclists will have been out on similar "chain gangs" on Sunday, and this will have sent a shudder through them all. Yes, it is a freak event - but one not unheard of. Last July, in Germany, a car crashed into a squad of Australian racers, killing one, Amy Gillett, and leaving two others in a critical condition. In October, one of Britain's most talented time-triallists, Zak Carr, was hit and died while out training in Norfolk. Everyone in cycle sport either knows of, or knew personally, someone who has been killed on their bike.And it doesn't take black ice. When I go out early on Sundays, it's common to see cars stuck in hedges and garden walls demolished. I'm just grateful this phenomenon peaks on Saturday night - some hours before I'm on the road.So will this latest tragedy deter the hardcore of club cyclists? Probably not. We all rely on the calculation that the chances are it won't happen to us. For the more casual cyclists, however, perception of danger is everything. I suspect that those pictures of mangled bikes strewn across the road will be all the disincentive they need.But just how dangerous is cycling? It is not a simple question to answer. In 2004 (the last year for which figures are available), 134 cyclists were killed on British roads. Terrible, yes, but in relative terms? In fact, you could call 134 deaths a "good month" for motorists - 1,671 car users were killed in 2004. Absolute numbers, though, can be misleading: a better measure is the frequency of casualties occurring. By distance travelled, cars look safer, with 2.7 deaths per billion passenger km (public transport is better still: 0.2 for buses; 0.1 for trains). Cyclists die at a rate of 25 per bn km, but then most do much less mileage than motorists. So although I clock up 5,000 miles a year by bike, which is way more than average, I'd need to live 5,000 years to stand an odds-on chance of dying on my bike.Presumably cycling is more dangerous than walking? Not so - 671 pedestrians were killed in 2004, at a rate of 43 per billion km. But the trend for all road casualties (except motorcyclists) is downward - especially for cyclists: fewer by a third in the past decade. And the more people cycle, the better other road users adjust, and the safer it is.The tragedy in North Wales gives us all pause. But if there is one thing the cyclists of Rhyl would not want, it would be for us to stop riding our bikes.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt, How often does one need to change a cycling helmet?Emily Bacon, via emailMost modern cycle helmets are made from an inner shell of expanded polystyrene (EPS) with a skin of hard plastic on the outside. They are designed to withstand just one serious impact. The idea is that the foam shell absorbs the shock, but in so doing usually breaks. The helmet may appear to be in one piece because the outer skin holds it together, but the structural integrity is gone. So if you have had a fall and even suspect you have banged your head, you should replace the helmet immediately. (But dropping your helmet while unlocking your bike doesn't count; they're not that fragile.)Irrespective of crash damage, most manufacturers recommend replacing your helmet every five years, some as often as three. Of course, they would say that; but it is true that EPS can degrade over time with exposure to heat and sunlight. It may depend on how much use your helmet has had and how it has been stored. Three years certainly seems on the short side, but five years will probably be about right.&#183;Email your queries on any bike-related subject tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
www.bbc.co.uk/languages/The BBC offers enough free courses to get you a job at the EU, but avoid the non-native speakers and (in the primary school section) the talking animals. Or just get the CD - eg Suenos World Spanish 1, &pound;29.99.www.nll.co.ukLive, online private lessons from the world's first internet-only language school, &euro;49 (&pound;34) per hour, or flexible packages that include online study, plus a week's residential course, from about &euro;3,500.www1.learndirect-advice-search.co.ukA government-backed interactive directory of classes and self-study courses, eg Fun with Japanese - Beginner, &pound;24.99.www.languageguide.orgNo structured learning plan, but hundreds of clips of words and phrases from native speakers from this free site, which welcomes donations. European languages, plus Japanese, Chinese, Russian, Hebrew and Arabic.
I've noticed over the past year that there's been rather a lot of backlash against folks who professionally write about videogames. Regardless of the politics and the prose that has erupted in flames since the publication of the now-notoriousBow Nigger(see always_black'spagefor more rumblings and writings) by notables of the industry, joe schmoes and even our ownKeith, here's a snippet from another take on the "I hate the current state of games journalism" from yet another one of us:Rather than being critics who add to the industry as film and music journalists arguably did back in the heady days of the 50's - 70's (though there's a whole other debate in the state of those two branches of critical journalism these days and in the past) videogame journalists are mere extensions of the marketing machine, pushing even the most mediocre of games into a good light with the public in previews and then trashing them for sport to see how many good puns can be dredged out of the 500 words which the author really doesn't want to have to write.I resent that. That's one task-oriented group of writers which are reflected in every consumer medium across the printed world. You can't tarnish the whole lot with the same ruddy brush. What's giving everyone such a grump, anyway? Isn't this simply an extension of theart vs. waste-of-time debate? Ignore what you consider to be rubbish and stick with what you feel is good.On a social scale, perhaps it's this whole citizen journalism thing - people are suddenly recognising that it's not so hard to sit down and write a bunch of stuff about something they're passionate about and to gain an audience from the weird world wide web. Perhaps it's a grumbling from an age-advancing audience who's press release savvy and cynical about who's feeding what to whom. It's masochistic, bathing in words like this. I preferWired's take, a throw away line from author Lore Sjöberg's predictions of the games world in 2010:Perhaps the biggest newsmaker of 2010 was the announcement by a number of major online gaming sites that they were going to abandon the pretense of reviewing video games. Instead, they explained, they will now simply assign a numerical ranking to the press release and go back to playing World of Warcraft. "This will allow the consumer to receive our objective, well-reasoned review of the game weeks ahead of time, making their purchasing decisions easier. Plus, the game companies have promised to keep sending us free stuff either way."
Another sidenote: apparently Apple will continue selling PowerPC computers until the stocks run out. But they don't seem to be dropping the price. Are consumers going to end up with G5 iMacs when they think they're buying Core Duos? It certainly seems bizarre that you'd sell two machines - one apparently three times faster than the other - for the same price. Knock a few quid off, and you might even have a stampede on your hands...
They're fast. West coasters would probably say "super fast". But while there's no doubt that these little puppies are quicker than Linford Christie's lunchbox, I can't really see that they've got anything over on the large number of Intel Core Duo machines that I saw last week at CES. No surprise of course, because they're all running the same chipset.The iMac looks, well, just like the iMac G5 and the PowerBook - sorryMacBook Pro- is very much in the mould of its predecessor, but a little thinner. For those who haven't got the best part of two grand to splash out on a MBP, I imagine the iBook will become the MacBook non-pro in time (and it seems unlikely that we'll never see the eMac again).I never trust the stats we're spun at presentations like this, and I don't imagine most users will actually see the 2-3 times speed advantage that Apple are claiming. It'll be increased for native applications, but by a lower magnitude. Things will probably be similar for the MacBook - Apple are claiming up to five times power - but then this is a generation at least ahead of the PowerBook. And then there's the question of how optimised demo machines are, and what they're being used for. For example, Steve Jobs made a play during his keynote on how quick Safari was on the new system. Great, Steve - but wouldn't the speed of your web browser really depend on the speed of your web connection?Interestingly, more than a few people I've spoken to on the floor were a little underwhelmed. Of course, a large number of Mac fans have wet themselves over the new machines, and for good reason: they're sleek. There is no doubt that the Powerbook was in need of an update; and no doubt that the move to Intel has been quicker than expected. But Apple's knack of cranking up the expectation levels of late has left people wondering why they didn't see even more.I'm in agreement: over at CES everyone was talking about entertainment PCs, downloadable content, the connections between devices. I expected to see content announcements here (movies?); a Mac mini that was worthy of media hub status; more focus on the home. We didn't. And then there's the iPod shuffle, the black sheep of the white family, which is being quietly ignored by in favour of the flashier nano.Of course, plenty of people said the opposite (though being at a Mac show, it's like talking to a constituency of party workers). But maybe Apple's just a victim of its own success: they've left us wanting even more.
Preamble:Well, folks, here we are. I'm going to write this in the style of one of Guardian Unlimited's famous minute-by-minute commentaries. I'll try updating live as we go along, but Apple are always pretty bad at providing us hacks with Wi-Fi connections, and the perks at Guardian Towers don't stretch to 3G data cards. (note: the arena's ubiquitous wireless internet disappeared as soon as I entered the hall - apologies)More preamble:So what are we expecting? If rumour is correct, updates to the iBook, Mac Mini, and potentially a tweak to the iPod shuffle, Apple's first Intel-based machines - plus a possible line of extremely large and extremely expensive screens. Last year the rumour mongers were on the money - maybe not this time around, though. Oh, don't forget you can always playStevenote Bingo!: our handy cut-out-and-keep guide to what St Eve of Jobs may be rolling out today.9.07:Here we go - Jobs has just walked on stage. And guess what - he's wearing a yellow shirt and green trousers. Only joking, of course. Just like always, he's dressed head to toe in the only clothes that exist in his wardrobe: black turtle neck, jeans. I hope he doesn't get dandruff.Matters of scalp clearly aren't fazing the crowd, though: as usual, they're going crazy. This man's the closest thing that the tech world has to a rock star. Thank god he doesn't wear tight leather trousers, though. Standing ovation is now finishing and he's getting ready to speak.9.08:Retail update: 135 Apple retail stores. "I am really pleased to announce that last quarter we had 26m visitors during the holiday quarter to our stores. Our retail stores had their first billion dollar quarter." [claps]Shocker - now he's telling us revenues (he never does this). "A record for Apple, we sold around $5.7bn. [claps] This is one for the record books."9.10:Music. "We went into holiday quarter with best music players on the planet. We sold 4.5m iPods a year ago in the holiday quarter of 2004. Some of estimates for this year were getting high - 10m, 11m, 12m. But last quarter we sold 14m iPods." [whoops, clapping] "That is over 100 every minute, 24/7 throughout the whole quarter.""That brings the total number of iPods sold to around 42m. 32m were sold in calendar year 2005.""iTunes has passed 850m songs. We're selling 3m a day, which is well over 1bn a year run rate. 83% market share [laughs and claps from audience]. And since we launched on October 12, we have sold over 8m videos."9.14:"Today we're putting up some great content, including Saturday Night Live" qua qua qua. [this is all for Americans, of course].9.17:New iPod accessory: remote control/FM tuner (amazing backup for the firm, considering the amount of times that Apple have said people *don't* want to listen to radio on their iPods). Apparently when it plugs into your pod, a special radio interface comes up on screen. Priced $49.9.18:Talking of Jobs the rock star, I wonder which musician we're going to see come on stage today. Last year, if I remember rightly it wasJohn Mayer, and at the launch of the iPod nano in September,Kanye Westcame on for a cameo. What's the betting this time? Or will we see a movie star?9.19:He's showing off a new advert, featuring Winton Marsalis. Jaaaaazzzzzzzzzzzzzz. Nice.9.20:"But it's Macworld, so we're going to spend the rest of the day talking about the Mac" [whoops and cheers]. Does this mean no new shuffle?Aperture, long video promoting the photography application. "Stanley Kubrick would be jealous," says the vid.9.24:Widgets. "Between the ones we've created and third party ones, there are over 1,500 widgets available for OS X Tiger." New widgets (yawn): Google, sports widgets etc etc. Come with new update of Tiger, 10.4.4, which is out today.9.25:iLife. "We're introducing the next revision - and it's a giant." Now he's going through the different products. Anyone else find software incredibly tedious?9.26:Weird language alert: apparently iPhoto "scrolls like butter". He's clearly been smoking some of the wacky stuff. He then mentions "photocasting" - podcasting for photos. Basically sharing via .Mac for specific photo albums.9.32:While Jobs prattles on about features of iLife, I'm fixating on movie stars. We saw quite a few at CES; Tom Cruise, Tom Hanks, Morgan Freeman, Robin Williams, Danny DeVito. Justin Timberlake, too. Oh, andRitchie Cunningham. But will Jobs want to get upstaged by Hollywood? I doubt it. But I suppose the most likely appearance, if it did happen, would be someone from a Pixar title.9.33:Product demo. I won't bore you with details.9.41:Product demo. I won't bore you with details.9.42:Hold on - sorry for the repetition: I think we're caught in an Infinite Loop. (that's one for all the Macheads out there)9.46:Garageband - with integrated podcast studio, including sound effects and jingles that are royalty free and integrated voice recording over iChat.Demo. "Hi, I'm Steve and welcome to my weekly podcast, Super Secret Apple Rumours." [laughs - Jobs has to start over]. "I've got some pretty good sources inside Apple and this is what I'm hearing: the next iPod will be huge: an eight pounder with a 10 inch screen.""Pretty cool, huh?" [the application, not the 8lb iPod]9.52:No celebs so far... though I just realised that Tom Hanks - who came on stage for both Sony and Intel keynotes in Las Vegas - voiced Woody in Toy Story. If we see Forrest Gump on stage here this morning, it will be a triple whammy. Imagine the courtesy gifts that guy's stacking up.9.53:New website building iLife app, iWeb. He claims it makes it "super easy" to create lovely looking websites. Very impressive, but does it only publish to .Mac? I can't tell. Includes Ajax photo viewer, RSS feeds, blogs, podcasts.9.57:Product demo. The keynote's been going for nigh on an hour now, and there's been nothing truly remarkable - and not a sniff of hardware. We're all waiting for the moment when he turns and says "One more thing". Come on Steve, don't break the habit of a lifetime - I've come all the way to San Francisco for this bugger.10.05:Still talking about iWeb. Is the site he's built really live? Apparently it's atweb.mac.com/sjobs/Web/Site.Update:Doesn't seem to exist on the live web.10.06:"We've got more than 1 million subscribers to .Mac." Jobs pauses. But the applause he's probably waiting for only ripples through the crowd. My word: are these people getting a bit restless?10.07:"Now let's talk about computer systems themselves." The crowd whoops - this is what they're here to see.10.09:Intel Macs. "I want to give you an update", says Jobs. In comes Paul Otellini, the Intel boss, dressed as a space man. Yes, you heard me. A space man. (actually it's a suit used in those chip factories, but there's load of dry ice, so I think it's more like 2001). PO: "Steve, I want to report that Intel's ready." SJ: "I can report to you that Apple's ready too."10.12:"Today we're going to roll out the first Mac with an Intel processor." The iMac - a surprise, most thought it would be a laptop. "We're going to put an Intel processor inside a new iMac." Same sizes, same design, same features, same prices. "So what's different? It's two to three times faster than the iMac G5." It's got the Intel Core Duo chip set inside. Are these on sale today? He says not only does Tiger 10.4.4 run natively on core duo, but so do all the Apple applications.Update:European prices start from £929/€1399, on sale as of today.10.17:No surprise, then, when Steve reveals he's been using an Intel iMac to demo everything this morning. Some developers have already made universal products (Quark Express, for example). Rosetta will run Power PC programs inside Intel iMacs (including, he says, Microsoft Office) - Roz Ho from MS comes on to tell us that updates will be available in March.10.23:The Intel demos continue. In other news, these seats are getting more uncomfortable as the morning goes on. I am numb in several areas I didn't even realise I had.10.26:Confirmation: these Intel iMacs are shipping today. "We could not be happier with this," chuffs Jobs. He then shows off an advert. Essentially: "For years Intel chips have been trapped inside PCs doing boring tasks. Today the Intel chip will be set free and get to live inside the Mac." Crowd goes crazy.10.28:ONE MORE THING!10.29:Turns out they're *also* rolling out Intel-based laptops, replacing the PowerBook. "Today we are introducing a new notebook computer called the MacBook Pro. We're kind of done with power, and we want Mac in the name of our products." It's four to five times faster than the PowerBook G4, he says. Claps all round. A man in front of me is yelping like a dog. I'm seriously concerned about him.10.32: :"The fastest and thinnest Mac notebook ever". 15.4 inch display. And it's got a built in iSight cam. Quick demo with Phil Schiller, who's sitting in the audience. It also carries an infra-red sensor and remote, so it can run Front Row. Plus a new "Magsafe" magnetic power connector that plops out if it's yanked from its source.10.36:Price? $1999 for 1.67GHz Intel Core Duo, half gig of memory and 80GB drive. And a $2499 one which is faster (they removed the speed from the screen before I could jot it down) 1GB RAM and 100GB hard drive.Update:European prices start at £1779/€2729.Update the second:Commenter Macker points out that the prices have changed - and they have. Since earlier, the numbers of Apple's website have altered to from £1429/€2179. I'm going to find out whether they had a sudden change of heart or cocked up.Proviso:it's not shipping until February.Now he shows the Intel ad again. Crikey, the people here are watching it again with added gusto.10.39:Jobs thanks all the workers at Apple, they stand up and he leads the crowd in giving them a round of applause. "These folks did an incredible job." He then points out that Apple will be 30 years old this year.10.41:So what did we see? A little bit more than we expected, but a little bit less too. Intel PCs, yes - anything else, no. The software looks sweet, as usual. Intel's a big development, of course, but on the surface nothing looks substantially different to non-Mac users.And, with the flashing of cameras popping around my ears, Mr Jobs sweeps off the stage. Thank you and goodnight. Or good morning, if you're over here. I'm off to get my hands on some kit and write some more.
"Remember the good old days when Google used to 'wow' people with their new products? AdSense. Gmail. Google Maps. These were products that took what was apparently a mature market and completely changed the game -- and did so in a way that made people say 'wow'. Last year, we noted that Google seemed to forget the 'wow' part when it launched Google Talk, and it appears they may have really misplaced the magic pixie dust with Google Video," saysTechDirt.There are quotes from other sites such asDaveneticssaying "Hey, is it my imagination, or is the first really bad product Google has launched?"Hm, well, the RSS reader was pretty bad, Google Pack has been described as an embarrassment and a mess, Google Base is at best unimpressive, I've not been to Orkut for ages, and, sorry guys, I've uninstalled Google Desktop and its ultimately disappointing sidebar. Did Google Search, Gmail and Maps set expectations no-one could live up to, or are we watching a company whose ambitions far exceed its abilities?
