Want to become an armchair auditor? Or, even better, push along the free data movement? Then the free masterclasses (though the only requirement is an inquiring mind and "a reasonable working knowledge of web browsing and Microsoft Excel") being held by led by Horizon Digital Economy Research and the Centre for Geospatial Science at The University of Nottingham may be the ones for you."The idea is that it will teach people about how to best extract and interpret the data to produce meaningful statistics which may be useful to them as individuals or their organisations," say the organisers.Previously you've needed to be something of a web developer to take the best advantage of this information. But now with Eric Pickles and Francis Maude carrying on the work that the previous government had begun, open data is all around - and the real problem is getting enough people to make use of it.There are more details at theUniversity of Nottingham pages: they'll run from Monday 8 November through to Friday 3 December. Each class can take 30 to 40 people but tickets are going fast, so be quick.The events are taking place at: the University of Newcastle on November 8; University College London on November 10; The University of Nottingham on November 12; the University of Aberdeen on November 17; the Royal Geographical Society in London on November 18; and the University of Southampton on December 3.The aims of the classes areto teach the general public about the tools and techniques needed to use and analyse the increasing amount of national and local data being made available via the internet, while avoiding the pitfalls of interpreting statistics.Even if it can manage only the latter, that will be fantastic: there are far too many "surveys" which lack any sort of statistical rigour which get re-reported in, well, the media.As the organisers say: "The programme of events is open to anyone with an interest in obtaining and using public information on a whole range of topics including crime, healthcare, transport, schools and census data."It's worth considering just how far we have come in just under a year. A year ago, there was no London Datastore; you couldn't get postcode data for free (and indeed the crew aternestmarples were getting nastygrams from lawyers); you'd have spent endless time writing FOI requests to local councils if you wanted to know about expenditure over £500, and they'd have probably been turned down on the basis of commercial confidentiality; and there was no way in the world that Ordnance Survey would have let you have its StreetView mapping data for free or allowed it to beincorporated into OpenStreetMap.Those were the sorts of things that the Free Our Data campaign was trying to change. Did it succeed? Well, actually, we'd still like theflood map data from the Environment Agency. Perhaps we'll make a call.Then in December came Gordon Brown's sweeping announcement thatOrdnance Survey data would go free(except at Mastermap level and Landranger level), the launch of data.gov.uk, and then theLondon Datastore, and plenty more to come.Or as Nottingham puts it:"The launch of sites making government data freely available and the publication of significant geographical data by the Ordnance Survey came following a concerted open data movement, led by web developers, and a Free Our Data campaign by the national Guardian newspaper."Dr Hanif Rahemtulla, a research fellow in Horizon Digital Economy Research and the Centre for Geospatial Science, said: "The past few months have seen a number of high profile announcements in relation to the release of central and local government data for free."The data.gov.uk portal was launched by Gordon Brown during his premiership but has been embraced by the new coalition Government as a means of opening up data, promoting transparency and re-building the general public's trust following the damaging MP's expenses revelations."There is great excitement in the developer community and many new mashups and apps have been produced from the released data already. Our master classes are designed for individuals who could really benefit from being able to access this data but don't have the same technical expertise in extrapolating statistics from it."The events are being funded by the Horizon Digital Economy Research Institute, data.gov.uk through the Cabinet Office, the OS (Ordnance Survey) GeoVation challenge and ESRI UK, the software leader for geographical information systems (GIS).
There's nothing like a bit of controversy to drum up interest in a shoot-em-up. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 had it with its brutal Moscow airport massacre level and Medal of Honor was set to top this with the possibility of being able to "be" the Taliban. That isn't going to happen now (although you can be sure a modder somewhere is working on it), so we can judge it purely on its merits as a game.MoH still starts with the USP of being the most current real-world setting of any FPS, and throwing you straight into the streets of Kabul does add a palpable tension to the opening level. To its credit, MoH plays everything – even when laying down covering fire from an Apache gunship – for realism rather than Bond-like spectacle. However, within minutes you can't help wondering "what's new?" and the answer is – not a lot. Even the convincing bilingual radio backchat can't conceal that we're in bog standard territory here, with most of the FPS cliches ready and willing for deployment. A variety of different characters to play, from navy Seals, to army rangers to the much-vaunted Tier 1 undercover operatives? Check. A plot that depicts various well-laid plans (some stealthy, some all-out chaos) turning to crap? Check. And, of course, the obligatory reliance on semi-darkness to ramp up difficulty and tension.You could also level some niggles at the gameplay. Enemies may be in plentiful supply but the AI tends to have them bobbing up and down rather than making the same intelligent use of cover as your squad members. Combat generally feels great, thanks to a good supply of hefty weapons, although melee combat is decidedly limp. Despite this, and a few gameplay glitches that will surely be quickly patched, the short, nine-level, single-player campaign is still packed with blistering firefights. And then there's the multiplayer side with Battlefield 2 developer, DICE, delivering a beautifully balanced experience, despite once again being surprisingly slim on both innovation and scale. Featuring only eight maps, four multiplayer modes (Team Assault, Sector Control, Objective Raid and Combat Mission) and three classes (Rifleman, Special Ops or Sniper), MoH packs less variety than you might expect, even once you start unlocking weapon upgrades through levelling up. That said, the action does feel very different to CoD's tighter, more frantic skirmishes – rewarding experience and teamwork over individual heroics – something DICE will hopefully nurture and build on once the servers start filling up.If you're looking for a straight comparison with the next CoD (Black Ops) you'll have to wait another few weeks. Like this year's Strictly/The X Factor tussle, clever scheduling ensures the two games won't be directly competing for chart position, which perhaps is just as well for EA. MoH is certainly better for its shift from WW2 to modern warfare, but veterans who recall the salad days of the series may be expecting more.Reviewed on an Xbox 360
Sony has finally confirmed that the movie subscription service LoveFilm is coming to PS3. Subscribers to LoveFilm will be able to select from thousands of titles, and then stream films directly to their TVs, through their PlayStation 3 console. Subscriptions start at £5.99 a month, and are already available via the latest Samsung and Sony Bravia internet connected TVs as well as Sony Blu-ray players.The LoveFilm option will appear on the console's XMB menu system, and users will be able to browse various catagories including 'Pick of the Week', 'Most Watched' and 'Highest Rated', as well as searching the entire database by title, actor and genre. Apparently PS3 owners who aren't currently LoveFilm subscribers will be offered incentives, including free trials, to sign up.This is the latest in a series of deals designed to expand the PS3's entertainment offerings beyond games. Sony has its own Video Store service, but the BBC iPlayer is also viewable through the console, and users will also 'soon' be able to access the indie-themed movie library,Mubi. Microsoft offers similar video-on-demand services via the Xbox 360.The LoveFilm service will be launching on PS3 sometime in November.
Over the past six months Microsoft cleaned more than 6.5m computer botnet infections – more than double the same period last year, according to the company's biannual Security Intelligence Report (SIRv9) released on Wednesday.The software giant uses its latest report – available atMicrosoft.com/sir– to throw focus on the crippling effect of botnets. Cliff Evans, Microsoft UK's head of security, says the nature of today's botnets – networks of infected computers controlled remotely, often for malicious purposes – is "evidence of the way cybercriminals are utilising malicious software."The report follows the release of Microsoft's biggest ever batch of security updates – 49 separate problem fixes – issued yesteday, including one patch for the vulnerability exploited bythe Iran-centred Stuxnet worm.Botnets are commonly used to attack third-party sites through "distributed denial of service" (DDOS) attacks, which swamp the target with useless connection attempts; to generate billions of pieces of spam email; to host fake phishing sites which attempt to capture bank details and passwords; and to store stolen or illega data, including child pornography.Win32/Rimecud, the "backdoor" worm that spreads mainly by removable drives and sends malicious hyperlinks to a victim's contacts, was far and away the most commonly detected bot in the second quarter of 2010. Rimecud triggered nearly 70% more detections than the next most common worm, but saw a gradual decline from January after an inexorable rise towards the end of 2009.Top 25 bot families detected by Microsoft in first half of 2010, by number of computers cleaned. Source: MicrosoftCliff Evans, Microsoft UK's head of security, told the Guardian: "The botnets we're now seeing are really geared up to delivering spam, and it is evidence of the way cybercriminals are utilising malicious software."There's not been a dramatic change in the number of botnets detected in the UK – 2.7 [bot cleanings per 1000 MRST executions] is less than average."The threat is coming from applications with vulnerabilities, like Adobe, which are more accessible from a criminal perspective. The positive from this research is that the total number of vulnerabilities across the industry is down 7.9%, and they're harder than ever to exploit."Evans said the proposal put forward by a top Microsoft researcher last week toquarantine virus-infected computers and cut off the worst-infected from the internet, was "conceptually something that makes sense."He added: "I made the point about the UK being stable, but if the rest of the world is seeing increasing numbers [of infected computers] how do we make sure it doesn't spread?"From a technical standpoint, it's already deployed in enterprises – computers have to have a standard bill of health otherwise they're put in quarantine. But it requires countries and industries to come together and decide, it needs cooperation. We need to look at the security and privacy implications and make sure those are being addressed."It's conceptually something that makes sense. The publishing ofthe [research] paperis a first step then we'll continue talking to governments."Total botnet infections detected and removed, by countryCountryComputers with botnet infections detected and removed (2Q10)United States2148169Brazil550426Spain381948South Korea354906Mexico331434France271478United Kingdom243817China230037Russia199229Germany156975Italy130888Turkey98411Canada87379Netherlands77466Columbia71493Portugal68903Australia66576Poland62704Taiwan54347Japan52827Argentina43162Saudi Arabia40793Belgium39503Chile39245India38954source: Microsoft
JoinAleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthuron Tech Weekly for a programme about transformations: Microsoft takes the plunge into the mobile market, Google launches a car, and 4IP goes from online autonomy to being integrated into the public service Borg.Charles grillsAshley Highfield, head of Microsoft UK, about the Windows Phone 7, and gets a few choice words from comedian and polymathStephen Fry, whose technophilia knows no bounds.Gareth Jonesof Cisco tells Charles about the latest transformation in the Flip camera series. Spoiler alert: not much has changedsince our July 2009 interviewwith the company. Oh dear.There's all the usual news, views and clever quips from the team that make this week's podcast simply unmissable. So please don't.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The process of pursuing and penalising illegal filesharers in Ireland has been thrown into uncertainty after a failed attempt by four of the world's largest record companies to legally enforce the "three strikes" rule.Warner Music, Universal Music Group, Sony BMG and EMI on Monday lost an Irish high court bid to establish a controversial legal precedent that wouldforce internet service providers to temporarily cut off illegal filesharers' internet connections. Influential music industry bodies say the judgment is "a setback for the Irish music business".It could also complicate the situation in the UK, where the Digital Economy Act offers similar provisions to discover and warn – and potentially throttle the connections of – people who illicitly access copyrighted content.The high court judgment ruled that laws enabling illegal downloaders to be disconnected from the internet after being warned three times were not enforceable in Ireland – while noting that piracy is "destructive" to the creative industries. The ruling was a victory for UPC, Ireland's third-largest broadband provider, which was appealing against an injuction requiring it to block access to filesharing website The Pirate Bay.A "substantial portion" of UPC's 150,000 customers were shown to have shared copyrighted content during the court case; Judge Justice Peter Charleton said it was acknowledged that illegal filesharing "undermines their [the creative industries] business but ruins the ability of a generation of creative people in Ireland, and elsewhere, to establish a viable living".But in what might be a significant development for future UK cases, the same method was used to detect copyright infringement by UPC customers – tracking based on IP address – as has been used inthousands of claims being pursued in the UK by ACS:Law, a London-based solicitors firm, against Britons over music and films. In Ireland the evidence was accepted as proof of access and infringement.However the judge ruled that the injunction could not be upheld. Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry, which represents UK record labels, told the Guardian: "It is a setback for the Irish music business that due to Ireland's inadequate implementation of European directives, the judge did not believe he had the power to order UPC to implement a graduated response solution which the judge considered to be both proportionate and effective."In making his ruling, the judge made a number of interesting findings. First, he agreed the recording industry – locally in Ireland and more broadly – is being devastated by piracy. He also found that the Irish ISP, UPC, knowingly profits from illegal downloads."UPC disputed Taylor's claim that Ireland inadequately implements EU directives on copyright. But it said it would not be adding to the statement issued following the court judgment.The broadband provider said then that the ruling supports the principle that an ISP cannot be held liable for content transmitted on its network, and in court disputed the claim that the three strikes rule was a workable solution to piracy."UPC has repeatedly stressed that it does not condone piracy and has always taken a strong stance against illegal activity on its network," the company said on Monday. "It takes all steps required by the law to combat specific infringements which are brought to its attention and will continue to co-operate with rights holders where they have obtained the necessary court orders for alleged copyright infringements."The Irish Recorded Music Association, which forced Ireland's largest broadband provider, Eircom, to adopt the "three strikes" policy after an out-of-court settlement in February 2009, said it is considering whether to appeal to the Irish supreme court or to lobby the Irish government for a change in legislation.Taylor also noted that the high court had deemed the methods used to identify illegal filesharers were accurate enough to be used as evidence.The evidence put forward by DTecNet, a piracy-tracking software supplier, which linked the IP address – rather than the physical address – to a person suspected of sharing copyrighted content, was deemed to be reliable as a means of identifying infringers. Industry bodies from pressure groups to internet service providers have consistently warned that this evidence could easilywrongy implicatesomeone of a crime they have not committed.Taylor said: "The judgment made clear that the methods rightsholders use to gather evidence are reliable and accurate, and that solutions to illegal downloading such as graduated response and network filtering would be effective. Furthermore, the judge found that implementing these solutions would not impose disproportionate costs on ISPs."
Passive-aggressive version of "sorry we bought doors that slam". Photo bypmsyyzon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDigg CEO Says "We're Sorry," Brings Back Some Old Digg Features &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Responding to the vocal backlash against Digg v4, Matt Williams, Digg's new CEO, has issued an apology, promising to bring back some of the features that the new Digg ditched and that long-time users loved, including the "bury" button."We hear you loud and clear," says Williams."Meet the new Digg, increasingly the same as the old Digg.Windows Phone: Microsoft exec explains strategy behind new ads &gt;&gt; TechflashThe inspiration for the ads was a tweet which said "My new definition of cool: When I'm out with you, I never see your phone, ever." But who said it? Twitter's search is silent.Faxing the future from 1998 // The 1998 ProjectYes, why are phone plans so expensive still?How Many People Are In Space Right Now? &gt;&gt; howmanypeopleareinspacerightnow.comSplendid. Surely to be followed by 'How many Chilean miners are trapped underground?' and 'How many miners are just working underground and not being reported on by rolling news coverage?'Exclusive: How to copy, paste in Windows Phone 7 &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThe answer? "Wait until 'early' 2011." Ina Fried explains: "Although Microsoft is pitching its phones as the devices for the common user, copy and paste is important because it is one of those "check box" features that users look for, even if they never make use of it."Originally, copy and paste was not particularly high on the company's feature list, but early testers apparently squawked loud enough. Until now, Microsoft had been touting as an alternative its "smart links" that automatically highlight things like an address or Web site and let users share or go to that place."Very puzzling that copy/paste "wasn't high on the list", given how important everyone had made out its absence from the iPhone was.Tab In My Pocket &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's ongoingCompleting his writeup of a month or so using the Samsung Galaxy Tab: "This is an excellent product. It's fast, beautiful, useful, responsive, and convenient. If Samsung picks the right price point and channels, they'll sell a ton."It has one really irritating design flaw: the four standard Android "buttons" are touch-sensitive areas on glass which, in dim light, you can't see unless they're back-lit, which too often they're not. A month in, my fingers know where they are, but it shouldn't take multiple days to learn to use basic controls when there are only four of them."5 reasons why Windows Phone 7 will be a hit &gt;&gt; Houston ChronicleThough some of the reasons are definitely shaky, he's got good points about the lack of standardisation among Android phones.N8 Fail - Reasons Why the Nokia N8 Sucks &gt;&gt; A tumblr blogThere must be an iPhonefail blog (pointers?) and surely there'll soon be a Windowsphone7fail, we've no doubt - but meanwhile there's plenty of wince-inducing fodder here.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Facebook and HTML5, sitting in a tree, p-a-r-s-i-n-g.Facebook's engineering team (the people who in The Social Network are only seen "wired in" - wearing headphones while they code as though their lives depended on it) have sung a paean to HTML5 in theirlatest blogpost.As they point out,"It's worth understanding that the term 'HTML5' has come to mean more than just the single HTML5 specification, but really represents the next evolution of the web platform and thus dozens of related specifications. Many of them have already been implemented across recent versions of Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, and Opera."So rather like them, we'll use it interchangeably to include CSS3/Javascript as well.And what does Facebook like about HTML5? Where is it using it?• for an HTML5 video player to serve iPad and iOS users. (This was the work of a "summer intern", apparently.)• in Facebook Places, for the iPhone/Android/other location-aware mobile device with a HTML5-capable browser that can use theGeolocation API, which sets out a standard interface for location data.• using theHTML5 History APIso it can selectively load content via Ajax [asynchronous Javascript] while also having human-readable URLs:"Previously, current application state was stored in the URL fragment which resulted in unseemly URLs like 'profile.php?id=1586010043#!/pages/Haskell/401573824771'. Now, because HTML5 allows us to decouple the currently displayed URL from the actual state of the application, we're able to display pages more quickly, save bandwidth, and avoid polluting users' location bars."One thought about the History API: it surely should have some sort of signing, because a cursory glance makes it look like it could be used to mess with your browser's behaviour in all sorts of malicious ways. Wrong? Right? Surely the W3C have thought about possible malicious use?•Web Storage:"to cache typeaheads and give us more control over how we cache CSS and JavaScript. While we're not using it in production today, we're extremely excited about how it can be used in lower bandwidth environments such as mobile."•Web Socketsfor chat: this opens a two-way (possibly secure) port between client and server, which "will hopefully replacelong polling" - which seems to be a variant of push (but why Web Sockets is better than long polling isn't immediately obvious; feel free to impart an explanation in the comments).And if you need a reminder of how things stand in terms of browsers, head over to theHTML5 Readinesspages to see where they all stand (though you'll need an HTML5-capable browser to get anything like the best out of it.If anyone knows of a mobile equivalent of HTML5 Readiness, we'd love to know too - again, tell us in the comments.
Google is extending its investment in green technology with a $5bn (£3.2bn) programme to build an undersea, wind energy transmission backbone along 350 miles of the Atlantic seaboard.The grid project, which stands to serve 1.9m homes from Virginia to New Jersey with up to 6,000 megawatts of electric power from dozens of windfarms 10 miles off the mid-Atlantic coast, is the most ambitious of its kind.Google announced it is working with Trans-Elect and two other firms, but has not offered a timetable for construction. "This system will act as a superhighway for clean energy," said Rick Needham, Google's green-business operations director.Investment in both wind energy programmes and the controversial extraction of shale oil from deposits in North Dakota, Montana and Alberta, Canada, has increased since the BP spill over the summer caused US lawmakers to curb permits for offshore oil and gas drilling.For Google, the Atlantic Wind Connection Project is in line with earlier investments. In May, it put $40m into two North Dakota windfarms, its first clean-energy investment. Two days ago the firm announced it hadtested a self-driving electric car on Californian highways.Today's announcement offers hope that further investment will pour into the lagging US wind-energy programme. Consistent wind through Montana and the Dakotas, off the South Carolina coast and across the Texas panhandle gives the US windfarm industry an opportunity to supply significant amounts of electricity to the grid.But compared with China, now the leading manufacturer of wind turbines and solar energy equipment, the US had been comparatively slow in adopting the technology. Public opposition to windfarms, including a large project off the presidential holiday island of Martha's Vineyard, has taken years to resolve.That may now be changing: the Global Wind Energy Council industry group estimates wind-power investment may reach $202bn over the next 20 years.Charlie Hodges, a wind industry analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said: "The North American wind industry hasn't had any players involved with the motivation and financial heft to really move this market forward. Google could play that role."
Twitter founders Ev Williams and Biz Stone have derided Malcolm Gladwell's contention that the effect of online networks on social change is greatly exaggerated, saying his argument is "laughable".Williams, who stepped down as chief executive of the social networking site last week, saidGladwell's New Yorker articlewas "entertaining but kind of pointless", while Stone said it was "absurd" to think that social networks were not "complementary to activism".The pair are the latest to launch a riposte to Gladwell's dismissal of social networks, after the article – subheaded "Why the revolution will not be tweeted" – began to make waves on Monday 4 October.Williams said: "It was a very well-constructed argument but it was kind of laughable."Anyone who's claiming that sending a tweet by itself is activism, that's ludicrous — but no one's claiming that, at least no one that's credible. If you can't organise you can't activate. I thought [the article] was entertaining but kind of pointless."In his argument, Gladwell cited the American civil rights movement of the late-fifties and sixties as an example of social change that was based on intimate friendship, suggesting that the "weak ties" connecting people online were not of the same influence."Enthusiasts for social media would no doubt have us believe that [Martin Luther] King's task in Birmingham, Alabama, would have been made infinitely easier had he been able to communicate with his followers through Facebook, and contented himself with tweets from a Birmingham jail," Gladwell argued."But [online] networks are messy: think of the ceaseless pattern of correction and revision, amendment and debate, that characterises Wikipedia. If Martin Luther King, Jr had tried to do a wiki-boycott in Montgomery, he would have been steamrollered by the white power structure."And of what use would a digital communication tool be in a town where 98% of the black community could be reached every Sunday morning at church? The things that King needed – discipline and strategy – were things that online social media cannot provide."Stone, the co-founder of Twitter,saidon Monday: "The real-time exchange of information — a service like Twitter — it would be absurd to think it's not complementary to activism. When it really comes down to it, it's not going to be technology that's going to be the agent of change. It's going to be people; it's going to be humanity."The pair did, however, hold back from the kind ofhyperboleheaped upon Twitter for its role in last year's Iranian election protests, saying that no one had intimated that 'the revolution will be tweeted'."It's always been our goal to reach the 'weakest signals' all over the world, such as the recent usage in Iran and Moldova," Williams said.
Consumers are unwittingly passing much of their most private personal data to strangers when they discard mobile phones, with intimate photos and credit card numbers and pins frequently left on handsets, according to new research.An analysis of 50 handsets bought from second-hand resellers on eBay found that more than half contained personal messages or photos, according to exclusive research from the mobile and forensics experts Disklabs. More than 60% still contained phone numbers left on a call log. A number were sold with pornographic material still on the phone."The worst thing a consumer can do is hope or assume that the person buying the phone will remove the data," said Simon Steggles, director of Disklabs. "Any data left on the phone is effectively open to the public domain. That could be as varied as intimate photos, videos and text messages … People hit 'delete' and think that means it is gone for ever, but that's not the case."Researchers found porn on nine of the 50 handsets, while video and calendar information were also still on nine handsets. Personal security information, including home address, credit card numbers and pin numbers, was on 26 of the handsets.Nine of the handsets had had their International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number changed – indicating they had been lost or stolen at some point. When reported, lost and stolen mobiles have their IMEI cancelled, which means they can no longer connect to the network.Mobiles store user data in different places, depending on hardware model, software and user preferences. Deleting SMS messages, for example, is unlikely to completely remove that data from the phone. Steggles said a factory reset is the safest and most reliable way to erase personal data before disposing of or selling a handset.Steggles said consumers are often naive in their approach to personal data, a problem compounded by mobile trade-in systems, which offer money in exchange for old handsets.The popularity of apps makes it even more important for mobile owners to properly erase their data before selling handsets. Steggles pointed to GPS-enabled apps such as RunKeeper, which logs when someone leaves their home and where they run to within a few metres.Rik Ferguson, a senior security adviser at Trend Micro, said the digitisation of people's lives makes previously unimaginable data public – such as the US student's "sex log" that went viral last week."Data is more portable, more accessible, more widely disseminated and more numerous than ever before," said Ferguson. "We tend to place our faith in the technology that we use to access our data, we believe that when we hit delete the data is gone, and we believe that if we restrict the audience we share with that the data will not go any further. These beliefs are often misplaced – as that story testifies."Ferguson pointed to recent data leak scandals such as Android's TaintDroid app, which was shown to send information to advertisers without the user's knowledge, and a separate problem identified with inadequate data encryption on iPhones. Both have helped to highlight some awareness of flaws in mobile security. While apps and mobile tools are still young and developing, Ferguson says professional encryption is the safest way to protect personal data."We need to get in the habit of encrypting valuable personal and intellectual property at file level; that way, even if it is lost or stolen it is of limited value or use," he said, anticipating a swathe of new services that offer encrypted services for consumers."What would be ideal is some sort of technology where you as an end user would be able to assign the right to use, copy or distribute information about yourself to people of your own choosing."Meanwhile, Steggles called on mobile operators to take more responsibility in educating the public about controlling their data. "It's unfair to expect consumers to understand the possible ramifications of leaving data on their phones," he said. "Mobile operators need to take this issue more seriously – it's shocking what some people leave on their phones."
Stephen Fry, who described himself as "an amateur – which as you know is the French for lover", said that he has been trying a Windows Phone 7 handset for the past week.The writer and broadcaster said that while he "made no secret of what the chaps – and chappesses – at Cupertino [Apple's headquarters] have done since 2007, when I heard Steve Ballmer [CEO of Microsoft] use the word 'delight' about what this phone should do, I thought, 'What joy there is in heaven when one sinner doth repent'."The real test, Fry told the Guardian, would be whether he transferred his own SIM card from his iPhone to the Windows Phone 7 device. "I think I probably will, at least for a while."What pleased him about the device was that Microsoft had finally thrown off the thinking that people are "one thing when they're outside work, and another when they've gone through the swipe barrier" – because it was that thinking which led to boring interface designs.Instead, Microsoft had embraced the average person rather than the corporate one: "Now, they get it: that all human beings are human beings first. You don't judge the machines you use, or the houses you live in by listing their functions. The first thing you do is say how youfeelabout your office; when you buy a house, you do it essentially on the feeling."As to the suggestion that people might accuse him of being fickle (and he insisted he was not paid to speak at the event in London), he said: "If I were Jeremy Clarkson, I could say 'I love the new Ferrari!' one week, and nobody would have a problem if the next week he said 'I love the new Audi!' It's the same with this. I just love technology."
It must be hard to be particularly motivated as a games developer when working on something like Despicable Me. Publisher deadlines mean you'll probably never have enough time to create anything particularly worthwhile, and the nature of a children's film tie-in's target audience means even if you do impress, it's unlikely many people will notice.A little credit must be due then to Monkey Bar games, who have at least provided a game that's somewhat polished and challenging, if a little sloppy in places.You control Gru, the Steve Carrell-voiced antihero (who pleasingly adds his own vocal talents in-game) and his band of munchkin-like minions in a series of platform-based puzzle rooms. Little attempt has been made to use the plot of the film – though often trying too hard to do this can be to a film-based game's detriment.The nature of the gameplay itself is quite interesting – most of the puzzles require you to shoot different combinations of small, yellow minions at different points on the screen (using the Wiimote), and then use your array of weaponry to manipulate them into holding down buttons, providing platforms to jump across, and so on.Only occasionally do any enemies as such appear on screen – and even then their sole purpose is to run away. Actions such as killing a fleeing enemy and defacing property fill your "despicable meter" and unlocks costumes and the like – though, let's face it, unlockable costumes have pretty limited appeal in a puzzle game.The use of licence – including Pharrell's theme tune and orchestral music from the film's soundtrack – is one of the best things about Despicable Me. It's can be humorous at times – Gru castigates you every time he dies – and children in particular will enjoy many of the comedic flourishes in the game's presentation.As a game clearly aimed at a younger audience though, it's often perversely hard – and not just because of the poor level design and dodgy controls that hamper your progress. Attempting to jump while shooting diagonally downwards over a hazard to freeze a fiery platform is incredibly tricky using the Wii thumbstick. And it only takes one hit to send you back to the start of each puzzle throughout the game – pretty unforgiving, and deeply frustrating at times.Even an experienced player such as myself (ahem) died dozens of times even in early levels. If you have to restart too many times the game lets you skip a section, although progressing through the game in this manner is pretty dissatisfying.A generic spaceship-flying level is thrown in later on to offer some kind of variety, but with roughly a dozen levels, most of which can be completed in about 15 minutes, there's not a great deal of longevity on offer here. And while there's fun to be found in the multiplayer modes, there's nothing to suggest you'd ever choose a game of Despicable Me with a friend over the Wii's dozens of superior multiplayer games.With better controls and collision detection this would have a pretty decent Wii game – especially considering how little is expected of this sort of licensed offering. As it is, I'd expect only fans of the film or puzzle-game devotees to consider this a worthwhile purchase – and even then, perhaps only after a couple of months when it can be found in the bargain bin.• Reviewed on the Wii
It's safe to say the iPad has not exactly been bombarded with amazing original titles so far. Most current releases are simply high definition versions of their iPhone stablemates, and often, the different form factor and functionality of the larger device are practically ignored.The following 10 titles are mostly iPhone conversions, but they're also well-crafted, compelling, quirky and challenging – especially if you haven't played them on another platform already. They're also freshly released on Apple's tablet computer, so won't be on those '50 best iPad apps' features that have been hanging around at the top of Google searches since the device launched.On the subject of Google, if you're an Android fan, check out ourlist of recommended gameson that platform – I'll be updating it soon. And, naturally, we'll be adding a Windows Phone 7 selection, as soon as we get hold of a compatible HTC or Samsung handset.For now, prepare your iPad for killer worms, dangling candy treats and robot unicorns...Across Age HD(FDG Entertainment, £4.99)A young warrior named Ales meets up with burgeoning mage, Ceska, and together they must defeat the evil sorcerer Count Agrean, currently making great chunks of the kingdom disappear. This is mostly by-the-books action RPG stuff with a vigorous nod toward the genre's mid-nineties golden era. It has a couple of interesting features, too, notably the ability to switch between the two lead characters on the fly, and to travel in time when the mission demands. It's all done with style and humour and the colourful 2D visuals will have veterans pining for the early days of Zelda.Baseball Superstars 2010 HD(Gamevil, £2.99)Even if you have no interest whatsoever in real-life baseball, you should check out this excellent sim – Gamevil is, after all, one of the finest mobile developers in the world and the iPhone version has shifted over 12 million copies. It's a simplified and stylised take on the sport, which allows you to take part in a quick match or go for the more in-depth RPG-infused My League mode, which lets you unlock various monsters, vampires and demons to enliven your squad. The controls, re-tuned for the iPad version, are intuitive and fun, too.Bit.Trip.Beat HD(Namco, £1.79)Originally released as a WiiWare title, this is essentially Pong with a thumping chip tune soundtrack and some nice rhythm action elements. You've just got to tilt your iPad to control the paddle, bashing musical dots as they cascade toward you. Keep thwacking them back and your soundtrack builds into a complex piece of banging electronica; miss a few and it all goes very ambient. Though the controls can be tricky, the blocky 8bit visuals are gorgeous, and for fans of trippy retro-tinged marvels like Lumines and Space Invaders Extreme, Bit. Trip. Beat is a required purchase.GTA: Chinatown Wars HD(Rockstar, £5.99)It has already thrilled Nintendo DS and iPhone gamers but now the engrossing handheld instalment of Rockstar's crime adventure series has been solidly transferred to iPad. The content is the same – you're the no-good son of a murdered Triad boss, carrying out high-octane missions for various gangland creeps. But on the larger screen, with a more intuitive use of touch screen controls and those crisp HD visuals, Liberty City really comes to grimy, violent life. Car chases, shoot-outs, insane bank robberies, it's all here, as well as a script packed with dubious one-liners. Essential.Cut the Rope(Chillingo, £1.19, free trial version available)Currently occupying the number one slot on the Paid and Free apps charts, the latest title from the publisher behind iPhone phenomenon Angry Birds is another brilliantly envisioned physics-puzzler. Your aim on each screen is to get the candy into the gob of the cute creature by strategically cutting the ropes that the treat is attached to. Sounds simple, but you also need to hit the gold stars with the swinging sweet, as well as use bubbles and other props to manage your successful delivery. Forward-planning and timing are the essential skills, and you'll be absolutely gripped from your first snip.Headspin: Storybook(State of Play, 59p)This beautifully designed little 'spot the difference' game was originally an online title, but developer Luke Whittaker was commissioned by Brandwidth Marketing to produce an iPad version, mostly to show publishers the possibilities of interactive books. On each page of a fairy tale-style story you must correct objects on one side of the screen so they match items on the other. It's really simple, but the visuals and soundtrack are exquisite and it gets extremely challenging as you progress.Monsters Love Gum(Sorta Precision, £1.79)Ever wished you could play Hungry Hippos on your £600 iPad? Well, now you sort of can. Monsters Love Gum allows up to four players to take part in a speedy eating contest on one machine, each attempting to gobble the most gum as it rolls around the arena. Before you start, you select from a range of four different monsters, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, then it's just a case of hitting your button to grab passing gumballs. There are explosive items to avoid and special green balls that provide power-ups, so there's a tactical element that's missing from the original board game. Also, the menu screens feature a great muzak version of Girl From Ipanema.Robot Unicorn Attack HD(Adult Swim, £1.79)This bizarre camp fantasy platformer is one of the most popular browser games on the Adult Swim network, attracting over 30 million plays since its original release in February. You control an unstoppable unicorn as it gallops through a garish rainbow realm to the sound of Erasure's fey electropop hit, 'Always'. The only controls are jump and dash, and the aim is just to last as long as possible without crashing. It's like cult indie hit Canabalt remixed by the makers of Glee. The iPad version doesn't add much to the experience apart from portability, but it really has to be seen to be believed.Super Mega Worm(Deceased Pixel, 59p, free trial version available)The authentic 8bit visuals and old skool bleeps bring some stylistic verve to this basic scrolling eat-'em-up. You're a giant worm attempting to consume as many people and animals as possible by erupting out of the soil and gobbling victims. You can control the aggressive annelid with an onscreen d-pad or via the accelerometer, and levelling up gives you access to a spit missile and the ability to slam onto enemies. Incredibly daft, incredibly bloody and worth it, just for the sound effects of your terrified prey.Tilt To Live HD(One Man Left, free trial version available)If you're bored of Labyrinth and want another tilt-based game to test your reflexes, this is the one to go for. The aim is to pilot your ship around the arena avoiding the deadly red dots while carefully piloting into the range of power-ups and weapons that'll allow you to destroy your circular crimson foes. The accelerometer controls are pleasingly accurate allowing experienced players to speedily weave in and out of danger before accelerating toward a handy bomb or freeze icon. If only all implementations of the technology could be this assured.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The Cartwheel Galaxy. (More details at the Flickr page.) Photo bySmithsonian Institutionon Flickr.Some rights reserved.A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTen Theses on Tablets &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's ongoingHaving used a Samsung Galaxy Tab for some weeks, Tim Bray (formerly Sun, now Google) is in a good position to tell you all about the iPad and Galaxy Tab v other tablets. Note this one: "As Cameras · Tablets suck. I feel like a complete idiot brandishing these things at startled potential subjects. They need to have cameras, for augmented-reality and a few other kinds of apps, but when you say "cameraphone" you're talking about something that fits in a jeans pocket." But read the whole thing.Interview: Stephen Fry talks Windows Phone 7 with Neowin &gt;&gt; neowinYou can hear the Guardian's exclusive interview later on Tuesday, but meanwhile...My top ten data.gov.uk datasets - a guest post by Simon Rogers &gt;&gt; data.gov.ukHe of the Guardian Data blog on the wonderfulness to be found among the open data. Such as No.4.First thoughts on Windows Phone 7, apps and the enterprise &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKDavid Meyer ruminates some. And then points out something that will matter to a growing number of enterprises, unless Microsoft issues an update: "Another problem for some enterprises: so far as I can tell in my brief companionship with an HD7, WP7 only offers over-the-air calendar synchronisation with Outlook and Windows Live calendars. I hope, as a Google Apps user, that I'm missing something..." My experience tallies: no way to add a Google calendar, it seems.Evan Williams on Decentralized Social Networks &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"People have been talking about recreating Twitter as a set of standards and protocols pretty much since we launched and started getting popular. In fact these standards and protocols exist and Twitter is so open that people can just make Twitter work with a more open and federated network."So far that hasn't taken off, I believe because it hasn't provided as good a user experience."What phones are there running Windows Phone 7? &gt;&gt; Windows Phone 7 CentralNifty updated-as-you-watch list.How not to measure PC security tools &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blogBy triangulation, you may be able to figure out from this that Graham Cluley does not work for Prevx.Facebook phonebook: Privacy confusion &gt;&gt; BBC technology blogRorry Cellan-Jones and Jon Fildes have a dig into Facebook Phonebook: "Facebook keeps refining its privacy settings, and promising that it's offering users new ways of controlling their data. But which of us even knew that there was a phonebook option? And are we any clearer about just how it works, and whether we can be sure that our data is not being passed around by people we may not even know?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Microsoft made its final roll of the dice in the global smartphone market today, launching a new mobile operating system which the software powerhouse hopes will rival iPhone and Android devices.The Windows Phone 7 marks a complete break from its past efforts – and the suppression of internal politics in favour of the man and woman in the street.Microsoft still dominates office and consumer PC computing but is having to sprint to catch up on the lead it has surrendered in the past three years first to Apple and then to Google's Android platform. Its rivals have grabbed roughly a third of the rapidly expanding market for devices that can connect to the internet while their user is on the move, as well as making phone calls.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said that he had "been looking forward to this day for some time" as he unveiled a range of phones using the system in the US. He said that the development of the software behind the Windows Phone 7 – reckoned by analysts to have cost the company more than a billion dollars, and to have a $400m (£250m) marketing budget attached – had been driven by the necessity to be "modern in its design principles, in the way that people use modern internet services, and we've taken a very different tack at the same time".The new interface aimed to integrate phonebooks, social networks and other information around "hubs" of people. Ballmer said: "We had an internal mantra that the customer is king … Give them the ability to do everything on their phone but easier and faster. Less stop and stare, more glance and go."Although its Windows operating system for standard desktop computers and Office software suite together comprise two of the most profitable monopolies on the planet, Microsoft has lagged in the mobile phone market for years. Windows Mobile, its previous incarnation, was popular among businesses for its ability to connect with enterprise email and calendaring systems. But then the Canadian company Research In Motion (RIM) ate into that field with its BlackBerry offerings, while Nokia took the broad share of the global smartphone market.But the world really changed in June 2007 when Apple launched the iPhone, with its unlimited internet connectivity, and then Google produced Android, which mimicked many of the iPhone's strengths and could be built by many handset makers, undercutting Microsoft's business model.Backfiring jibeBallmer initially laughed off the challenge of the iPhone, saying it was "the most expensive phone in the world" but that it "doesn't appeal to business customers". In April 2007, he said that it had "no chance" of gaining significant market share,telling the magazine USA Todaythat "if you actually take a look at the 1.3bn phones that get sold, I'd prefer to have our software in 60% or 70% or 80% of them, than I would to have 2% or 3%, which is what Apple might get".History proved him wrong – and now it is Microsoft that has the single-digit market share, and has focused squarely on the consumer, not the business customer, with its new software.That may be essential, because markets have begun to mark down Microsoft's shares, which have fallen by 20% from their peak this year. Goldman Sachs this month downgraded the stock to "neutral", saying that PC sales were slowing in the face of cannibalisation from tablet computers, and that cumulatively the whole of Microsoft was worth less than the sum of its parts.But Microsoft suffered a terrible misstep this year when itkilled its Kin smartphone, the product of its acquisition of the Danger phone brand, after only three months of disappointing sales. That led to doubts about whether Windows Phone 7 would meet the high expectations now riding on it.The new focus on consumers in Windows Phone reflects a realisation that they will be a key driver of smartphone sales growth. "The enterprise [customer] is still important, but we're looking to appeal to the consumer as well," said Ashley Highfield, Microsoft UK's managing director. "Consumers are actually just as much business people as they are entertainment seekers. This is for both those areas. We do have connections to [Microsoft's corporate email system] Outlook and address book and [enterprise collaboration tool] SharePoint. You can, if you want, collaborate on a PowerPoint presentation with someone who's back in the office on your phone."Now or neverMicrosoft badly needs to succeed now, as the smartphone market is hitting what Highfield called "an inflection point", with sales globally beginning to explode: the number of internet-enabled phones sold is expected to outstrip those of PCs around 2015.The industry analyst Gartner reckons 270m smartphones will be sold this year, up 56% on last year, and growing to 875m by 2014. By contrast, it estimates that there will be only 368m PCs sold this year, up 19% on 2009.Yet even if it can drive its market share of handset sales higher, Microsoft may still not profit as handsomely as Nokia, RIM and Apple, all of which create both the software and the hardware in their products – and for which the physical product is the most profitable part. While Google makes money from its Android platform by driving searches via its own platform and selling mobile ads, Microsoft is both charging handset makers a fee to license Windows Phone 7 and seeking search and ad revenues. The profits from those activities, though, may not be as impressive as those seen by Apple, in particular, which isestimated to have taken 39% of the mobile phone industry's total profits in the first half of 2010by selling only 17m iPhones.Highfield declined to forecast how Windows Phone 7 will do in the market, acknowledging instead that the launch was the beginning of "a long journey" and that the licensing and advertising model was "a very good and solid business model".Microsoft is also looking to encourage the development of an "app store" like those offered by Apple, Android and Nokia, which have all poured millions of pounds into encouraging developers to write small "apps" that can be downloaded and used on their phones. But for the companies that developed the thousands of apps for the previous generation of Windows Mobile phones, the bad news is that they will now have to rewrite them entirely.Ballmer has since May been the direct manager of the entertainment and devices division, which produces Windows Phone 7, after the departure of J Allard, who masterminded the development of Microsoft's Xbox games console. And since thedeparture of Stephen Elopfrom the business division to head Nokia, Ballmer has been in direct charge of two of his company's five divisions.• This article was amended on 12 October 2010. The original said that Microsoft "once dominated the computing world". The text has been changed to specify the areas in which Microsoft still predominates.• This article was amended on 27 May 2011. The original quoted Steve Ballmer talking about Microsoft's new "glance and glare" phone. What Ballmer actually said was "glance and go". This has been corrected.
Over the weekend, apage leaked out from Microsoftwhichsuggested that Angry Birds- which has proved a bit popular (among the addicts of the iPhone version is tennis player Andy Murray) - was going to be on Windows Phone.Not so, said the Angry Birds developers, whoposted an angry tweet(somehow appropriate):"We have NOT committed to doing a Windows Phone 7 version. Microsoft put the Angry Birds icon on their site without our permission."I did ask Ashley Highfield, the Microsoft UK managing director, at lunchtime Monday for some clarification. He didn't have any, but now Microsoft has responded formally with the following statement:"We're big fans of Angry Birds.  Our website team created a mock up image of aspirational titles for launch. That image was not updated to reflect our launch titles. We're working with leading ISV and an extensive developer community to provide a great selection of apps and games to anchor the categories that people value most; Games, Entertainment, Music &amp; Video, Photo, Social and more.  We have already announced the first wave of over 50 games coming to Windows Phone 7, including Rocket Riot, The Sims 3, Bejeweled, Crackdown 2 Project Sunburst and others.""So basically, no Angry Birds on Windows Phone 7. And: piece of advice, Microsoft developers? Don't "mock up" stuff of amazing-selling apps to suggest that you're going to have a hit app arrivingat launchon your new phone platform. That's the sort of thing that could get you into trouble. Oh look, it already has.John Gruberwonderedif theTap Tap Revengeicon that was there (seethis image) was the result of the same "aspiration". Again, I asked Highfield about it. Again, he didn't have a definitive response. But looking in the Marketplace as it stands right now, there's no Tap Tap Revenge in there. Touch too much aspiration, really.
Four of the world's largest record companies have failed in an attempt to get the "three strikes" rule enforced against illegal filesharers in Ireland.Warner Music, Universal Music Group, Sony BMG and EMI brought the case against UPC, one of Ireland's largest broadband providers, in order to establish a legal precedent that would force internet service providers to cut off illegal filesharers' internet connections.Today the Irish high court ruled that laws to identify and cut off internet users were not enforceable in Ireland, meaning the country is not in line with European copyright law. The record companies were looking to force internet service providers to adopt the "three strikes rule", forcing those accused three times of sharing copyrighted material to be disconnected from the internet.The court noted that a "substantial portion" of UPC's 150,000 customers were illegally sharing music.In a judgment published today, Justice Peter Charleton said that laws were not in place to block the internet connections of those accused of sharing copyrighted content. However, he acknowledged that the creative industries are being blighted by internet piracy."This not only undermines their [the creative industries] business but ruins the ability of a generation of creative people in Ireland, and elsewhere, to establish a viable living," said Charleton. "It is destructive of an important native industry."The case was being closely watched by other internet service providers in the country as the music industry intensifies its push to penalise those sharing copyrighted work.The Irish Recorded Music Association, which forced Ireland's largest broaband provider, Eircom, to adopt the "three strikes" policy on filesharing of its own accord after an out-of-court settlement in February 2009, said it was "extremely disappointed" with the ruling, adding that it would look to the government to support the cause of rights holders.Speaking after the judgment, the IRMA chairman, Willie Kavanagh, said: "We are extremely disappointed that the high court today has effectively determined that the Irish state has failed to protect the constitutional rights of copyright holders by failing to implement EU copyright directives correctly."IRMA had asked the internet service providers UPC and Vodafone to operate the three strikes ruling in the same way that Eircom had, but both declined, citing the rights of their respective broadband customers. A 48-hour scan of the two broadband networks found some 37,500 copyright infringements from UPC subscribers alone, IRMA said in June this year.UPC, Ireland's third largest broadband provider, said it would continue to work with rights holders, other internet service providers, the Data Protection Commission, the National Consumer Agency and government departments to address the issue of illegal filesharing."UPC has repeatedly stressed that it does not condone piracy and has always taken a strong stance against illegal activity on its network," the company said in a statement. "It takes all steps required by the law to combat specific infringements which are brought to its attention and will continue to co-operate with rights holders where they have obtained the necessary court orders for alleged copyright infringements."Our whole premise and defence [is] focused on the 'mere conduit' principle, which provides that an internet service provider cannot be held liable for content transmitted across its network," the company said. "Today's decision supports the principle that ISPs are not liable for the actions of internet subscribers".
Nintendo has announced two new bundle packages to celebrate 25 years of Super Mario Bros. Set for launch on October 29, the New Super Mario Bros Wii pack contains a red Wii, a red Wii Remote Plus and a red Nunchuk. The set is complete with three games: New Super Mario Bros Wii, Wii Sports and the original Donkey Kong, which will be pre-installed on the console, 'in homage to Mario's first ever appearance'. That's a tad incongruous as Kong was actually launched29years ago, but there you go.Meanwhile, the New Super Mario Bros Nintendo DSi XL Special Edition Pack features a red console with some character icons emblazoned on it, plus a copy of New Super Mario Bros. It's out on October 22.Last week, Nintendo also announced the Super Mario All-Stars – 25th Anniversary Edition, a new Wii compilation featuring Super Mario Bros, Super Mario Bros 2, Super Mario Bros 3 and Super Mario Bros: The Lost Levels, a Western re-lease of the Japanese version of Super Mario Bros 2. It also comes with a booklet featuring the full history of Super Mario as well as a music CD containing tracks from various Mario games. That's hitting shops on December 3.In short, Mario fanatics need not complain that they are being overlooked by Nintendo this Christmas – although some potential Wii purchasers may be put off by the fact that the colour, plus the golden crest in the top right of the box, make it look a bit like a Manchester United Wii...Anyway, are there a few of the plumber's lesser known adventures thatyou'dlike to see exhumed as part of these ongoing celebrations?
Block 1.Block 2.Block 3.Block 41.48pm:12 minutes to kickoff. If you haven't already had a read, then take a look at myearly review of the Windows Phone 7 interface. It's an interesting data point that while many people have expected Microsoft to fail completely - after the failure of Windows Mobile 6.x once the iPhone appeared - the fact is that I've not come across anyone who has laid hands or eyes on a working version of Windows Phone 7 and not been impressed by it. So take a moment, before everything kicks off, toread what I thought.Block 51.50pm:An excited press release drops into my inbox fromGartnerOvum:"There's a huge amount resting on the launch of Windows Phone 7 for Microsoft, its device and operator partners, and for the ecosystem market in general. As such, the commercial launch of Windows Phone 7 devices by OEMs and carriers looks set to mark the most important watershed in the smartphone market since the launch of Apple's first iPhone."So far so fairly predictable. But why is it a watershed?"If Windows Phone 7 devices sell in large numbers, Microsoft will rightfully be able to congratulate itself for starting with a clean sheet of paper in its efforts to return to the smartphone top table - a strategy launched by CEO Steve Ballmer in early 2009."And Gartner reckons this is the last roll of the dice:"If it fails to claw back market share lost to iPhone and Android, then Windows Phone 7 may well mark the point at which Microsoft turns its back on smartphones forever: targeting its mobile resources at creating compelling services and attracting advertising may prove a better option than beginning again with another mobile operating system, in that instance."Block 61.59pm:Moments away: but they'll have to chase all the press out of the ICA bar, where they have set up fiefdoms and strongholds that would make an Afghan warlord stroke his beard in admiration.Meanwhile, for those who want the multi-arrowed indication of where all the money is going in the smartphone market, here'sAsymco's breakdown of who's a star and who's a flop.Or just have a look at the image:No, Microsoft doesn't appear there because it's not a handset maker. I'll update later with some of what Ashley Highfield, the UK managing director, said about the WP7 business model.Block 72.30pm:It's 2.30 and though we've been evicted from the bar, the gathered journos are restless. The Wi-Fi (which is what they all want to use) fails if you're under a theatrical rig. Everyone looks up. The ceiling is covered in theatrical lighting rigs.The main cause of the delay, though, is a leopard on the line in New York where Steve Ballmer is meant to be kicking it off. Well, not actually a leopard, but it would have to be something comparable, we'd hope. More once it starts ...Block 82.37pm:I'm meanwhile coming courtesy of a 3 network Mobile WiFi-to-3G dongle, which is currently reaching the heat of a nascent star in my top pocket. Forget the winter fuel allowance, give these out as handwarmers. Still no action, though.Block 92.49pm:Andy Lees president of mobile for UK."Microsoft should hire Bozo the clown to run Windows Mobile. At least the antics would be funny." So that makes me a clown, Lees says.There's a huge inflection point coming in the smartphone market. We start with the consumer. (Interesting that Microsoft is talking about the consumer all the time now. Enterprise is completely forgotten in this discussion.) "We had an internal mantra that the customer is king...give them the ability to do everything on their phone but easier and faster. Less stop and stare, more glance and glare."They made a book of what it would be like. Shows attractive couple not talking to each other while they message on their phones. Um. OK. Emailing their divorce lawyers?Block 10Steve Ballmer showed off the phones in the manner of a phoneshop staffer who had just seen them for the first time last week and who was about to inquire when your contract ended. The nine phones - in the US livelink relay - were laid out on a tablet. And then in the cheesiest of moments, they were rolled away like something out of a TV episode of the 50s. They've still got some way to go with his presentation skills.Block 112.55pm:Ballmer spoke about what their goals were for WP7: "….It has to be modern in its design principles, in the way that people use modern internet services, and we've taken a very different tack at the same time."I'd focus on two key things, Always Delightful and Wonderfully Mine. We wanted it to be delightful through a range of different devices and across experiences. We wanted it to be that way for the consumer and for the developers who will build the growing set of Windows Phone applications. We wanted it to be always delightful for you whether you're looking for a place to eat, emailng friends, or making a phone calls for example."Shows his own phone. It has pictures. It can be made into his own.He shows off his avatar. It is surprisingly svelte. Possibly the mirrors in avatarland are a bit wonky.Customisation is very important. 9 phones. He standa behind a tablet like he's in a phone shop. It's really a bit embarrassing. I'm almost expecting him to tell me that it's a very affordable contract and inquire when mine is going to run out.Block 122.56pm:We're getting the ways that the phone can be customised so that it will do all sorts of things.More interestingly, there's a rumour that Stephen Fry is going to be involved in the presentation. What! People gasp. But he often does these sorts of things for tech companies - I recall him doing one for Psion a few years back where he gently but thoroughly chided them for not having Mac compatibility. Wonder if he'll do the same about the lack of Mac integration here?Hubs. Hubs are things around which applications work. The idea is integration - so that everything comes together. "Recent" for people is about who you've interacted with, whether by Facebook or Twitter or email or phone calls or um, yourself. (Because you might update your Facebook status.)Block 133.02pm:OK, so I've seen WP7 interface before. It's interesting because it assumes a pervasive data connection, and it assumes that you don't really care how much data you're going to use. What happens when your network is down?Aaron Woodman, Microsoft's head of the WP7 business, over from Seattle: "This is going to be the best phone for people looking for productivity". Ah, here comes the enterprise sell. But no, it goes off to the Zune software. Although Ashley Highfield did suggest to me in an interview earlier that this is going to be a great consumer phone. And there doesn't seem to be an enterprise sell at all; it's all about getting consumers to buy them and persuading enterprises to support them. Microsoft seems to have decided that Apple's approach - subvert the IT department - is the way forward.Block 143.07pm:Woodman: Half a million downloads of the developer kit. Including Twitter.Now we get Tesco's app. On Windows Phone "it feels like a Windows Phone application".Hubs, favourites, search... he nearly searched for app... then went back to "spam".Then train travel. It's not just an icon but it has "a route I care about". "Panoramic, designed experience".OK, at this point I will say that the thing that strikes about the WP7 interface is that it is, indeed, calm. But it is also, and this may be a problem, not information-dense. It's not even information-average. It's information-light. There's not a huge amount of type on a single page.Block 153.11pm:"I'm excited to announce that EA will be on the Windows Phone platform." When?I earlier asked Highfield about Angry Birds and Tap Tap Revenge - will they be on the WP7? He was fairly sure they would - which is interesting given that there wasall sorts of grumblingabout it last night, asAngry Birds developers said they hadn't committed to a port.OK, so that's done and now we're back with Jeff Lowe. Developers... phones.. operators...From October 21st.Block 163.15pm:And now the phones:1: HTC Mozart, 8MP xeon flash.2.  Samsung OMNIA 7 - 4" AMOLED screen, 5MP camear, Orange, T-Mobile, 3.3 HTC Trophy, Dolby, 3.8" screen, Vodafone.4 LG - plays to DLNA (home networking), LG Optimus 7, voice to text,5 HTC HD7 with horizontal kickstand, because it's got a big screen.6 Dell Venue Pro, 4.1" screen, physical keyboard.Block 173.19pm:Ah, but now we have the point: the carriers will be able to put their own software onto them. Tom Alexander told him that Orange+T-Mobile, would be able "with amazing software" to do so much."Our companies had so much in common... " And now to explain why Orange is the lead partner in terms of bringing these phones to market.. Tom Alexander of Everything Everywhere (Orange+T-Mobile).(This is the Revenge of the Carriers: they hate the idea of being dumb pipes who deliver connectivity to you; they want to hold your data, put the software on your phones, and sometimes stop you from doing things with your phone that might interrupt their revenue streams. It's the opposite of the internet model where anyone can build anything without permission, asLawrence Lessig pointed out about Facebook.)Block 183.22pm:Alexander: "ability for Orange customers to roam onto T-Mobile... T-Mobile customers to roam onto Orange.. two networks for the price of one." (Youareone company, though, why should that be a surprise?)Handsets. He can't remember the name of the handset - "Mozart" yells the prompt. (This is looking woefully underrehearsed, or are we too used to Steve Jobs demos?)"It's a key part, a really key part, of our Q4 plans. So I'd like quickly to hand you over to Ashley [Highfield of Microsoft]." He wanders off.Highfield: "we know this is not going to be an easy journey." Bit like Bing then.Block 193.25pm:Highfield reads out a quote which likens the former Windows Mobile platform to 1960s council architecture. And here indeed is Stephen Fry who says he's not being paid to be here: "I'm here as an amateur in any sense.""Amateur is the French for lover.. I've made no secret of my admiration for what the chaps and chappesses at Cupertino have done since 2007."He defends his description of Microsoft's old environments as being like 1960s grey council architecture. "Now they get it, that all human beings, are human beings first - you don't judge the machines you use or the houses you live in by listing their functions. The first thing you do is say how you feel about your office. When you buy a house, essentially they make the choice on feeling."Block 203.28pm:"Even when RIM came up with the Torch... I felt pleasure, the first feeling should be one of delight. When I heard Mr Ballmer use the word 'delight' I thought what joy there is in heaven when one sinner does repent."...lots of how Microsoft has needed to get the idea of pleasure in devices..."Only one I get to keep, though I'm not being paid." Er..."Is it fun to drive? You know that story about the Volkswagen Bug when they reinvented it.. they were devastated to hear that people bought it because they liked the flowerbud vase on the dashboard.. they should recognise that people buy things because they feel the emotional pleaasure.""Yes I can say that it has its deficiencies. And that's what people fell on with the iPhone .People laughed to scorn the iPhone because it didn't have those functions. But remember the tedious drilling down to get to the wireless. People embraced the iPhone because it was simple, closed and clear."Block 213.31pm:Stephen Fry: "We can see how bad we all are at predicting how things work out. In a year's time where will be RIM, ioS, HP WebOS, Android,... yes I do love Apple but I'm not a monotheist, I want biodiversity in this market."Will I be using this Windows Phone 7? Yes, with a BlackBerry Torch.. and an iPhone in the other pocket..."But here I am standing on a stage saying Microsoft has done this thing it can be proud of. Better than Vista... no shit on my shoe, no, Stephen, behave..." Laughter."I think of Leeds United. There was a time when they ruled the 1st division, they were so powerful. And then you feel sorry for them. Who thought there would be a day when Microsoft would make an announcement as the underdog? And the British part of me says that's always interesting."Block 223.34pm:Highfield breathes a sigh of relief at the fact that Fry didn't tear Microsoft off a giant strip. "That was high-risk, wasn't it?" he says rhetorically.Which brings us to the end of the formal proceedings. There'll be more periodically. (Apologies for the delays at the start which were brought to you by Unruly Technology That Cannot Be Tamed.) I'll deal quickly with comments...Block 233.36pm:What we didn't see:it's often important to note the things that haven't been shown in a demonstration. Here's a few of the things that one might reasonably have expected to see in a demonstration of a new smartphone platform - yet were oddly missing here:• loading Facebook. Come on, it's the biggest social network in the world. Could we see it either as a web page or as an app? Howcome not?• loading Twitter. The biggest real-time conversational/microblogging network around. There was a Twitter app in one of the phone screens - yet we didn't get to see mobile.twitter.com loaded on a browser, or in an app.• anything on any browser. No web pages. At all.• any email. Why not?• YouTube or any sort of Flash content. Surely this is rather an important element these days? Yet if it's true that this is shipping without any Flash capability (which seems weird if true, yet that was the implication of the conversations I've had before - Highfield didn't contradict me when I suggested, before the launch, that there won't be Flash or HTML5 capability in the browser).Most peculiar: for a launch that has been planned absolutely forever, this had a slightly rag-tag feel to it; the fact that the closing speech came from Stephen Fry who was speaking unscripted indicates that.Now it's time to go and play with the phones for a bit. If anyone happens to have a good idea why those sorts of demonstrations were missing in the talk, and finds out before I do, please tell us in the comments...Block 244.15pm:So I've laid hands on a few of the phones and got an answer to a couple of those previous questions, at least.•Why no YouTube demo?Because Internet Explorer (on WP7) can't show Flash (as we knew), which means that that is handed off to an application that has to be downloaded from the Windows Phone Marketplace. This I find surprising - Apple similarly hands off the task of showing YouTube video to another app, but it has had it built in there from day one.But with WP7, the YouTube app won't be available for download until later on this evening (or possibly early morning UK time). So that's the YouTube answer.•Why no email?slightly more confusing. Possibly because Microsoft would have felt obliged to demo Hotmail, and the web layout of that looks really a bit of a mess, if I'm honest. The font isn't optimised for a small screen (I found it less legible than the iPhone/iPod Touch font) if it's trying to show web elements as well - the zoom doesn't seem to be able to reformat the content smartly enough.• no browser demo? Hard to explain. The browser is OK. But maybe they felt there would have been the inevitability of showinganypage somewhere on the web that might have had, oh noes,Flashon it.Block 254.22pm:and re Facebook and Twitter - I thinkledevelynhas half a point in saying that "Because it's integrated into the user experience so you don't need a separate app.. surely that's forward thinking?"Certainly updating your Facebook status is something that's tightly integrated. Twitter status too? Could be - remains to be seen.Oh, and I also got a brief chat with a British blogger called Stephen something for the podcast - listen in tomorrow..Block 265.27pm:Having seen O2's new phone - which is the biggest of the bunch, both in screen size (4.3") and storage (16GB; the standard for Windows Phone 7 is 8GB) - I've now RTB, as taxi drivers say. The O2 phone is free on a 24-month contract wiht 750MB of data; I'll be trying it out over the next couple of weeks, and later on we'll aim to do a comparison of handsets, OSs and prices. (Maybe we'll enlist your help to compile that, dear reader.)Overall thoughts:Windows Phone 7 is a huge advance on anything that Microsoft has done before in the mobile space. It has rough edges and loose ends - the question of developer support and the value chain and where Microsoft will make sufficient money to recoup its investment (assuming that matters), for instance. But from next week, the mobile OS market will get a jolt. It will be interesting to see where it goes from here.Block 27.
Microsoft faces an uphill battle getting its Windows Phone 7 product to be accepted by consumers – but it has the advantage of an estimated $400m marketing spend on the product, being launched on Monday afternoon.The operating platform will have cost at least twice as much to develop as the company tries to catch up with the smartphone revolution started by Apple with its iPhone in 2007 and continued by Google's Android platform, which is now one of the bestselling mobile operating systems.Phone makers including Samsung, LG and HTC will be showing off their phones on Monday, and in the UK all the major networks are expected to provide versions before Christmas. That though will make it hard to judge how well the marketing has paid off until next year.For Microsoft, it is a make-or-break moment: having fallen seriously behind when its previous mobile OS, Windows Mobile, did not offer the touchscreen, variety of "app" markets and, especially, the ease of use of the Apple and Android products, it has decided to scrap its previous work and start again from scratch.The result is aphone interface that owes far more to the iPhone and to Android, with the idea of apps, and tighter integration with social networks such as Facebook, than it does to Microsoft's traditional cash cow, the Windows operating system for desktop and laptop computers.Some analysts say the new phones represent Microsoft's last chance to catch up with rivals, which overtook them in the past few years. Handsets are not expected to appear in stores for a month, so their success may not be judged until the new year.The decline in the previous generation of Windows Mobile means Microsoft has just a 5% share of the global smartphone market, according to research firm Gartner, compared with 9% a year ago. Google's Android system has a 17% market share, jumping from only 2% a year ago. The world leader remains Nokia, with 41% of the global smartphone market, but a far smaller share of the profits. Apple has about 14% of global share, but the lion's share of the profits.The market for multifeature phones that allow users to email, surf the web and play games, as well as have access to music and video is set to expand massively. Gartner calculates that almost 270m smartphones will be sold around the world this year, up 56% from last year.In comparison, it expects only a 19% increase in worldwide PC sales to 368m units this year.Microsoft, whose stock is trading at the same level it was eight years ago, has been struggling to find a footing in phones and mobile computing.Its share price has fallen almost 20% so far this year.Earlier this year, Microsoft pulled its Kin phone aimed at teenagers off the market less than three months after launch. There are still no signs of an imminent Windows-powered tablet device to counter Apple's hot-selling iPad.Microsoft's new phones will have a tough job elbowing aside a revamped set of rivals. In August, Research in Motion launched its new $200 BlackBerry Torch, with a touchscreen and slide-out keyboard.In June, Apple launched its new $200 to $300 iPhone 4, which is selling well despite some antenna problems.A slew of similarly priced Android phones, such as Motorola's Droid X and Samsung's Galaxy series are also grabbing customers.In the long term, industry analysts are not optimistic about Microsoft's chances. They expect the smartphone market to be dominated by Symbian, the system that runs on Nokia phones, and Google's Android.By 2014, Gartner expects smartphone sales to have more than trebled to about 875m units, with Nokia and Android leading the market with about 30% each, Apple about 15%, RIM about 12% and Microsoft around 4%.
Top 10 UK video games, week 40PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (44)Wii (3)PSP (2)22 (–)Pro Evolution Soccer 2011(3+)PS3 (71)Xbox 360 (27)PC (2)13 (3)Dead Rising 2(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)34 (2)F1 2010(3+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)PC (0)35 (4)Halo: Reach(16+)Xbox 360 (101)46 (–)Castlevania: Lords Of Shadow (15+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)17 (–)Enslaved: Odyssey To The West(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)18 (6)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (19)139 (12)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)4410 (–)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)1Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
Never mind Windows Phone 7, at least until this afternoon. What's been happening at Nokia?You'll recall that Stephen Elop was drafted in from Microsoft's Business division as chief executive when its previous chief executive's Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo challenged the board to "back me or sack me", to which the response was "actually, there's been something we've been meaning to say..."Since then the resignations and departures have come thick and fast. Anssi Vanjoki, head of Nokia Mobile, resigned, essentially because he hadn't been offered the CEO job.And now October's outpourings: thevice-president in charge of its Linux-based MeeGo devices has resigned. Ari Jaaksi (for it was him) left before the company could get one of its next-OS-generation devices out of the door. The schedule had suggested that the first one would be out of the door by the end of this year. Now Nokia is saying that there will be "an update on MeeGo" before the end of the year. That's not necessarily a device, though.Which means that Nokia will have to rely on its newly-shipping N8, E7 and C7 devices to wrest buyer interest away from the shiny phones now arriving from Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 partners, let alone the iPhone 4 and the growing tide of new Android phones.Yes, there's the new N8, which has finally started shipping (I'll have a review later this week).But there's also the question of whether Nokia's Ovi Services are making any progress. Having shelled out a huge amount acquiring NavTech for its free Ovi Maps service, it needs people to be using it.Some at least are: in a press release issued at the start of the month, Thomas Husson of Forresternotes that"Nokia just issued a press release this morning insisting that Ovi Store downloads are now reaching 2.3 million per day for a total installed base of 140 million active users. Bear in mind that a user is considered active on a six-month period and that this figure includes multiple Ovi experiences, including the 17 million Ovi mail and chat users as well as users of Ovi Maps, Ovi music, and Ovi life tools."Husson thinks that among other things success in the long run will depend on the "the success of MeeGo moving forward" (he wrote that before Jaaksi resigned), on creating a viable business model for third parties and developers (Husson queries how many are achieving paid-for downloads), better analytics, a wide choice of payment and pricing (Nokia has an advantage because its relationship with carriers should mean it can offer in-app billing, or operator billing, or subscriptions), and finding new ways for people to discover things they want in the Ovi Store.Or as he puts it more bluntly, "Nokia simply cannot afford to fail." He thinks instead that it may be catching up, "particularly in emerging countries, where Nokia clearly differentiates thanks to its unique local presence and relationships with operators."And then we come toan ex-insider's thoughts on Nokia, which are penned byCharlie Schick, who built and ran Nokia Conversations, started Ovi.com, launched the Nokia Lifeblog and Series 60 platform, and provided internet strategy consulting throughout the company. As he puts it, he "worked for Nokia for a long time mostly in marketing and product development" but who left in "the Great Exodus of talent in the summer of 09". You might suggest that means they're out of the loop, but it tells you what was going on during those important years when the iPhone appeared, Windows Mobile started strangling and Android came to look like a viable platform.It's in two parts (here's the second).He starts off asking:"The crux of the question is why, with world class design, manufacturing, research, and logistics, is Nokia repeatedly whipped in cutting edge areas (it still excels in mobile phones for the masses)? Is it because it is run by Finns, mostly located in southern Finland? Is it a malaise normal to mega-corporations? Is it because of the Nokia heritage in manufacturing? Or is it a cultural and structural dysfunction that fails to produce amazing products?"In part, its all of these things. In a classic Innovator's Dilemma, Nokia's excellence is killing it. "Nokia is terrific at cranking out designs, Schick says, but"A classic problem at Nokia is locking specifications 2 years before a product is released. And that long-term cycle is ingrained at Nokia, even target setting is no shorter than 6 months, meaning at least a year to react to anything."By contrast, he points out, Facebook and YouTube changed how we think about the web in just 18 months. "In short, traditional factory processes make Nokia 2 years too late for everything."In part two he lays into the management approach:"When Nokia decided to be an "internet company", instead of bringing in leaders and workers with experience and knowledge, Nokia put top managers (with zero Web skills or understanding) in charge (not to mention inappropriate repurposing of coders with the wrong skill-set). I've seen a ton of bad decisions in products and services because the division leader (a manager, of course) had no clue what the product was about (but, he was a good finance man, indeed)."This, he says, led to "zombie products" that didn't keep up with the times.The Nokia N96, he says, was "a product built with no leadership":"It started as a blip on the TV strategy and I watched it get tugged by multiple groups adding to the spec list as it morphed into a "flagship" "everything but the kitchen sink" product. And I was really upset when a top executive lambasted it after launch, when clearly, it was that top executive's responsibility to make sure Nokia didn't ship krap products. "However he is upbeat - suggesting that all the people who left the company in 2009 will be eligible, once their standard two-year redundancy exile is over, to come back into it, via startups or other approaches.His closing thoughts?"Nokia's future is not about lack of understanding or intelligence or even skill. It's future just happens to be on the other side of habits from a manufacturing age, habits that are comfortable and quite profitable, but just happen to be holding Nokia back from being a kick ass company again."So - what do you think? Is it Nokia's manufacturing heritage that holds it back? Yes, we've all heard the retorts that "Nokia sells 40% of the world's smartphones". However, it's making a long way from 40% of the world's smartphone profits, which indicates that it's getting squeezed. The question is, can it right that?
I've been away all weekend so gaming time was very rare. But what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Google TV has arrived! In fact: General Electric trailer, 1954. Photo byThe Library of Virginiaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew $5,000 Multimedia Computer System Downloads Real-Time TV Programs, Displays Them On Monitor &gt;&gt; The Onion (1998)It's only taken 12 years for this to go from satire to Google TV. The Onion will be disappointed at being so far ahead.Meet Twitter for Google TV &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"As a first step, today we're announcing Twitter for Google TV. It brings Twitter to a platform that merges the Internet and TV into one experience."The application has most of the features and functionality that you'd expect from Twitter. It makes it easy to look through Tweets, @mentions, and favorites. When you click on a Tweet, you can reply, retweet, favorite, or share it." Sounds just like watching normal TV with Twitter. What, if anything, are we missing here?The BBC's server error 500 page &gt;&gt; Chris Applegate's TwitpicHave a look at the picture. Now that's disturbing.WeTab maker's managing director resigns in astroturfing scandal &gt;&gt; TeleRead"WeTab doesn't seem to have been getting very many breaks lately. The devicebegan shipping last month, butwithout multitouch, Flash hardware acceleration, the promised Android virtual machine, orthe expected app store. (Gadget Venue hasan unboxing video.)"This sort of scandal is exactly what Neofonie doesn't need right now, as it will amost certainly overshadow the tablet's already rocky launch. Already on the expensive side for what you get, it looks doubtful that the WeTab is going to be anybody's iPad killer at this time."Apple to Offer iPhone on Verizon, Ending Exclusivity with AT and T &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Facing intense competition from phone makers wedded to Google's Android software, Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, finally plans to make the iPhone available on Verizon Wireless, the largest wireless carrier in the United States." And that's going to have interesting effects on AT&amp;T, and on total iPhone sales.Chart of Mark Zuckerberg's Emotional State &gt;&gt; Joy of TechExcellent.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Google scientists have tested driverless cars in California, clocking up 140,000 miles so far, the company disclosed at the weekend.The seven cars drove successfully around Los Angeles and San Francisco using video cameras, radar sensors and a laser rangefinder to help avoid other vehicles.Sebastian Thrun, a Google software engineer, said in a blog entry posted on Saturday that the benefits of driverless cars could be a reduction in accidents, potentially cutting the 1.2 million lives lost each year by half, and an increase in car-sharing, reducing energy consumption. People could also use the average 52 minutes a day they spend driving to work more productively.The Google project is just one of many experiments into automated cars being conducted round the world and in the US by the military and others.Thrun, seeking to reassure anyone worried about the risk posed by an automated car in the California experiment, said: "Our cars are never unmanned. We always have a trained safety driver behind the wheel who can take over as easily as one disengages cruise control. And we also have a trained software operator in the passenger seat to monitor the software." Local police are also briefed.He added: "While this project is very much in the experimental stage, it provides a glimpse of what transportation might look like in the future thanks to advanced computer science."The only accident, according to engineers, was when the robot car stopped at traffic lights and was hit from behind.
When the history of e-reading technology comes to be written, an Irishman named Michael O'Leary will be assigned a small but significant role in the story. This is not because the chief executive of Ryanair has a secret life as a geek, but simply because he has perfected a system for squeezing his customers until their pips squeak. And therein lies the tale.Every summer, my family and I go to Provence for a few weeks. We go for all the usual reasons – the light, the sunshine, the wine, the forests and hills, the slower pace of life. But most of all, we go to read. In the old days, we all brought piles of books, heaped them on the hall table and read our way through everything. But then Mr O'Leary took a hand in things, levying a swingeing charge on checked-in bags, and topping that with fierce restrictions on cabin baggage – one bag of a specified size and shape and weighing no more than 10kg. And if you don't like it, then you can lump it.Before setting off this year, several books were published that I really wanted to read, chief among them Lord Mandelson's memoirs. All were sizable hardbacks and when I checked them out in the bookshop, it was clear that collectively they would account for a significant chunk of the O'Leary allowance. And so I crossed one of the thresholds that determine how consumer technology evolves.It suddenly occurred to me that Amazon had – many moons ago – released a free Kindle app for the iPad (and related Apple idevices) which enabled their owners to buy books from the Kindle store. So I downloaded the app, purchased the books and suddenly had the desired texts in my pocket without having to choose between them and my shaving kit.I felt  ambivalent about this, because a part of me loathes the intellectual property tyranny that goes with ebooks – the fact that you can't lend them to your friends, for example. And, of course, the fact that Amazon could, at a whim,remotely delete the book from one's iPad. These "digital restrictions management" provisions are examples of the kind of intellectual property extremism that is the bane of the digital world. My unease stemmed from the fact that, when faced with a conflict between principle and exigency, I caved in.What all this suggests is that, with consumer technology at least, convenience trumps everything. That's why the Apple iPhone sells like hot cakes, even to geeks who despise the company's control freakery.The printed book is a wonderful thing, but it doesn't fit well with Ryanair's baggage allowance. And it takes time and effort to transport a physical book, whereas its digital embodiment can be transferred from bookstore to Kindle instantly.Which brings me to last Thursday morning. I'd been readingLarry Lessig's wonderful review of the Facebook moviein which he points out that Aaron Sorkin, who wrote the screenplay, had completely missed the main point of the Zuckerberg story, which is that it was the open internet that had enabled a kid with a good idea to create a service that is valued by 500 million peoplewithout asking anyone's permission. "As I watched the film," Lessig writes, "it struck me that there was more than a hint of self-congratulatory contempt in the motives behind how this story was told. Imagine a jester from King George III's court, charged in 1790 with writing a comedy about the new American Republic. That comedy would show the new Republic through the eyes of the old. It would dress up the story with familiar figures – an aristocracy, or a wannabe aristocracy, with grand estates, but none remotely as grand as in England. The message would be, 'Fear not, there's no reason to go. The new world is silly at best, deeply degenerate, at worst.'"Lessig goes on to point out that there was one observer of the new republic, Alexis de Tocqueville, who understood its significance. Just after I'd finished reading this, there was an item on theTodayprogramme about Peter Carey's new novel,Parrot and Olivier in America, which in a way sounds like a fictional follow-on from de Tocqueville'sDemocracy in America.Intrigued, I logged on to the Kindle store and read the free sample chapter. No prizes for guessing what happened next. Reader, I purchased it.
With Sony and Microsoft releasing new motion-control gadgets, and sales of its evergreen console finally appearing to have peaked, Nintendo should be feeling the pressure. If it is, it doesn't show in the unpretentious and likableWii Party, whose accessibility and charm is  likely to make it one of the most popular family games this Christmas.Here, almost 80 bite-sized gaming confections are available in a variety of structured formats, from a globe-trotting card game to a wheel of fortune-style contest. One mode asks players to hide Wii remotes in their lounge as they sporadically chime to alert those nearby, while another plays several animal calls simultaneously, the winner is the first to pick up the remote that corresponds with the onscreen creature.Co-operative as well as competitive games are available, and solo players are catered for with additional puzzle-based asides. The stars of the show are the Mii characters who appear throughout, and whose personalities enliven the simple, undemanding games. Witnessing your dad's slumped-shouldered sulk at finishing last as celebrities and family members cheer you on is a large part of the appeal.Wii Partyis unlikely to win any awards, but there will be few games better suited to a family gathering over the festive period.
Twenty-five years ago, Nintendo was about to release the first Super Mario game,Back to the Futurewas showing at cinemas, and a precocious 13-year-old Ruth Lawrence had just gained a first in maths at Oxford. Less memorably, perhaps, it's also 25 years ago that half a dozen optimistic dealers opened for business in an attempt to foist the first Seats – the perky Ibiza Mk1 – on a suspicious car-buying public. The cars didn't exactly hurl themselves out of the showrooms. In the first month, the six dealers closed 24 sales between them. By the end of the first year they'd just crept over 400. But they kept the faith and last year 30,000 Seats were sold. That huge surge can be accounted for by two letters: VW.Seat (pronounced Say-at) celebrates another milestone this year, as it is 60 years since it was founded as the Sociedad Española de Automóviles de Turismo. Despite making some memorable cars, the Spanish firm spent decades teetering on the brink until Volkswagen came to its rescue, buying half of it in 1986 and the rest in 1990 with a £4bn-plus investment.Volkswagen crouches over the car-building landscape like Simon Cowell presides over the world of pop. VW's fingerprints are all over Europe's bestsellers and its ability to manipulate the market borders on omnipotence. VW uses its vast power to guarantee cost effectiveness and technical excellence. It uses car brands to create economies of scale in the same way other manufacturers treat different models. For instance, if you buy a Mercedes you'll see the same dashboard dials on the A-Class through to the E-Class. Buy a new Audi A1, however, and you're getting a gussied-up VW Polo, which is a smarter Seat Ibiza, which  is in turn a tarted-up Skoda Fabia.  For good measure, VW also owns  a big chunk of Suzuki as well as all  of Bentley, Bugatti and Lamborghini – though clearly you won't find, say,  a Skoda ashtray used in the £1m Bugatti. But you may find a Bugatti owner using a Skoda as an ashtray…So the Seat Leon (pronounced Lay-on) is in fact an Audi A3, which is a Golf, and so on… But the top-flight Leon – the Cupra R – really is something unique. There are almost 20 Leon variants – from the 1.2 Leon TSi, yours for 12 grand, to the green-minded 1.6 Leon Ecomotive, just under £14,776 and delivering a wallet-warming 74.3 miles to the gallon, and topping out with the Cupra R.The flagship motor may look much the same as its lower-ranking siblings, but it is the fastest production car Seat has ever built. Its acceleration is so sparkling, so unexpected, that your stomach spends much of any journey in the back seat. The exhilarating zip is all thanks to its remarkable 261bhp engine – the same engine that appears in Audi's S3 and Golf's R. At £25,205, the Cupra R costs twice as much as the cheapest Leon – but it's still cheaper than the S3 and the Golf R. In fact, in the steamy world of the hot hatch, this Leon has a reputation for being a bit of a bargain. It has all the vim and verve of the market leaders, but it's £5,000 less.The real price of raw, knuckle-whitening speed is usually nausea and an unforgiving ride. But the Cupra R manages to be fast, furious – and comfortable. And you don't need to be Ruth Lawrence to work out why that's a winning formula.RAC Brighton to London Future Car ChallengeThe Royal Automobile Club's London to Brighton veteran car run is a well-established part of the classic car calender. But this year there is a twist. The day before the event will see the first running of the new RAC Brighton to London Future Car Challenge. Sixty zero/low-emission vehicles will make the 60-mile run on 6 November.As a measure of the importance of this inaugural event, entries have been received from the majority of the major car manufacturers, including BMW, Citroën, FIAT, Ford, MINI, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Renault, Skoda, Smart, Tata, Toyota, Vauxhall and Volkswagen. In many cases several different models have been entered and several world and UK debuts will feature as a number of the participating manufacturers will use the event to showcase, live, their pre-production electric, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen and low-emission internal combustion engine vehicles in both passenger car and light-commercial vehicle categories.The event takes place on Saturday 6 November, the day before the Royal Automobile Club's world famous London to Brighton Veteran Car Run. Starting at Madeira Drive at 8.30, the event will use the traditional 60-mile veteran car run route in reverse.Go along and witness the cars we'll be driving tomorrow.
As odd as it may seem from the fulsome coverage, Formula One is not flattered by television. Camera angles neuter the breathtaking speed, flatten the gradients, and make braking distances look simple. Trackside, the reality is different: these are terrifyingly fast, technical masterpieces of machines. It's this reality that Codemasters have captured brilliantly inF1 2010– from the only viewpoint none of us will ever actually have and the only one really worth having – behind the wheel.With a full re-creation of the season, all the teams and all the circuits, an easy-entry Grand Prix Mode and a career that includes all the ephemera of agents, interviews and inter-driver rivalry,F1certainly covers all the basics. But for fans it's the car that counts. They will not be disappointed.From the off there's a verisimilitude to the performance that's instantly familiar. Grippy in corners, with a palpable sense of acceleration off an apex, the modelling is immensely detailed – a world away from sports cars and unique to F1. This attention to detail is everywhere: the back end will step out all too easily upon ill-advised braking; tyre choice, aerodynamics and fuel affect performance; and overcooking it into corners ends, without exception, in the gravel.All of which applies to the computer-generated opponents as well: clever and aggressive, they are also all too believable – witness the stomach-churning sight of a Sauber parked directly in front, at right angles, on the exit of a fast corner…Full practice, qualifying and dynamic weather are thrown in, making it fortunate that there is a (Ferrari race engineer) Rob Smedley-alike colleague to talk you through tiptoeing around Melbourne in a downpour, while the tracks themselves look magnificent – the first time around Spa's Eau Rouge or Suzuka's 130-R are moments to be savoured. But a measure of the genuine thought behindF1is exemplified by a minor, yet brilliant, technicality: Codemasters rejected traditional gaming escapism by rightly insisting that lollipop men keep drivers in their pit box until it is safe to leave. It's a wheel-thumpingly frustrating-at-the-time moment but indicative of the care that has gone into the game.Tiny niggles aside (easy is too easy, hard may be off-putting to some), and outside specialist titles likeGrand Prix Legends, this is the best-realised, most exciting, and simply the most realistic F1 sim yet, at the front of the grid in a class of its own.
The exterior of Arcam's office, on an industrial park in Waterbeach, near Cambridge, isn't particularly striking; it's what goes on inside that makes it special. In that way, the British hi-fi maker is just like the equipment it produces: for years, it has been known for making hi-fi separates, usually in brushed aluminium, which command a premium price for their remarkable sound, if not their looks.But now Charlie Brennan, Arcam's managing director, who led a management buyout five years ago from the founders of the 38-year-old company, thinks that is about to change. The key is the company's latest product, which began shipping to distributors this month. The "rCube" is a black iPod boombox – though that word doesn't do it justice; the sound quality is truly astonishing, andWhat Hi-Fi?magazine will next week crown it the best in class, outdoing pricier products and better-known names such as America's Bose."Before, I've told friends about things we're doing and they've been 'yeah, yeah'. This is the first time they've been saying to me 'I want to get one.' That hasn't happened to us before," says the Dubliner, quietly gleeful.He shows the cube off with a salesman's relish. First there is the remarkably good sound. Then there is the fact that you can beam your music to it from your iPod (or iPad) using a highly efficient wireless technology called Kleer, via a little dongle that can be passed around at parties. Finally, with a flourish, he unplugs the mains lead – and the sound continues. It has a rechargeable battery that can run for up to eight hours, and an inbuilt handle, so it can be carried into the garden or another room.The price? £500 – but, as he points out: "That's no more than an iPad. It's a consumer price."Brennan recognises the irony that, financially, record labels are on their knees, yet the amount of music people actually listen to has gone up. What frustrates him is that compressed formats – such as MP3 – mean that sound quality is lost, and cannot be recovered. "A lot of people who would exclude themselves from 'serious' hi-fi because it's all too serious are now condemned to listening through crappy devices," says Brennan. "It's a lost generation of music lovers."To demonstrate, we listen to the Pink Panther theme on an Arcam system, first in 128K MP3 (standard on the web), then at 256K MP3 (typical of Amazon or Apple), then in the original CD sound. In the last, you can almost hear the saxophonist licking his lips; in the others, the music sounds flatter. Most people would find that adequate, he says, because they never hear it any other way.Yet as Andy Moore, Arcam's senior designer, points out, the original raison d'etre of MP3 compression – to save space on small-capacity hard disks – has now gone: "You can get a one-terabyte [1,000 gigabyte] disk [capable of holding 1,600 uncompressed CDs] for about £100. You don't have to squash your music up. Then you can hear what it actually sounds like."In the factory downstairs, each piece of kit is assembled and tested before being sent out. That's typical in the small pool of top-end British hi-fi manufacturers, some of which date back to just after the second world war. Just as many Formula One cars owe their existence to tiny British outfits, so audiophiles around the world seeking perfect sound reproduction leaf through brochures from UK companies such as Bowers &amp; Wilkins, KEF, Quad, Cambridge Audio, Linn and Naim Audio. Much ofRussian president Dmitry Medvedev's now-notorious hi-fi rigwas made in Britain (though none, to Brennan's chagrin, at Arcam).The rCube, which is going on sale through John Lewis, Harrods and 200 UK outlets, plus distributors around the world ("they've gone berserk for it"), would be pricier if Brennan didn't think it was going to sell in large numbers. But he expects to make up in volume what he sacrifices in profit margin.And Arcam could do with some of that. It managed a profit last year – £250,000 on a turnover of £7.8m – but in 2009 and 2008 lost £1.6m and £1m on turnovers of £8.1m and £10.8m. The losses forced serious staff cuts, from 80 to 45 people, though the key engineering team was retained. "We're an engineering company," Brennan says simply. "But I guess I'm pretty much the marketing team now."Technology shifts so rapidly that small firms can fall into a financial chasm. Arcam was set up in 1972 by Cambridge undergraduates John Dawson and Brian Whitnall and has always aimed for the high end, making amplifiers and speakers using the highest-quality components (even now the engineers will listen to products prototyped with different makes of capacitor to discern differences an oscillosope cannot). But despite backing from private equity group 3i, the business struggled. Brennan was brought in 13 years ago to refocus it, and in 2005 led the MBO, which bought out both the founders and 3i, and brought in its North American distributor as an investor.Even so it has struggled as technology changes have come thick and fast. Brennan gave the firm a new focus on design and tracking trends. Thus it has products to improve computer audio output, an iPod dock and amplifier, Blu-ray and home cinema rigs, and even a pair of "budget" (£400) speakers. Among its fans are the film director Peter Jackson, who owns three of its video systems.And you can't fault its attention to detail. The rCube includes a "damped" steel developed by Toyota for its Lexus cars; its stiffness prevents distortion at high volume. Other products use radar-absorbent metal developed for stealth bombers to absorb radio frequencies that can otherwise cause subtle – but audible – interference with components.But it's the exterior that Brennan is thinking of with the rCube. "We'll have a white version. Maybe a grey one. We can do limited versions in other colours. I'm sure we'll have someone coming to us saying they want to do a bling version, with Swarovski crystals," he says. "I'm looking forward to saying no to that."British hi-fi heroesQuadOne of the oldest names in the business: founded in 1936 and based in Huntingdon, near Cambridge. Originally famous for its speakers but now has products across the spectrum.TannoyAnother old name, dating from 1926. It is short for "tantalum alloy", used in its first products. Based in Coatbridge, Lanarkshire, it makes speakers that are a reference point for many studios.KEFWell-known for its speakers, founded in 1961 and based in Maidstone.Meridian AudioFounded 1977 by Bob Stuart and Allen Boothroyd to make loudspeakers but branched into CD and other players. Bought in the 1990s by Britain's KEF, then by a Hong Kong company but then repurchased; now British-owned again.Bowers &amp; WilkinsFounded in 1966. Most notable for its Nautilus speakers, which look like a cross between a tuba and an alien, and its Zeppelin iPod dock.LinnBased in Glasgow, set up in 1973 and famous initially for its turntables. Had to cut a third of its staff in 2007.
Co-written byThe Beachauthor Alex Garland, and with significant direction from Andy Serkis – the actor famous for his roles as Gollum and King Kong –Enslavedis a game that takes its artistic and creative form very seriously.It's set in an in a bold, vivid dystopia, where a dwindling and repressed human population is constantly hunted by a malevolent robotic race that is apparently the detritus of a bygone war. Mystery abounds. The game's designers have conceived some of the most striking environments yet seen – where nature and technology have grown free of man's shackles and ravaged the once thriving metropolises of 21st-century Earth.Exploring this tangled playground of exotic fauna and twisted steel is the job of two strangers brought together in an uncomfortable alliance; player-protagonist Monkey and his computer-controlled accomplice Trip, who must work as a team.While the core elements of melee combat, exploration and puzzle-solving are hardly revolutionary in concept, the gameplay is constantly engaging and, as a means of familiarising the player withEnslaved's depth of atmosphere and detail, it's superbly implemented. While occasionally repetitive with regard to the challenges presented, in its entirety Enslaved is an engrossing, captivating and visually stunning vision of the future.
As developers in the east attempt to tailor their games for the larger overseas market, the traditional Japanese role-playing game has evolved almost beyond recognition in recent years – much to the chagrin of the genre's dwindling fanbase. So it's refreshing to find a new game that plays things with a straight bat, harking back to a time when random battles were frequent, signposting was non-existent and item space was extremely limited.That old-school approach won't be for everyone, but those who relish a challenge will appreciate the elegant simplicity of the combat, and the streamlining of the fluff that tends to pad out modern titles. A neat touch allows any member of the party to switch jobs simply by changing their headgear – from a merchant's crown, which allows you to search for hidden gems, to a mage's top hat which boosts the power of your offensive magic.Its story is whimsical, its characters charming, and the disarmingly simple art style is oddly beautiful in places. And, while the frequency of enemy encounters is a little too high, some side quests are genuinely inventive, offering a welcome break from the battling in what is ultimately another successfulFinal Fantasyspin-off.
On Saturday evening, in a quiet, understated post on its official blog, Google's engineersnonchalantly announcedthat not only had they invented self-driving cars, but that those cars were already among us."Our self-driving cars have logged over 140,000 miles," wrote Sebastian Thrun, a Google 'Distinguished Software Engineer'. From other companies, you would have expected enormous press conferences, flashy demonstrations and appearances at trade shows: from Google, there was merely a blog post and a few snippets for the press. Another casual revolution.Autonomous vehicles are not a revolutionary development; they've been around for many years in various forms, not least in the Pentagon'sDARPA Challengesthat have producedtruly autonomous vehiclesoperating on closed circuits. It's these experiments and prototypes that have spawned the new vehicles - indeed, Professor Thrun developed those cars before being hired by Google.But Google has a unique advantage here: thanks to its Street View data, it already has detailed plans and photographs of every single street in the UK, the US, Ireland, and most major world cities. Its cars can literally look ahead at pictures of the junctions they'll be traversing, well in advance, in order to plot their routes.Google driverless car: interior viewHowever mass-market models are, even by the most generous of predictions, still years away - and there are the thorny legal issues of responsibility for accidents while under computer control still to solve. But what's remarkable here is not only the progress, but the seemingly casual attitude to it.Google has the same abilities as the directors of James Bond films, or the producers of Top Gear: just by using its reputation, it can open doors that would be closed to others. No independent movie would have been able toclose the Thames for an extravagant boat-chase pre-title sequence; and no tiny show on a satellite channel would have been able to get the Royal Marines touse a Ford Fiesta as a beach landing craft. In the same way, a tech startup or a university research team trying to road-test a self-driving car would have significantly more trouble with local authorities than if Google were the ones calling.The inevitable jokes will start to fly, of course. Someone will suggest an 'I'm Feeling Lucky' button for destinations; someone else will say that the petrol's free, but supported by contextual advertising from your car radio. And in a few days, everyone will have moved on, and the miracle of the self-driving car will start to become normal.And the next quiet revolution will get that little bit closer.Tom Scott's homepage is athttp://www.tomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott
After thecontroversy over Libya shutting down vb.ly, we look at other countries that are used for conveniently short links.GREENLAND (.gl)The world's largest island but home to just 57,000 people, Greenland's internet domain is rarely used - but recently sprung to prominence when Google launched its own address shortening service, goo.glMONTENEGRO (.me)An explosion of interest in web addresses belonging this Balkan state came when .me was launched in 2007 - with names like insure.me and date.me selling for tens of thousands of pounds. Facebook now uses fb.me for its own URL shortening serviceNIUE (.nu)Using a play on words to present itself as a "new" alternative to traditional addresses like .com and .net, this tiny Polynesian state set the first real trend for domain hacking in the late 1990sTUVALU (.tv)The Pacific island nation - population around 12,000 - started cashing in on the popularity of its web address a decade ago, leasing the right to sell .tv domains for $50m in royaltiesMICRONESIA (.fm)Aping the conventions of the radio industry, Micronesia's address found a niche for music websites and audio streaming services, including Last.fm and Ping.fmLIBYA (.ly)With so many domains already registered, a rash of companies have spotted their chance to make more palatable phrases using Libyan domains, including bit.ly, ow.ly, good.ly and othersTONGA (.to) and ITALY (.it)These pairs of letters are used by thousands of domain hackers to form brief, imperative statements that are - hopefully - more memorable for web users (go.to and play.it, for example)GRENADA (.gd)The Caribbean island's extension is used by another URL shortener, is.gd, in the disemvowelled shorthand common among many Web 2.0 startups
Screenshot of vb.ly on its launch day. Photo byviolet.blueon Flickr.Some rights reserved. Used with permission.Over the years Libya has been notorious for many things, including its links to the Lockerbie bombing and the often bizarre activities of its leader, Muammar Gaddafi.Now, those have spilled over onto the internet, where western companies which have been buying domain names with the trendy suffix ".ly", owned by Libya, have abruptly begun to wonder whether they have made a wise decision in basing their business around it.That follows the abrupt enforced shutdown of vb.ly, a "link shortening" site run by Ben Metcalfe and Violet Blue, after it was declared that the content of the site was "against Sharia law".An image of Violet with bare arms, drinking from a bottle of lager, was emblazoned across the front page of the site when the government-owned Libya Telecom &amp; Technology got in touch earlier this month. "Pornography and adult material aren't allowed under Libyan law, therefore we removed the domain," the letter said, adding: "The issue of offensive imagery is quite subjective, as what I may deem as offensive you might not, but I think you'll agree that a picture of a scantily clad lady with some bottle in her hand isn't exactly what most would consider decent or family friendly at the least."But other moves made by the ministry could threaten the business of another web startup, bit.ly, which has had millions of dollars of investors' money poured into it – including funding of $10m (£6.3m) received earlier this week – following the announcement in June by theTripoli regulator for domain registrythat domain registrations with fewer than four characters were restricted for use by registrars "having presence" in Libya – that is, based in the country – where they would be under local Sharia jurisdictions.Metcalfe, 29, contends that his site – which was running for 13 months until last week – does not host pornography, but adds that the worrying issue is the censorship of domains that channel user-generated content. "We're very clear that the site did not have pornographic or adult content hosted on it; but even if we did, my bigger concern is that [the Tripoli .ly domain regulator] domain registry is trying to regulate against the content of a website. A domain and a website are two extricably decoupled and separate entities," he told the Guardian.The trend for .ly addresses has grown in the last year as part of a practice known as "domain hacking". With memorable names in the ".com" spacehard to come by, many companies have instead chosen to incorporate the domain name into their brand. Sites likeBit.ly,Ow.lyandAd.lyhave raised millions of dollars in investment.But the government in Tripoli has strict rules on the use of the internet, and regularly filters out political websites critical of the pesident, Muammar Gaddafi. The Guardian understands that some investors in bit.ly were unaware of the connection with Libya when in negotiations to invest.In the rules for buying a .ly domain, owners are warned by Libyan Telecom &amp; Technology  that they must comply with the country's laws."Domain names must not contain obscene, scandalous, indecent, or contrary to Libyan law or Islamic morality words, phrases or abbreviations," say theregulations. That means sites linked to gambling and sexual activity are banned, but the LTT also reserves the right to suspend a service if it believes it promotes immoral behaviour or criticises the government.Earlier this year the Libyan governmentblocked access to YouTubeafter videos of an anti-government demonstration were published on the site. Meanwhile a study by the OpenNet Initiative, which monitors online censorship, said filtering was still an issue. "The government blocks oppositional websites and arrests and imprisons cyber-dissidents," itsaid, adding that "self-censorship remains widely practiced by both online and offline media for fear of government retribution".Bit.ly may be safe from a Libyan clampdown: the Registry Office deems it a "URL shortener for general uses". Like vb.ly, it provides shortened links (such as http://bit.ly/guardiantech) which when clicked will redirect users to websites with names too long to be used on web services such as Twitter's 140-character system. Millions of links are made via bit.ly every day, and it is only believed to filter them for malicious spam.Vb.ly appears to have contravened its terms of use by billing itself as "The internet's first and only sex-positive URL shortener". Libya warned that the site was in violation of the domain registry code when it first launched in August 2009, though the pair insist that the terms were not set out anywhere, and so vb.ly was allowed to continue operating.Earlier this year a clampdown on independent news media in the country led to fears that progress in the area was being reneged upon. Now, after internet companies flocked to buy web addresses ending with .ly, human rights campaigners have warned that they may be making a mistake.Harvard law professor Jonathan Zittrain, co-director of the Berkman Center for the Internet and Society, who has written extensively about internet censorship, called the situation "weird". "[It is] particularly stupid to host metalinks like bit.ly there", he added.Alicia Navarro, the founder of online marketing company Skimlinks, runs another URL shortening service calledGood.lywhich donates 55% of its profits to charity. She said that it was Bit.ly's success had encouraged her to pick a Libyan domain – and she hoped that any problems that arose as a result would be dealt with by larger organisations."We chose a .ly domain because the use of such a domain had been pioneered by bit.ly, and therefore we thought it would help people see us as a URL shortener," she told the Guardian in February.Navarro told the Guardian this week: "We have been abreast of these developments in Libya. Again, however, we aren't concerned. The clampdown has been targeting domains less than four characters, and focusing on sites that are breaching Libyan laws – that is, sites condoning sexual behaviour."Our site is four characters in length and is supportive of charities, so is unlikely to be targeted for closure, at least at this stage. However, it is a peripheral part of our business so even if it did get closed, it would have no impact at all on our business."My worry would be companies like bit.ly whose entire business relies on their domain name."In February an Amnesty International spokesman told the Guardian that while the organisation would not support a boycott of Libyan domains, companies using .ly websites should carefully consider the implications of relying on a government that censors websites like YouTube and forbids criticism of its leader."While Amnesty takes no judgment on business acumen, we do say that companies should undertake assessments into the likely human rights impact of their business decisions and use their influence with governments to raise human rights concerns of which they become aware," he said."We've also encouraged companies to have robust human rights policies in place."Although there is no suggestion that data on these websites is being kept in Libya or monitored directly by the authorities there, there is concern that companies have started building brands based on Libyan domains without thinking through the potential issues.One investor told the Guardian in February that he had put money into a .ly company without even realising that it was registered via Libya.However Andrew Cohen, the bit.ly service's general manager, said in February he foresaw no issues with using a Libyan domain. "We picked the name bit.ly because it's short and evocative of small, loosely coupled bits ... bit.ly is a shorter URL than bitly.com, which we also use," he said.Cohen added that the Libyan government signed an operating agreement in 2007 with Icann, the body that oversees internet names around the world."Icann sets a standard for responsibility and reliability, and we have confidence in their framework," he said.But while that system is intended to resolve issues such as trademark disputes, it remains unclear whether it could protect from Libyan law intended to suppress free speech or silence critics of Gaddafi.See also:where in the world are those link shorteners taking you?
ShufflerIn the pre-MP3 era, cool hunters who wanted to hear music ahead of the herd had to listen to John Peel (or his heavy metal/jazz/disco equivalent), but now we have instant access to everything from classic albums to demos from bands formed yesterday. The problem is there's just too much of it. Reintroducing an element of serendipity, Shuffler's twist on streaming radio is that it works alongside hundreds of music blogs. Pick from dozens of genres, and then the music plays directly from blog pages meaning you can read about the track as it plays. Simple and fun, and without it I'd never have discovered the Finnish electro krautrock band K-X-P.Parents Just Don't UnderstandParents Just Don't Understand. Photograph: Paul Thomas/GettyThis busy section of the American prankster site College Humor collects anecdotes about parents and grandparents struggling valiantly to keep abreast with information technology. This phenomena includes the common misconceptions that Wikipedia is called the "wikipedionary", "WTF" means "Wednesday, Thursday, Friday", and that YouTube have a camera crew who come to your home to film you doing funny stuff. There are also lots of very sweet stories such as the granny who dresses up to watch telly because she doesn't want the people on TV to see her in her nightgown and the man who thinks sending his children texts about what he's doing is his "blog".Blog roll: CrapCrap Jazz Covers.Crap Jazz CoversBlue Note aside, jazz albums are invariably housed in sleeves of untold rubbishness.Crap At my Parent's HouseAn epic catalogue of the mountains of bizarre and terrifying junk cluttering up parents' homes.Free Crappy PortraitsA crack team of illustrators turn your photos into drawings of questionable quality. Eventually.Bad TattoosDeformed unicorns head a gallery of the worst tatts from around the world.That's HideousFrom Blobfish to Crocs, this site seeks to bring attention to all things ugly.Crap Cycling &amp; Walking In Waltham ForestA cyclist catalogues the ridiculous bad planning – including a bike lane that's one yard long – of Waltham Forest Council.What we learned on the web this weekEvil! The Flintstones. Photograph: AllstarWhy The Flintstoneswere evilPac-Manhas been discovered in the wildA gameto play if you use London public transportThe alarming resemblancebetween cats and croissantsA tributeto Kevin Bacon made from baconAbout theDorset village that "died for England" in 1943Where they workinside a giant shoeSome wordsof wisdomWhat youlook like as a Disney villainThe hidden wonderinside Battersea Power Station
Castlevania: Lords Of Shadow, Playstation 3 &amp; Xbox 360Having established a monumentally successful franchise in 2D, Castlevania's first lurch into 3D was so disastrous that it's taken over a decade for someone else to have a go. The good news is that Lords Of Shadow is brilliant. Taking Castlevania's whip-heavy fighting mechanics, it applies them to a universe of gothic beasts from werewolves to Dr Frankenstein's creation by way of some of the biggest boss monsters you've ever seen, before finally heading off to kill a vampire or two. Like Enslaved, reviewed above, encounters in Lords Of Shadow are framed by superbly realised climbing sections and the sort of hall-filling puzzles now a staple of the genre, but unlike that game its fights, while a stiff challenge, never feel overwhelming. That's not to say it isn't molar-grindingly difficult at times, it just always manages to seem like your fault when you die, making it very hard not to have just one more go. A vast game that also manages to be rollicking good fun.Konami, £49.99Enslaved: Odyssey To The West, Playstation 3 &amp; Xbox 360Enslaved: Odyssey To The West.Starting in a future New York ravaged by ancient wars and overgrown with a profusion of huge trees standing among collapsing skyscrapers, this is the jolliest, greenest post-apocalypse ever, and New York is only the beginning. You play Monkey, a muscular bodyguard effectively enslaved by survivor Trip to accompany her on a trip across America. Played out in a series of fights with the world's expansive population of homicidal robots, interspersed with Prince Of Persia-style clambering over and through ruins, it's beautiful to look at and thoroughly well acted, but battles eventually get tiresome and the task of collecting every single red glowing orb in each location so you can upgrade your weapons and skills, is not one that will fill many with joy. That said, Enslaved is a richly drawn adventure whose plot and startling good looks urge you to see what happens next.Namco, £49.99Time Geeks: Find All!iPhone &amp; iPod TouchTime Geeks: Find All!The Zoorgs are messing with time and it's your job to sort out the anachronisms they leave behind. To do that you search its pixel art-style levels for a succession of people, animals and objects as you catapult between scenes from history and the distant future. Film, TV and cultural references abound in its spectacularly complex illustrations, which continue to throw up a host of new oddities even after you've spent dozens of minutes poring over them for rocket bikes, Abraham Lincoln impersonators and misplaced aliens. Hidden-item games have proliferated at an alarming rate in recent times, offering a style of play that's accessible to all and requires no specific skill beyond having a pair of eyes, but few are particularly entertaining, rapidly sending players into frustration, boredom or both. Thankfully Time Geeks is different: its beautifully rendered artwork and witty execution, along with an embarrassment of mini-games and play modes, belie its profoundly modest cost.Ivan Cascales, 59p
To anyone puzzled as to&nbsp;why car makers are&nbsp;dabbling in the bicycle market, two words:Alan Sugar. Interviewed for a documentary last year, the prickly peer spent much of the programme showing off his trio of £7,000Pinarello racers. The intention was to station one in each of his three main homes, he explained in that permanently tetchy rasp, but he loves them too much to leave them alone. Now they, too, travel by private jet.Sugar is not the only man spending more time in bike shops than in car showrooms: a Mintel report this summer suggested bike sales are now driven by the sort of affluent men who would previously have blown their money on a flash car. Keen to tap into this lucrative vein, BMW has knocked out a tourer; Ferrari makes scandalously expensive road bikes; and now Mini Cooper has produced a range of two-wheelers, each named after races its rally cars have won.The T250 Aintree is the only ladies' bike in the line-up, but like its brothers it is essentially a handsome new model masquerading as a lovely old one. One cyclist even asked if it was vintage, a compliment, I decided, rather than a backhanded way of saying my ride had seen better days.Some of the retro touches were pleasing. I liked the Brooks leather saddle and handlebar tape, which had aFamous Fivesort of feel to them (they'd match Timmy's lead and Anne's satchel). But the decision to put the gear lever on the down tube, rather than on the handlebars, was pointlessly regressive, like installing a mangle instead of a washing machine in a period home just for the sake of pig-headed authenticity. Another arguably silly touch was putting the brakes on the centre of the handlebars, cyclo-cross-style, rendering the drops largely superfluous. But as someone who prefers a more upright riding style, it suited me perfectly.Several people mistook the Aintree for a single-speed bike – or, worse, a&nbsp;fashion victim fixie – not realising there were five secret gears in the hub on the back wheel. Hub gears are low-maintenance, so are perfect for jobbing cyclists, as is the chainguard, which protects your calves from the bike's oiliest bits.The big problem is the price. For £900, you could just about buy a full-carbon road bike with a gear for every day of the month. Or a well-preserved example of the sort of 60s racer the Aintree is aping. But I liked the sturdy workmanship of the steel frame, still light enough to lug up two flights of stairs after a long ride, and you get the expensive Brooks components, as well as the pricey gears. It's swoonsomely attractive, too. Plus, compared with Sugar's identical triplets, it's a steal.Cooper bike T250 AintreePrice£895FrameReynolds double-butted brazed steelGearsSturmey Archer five-speedWeight9.6kgBrakesTektro calliperAdded extrasBrooks saddle and handlebar tapeIn a wordRetro
Adobe has declined to comment ona report in the New York Timesthat its chief executive met Steve Ballmer, head of Microsoft, to discuss tactics relating to Apple - and a possible takeover.In the story, the NYT reported:"The meeting, which lasted more than an hour, covered a number of topics, but one of the main thrusts of the discussion was Apple and its control of the mobile phone market and how the two companies could team up in the battle against Apple. A possible acquisition of Adobe by Microsoft were among the options."Adobe stock spiked by 11.5% in investors' faintly desperate hope that it might come true.In a statement on Friday, Adobe said: "Adobe and Microsoft share millions of customers around the world and the CEOs of the two companies do meet from time to time. However, we do not publicly comment on the timing or topics of their private meetings."This is what is known in politics as a "non-denial denial": it doesn't say whether they met or not, and it doesn't say what they talked about if they did. So it's a non-denial denial about a non-meeting meeting.The NYT adds that it"learned about the meetings through employees and consultants to the companies who were involved in the discussions that took place or familiar with their organization, all of whom asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak publicly by Microsoft or Adobe. Those involved in the meeting, from its logistical set up to the discussion that took place, were instructed to stay quiet about the two companies holding council."Adobe isvalued at $13.5bnon annual revenues of $3.2bn; Microsoft certainly has enough money to buy it, but the question is whether it would want to. Doing so could put a dent in Apple's prospects, because Mac users are still a significant proportion of Adobe buyers because of its Creative Suite products. Buying Adobe and forcing the CS suite over to Windows-only could be a way to hurt Apple. But it would hurt Adobe more rapidly, because Apple users would simply hold off updating, and buy faster machines instead. And it would let Quark, which has been badly hurt by the adoption of Adobe's InCopy publishing and layout product over Quark Xpress, back into the market.Plus Microsoft really doesn't need any more computer revenue. It does pretty well out of Windows. The real threat that Microsoft, and Adobe, face from Apple is in the mobile phone arena. That's where Adobe has been hurt by Apple's insistentnon-adoption of Flash technology on the iPhoneand its push instead towards other web standards, such as HTML5. And Microsoft has seen its mobile phone franchise eaten up and spat out by the iPhone - which is why it is relaunching its entire game withWindows Phone 7 on Monday 11 October.Yet oddly enough the first versions of WP7 won't have Flash (it's based on the IE7 browser, and doesn't have that plugin or Silverlight). Which leaves open the question of quite what Microsoft would want to buy from Adobe. If there's no merit buying the company, then what's left? Buying Flash? Adobe does nicely out of that, so it wouldn't want to sell.When you weigh it up, the idea that Microsoft would want to buy Adobe just doesn't quite hold water. It has Silverlight, which is a Flash competitor. It has enough revenue from Windows, and wouldn't greatly increase it by buying Adobe (which would probably bring about a monopoly investigation, called by Apple if nobody else).Then readKara Swisher's report, from "sources" within the two companies, who call the idea "nonsense". Her strongest point? If you're talking about an acquisition - which is the sort of thing that requires lots of hush-hush negotiation and hotel room meetings – then the person you don't get to turn up at your headquarters is Steve Ballmer. He'snot what you call the quiet type.Still, it's a pity. Among the names being considered for the merged company (within Google): Microbe. Can you do better?
Tweet of the week comes from newly appointed Twitter chief executive Dick Costolo:"So *that's* what you have to do to get more followers."
Some seven months ago, my colleague Charles Arthurwrote: "Don't act too surprised if, some time in the next year, you meet someone who explains that their business card isn't just a card; it's an augmented reality business card."And lo, the day duly arrives. Friday 8 October 2010, to be precise.Holding up a business card to his laptop's webcam, Richard Nott, website director at IT recruitment websiteCWJobs, brought to life a virtual David Wood – the co-founder of Symbian, no less."Hi, I'm David Wood, and this is my augmented reality CV," says the brogue Scot, moving from a farm in Aberdeenshire – where he grew up – to the compounds of Cambridge – where he was educated – in one breath. Smart, I thought. (Though David stopped short of revealing thewinning formula for Symbian.)RememberAlec Brownstein's Google Adwords CV? Consider this in the same vein. Nott predicts that AR CVs – as they'll inevitably become known – are an "addendum to CVs, rather than a replacement" and that they'll soon become available to everyone, after a period of high-exclusivity for ultra-techies.Wood's AR CV, if you're interested, took seven days to put together. This is how they did it:
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) today won a reprieve on the threat of a blackout on its 500,000 smartphone users in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), just days before security agencies were due to enforce a ban on email, messaging and web browsing on the devices.After months of standoff between the Gulf and Canada, the UAE telecommunications regulator said on Friday that RIM had brought its devices into line with strict local jurisdictions on security and encryption. Although the details of the compromise are unknown, RIM is thought to have granted some access to communications passed between devices to the UAE government, though there is no confirmation of this from either side.Authorities in India, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Lebanon have beenpushing for greater access to data transmitted between BlackBerry smartphones for months, citing security fears at the level of encryption employed on the devices.RIM has publicly maintained a defiant position, insisting that there would be no changes in the security measures given to its Enterprise customers, who are usually private companies and public bodies requiring a greater level of encryption on communication than individual customers.The Telecommunications Regulatory Authority on Fridaysaid: "All Blackberry services in the UAE will continue to operate as normal and no suspension of service will occur".RIM said: "RIM cannot discuss the details of confidential regulatory matters that occur in specific countries, but RIM confirms that it continues to approach lawful access matters internationally within the framework of core principles that were publicly communicated by RIM on 12 August."The UAE's biggest mobile operator and carrier for approximately 80% of BlackBerry customers in the country, Etisalat, on Friday said it would cancel planned "mobility packages" previously offered for BlackBerry users – which would move them to non-RIM devices in the event of an enforced shutdown – in the expectation of an agreement with the UAE telecoms regulator. Etisalat confirmed that it will be launching two new BlackBerry devices in the country in the coming days, an indication that a long-term solution between the handset maker and the government has been made.A university professor in UAE, who wishes to remain anonymous, told the Guardian: "The general opinion amongst the business expat community, westerners at least, has been for some time now that [the ban] wasn't going to happen. Call it a failure of imagination on their part, but no one could conceive of how the country could do something so counterproductive to the image they are trying to present primarily to the west."Was it posturing? To some extent. The tradition of haggling here is an art form, the performance-value a joy in itself. That attitude certainly informed the government position vis-a-vis RIM – gamesmanship, brinksmanship, it's what people do here. And, frankly, those making the decisions had little to lose, personally."The announcement of an agreement between the two may have been postponed "to score a financial windfall", our source said, adding that the UAE release of Apple's iPhone4 10 days ago had seen "staggering sales"."All those Emiratis who sold their BlackBerrys in June will now go and buy new BlackBerrys only for messaging," he said. "I have many students who carry around a Nokia or iPhone for calls and a BlackBerry for messaging alone. Etisalat and the government have made a massive amount of money out of this, whatever the political intention of the proposed ban."The UAE development is in stark contrast to negotiations over authority access to BlackBerry communications in India, where the government has also opened up a front against internet companies – including Google and Skype – and mobile operators. As in the UAE, India is seeking to bring communications companies inside local jurisdictions, uncomfortable at western companies hosting servers holding data outside the country.Last week Indiarejected security compromisesmade by Canada-based RIM, saying it still could not access communications sent via corporate emails and the BlackBerry Messenger service. An internal memo leaked to India's Economic Times newspaper showed that RIM has told the telecommunications agency that it cannot technically hand authorities a key which would decode encrypted messages.The threat of a blackout for the 800,000 BlackBerry customers in India still looms large, while the two parties continue to work for a solution that satisfies government security fears while not compromising the privacy of RIM's customers.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?I'm going to have to say iChat, so that when I'm in one part of the world and my fiance is in another we can communicate while seeing each other. It's really improved my life.When was the last time you used it, and what for?A few hours ago, for chatting with my fiance,Tommy Haas.What additional features would you add if you could?I'm waiting to be able to do this on my BlackBerry, at all times.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I don't. I just think it will be improved. My wish will come true and we'll be able to access it in different formats.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I'm a firm believer that newer isn't always better. I'm not the most savvy when it comes to tech – I get confused easily and am not comfortable with too many options. Sometimes less is more.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?You know what I really hated? Remember those days when people hadpagers? I hated those things.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I think less is more. For me, I have my phone, my computer and my iPod, and I think those are the three things I cannot live without. You've gotta keep it kind of simple. Just because new things are coming out every day doesn't mean you always have to jump on the bandwagon. People get too caught up in having the latest gadgets.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a bit of a nerd but it depends on what your definition of a nerd is. I know about as much as I need to get by but I have yet to participate in Twitter and Facebook. I'm a little behind the times, I suppose. I still like to hold a newspaper and I don't like to read papers and books on new technology, like the Kindle. I don't want to read a book on the computer, I love to hold it when I read it, and I love the smell of them.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I would definitely say my laptop. I can't believe how much I spent on that thing considering all I use it for is to send email and surf the internet.Mac or PC, and why?I'm a Mac. One feature I really like is iPhoto. I'm big on taking photos and making scrapbooks and it's geared to people like me who aren't that savvy.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I haven't bought CD in a long time. I do download my music and I do pay for it – I buy it on iTunes. And I buy DVDs, too. I pride myself on my DVD collection. The last film I bought was Inglourious Basterds.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Oh my gosh, is that something they're inventing? I definitely like the idea of being in bed and getting a robot butler to fetch a glass of water for me. But I'd also be scared the thing would malfunction and attack me – that would be scary.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Maybe one of those computerised cars … is a hybrid car considered technology? I'll take a hybrid Ferrari but I would like to not have to pay for it.•Sara Foster plays Jen Clark in the TV show90210and stars in the science-fiction filmPsych 9
In March, Nick Bilton over at the New York Times had a brilliant idea: why not do a diagram showing who's suing who in the mobile business?So he got to work, andhere is the result:Well, there wasn't much to add to that, I thought. Until things began to hot up at the end of summer, and more patent lawsuits began to fly around. When, finally, Microsoft sued Motorola, I thought that it was finally time to update the NYT's (excellent) graphic.So I thought that I would do a version. Now, infographics is not my best subject, so my best stab had to be drawing it using Apple's Pages. It looks confused. That's because the situationisconfused. Everyone seems to be suing, or to have sued, someone else at some point. Below is the most recent version I've done, though thefirst appeared on this blog poston Monday.I did make a mistake in the original, since corrected: Microsoft is not suing HTC; it licensed patents to it. (This mistake is promulgated in many of the graphics. The original mistake is mine.) Also, I discovered afterwards that there are two big litigators: NTP, which is suing (deep breath) Apple, Motorola, HTC, Google, LG and Microsoft; and Acacia, which is suing Apple, RIM and Motorola, and has licensed patents to Microsoft. and after looking at Bilton's piece, and comments on the original post, it's clear Nokia's suits weren't about patents, but LCD dumping on mobile phone screens. And RIM was suing Kodak, not Sharp.)Of course many infographics designers saw my version and wailed "MY EYES!", and decided that Something Must Be Done. Happily, infographics designers aren't the sort to get snarky. They just do a better version.One of the first appeared onFlickr from Paul Conigliaro, with the lawsuits split into two directions. (Personally I don't think that quite works. Your opinion may differ.)Photo bypconigson Flickr.Some rights reservedWe also had anunknown Slashdot commenteroffer a non-crossing-lines version. I preferred the colours, but, you know...Note that the graphic has become more complicated since then with the arrival of NTP and Acacia; achieving non-crossing becomes more difficult, though not impossible of course.Steve Webb had a stab, because "stab" is how some people felt about my efforts:Then the heavyweights started arriving. Of course David McAndless, of Information Is Beautiful, decided to get to grips with it. His first attempt has the advantage that it's easy to do:But then he found his keyboard, and got handy, adding data about who exactly was suing who and why:And best of all, the data comes from thisopen Google spreadsheet(though it's view-only, but it's a good resource to which I hope to contribute).But possibly the most beautiful isthat from George Kokkinidis at Design Language News(slogan: "making visual sense of nonsense"):I have asked what tools he used to do it, but haven't yet heard back.If you know of any more, do tell us about them in the comments. And if you know which tools George Kokkinidis used to devise his diagram, let me know that too. I've since got an upgraded version ofOmnigraffle, but I'm only at base camp on the learning curve.Update:@barwilin the comments suggests that he usedCircos, and that looks correct. Plus it's a very nifty tool.Of course, making the diagrams clearer doesn't answer the more fundamental question: are patents helping or hindering industry?Steve Ballmer of Microsoft is equivocal- he thinks they're better than nothing, but worse than they could be.
Last week, already? Yes, and it would have been even earlier if I hadn't been snowed under with Star Wars writing. This time, it's Office Pest's turn to wrestle the daily gatherings of our crack Best Of squad into something resembling sense. From Rage Quitting to road killing, we've got everything a gamer could possibly want to know about. Oh and there are some useful PES moves too.Stay on target, stay on target...Monday, September 27The comforting Monday morning ritual of posting about drunken weekends, gaming weekends and drunken gaming weekends was interrupted by the frankly astonishing news that two bloggers were successfully climbing the greasy corporate pole. Congratulations to Goody and Uncleben. If there is a burgeoning market for jackbooted online football league administrators and wise-asses of restricted stature then perhaps the economy is looking up after all.The blog then took a turn for the bizarre as the majority of the morning's posts related in some way or another to videogames. Attempts to intersperse this with weekend footy chat failed to deliver material that could be described as the "best of" anything quite frankly. Even the revelation that some recent upstarts had caused seismic shifts in the pillar of righteousness that is the Gamesblog PES Rankings failed to raise the temperature above tepid.  However, the Eddie Edwards award for consistency must surely go to the dedicated LazyBones: "…he ranks 31 out of 31 in EVERY category. I scorn rankings."(So would I, in the circumstances – Monday ed).Things picked up (a bit) when SuperSmashin revealed his love for the advert: "..for a mobile phone where the man and woman hate then love each other via the medium of MMS.  I'd love to knife them both to death."  A perfectly reasonable review (Disclaimer – Best Of does not condone violence, even towards fictional TV ad characters).Happily, he was much more enthused by the revelation that the "Cullum-esque" song played in said ad was in fact the work of the jaunty little troubadour Mr J Cullum esq: "I thought as much. It gives me another reason to punch him in the throat should we ever meet."  (Disclaimer – Best Of does not condone violence, even towards diminutive jazz-lite popsters who commit gross acts of musical torture.)The day ended on a low-note, ploughing through the trough of despair that was Controller-Rage Blog (disclaimer – Best Of does not condone violence, even towards control pads): "Threw one of them against the floor in a fit of rage on Saturday and it had the nerve to shatter into 400 pieces. Farcical."  Catzilla tests the DualShock 3 to destruction."I have suffered from this I'm ashamed to say," HumofEvil admitted before RivaldoRules made a tearful confession: "When I was 10 I headbutted my Gameboy 'cos of a Tetris mistake." He clearly takes no prisoners when confronted by portable Russian puzzle games.Despite BigWorv's pragmatic contribution: "Controller rage?  No. It's a computer game." …the whole sorry affair came to a distressing and potentially incriminating end with this quote of the day (kept anonymous to protect the guilty):"I remember once, for instance, I murdered my best friend, Christopher, after he beat me at Emlyn Hughes Soccer on the C64. I struck him flush over the back of the head with a huge Tyrone Crystal bowl… We were 10… I still miss him, every day." (Disclaimer – Best Of does not condone …actually this shtick got old a few paragraphs ago.)TuesdayTuesday's blog offered an eclectic mix of subjects ranging from games to teenage crushes with a diversion to food blog on the way. Civilization V featured prominently with Sheep2 and henrypootle commenting on its addictive qualities. SirGiggidyMMVIII seemed astonished that Edinburgh was featured in the game, commenting that, "Edinburgh is in Civ V? I assume the Trams are the peak of the tech tree and take the longest period of time to research / build?'"(Can you create an army of pretentious Festival drama students with which to bore other nations into absolute submission? – Keef)Reviews were also brought in to the spotlight with discontentment rising regarding the quality of game criticism. RobLindsay suggest a possible solution: "Here's an idea, how about a gamesblogger review section?" The idea received both support and derision with note taken that most bloggers already give at least basic commentary and opinion on the games that they are currently playing, but lack the organisational skills or motivation to take it further.(I know the feeling – Keef)In the tradition of Chatterbox, food blog reared its tasty head again when SageSmith6079 revealed he had just indulged in a bacon 'barm cake'. For those not from Lancashire, a 'barm cake' is a floured, savoury bread roll. St00 appeared to be horrified by the concept, commenting, "There's something deeply depraved about calling a piece of bread a cake. So wrong." This sparked discussion about other regional foods such as the stotty, oatcake and potato scone. The consensus agreed that it is acceptable to append the word 'cake' to oatcake because of its biscuit qualities.Food blog continued in the afternoon when St00 recounted his unfortunate experience in a local chip shop where the vendor "PUT THE SALT ON BEFORE THE VINEGAR!" St00's contempt at this occurrence was such that he felt the need to capitalise. This, in turn, unleashed chippy blog where 'Boxers attempted to solve that great mystery of life - the origin of the 'butty'. LazyBones said, "I assume it is short for 'butter sandwich' and who would want that?" BigWorv had to resort to his bookmarked website that charts the history of sandwiches to confirm that 'butty' is indeed just an abbreviated version of 'bread and butter'.Congratulations go to Simian as he accepted an exciting new job that will allow him to globetrot without his permanent removal to Australia.WednesdayAnd so as the week rolled on to its mid point, the malaise setting in with the upcoming weekend seeming as distant as the one previous, it was down to the Chatterbox population to lift the spirits and banish such feelings from working Britain. A lofty ambition indeed, but here we do nothing if not aim high.The day started out as many do; a re-capping of the previous night's gaming exploits; some Battlefield here, Modern Warfare 2 there, PES and Bloodbowl following sharply behind along with the recent releases Civilisation V and F1 2010. Now I'm sure my fellow Best Of contributors have waxed lyrical about the Civ talk that has peppered this week, but I would be remiss to leave it out of today's summary altogether. The discussion on the subject actually took a turn for the nostalgic today with people reminiscing about their first Civ game. CunningStunt lead the charge: "Civ 2 was my first experience of Civ games. Loved it. Spent more time on that than any game I've ever played before or since. I even made a Dungeon Keeper mod for it. Heady days."HenryPootle was quick to follow: "I was at university. Civilization and Railroad Tycoon were the mainstays throughout that first year." For those regulars who have spotted the deliberate mistake there, I'm sure he meant to say 'lecturing at University'.FerrisSaved stuck his head briefly around the door, if only to announce the news we all dread to hear: "Got to keep a low profile. Charlie has gone international. My boss in Connecticut has just been fired (after 30 years of service) for 'being stupid with the internet'… Going dark for a bit to let things die down." Charlie in this instance not being wartime slang but instead referring to the Gamesblog's sworn enemy. Just so you know.Talk soon moved to the imminent arrival of the latest annual installment of Pro Evolution Soccer, the blog's resident football game of choice. Thanks to the tireless efforts of Goody (soothed I'm sure by his frequent position at the top of the leagues) arrangements were already being put in place for the new season in the Gamesblog championship. All the details are onthe official wikifor those who wish to partake, be warned though it is not a commitment to enter into lightly.Soon, talk turned to PES tricks and tactics, some of which even long time players didn't know, and were less than approving of, including the impressively named Super Cancel move. Relative newcomer RivaldoRules gave a breakdown for those not in the know: "Flick R2 after any pass – player who makes pass will make a run (like with 1-2 and L1). Hold R2 after a long pass – pass will be flighted more. I use these when clearing the ball after lots of pressure. Just be careful you don't try to switch players whilst doing the super cancel, as R1+R2+L1 results in a dive."So now you know.Sheep 2 led the charge with a list of improvements that could be made to the current game demanding that: "the player 'conditioning' be turned off. I had an orange and two purples for my squad of three forwards for the final game."  Wait…are we talking fruit pastilles?  I'm lost.Also briefly touched upon was the announcement of the Nintendo 3DS release date and price, but as these were for Japan only, it didn't cause much more than a minor ripple. The general consensus from the blog was to wait and see in terms of price. Some remained skeptical of the 3D tech itself and the launch line up. I'm sure come next March this laissez-faire attitude will have passed.Late on, Schwen posed a question regarding the quality of Naughty Bear, the blog was quick to jump on this, the verdict being a decisive no from all camps. From KingPin: "Naughty Bear is terrible … All areas look the same, camera is horrible, gameplay becomes repetitive halfway through the 1st level/tutorial" …to SerenVikity: "It's the dullest game I've played all year. It's only cute for the first five minutes and then it is boring and repetitive."  The Chatterbox; saving you from buying rubbish games since 2006 (or thereabouts).Thursday"The time has come," the Walrus said, "To talk of many things:Of zombies - orcs and space marinesOf PES and Rage Quitting"UnbelievableJeff: "Zombies....what is all the fuss about?"It's almost as if Jeff had never visited the blog before.(I don't know what's going on here so I edited it the best I could – Keef)ImperfectRex is sporting a new line of jewellery: "Had a look at my WWTHD* wristband though and was inspired to go for a 6 mile run last night.*WhatWouldTonyHayersDo."The blog seems to be on a bit of a keep-fit trip at the moment – ImperfectRex out jogging, as was Shadowmind; Happysocks got a bit nippy cycling into work (I find a warm shower 'relaxes' those bunched up muscles after a chilly cycle ride), TonyHayers is playing five-a-side, and silverfox was trying out Olympic-style napping and managed a 2 1/2 hour sleep – one for the record books.Once fox had woken up, the talk returned to Monday's topic of to Rage Quitting, with Sheep2 declaring it, "Simply rude". HappySocks admitted that he can last up to 30 seconds before RQ'ing, and SerenVikity told us that she likes to swear and rage quit at the same time. Silverfox tries to tell us to play games we find fun rather than, say something like Demon Souls; Onedaveofmany points out that just throwing your controller across the room does not a rage quitter make. Lazybones shows his Jedi nature coming through by having just a mild frustration quit (or MFQ henceforth). Shadowmind likes to RQ in solo games, but that may be a little bit too much information, while CatZilla gives us a nice RQ breakdown, in four simple points:A)	A controller being thrown across the living roomB)	Shouting/swearingC)	Jumping off the sofa and lunging at the power button on the PS3 and knocking it overD)	Combination of A,B &amp; C.I like the bullet points, but think a pie chart would be a helpful addition to your slide show.Speaking of pies, HereComesTreble gives away his dietary preparations for this weekends Ryder Cup – not that I thought Treble would ever be let back into Wales again, especially after everything that happened in South Africa, more of which in a minute.Believe it or not, Fantomex hit the grand old age of 23, not many thought he'd make it this far, and a birthday spent in hospital with inconclusive pains in the chest was the only gift he got: "Found my copy of Dead Rising 2 stashed down the side of my recycling box (thanks posty)."  A truly carbon-conscious postman, although he may have got better value at HMV.The day finished off with the usual event of bloggers one-upping each other and bragging rights about road kill. From song birds and pigeons to cats, dogs, foxes and badgers.  I'm going to let HereComesTreble have the last word on this:"I hit a ostrich once, in South Africa, on a rugby tour, true story. Straight shot, right to the face. Went down like a sack of spuds. Putting the boot in after was a bit much, but I young, I was brash, I had yet to learn the acceptable limits of self-defence. It came at me very aggressively, and I saw red. I later learned that although they can appear aggressive, ostriches are actually very friendly. This one was no friend of mine, is all I'll say.  I've hit loads of cows, but that doesn't really count, they were asking for it. A pigeon? How would you even catch it to hit it? You'd have to sneak up on it when it was asleep and tie it to a fence or something. To be honest, I've got better things to do with my time than slap birds about."FridayAnd thus it came to pass, a new day but no new box, the eye of Charles finally falling on us, as Easilylead put it posting on the end of Thursday's blog, "Like Sauron on the fellowship. I don't fancy your chances."When Friday's box did finally appear a couple of hours late, maybe Jimbob78 held the answer for the delay: "Went from a couple of quiet ones after work, to town, to clubbing, to waking up this morning covered in make-up with a stranger on the floor."  Hmm… did they have a Guardian ID badge? And did you both look pretty? I'm going for yes and no respectively.A word must now go to Goody84, a stern word. Talking about games (well… a game – PES) all day? Every day? It's just not right. It's not how we operate. I will stop reading your shamelessly on-topic posts after this first one about some sort of league, which I suppose one or two people might care about especially Guavs on beating you to the top spot even if it was only on goal difference. I'm sure everyone involved appreciates the work you put into keeping this going... just get with the program and talk about beards, dice or what you've had for lunch or something ok?Disgustingly, this talk of games continued, with much chatter around the previous night's exploits on Killzone 2 and Modern Warfare 2, about who killed who (Onedaveofmany – just a shame they were all on his team), who tactically waited like a fiend (Uncle3en – always, even if he wasn't playing) and who went against all expectation and must have actually killed someone in a first-person shooter and not just stood around looking skywards, yes Henrypootle is now a Major in KZ2! "I even came second in our team in one game. We lost the game. But I came second. Out of Four. One of whom was Crispy who had only been there for the last couple of minutes. But still, 2nd!"Being almost the weekend, talk quickly turned to booze, more specifically which fruit was acceptable to add to beer. Scorn was poured on lemon and lime, but maraschino cherries? Interesting...  Another ongoing debate on unexpected objects continued as people tried and failed to guess the last of the contents of Henry's pockets – it's a game for all the family, just not a quick one at over a month so far I'd guess. If that doesn't make any newcomers want to get involved in the box then nothing will.Quotes of the week"Surely … everyone on their very first day of primary school learns the 'three befores', ken? Tadpoles before frogs, vinegar before salt, sex before marriage"Bloatboy on the gravity of St00's chip shop situation."Somehow, despite messing up his dover sole, he managed to pull it out of the bag"SerenVikity reviews the world's strangest magician."I have been misusing the word sabled for over 18 years, and have only just found out. Sabled. It isn't even a word."LazyBones' world comes crashing down around him."I was in a karaoke bar last night. I sang 'Pump up the jam'; I sang 'I like to move it'; I sang 'Gold' by Spandau Ballet.  'Pump up the jam' was a real hit. I sang it about three times. This morning I have piles of paper to shuffle and gesture with. I'm going to put my bic biro in my mouth and concentrate. I might even make some calls. My bowels feel tremulous."A lesson in life from Lazybones. Don't drink and go to a karaoke bar.  Ever."Risky question of the day... What is a ladyboy?"TakeItx2 asks the cocktail-related question that most others wouldn't dare."No. No, no, no. No."StiLteD on a rumoured remake of Back to the Future with Justin Bieber as Marty McFly.Other stuffGames:Demons' Souls, some football game PIFA or something like that, CIV V and the usual preparation talk for MW2 Thursdays, Battlefield – Bad Company 2, Bloodbowl, Halo Reach, NCAA Football 11, F1 2010,  Rock Band 2, MLB – The Show, Civ 5, Assassin's Creed 2, Killzone 2 (it's the new hotness if you live in January 2009).Films &amp; TV:Centurion, 30 Rock, Running Wilde, An Idiot Abroad, Mad Men, The Inbetweeners and the final episode of This is England '86, The Wire (a stalwart), An Idiot Abroad, Juno, Star Wars, Rec 2, Get Him to the Geek.Link of the week:Thanks to Limni for this link to:"The history of hip-hop, an individual show from every year from 1979-2009."This week's 'best of' was written by FoolsGold, SerenVikity, OneDaveofMany, Smellavision, Tjvs and edited by OfficePest.
