Two police detectives burst into a filthy apartment. A&nbsp;woman is cowering on the floor amid upturned furniture as a group of hired thugs search every drawer and cupboard. A fist fight ensues, the heavies are dispatched and&nbsp;the officers are left to question the&nbsp;traumatised victim.How do they start questioning her? How will they know if she's telling the truth? Well, that's your problem. You are the cop and this is a whole new type of video game.LA Noire is the latest offering from Rockstar Games, the notorious publisher of Grand Theft Auto and last year's brilliant western shooter, Red Dead Redemption. The action takes place in the seamy, crime-sodden LA of the late 40s; the familiar hunting ground of Raymond Chandler, James Ellroy and Dashiell Hammett – all huge influences on the game's director, Brendan McNamara. The player takes on the role of rookie detective Cole Phelps as he investigates a series of kidnaps and murders, studying crime scenes, talking to witnesses and interrogating suspects. Gamers are able to choose the tone of each Q&amp;A session, playing nice and going in gently, or challenging every word the subject utters. Vitally, progress is made by watching characters as they stutter and squirm, judging whether they're lying or terrified; it's not killing people, it's reading them.The realism of these virtual humans is incredible. In one scene the gamer has to question an actor who has been drugged, shoved in the back of a car and wheeled down an embankment in a thwarted murder attempt. Her eyes dart about, she shifts uncomfortably, her brows furrow in agitation – she's hiding something. These aren't the gross caricatures of facial expressions we're used to in video games; they are subtle and natural. Later, the gamer talks to a weasely prop house owner who has been caught running a seedy casting coach. He snarls his way through the session, but after a few threats he wilts, his expression droops. At times, it is almost photographic.What LA Noire represents is a new era for interactive entertainment. Over the past 30 years, games have been based around challenging the player's hand-eye co-ordination – the ability to react quickly with a controller. But in LA Noire, the main skill is emotional perception, being able to judge body language and facial "tells" – the little nervous tics that betray liars. These are the same skills we use in real life and that allow us to engage with characters in TV and movie dramas. Suddenly then, games are a universal medium.They have hinted at this before. Last year's gruelling psychological drama Heavy Rain required players to engage with troubled characters and carry out simple detective work, while the Mass Effect series of science-fiction adventures has provided a rich, emotional narrative. But the naturalism, the human drama of these games, has always been held back by slightly lifeless character models.Central to the human realism in LA Noire is the motion-scan technology, a new method of capturing facial expressions, researched and developed by the game's creators, the Sydney-based studio Team Bondi. Standard motion-capture means that the actor's face is covered in small, reflective balls, which are tracked by a camera. "The problem with that is that having little balls on someone's face doesn't really capture the muscles or the skin movement," says McNamara. "It just captures skeletons and there aren't that many joints in the human face." But with motion-scan, each actor is surrounded by 32 cameras, which record every intricate movement at the rate of 1,000 frames-per-second, creating a three-dimensional animation of the actor's face as they deliver lines. All of this is captured in a special studio, complete with stark, white lighting: "When we first described this weird process to the actors, they thought they were going to be reprogrammed, like Alex in A Clockwork Orange," jokes McNamara.The casting has also been vital. Team Bondi avoided going for film superstars, because their mannerisms and emotional cues will be too familiar to gamers. Instead, they've opted for lesser-known actors. Aaron Staton, who plays Ken Cosgrove in Mad Men, is Phelps. "When we started looking at the roles, Dan Houser [vice-president of Rockstar Games], had seen Aaron in Mad Men and thought he was an interesting actor," explains McNamara. "Luckily, we used the same casting agency as Mad Men, so once we had Aaron on board, half the rest of the cast heard about it and asked to be in it, too. Lots of them have cameos!"There are over 400 characters in the game, and its script that would cover two seasons of a major TV series. But, for all this talk of human drama, LA Noire is still an action game. Between the interrogation scenes, there are shoot-outs and car chases, there are bank robberies to foil. Team Bondi claims a new style of co-operative gameplay will emerge to deal with this dichotomy. "One interesting phenomenon we've seen while testing the game is that three or four people will sit down and play together on a couch, with one handling the shoot-outs and the brawls, and someone else doing the conversations. It becomes an interactive experience that families might choose over half an hour of TV," adds McNamara.So is there a future in which games abandon the need for visceral action altogether and concentrate on human relationships? McNamara is convinced this will happen, and, as internet-connected televisions become more readily available, we're going to see experiences that merge traditional TV shows with video game elements. "It's going to happen sooner than you think," he says. "We have shown with LA Noire the level of humanity you can get into games, the level of immersion, the believability of the characters. Games have always been good at interactivity, but where we've fallen down is in areas like story and characters. If we bring all that in, there's no reason interactive TV shows couldn't happen."Until recently, games were about crude characters blasting space aliens; now they can be about rounded humans learning to gauge photorealistic strangers. McNamara's ideas about deep interactive dramas being broadcast like TV shows sound outlandish, but the technological building blocks are there. LA Noire points the way. We are going to need to put down our controllers and pick up on our people skills.•LA Noire will be released for Xbox 360 and PS3 on 20 May
The online activism group Anonymous has denied insinuations by Sony that it was involved in the hacker breaches of the PlayStation Network (PSN) and Online Entertainment (SOE) systems in which between 77m and 100m personal details were stolen, and potentially as many credit card details.The riposte was delivered in a letter published online soon after the corporation delivered a letter to US politicians in which it claimed that private investigators called in to examine the break-in had discovered a file entitled "Anonymous" and containing the words "We are Legion" - part of Anonymous's slogan.The group issued a 900-word statement in which it insisted that it does not steal credit card data and that its aims are purely political - in marked contrast, it said, to its adversaries, who include Sony because of the action the company took against a number of users who had found ways around some protections built into the PlayStation 3 console."Anonymous has never been known to have engaged in credit card theft," the statement said. "Many of our corporate and governmental adversaries, on the other hand. have been known to have lied to the public about Anonymous and about their own activities."It said that the credit card theft - which Sony said came about after four servers on its network spontaneously rebooted and began behaving "oddly" - did not fit Anonymous's "modus operandi": "Whoever did perform the credit card theft did so contrary to the 'modus operandi' and intentions of Anonymous. Public support is not gained by stealing credit card info and personal identities, we are trying to fight criminal activities by corporations and governments, not steal credit cards."Anonymous is a loosely organised group of hackers of various levels of expertisewith an onion-like structure, where the most experienced and skilled hackers work in the centre, widening to the less experienced but sympathetic "members" at the fringes. They organise themselves through online chatrooms; few members know each others' real-life identities. Membership is international and probably includes a couple of thousand people at any time.In the past the group has targeted the Church of Scientology, Visa and Mastercard, and various middle Eastern governments in the pursuit of what it sees as transparency and individual liberty.Sony has also blamed Anonymous for carrying out adenial-of-service attackwhich made it difficult or impossible to spot the break-in because Sony's engineers were trying to cope with the online attack that was knocking out their servers. The statement from Anonymous - which appears to have been authored by a number of people, but uses American spelling and grammar throughout - does not deal with the ramifications of the attack, and Sony's assertion that it enabled the theft by distracting the security team.The timing of the break-in to Sony's systems is unlikely to have been an accident; a malicious hacker could have used the attack by Anonymous as cover when the first break-in on 17 April was made. Anonymous had announced on 4 APril that it would attack Sony because the Japanese corporation decided to pursue legal action against George Hotz, who had discovered and then shared the "root key" of the PS3, which would mean that anyone could potentially play any game on it - including pirated ones.Anonymous insisted: "If a legitimate and honest investigation into the credit card is conducted, Anonymous will not be found liable. While we are a distributed and decentralized group, our 'leadership' does not condone credit card theft. We are concerned with erosion of privacy and fair use, the spread of corporate feudalism, the abuse of power and the justifications of executives and leaders who believe themselves immune personally and financially for the actions they undertake in the name of corporations and public office."The fact that Sony has said that the people who hacked its servers erased log files to cover their steps makes it look extremely unlikely that they would also have left a text file linking them back to Anonymous if that were their origin.
The internet phone service Skype is entertaining partnership talks with both Facebook and Google – delaying its $100m (£60m) Wall Street flotation – according toreports.A deal to buy Skype outright is not thought to be in the pipeline, although one source "with direct knowledge of the discussion"told Reutersthat billionaire Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg had "been involved in internal discussions" about snapping up the video chat service. Such a deal could be worth between $3bn and $4bn, according to the Reuters source – which, if plausible, is illuminating about how much cash the social network has in the bank.More likely is a joint venture between Skype and Facebook/Google. The Luxembourg-based company has longstanding partnerships with TV manufacturers including LG, Panasonic and Samsung to embed Skype into their products.It is not hard to imagine Skype calling integrated into Facebook, for when the likes, wall posts and private messages just won't do. Both firms, too, have sizeable communities of engaged users: Facebook has more than 600 million registered accounts; Skype has 560 million, of whom about 124 million make calls in the average month.Most troubling for Skype is its low conversion rate – only about 6% of its users actually pay for the service, something the company explicitly vowed to boost in its initial public offering prospectus last year. However, we shouldn't expect tie-ups with Facebook and Google to involve paid-for premium services – that's not how those companies operate.A tie-up with Google is slightly less obvious. The Mountain View company already has GChat video-and-voice calling embedded into Gmail, though the feature is a little hidden behind regular instant messaging. Then again, Skype would slot nicely into the so-far-underwhelmingGoogle TVandalready has a place on Android smartphones.Skype declared its intention to go publicway back in August last year, since when a slew of new generation internet firms – including Facebook, Zynga, and Twitter – have worked up investor appetite for social media firms.China's answer to Facebook, Renren, yesterdayraised $743mwith its flotation on the New York Stock Exchange, with shares immediately rocketing in the loss-making social network.Unlike Renren, which has the added allure of a booming Chinese internet market, Skype is hoping to raise $100m with its initial public offering in the second half of this year. The IPO will value the eight-year-old firm at $1bn, according toreports.The Canadian pension fund, Silver Lake and venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz own a 56% stake in Skype, with 14% belonging to its original inventors, Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis.Still in Skype's rear-view mirror is its fruitless $3.1bn acquisition by eBay in 2005 – and sale in 2009 – which will make the internet telephony firm wary of a wholesale buyout. eBay maintains a 30% stake in Skype.
Thursday is a big day for new app releases, as developers jockey for chart position before the weekend downloads spike. Here's today's crop of new apps.Coca-Cola Heritage Timeline for iPhoneThis free universal iOS app serves up a fizzy history of Coca-Cola, including vintage advertising, info on the "evolution of the contour bottle", and the drinks brand's latest campaigns. It also pulls in posts from the official Coca-Cola Conversations blog.Chelsea FC QuizPublished by Chelsea Digital Media, this is an official Chelsea FC iPhone app, which takes the form of a trivia quiz. Developer Quipper promises that the questions will be updated after every match, with a global leaderboard sorting the men from the men who know which full-back scored 34 goals between 1953 and 1962.The Vivienne Westwood CollectionAnother universal iOS app, this costs £2.99 and is published by Opus Media Group, which has previously made licensed apps for Ferrari and the Saatchi Gallery. It's a collection of portraits of fashion designer Westwood, her friends, family and models. More than 100 are included, including the likes of Kate Moss, Bob Geldof, Tracey Emin and the Duchess of York.Keith Lemon's Mouthboard!Thanks to TV gameshow Sing If You Can, comedian Leigh Francis' Keith Lemon character is on something of a roll right now. His official "mouthboard" app may well find an audience, offering a mixture of soundbites, and a virtual mouth – yes, with moustache – to place in front of your own. An idea originally seen in UK studio ustwo's MouthOff apps.Mr Wolf and the Ginger CupcakesThis first book-app from developer BlueQuoll offers a new spin on the tale of Red Riding Hood, blending voice narration, hand-painted watercolour illustrations and "background gipsy jazz music".IPL T20Fever DeluxeThe official iPhone and iPad game for the Indian Premier League, published by Indiagames. Includes all the teams and players from this season's IPL, along with virtual versions of the stadia.Adelaide RoadInspired by Shakespeare's As You Like It, this app from Calvium promises to take "a real or virtual journey along Adelaide Road in London" while listening to stories and poems. User participation is encouraged, but it works even when you're not in the specific location.Say It, ZoeOffered in bilingual English and Norwegian, this iPad app aims to help 1-4 year-olds learn language, without a virtual flash card in sight. Images appear as the word for them is spoken, with hidden surprises when children tap on the pictures.JancisThis is the first issue of a new iPad-only wine magazine called By The Grape, which costs £2.39 an issue. The first focuses on author and TV presenter Jancis Robinson, and offers a mixture of articles, photos and videos, while pulling in tweets and blog posts from Robinson.Meteor Multitrack RecorderWith Apple pushing iPad as a gadget for musicians, Meteor Multitrack Recorder provides a 12-track recorder with built-in mixer and multi-effects processor. However, the developer also thinks it could be useful for journalists splicing together interview recordings.Barbie Fairy SecretLaunched by toy firm Mattel, this is the latest official Barbie app for iPhone, promoting the new movie of the same  name. There's a video trailer, an augmented reality game, and a photo-manipulation feature to put wings on the app's young users.
Twitter could become a key tool in the fight to contain the spread of illnesses and viruses if a new mapping technology that examines the health-related tweets of users takes-off.The graphical mapping system, called Kazemill, is an online service that alerts users to the spread of illnesses by monitoring Twitter activity and sifting for relevant data from Tweets on an hourly basis.Kazemill, which shows real-time data on a colour-coded map to show the spread of symptoms that Twitter users are complaining about, has been developed by IPG-owned ad agency McCann Healthcare Worldwide.There are plans to develop the Twitter-based mapping system to a "TV like" experience – creating seasonal illness "forecasts" that echo TV weather bulletins about the spread of cold, flu and hayfever.The agency said the technology is clever enough to distinguish between an innocuous tweet about feeling a bit rubbish and a relevant one relating to more serious symptoms.In the first instance the agency is working with Tokyo-based pharmaceuticals company SSP, a subsidiary of Germany's Boehringer Ingelheim, which makes over-the-counter products for ailments including cold and flu remedies."Twitter and social marketing makes perfect sense when tackling illness and disease, more so with diseases that are seasonal and recurring," said Kazuhiro Koshidaka, head of marketing at SSP.In the version developed for Japan, 18,000 daily mentions of specific symptoms – such as throat pain, runny nose or chills – are gathered along with geographic information and overlaid on a map of the country.Colours – such as orange for itchy throat, purple for a cough and red for fever – show viewers of the online map the spread of illnesses and the prevalence in particular areas. The algorithm has been developed in conjunction with Tokyo University's Centre for Knowledge Structuring.The product is expected to be rolled out with a range of partners across the world over the next year.
It's Thursday, we're a little late, so let's get out there and chatfaster!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCD and mobile music sales fall in 2010, but vinyl continues its resurgence &gt;&gt; Los Angeles Times"On the digital front, mobile music sales, which is made up of mostly ringtones, dropped 28% to $527m last year. Sales of individual song downloads grew just 2.1% in 2010 with more than 1.16bn tracks sold, compared with 1.14bn in 2009. But overall digital music revenue grew 10%, in large part because Apple Inc. last year raised the price of top selling tunes to $1.29 from 99 cents.&#10;"The price hike by Apple, which commands roughly 70% of the market for digital music downloads, may have slowed the number of songs people bought, but it resulted in an increase in overall revenue, which last year climbed to $2.24bn, up from $2.03bn in 2009."Does Spotify Really Want To Be An iTunes Killer? &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsMusic analyst Mark Mulligan: "The iTunes app is outdated and bloated. It's long overdue competitive disruption. Spotify's music app is clean and elegant, just like iTunes used to be. With Facebook integration, a celestial jukebox, music management and even device syncing (of sorts) Spotify may actually stand a half-decent chance of getting many of its iTunes-using customers to start using Spotify as their main music app.    &#10;"But despite the PR, Spotify is not actually trying to be an iTunes Killer at all. They're trying to learn how to co-exist, using the iTunes ecosystem as their habitat. Almost a parasitical co-existence: if the host dies the parasite dies too. The fate of iPods, iPhones and iPads is inextricably linked with iTunes."For tablets to succeed mainstream: Consumers simply must "get it" | ZDNet"Tablet makers must make sure that, like the iPad, their product has a simple hardware design. They must put an interface on it that is totally intuitive and inviting to be touched, and most importantly invites the user to do things. No intimidation is allowed, just the invitation for exploration with the tablet. Make that the focus of all marketing for the tablet. Not whiz-bang features, not sophisticated functionality; get the message out that you can just do things with this tablet. That's all mainstream consumers want to hear."Really insightful piece about the gulf in usability between the iPad and other tablets so far. Perhaps webOS will do better.Popular Sports Site Goal.com Serves Malware &gt;&gt; threatpost"Goal.com, a popular football (aka "soccer" for all us Yanks) news site was hacked and found serving malware via drive-by-downloads between April 27 and 28, according to a post by Web security firm Armorize.&#10;"In an analysis of the attack, Armorize researcher Wayne Huang suggests that a hacker specifically targeted and compromised Goal.com through a back-door that allowed the attacker to manipulate the site's content at will. Researchers at Armorize said the attacks appear to be specific to Goal.com, which ranks 379th on Alexa.com's list of the world's top Web sites. That suggests the compromise is not part of a mass SQL injection campaign."If you went there on those dates, your computer may have been exploited.A Manhattan Project for online identity &gt;&gt; O'Reilly Radar"Governments are now faced with complex decisions in how they approach issues of identity, given the stakes for activists in autocracies and the increasing integration of technology into the daily lives of citizens. Governments need ways to empower citizens to identify themselves online to realize both aspirational goals for citizen-to-government interaction and secure basic interactions for commercial purposes."Complex hardly begins to describe it.Why councils shouldn't run Google AdSense ads &gt;&gt; Adrian ShortNottingham City Council got £15,000 from Google AdSense on its site. Good thing? Short looked at the ads and thought they weren't always appropriate: 'payday loans', business rates avoidance, pole dancing lessons. "The conclusion I drew was that Nottingham City Council either didn't monitor which ads were served on their website or didn't particularly care. Either way I found it hard to see how the council and the community got a net financial benefit from this advertising, quite aside from issues of appropriateness, likely offence and web clarity/usability."HP's Tiny Veer WebOS Phone Coming to AT&amp;T in May &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"AT&amp;T is hoping that good things do indeed come in small packages.&#10;"The company announced Wednesday that it will start selling the Veer, the smallest member of HP's lineup of new webOS devices. The device will go on sale May 15 for $99 with a two-year contract.&#10;"The Veer will be called the Veer 4G given its support for AT&amp;T's HSPA network and will come in both black and white models."Interesting that AT&amp;T is taking it (Palm's reputation took a battering from the Pre's failure to sell) and that it's pushing 4G connectivity. HP might have a success on its hands.Research in Motion BlackBerry World announcements disappoint analysts &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"'Nothing we saw…gives us incremental conviction that anything changes fundamentally in the balance of power against Android and iOS,' [UBS analyst Philip] Huang said. 'In general, we believe, RIM's fundamental challenge over the next few quarters will be executing flawlessly on the hardware, platform, and ecosystem shifts occurring.'"If RIM misses its profit forecast for the full year, or has to retreat from it (which is very likely), its management won't have any credibility, is the suggestion.674K Windows Phone 7 sales in Q4 2010? Possible &gt;&gt; WMPoweruser"With most Windows Phone 7 sales in USA a total of 674,000 is certainly possible, and would represent around a multiple of 3 of the around 200,000 Facebook App users at the end of last year. If that same multiple still applies then there are around 1.5 to 2 million Windows Phone 7 users at the moment. This would represent a launch spike followed by around 10,000 activations per day."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Apple has released a software update for its iPhone and iPad which prevents it keeping a detailed record of the owner's movements, and does not synchronise the details to the owner's computer.The company had been criticised for the fact - discovered by two British researchers and revealed by the Guardian on 20 April - that the devicescould effectively be used to trace where users had been, and that the file stored on the phone or tablet could be accessed by anyone who got hold of their computer. The data had been stored for up to a year.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive,responded to a concerned useron 25 April that "we don't track anyone". It also emerged that Android phones keep a similar cache of data, though only if the user gives permission. Apple users give similar permission, though it is buried in the 15,000-word agreement to use the iTunes store.Apple said in a statement on 27 Aprilthat the file was in fact a record of mobile cell towers and Wi-Fi networks that the phone had "seen" in order to help it calculate its location more rapidly and accurately than if it were using the GPS satellite location system. Some of the towers, it said, could be up to a hundred miles away from the iPhone or iPad that recorded them.The update cuts the amount of cached data that is stored to just a week, and does not synchronise it to the owner's computer if the phone or tablet is connected to it. That means that if someone gets at the computer they will find no details. In addition, the cached data is wiped if the user disables the location services setting on the iPhone or iPad.The data is not encrypted on the device, which means that it could be collected by law enforcement or thieves. But Apple says it will encrypt the data in another forthcoming update to the software that runs the devices.On 27 April, Apple said "users are confused, partly because the creators of this new technology (including Apple) have not provided enough education about these issues [of data storage for determining location] to date."The update applies to the iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, iPad 2, iPad, and the 3rd and 4th iterations of the iPod Touch. However the iPhone 3G will not receive the update. Apple has not said what will happen for those users.
Investigators found a file implicating the "hacktivist" group Anonymous in the security breach that led to the theft of the personal details of more than 100 million online gamers, electronics company Sony has told the US Congress.Ina letter to Congress, Sony said the data theft came at the same time it was defending itself against a cyber-attack from members of Anonymous.Forensic experts found a file on one of the hacked systems, titled Anonymous, which contained a phrase – "We are legion" – that is sometimes used by the hackers' collective, said Sony chairman Kazuo Hirai in the letter to members of the House of Representatives."What is becoming more and more evident is that Sony has been the victim of a very carefully planned, very professional, highly sophisticated criminal cyber-attack designed to steal personal and credit card information for illegal purposes," he told the House commerce committee, who have launched an inquiry into the matter.Hirai, chairman of the board of directors of Sony Computer Entertainment America, said Anonymous began denial-of-service attacks, which take servers down by overwhelming them with internet traffic, after the company took action against a hacker in a federal court in San Francisco."Just weeks before, several Sony companies had been the target of a large-scale, coordinated denial-of-service attack by the group called Anonymous," said Hirai. "The attacks were coordinated against Sony as a protest against Sony for exercising its rights in a civil action in the United States district court in San Francisco against a hacker."But he said the mass data theft was launched separately and Sony was not sure whether the two cyber-attacks were co-ordinated.The company also admitted that it discovered a breach in its PlayStation video game network on 20 April but did not report the matter to US authorities for two days and only informed consumers on 26 April."Throughout the process, Sony Network Entertainment America was very concerned that announcing partial or tentative information to consumers could cause confusion and lead them to take unnecessary actions if the information was not fully corroborated by forensic evidence," Hirai wrote.On Tuesday the company admitted the names, email addresses and phone numbers of 25 million Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) customers were stolen in the attack, which also hit 77 million PlayStation Network gamers. Debit card records of 10,700 customers in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain were compromised in the attack."The Sony matter is under active investigation. It involves personnel from the FBI and the justice department who are looking into the matter," US attorney general Eric Holder said. "It is something we are taking extremely seriously."Anonymous was born out of the influential internet messageboard 4chan, a forum popular with hackers and gamers, in 2003. The group's name is a tribute to 4chan's early days, when any posting to its forums where no name was given was ascribed to Anonymous.It came to public prominence in December after members briefly brought down MasterCard, Visa and PayPal after those companies cut off financial services to WikiLeaks.
Intel has redesigned the transistor – the building block of the chip – to add a third dimension that will let them design smaller and more powerful processors for years to come.The new 3D "tri-gate" designs announced on Wednesday use a 22-nanometre process with a "fin" jutting up from the base. (A nanometre is a billionth of metre.) The company says chips using them will go into production this year and appear in computers in 2012 in processors codenamed "Ivy Bridge", and allow them to keep improving performance in line with Moore's Law for some time.The new designs will also use less power. Kevin Krewell, senior analyst at the Linley Group, said a dual-core chip with 22nm tri-gate transistors would use the same power as an existing 32nm chip – or, alternatively, use half the power as a single-core 32nm chip.Theannouncementgives Intel its best chance of breaking into the growing market for chips used in smartphones and tablet computers, where it has failed to make any impression because its existing designs use too much power. That field is dominated by chips using designs from the British company ARM. Intel declined to comment on whether it would be able to challenge ARM through these designs. In January,Microsoft announced the next version of Windows – expected in 2012 – would be able to run on ARM designs, implying to some that it no longer thought Intel was the key architecture for the future.Intel executives said at the announcement they thought tri-gate would be "extremely competitive" with ARM on power consumption following internal benchmarking, but wouldn't say how they compared.Asked for a date when the chips would appear in smartphones, executives said they had a date – but wouldn't share it.Normally, transistors on chips are flat, with three "gates" – a base, collector and emitter. Controlling the voltage on the base turns current flow on or off through a "conducting channel" from the collector to the emitter. In the tri-gate design, the 3D "fin" is the conducting channel for the transistor, and the controlling gates are put in each of the three sides of the fin – two on each side and on across the top, rather than one on top as happens with the 2D planar transistor.Intel has been talking about 3D transistors for nearly a decade, and other companies are experimenting with similar technology. But nobody has previously been able to make them in any quantity.Transistors are the cheapest manufactured item in the universe: a typical chip, consisting of a few "gates", can contain a billion transistors and cost about a hundred dollars. Their only function is to regulate the flow of electricity inside chips. Gordon Moore stated his famous "law" in a paper in 1965, forecasting that the number of transistors on a chip would double every 12 to 18 months. But as transistors get smaller they fall prey to quantum effects where electrons "leak" between the gates; it had been thought that that would bring Moore's Law to an end in around 2015. The announcement suggests that it will be able to continue further because it lowers the voltage at which the transistors operate. That in turn reduces the leakage across the gates.The advance doesn't mean Intel is building a second layer of transistors on the chip. That remains a distant but hotly pursued goal of the industry; "cubic" chips could be much faster that flat ones while consuming far less power.Analysts briefed on the work called it one of the most significant shifts in silicon transistor design since the integrated circuit was invented in the 1950s."When I looked at it, I did a big, 'Wow.' What we've seen for decades now have been evolutionary changes to the technology. This is definitely a revolutionary change," said Dan Hutcheson, a longtime semiconductor industry watcher and chief executive of VLSI Research Inc.Previous major changes to transistor design have focused on new materials that can be used for transistors, not entire redesigns of the transistors themselves. "People have been trying to avoid changing the structure," Hutcheson said.Other semiconductor companies argue that there's still life to be squeezed from the current design of transistors. Hutcheson agrees, but said Intel's approach should allow it to advance at least a generation ahead of its rivals, which include IBM Corp and Advanced Micro Devices.The reduced power consumption addresses a key need for Intel.The performance expectations and power requirements for PCs are much higher than they are for phones and tablet computers, so Intel's dominance in PC chips doesn't necessarily lead to success in mobile devices. Even Intel's Atom-based chips, which are designed for mobile devices, have been criticised as too power-hungry.Technological leadership alone won't guarantee success, however, as Intel has learned in repeated attempts at cracking the mobile market.Other chip makers such as Qualcomm Inc and Texas Instruments Inc have entrenched partnerships with cellphone makers, and there is suspicion about the performance of Intel's chips in mobile devices."When it comes to the mobile market, they have their work cut out for them," Hutcheson said of Intel. But "this gives you the transistors to build the next great system."
Android is the dominant smartphone platform worldwide for the second quarter in a row, in a market that has grown by 83% to 101m from 55.2m a year ago, according to new research from Canalys.The data also shows that the Asia-Pacific region is the largest market for smartphones, having almost doubled in size over the past year and taking just under 40% of all units shipped worldwide, with mainland China, South Korea and India seeing particularly strong growth.The figures, released on Wednesday, also show that smartphones outsold PCs for the second quarter in a row, underlining the dominance of the new devices. Canalys, which has bases in California, the UK and Singapore, says that 101.0m smartphones were shipped in the first quarter of 2011, compared to between 80m and 84m PCs as estimated by research companies IDC and Gartner for the same period. Smartphones first outsold PCs in the fourth quarter of 2010, when 100.2 were sold compared to 92.5m PCs.Highlights from the report:• Phones running Android made up 35% of those sold, increasing Google's share, said Canalys.• Nokia saw market share for its Symbian OS - which is under a death sentence from chief executive Stephen Elop - cut from 39% a year ago (ie 21.5m sold) to 24% now (24m sold), principally by focussing its sales efforts in the Asia-Pacific countries where it is strongest. More than half of the 24m smartphones Nokia sold in the quarter went there, with around 9m going to China. Elop said in February that Nokia would sell roughly 150m more Symbian smartphones as theOS is phased out in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone platform.• Apple thrived on the growth in the Asian and US markets, with the Chinese New Year and the launch ofCDMA-equipped iPhones through Verizonfrom February helping it to an 18% share worldwide.• Overall, sales in the APAC (Asia Pacific) region grew 98% to 37.3m units, said Canalys, which puts it ahead of the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region for the first time since the third quarter of 2007.However the US remained the largest country for smartphone shipments:• Android remained the leading smart phone platform in the US for the third consecutive quarter, with a 49% share.• More than tripling sales HTC became the leading Android vendor in the US and the second-placed smartphone vendor in the country overall.• Apple was the single biggest vendor in the US, with a share of 31% and growth of over 150% year-on-year.Worldwide:• RIM's worldwide share dropped to 14% compared to 19% a year ago, and sales of its BlackBerry handsets saw a quarter-on-quarter fall - the first in its history. "RIM's always going to be struggling compared to other vendors," said Pete Cunningham, principal analyst for Canalys. "Because it's so strong in the enterprise space, people often get their first experience of them through locked-down devices - and then they try a friend's Android or iPhone and like that much more, even though their BlackBerry could do the same if it weren't locked down."• Overall, Android shipments were helped by strong sales by its vendors including HTC, Samsung, LG, Motorola and Sony Ericsson.• Samsung shipped nearly 3.5m phones running its Bada OS - which Canalys says outstripped total shipments of Microsoft's Windows Phone OS, launched in the fourth quarter of 2010, by 1m units. "Samsung's own operating system development, combined with the branding and investment in its Wave smart phones at mid-tier prices, has led to good uptake in developed markets, such as France, the UK and Germany," Cunningham said. "This shows that there is still room for multiple operating systems, and that vendors can benefit from maintaining control of device development to hit the right markets and price points."• Windows Phone 7 shipped around 2m devices in the quarter. Cunningham said the figures would have left him "quite downbeat" about its prospects if Microsoft had not announced its tieup with Nokia in February. "Nokia is under considerable strain in the smartphone market as it transitions strategy, platforms and people," said Cunningham. "Its worldwide reach, however, should never be underestimated. Canalys' country-level data shows that the vendor remains number one in 28 countries, including mainland China, where it grew 79% to 8.9m units, thanks in part to Chinese New Year shipments."• Nokia, Apple, RIM, Samsung and HTC were the top five global smart phone vendors, as in Q4 2010. Apple continued to make market share gains, reaching 19%. RIM's share, however, dropped in Q1, as its portfolio awaited a refresh and the vendor focused on the PlayBook launch. Overtaking Motorola, LG moved into sixth place, with its Optimus series of Android smart phones doing well in all regions.The popularity of 4G-branded models, such as the Samsung Galaxy S 4G, HTC EVO Shift 4G and the T-Mobile myTouch 4G, heavily influenced US market shipments this past quarter. Q1 also marked the first full quarter of LTE smart phone shipments, following Verizon's 4G network launch in December 2010. Canalys estimates that shipments of these devices reached over 600,000 units.HTC was singled out for praise. "Shipments of its EVO series, Inspire 4G and Thunderbolt enhanced HTC's strong performance in this quarter," said Canalys vice president and principal analyst Chris Jones. "The vendor has a wide and regularly refreshed portfolio, covering multiple network technologies, which puts it in a strong position both in the US and worldwide."He suggested that in the US the "4G" label - for higher-speed networks using so-called Long-Term Evolution (LTE) connections - could become important for sales. "We are starting to see some significant benefits from marketing high-speed networks to consumers in the US, as end users become more familiar with the performance and technical aspects of their smartphones. It's a trend that will inevitably spread around the world over the coming years as carriers upgrade their network infrastructures."
It's quite possible that there hasn't been a truly great Star Wars game since BioWare's fantastically involving 2003 role-playing adventure, Knights of the Old Republic. Sure, Lego Star Wars was cute, clever and funny; it also revived interest in plastic building bricks and spawned a whole new genre of co-op family-friendly platformers. But its repetitive structure and lolloping camera annoyed some critics. Lego Star Wars III: Clone Wars has attracted even more scorn.As with the movies, most veteran gamers agree that the Star Wars heyday is both long ago and far, far away – though there are different periods that they pine for. Some remember the old school arcade cabinets, specifically Atari's beautiful sit-in Star Wars game with its sparse vector graphics and memorable sound samples. Others loved the robust Super Star Wars action titles of the SNES era; while PC owners will recall the flood of space combat sims in the mid-nineties, peaking with X-wing versus TIE Fighter and its awesome multiplayer mode.All of those titles, perhaps due to their more abstract nature and adherence to the tropes of the original trilogy, seemed to me to capture more of the essence of the movies than anything since. So what needs to be done to bring Star Wars back to the top of the gaming agenda? Obviously BioWare may turn things around again with its long-awaited massively-multiplayer epic, Old Republic. But until then, here are five suggestions for the decision makers at Skywalker Ranch...1. Make a Han Solo gameCome on, this is obvious isn't it? The charismatic bright spark of the entire fiction has never figured significantly in a Star Wars action adventure. Instead, we've had anonymous chancers like Kyle Katarn and Galen Marek, identikit protagonists whose own parents would have trouble picking them out of a line-up. Okay, I know LucasArts are never going to get Harrison Ford to agree on a likeness, or to provide voice acting, but as long as we have the black waistcoat, Corellian Bloodstripes and rakish charm we're fine.2. Stick to the original trilogy timelineThe pre-Episode IV timeline is a yawning gulf of endless over-complex machinations and mystifying subterfuges; this is what happens when narrative is decided on by a community of canonical accountants rather than a singular vision. From A New Hope onwards we have an evocative, empathetic story of brave individuals fighting against a cruel impersonal empire; it is – as Lucas always intended – the stuff of Joseph Campbell and Akira Kurosawa. Everything before it is trade union politics and one good battle.3. Be RockstarGTA, Red Dead, LA Noire... say what you like about Rockstar, those guys know how to craft an epic narrative experience that sits within a palpable, engaging and explorable world. Star Wars: The Force Unleashed provided some beautiful-looking environments but kept them at lightsaber's length, forcing us down a corridor of repetitive action. Between missions, I want to engage with the world; most of all, I want to burst into the Moss Eisley cantina, smash walrus face in his horrible gob, then spend loads of cash on customisable power converters.4. Be funnyWho decided that Star Wars games had to be so po-faced? Samuel Witwer, bless him, does his best to lend some boyish wit to The Force Unleashed, but it all falls flat amid the incessant (dilusions of) grandeur. Let's face it, Star Wars is ludicrous, LucasArts needs to just go with that. Maybe Seth Green and Matthew Senreich should be brought in as consultant designers.5. Re-discover 1977Everything we love about Star Wars comes from the excitement surrounding the original movie. Instead of slavishly adhering to the bloated encyclopaedia that the series has become, the developers of the next title need to be sat in a room with some behind the scenes footage of George in his flares and fright beard, loafing about in the Tunisian desert like some dopish acid casualty on a gap year odyssey. They need to see the kids with big hair queuing all day outside single-screen cinemas; they need to handle the original toys (not stare at them in their mint condition boxes); they need to understand the hippyish iconography of the early Ralph McQuarrie art. Before Star Wars was a franchise, it was a fantasy film about galactic adventures and space monsters and how nothing could replace a good blaster by your side, kid. Bring that back, and you're sorted.
Jorma Ollila, chairman of the troubled Finnish phone maker Nokia, says he will step down within the next 12 months, having overseen the company's rise to dominance as its chief executive in the 1990s."It was a tough year, and I expect the year ahead to be a tough one too," Ollila, who led the company from 1992 to 2006, told the annual Nokia shareholders' meeting on Tuesday. He added that he was ready to continue for 12 more months."I am committed to continue at the job and do my bit. Throwing in the towel due to earlier difficulties is not my way of doing things," Ollila said.His departure will continue a clearout at the top of the company triggered by an internal crisis when, in September 2010, Ollila decided that the company had lost its way andforced out his longtime colleague and successor, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, replacing him with ex-Microsoft executive Stephen Elop. Ollilaindicated his readinessto depart at the time.Since then Elop has declared that the Symbian operating system used on Nokia smartphones will be killed off, andsigned a deal with billions of dollars from Microsoftto use its Windows Phone operating system on top-end phones instead. Those are expected to begin appearing after October this year.Under Ollila's leadership Nokia rose to the top of the mobile phone business, transforming itself from a company that made rubber boots and TV sets to become the biggest manufacturer of handsets by volume, and until it was passed by Apple earlier this year the largest by revenue ,too."For a long time he did a great job at Nokia, but then he made some mistakes that cost shareholders a fortune," said John Strand, founder and chief of Danish firmStrand Consult. "Under Ollila, Nokia was slow in smartphone development, not active in the fight with Apple and Google and failed to succeed in the United States."Nokia's share of the burgeoning smartphone market has been dropping, with Symbian falling behind Android worldwide at the end of last year, and Apple beginning to catch up with it for total smartphone sales.Ollila joined Nokia in 1985 and is also chairman of Royal Dutch Shell."Ollila's overall record as CEO of Nokia was outstanding, although he struggled to sustain the company's leadership in the United States during the first half of the 2000s," said analyst Neil Mawston from Strategy Analytics. "Some of Nokia's problems in that valuable market can arguably be traced back to Ollila's reign."In February, Elopcompared the company's smartphone strategy with a burning platformin a widely leaked memo, ahead of the announcement of the deal with Microsoft. Elop had also consulted Google about adopting the Android platform, it later emerged.On Tuesday, Elop reiterated that Nokia would receive billions from Microsoft as part of the deal, including substantial payments for the use of patents.Shares in Nokia were 0.8% higher at $9.31 in afternoon New York Stock Exchange trading.Uncertainty over the success of the Microsoft deal has driven Nokia shares down 25% since the Microsoft deal was unveiled, and the stock is trading at a mere third of what it was worth three years ago."It has been very painful to be a Nokia shareholder for the past several years," said shareholder Pekka Voutilainen.Ollila, who owns 700,000 shares in the company, agreed. He is a highly respected business leader in his native Finland, but several smaller shareholders said he should take some responsibility for Nokia's failures."If Elop was hired to put out the fire, Ollila is the one who lit it," shareholder Matti Virtanen said at the meeting.
AOL's display advertising revenue grew for the first time in more than three years in the first three months of 2011, helped by the acquisitions of Huffington Post, TechCrunch and GoViral.However, AOL reported a pre-tax loss of $11.2m for the quarter, down from a $78m profit in the equivalent period last year, as the business continues to restructure.Total revenues fell 17% to $551m – a better figure than analysts had expected – as the company's US dial-up internet subscription business continued to wither with revenues down 24% to $215m.Tim Armstrong, the AOL chief executive, preferred to focus on the 4% year-on-year increase in total display advertising revenues to $130.5m – the first growth since the final quarter of 2007 – citing it as an "important milestone" in the turnaround of the beleaguered company.AOL said US display revenue grew 11% to $122m – the first time it has grown since the fourth quarter of 2009.Just over $5m of the $12.2m year-on-year growth in first-quarter domestic revenue was "primarily" due to the acquisition of Huffington Post and TechCrunch –bought for $315mand$25m respectively. US growth was 6% excluding acquisitions.Armstrong said the Huffington Post, which was acquired in January, was the fastest integration project he had ever worked on and that the business had experienced a growth rate of about 30% in the first quarter. The company said Huffington Post "exceeded budgeted revenue" in the first quarter.However, international display advertising revenues fell 46% year on year to $8.5m, while advertising through AOL's third-party network fell 19% to $87.4m. Total advertising revenues fell 11% to $313m, some $40m down year on year.The company said the performance from ongoing businesses was "essentially flat" year on year, taking into account the $41.8m in ad revenue lost from the closure of some of AOL's European operations and the disposal of assets including Bebo and ICQ.AOL added that profitability was affected by $9m in deal-related expenses, primarily for the acquisitions of the Huffington Post and GoViral – which it acquired for $69m in January – and $8.4m in "incentive compensation expenses" tied to buy-ups made in 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011.The company also took a $27.8m hit in restructuring expenses related to the Huffington Post acquisition and the "reassessment of our operations in India".•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
If you've ever played a Red Faction game, you'll know the main draw of the series is the Geo-Mod engine. The franchise has seen changes over the years but its remaining constant is how Volition's superb physics engine makes blowing things to smithereens addictive, compelling and delightful fun.The developer seemingly lost sight of this in Red Faction: Guerrilla in which the series changed from a first-person shooter (FPS) to a third-person sandbox game. While players could cause untold havoc, the fact they had to spend a lot of time trundling around the game's massive map became a chore. The environments looked nice, sure, but the most enjoyment to be had always involved demolishing things and the lengthy journeys between missions detracted from the game's fun.Perhaps realising this, Volition have binned the sandbox structure for their latest title, Red Faction: Armageddon. The game is still a third-person adventure, but the emphasis is now more geared towards shooter action and Armageddon is all the better for it. In the hands-on time I had with it, there wasn't a space-buggy in sight. Instead there was a satisfyingly brutal arsenal, some wonderful new gadgets and toys and a ton of enemies to turn into paint. I also took a look at Volition's new Geo-Mod engine and the eye-popping manner in which players can use it to reduce nearly every building around them to a pile of smoldering rubble. They can also use it to restore a lot of the structures they've wrecked, but more on that later.The campaign in Red Faction: Armageddon centres around the antics of one Darius Mason, a freedom fighter on Mars. Darius is the grandson of Alec Mason, the protagonist from the previous game in the franchise, who liberated the red planet from the tyrannical EDF security forces. As the game kicks off, the player is told that it's been a couple of generations since the ending of Red Faction: Guerrilla, and while the EDF troops are gone, the settlers on Mars haven't exactly been having a peaceful time of things. A group of religious cultists, lead by a nutcase with a messianic complex called Adam Hale, have started making a menace of themselves.As mentioned earlier, Armageddon's first and most obvious strength is the fact that Volition have removed many of the obstacles which slow down the action. However, they've also provided the player with a ridiculously inventive array of weapons to help them cause destruction on a grand scale. Fans of the series will be pleased to hear that the Sledgehammer – which can bash through any surface like it's paper – the Nano Rifle – which dissolves any wall or creature it's fired at – and the Rocket Launcher – which does what it says on the tin – all make a return from Guerrilla. There are also a couple of more traditional weapons such as the Machine Gun, the Shotgun, the dual-wielded Handguns, the Rail Driver (which is a sniper rifle by any other name) and the Banshees (two massively high-powered sawn-offs).The rest of the new weapons, however, are real eye-openers. Top among them has to be the Singularity Cannon; fire this baby into a nearby building and it creates a miniature blackhole which sucks the structure's foundations into it. Lord knows what it does to flesh and blood targets – I didn't get the chance to test it, but it certainly makes the playing game's multiplayer mode an enticing prospect.My second favourite is the Magnet Gun. Players fire out two tags from this extraordinary weapon, and once both targets are hit, they begin hurtling towards one another. This is a weapon where the player is only limited by their own creativity. Tag an enemy and a section of wall and, yes, your target will slam right into it, but that's fairly mundane to watch. On the other hand, if you tag an enemy and a giant thermo-cooler which only needs something to hit it for it to explode, the results are far more satisfying.There are two plasma-based guns, the Plasma Cannon and the Plasma Beam. The former charges up and releases a blast of hugely destructive energy and the latter fires out a beam of light which the player can use to slice through pretty much anything. The final weapon in the build was a remote charge launcher; players fire three sticky rounds on to any target and then hit a button to detonate them all simultaneously. This can be incredibly fun if one manages to tag the supporting wall in a building some enemies are hiding in.Darius also has a couple of useful gadgets at his disposal. First up is the Nano-Forge which the player can use to repair any damage they've caused. This can be particularly useful if a firefight has managed to take out a bridge or a section of floor the player needs to progress through the game. The Nano-Forge can also be used in an attack called an Impact Charge, which essentially generates a wave of energy the player can use to repel enemies or smash through walls. Rounding out the kit is the Sat-Nav; when the player is lost, they simply tap the select button and a series of lights pop up showing the direction they need to head in. In every section of the map they move through, players will be able to collect Salvage, the game's currency, which they can spend on weapon, health and equipment upgrades.The three stages I played through in the demo were a worthy testing ground for Armageddon's weapons and how they work in conjunction with the Geo-Mod engine to fantastic effect. Players start off at a load-out area where they can select the weapons available, and then can set about blasting their enemies – and everything else – to pieces. Indeed, in some instances, they may find that dropping entire structures on top of their enemies is easier and more enjoyable than targeting them with machine gun fire. The action in Armageddon is widescreen in scope; as buildings topple, towers explode and enemies are sent flying through the air like rag dolls the sense of being in an epic confrontation is palpable. The soundtrack complements the action perfectly without becoming oppressive; unlike the Call Of Duty games, Armageddon's sound effects never feel like they're attacking you.The only duff note in the run-and-gun action is the cover system, in that there isn't one, really. Players have to expose themselves completely to draw a bead on opponents and are also unable to blind-fire. Mind you, since most cover can be shot through anyway, this point may seem a little moot.From the demo, I also gleaned a smattering of the game's plot. The initial stages involved Darius and his compatriots infiltrating a Terraformer which provides the oxygen for the planet's inhabitants. Hale and his zealots were trying to blow it up and, even though I left a trail of carnage in my wake, it seems that he succeeds in his efforts and the colonists are forced to head beneath the planet's surface to survive. Down below ground, they find that the subterranean caverns of Mars aren't empty – they are, in fact, home to race of vicious aliens who are rather unimpressed with the human interlopers and decide to turn them into dinner.The plot, honestly, doesn't exactly sound all that compelling, but then, admittedly I only had a brief look at it. To be honest, though, even if it proves paper-thin, I doubt it'll hurt Armageddon in the slightest. This is some of the most enjoyable wanton destruction I've ever been privy to in a video game and if the action plays throughout the final release as it did in this demo, Volition will be on to a winner.•Red Faction: Armageddon will be released for the Xbox 360, PC and PS3 on 10 June
Cliff Bleszinski has changed his mind about beta testing. During Microsoft's Xbox showcase event in February, the designer of Gears of War told me, "I made an inappropriate joke about it a few years back. I said it was like pointing out a girl to one of your friends and saying 'yeah, I hooked up with her already – there's no reason to hang out with her anymore'. That was very shortsighted… I'm willing to admit when I'm wrong."So here we are then, a few weeks into the beta test forGears of War 3, the latest chunk of testosterone-soaked gun chaos from Epic Games. It's the first time the sci-fi shooter has been opened up to public scrutiny in this way, and Bleszinski reckons his team will be getting a variety of data out of the endeavour, including game design ideas. "It's a smoke test to make sure everything works, but it's also about user feedback. We've learned that you need to listen to your users –to a point. You need to placate them, give them what they wantsomeof the time, but every once in a while, you've got to listen to the numbers. We track every kill in the game, every weapon, where people die – and sometimes there are major discrepancies between what players say they want on games forums, and what's actually happening. It's up to us to figure out our best gut solution."So far, the beta testing experiment seems to have been a successful one. At the moment, four maps and three game modes (Team Deathmatch, King of the Hill and Capture the Leader) are available and they're all solid, enjoyable blasts. There have been the usual grumbles about certain weapons being over or underpowered (especially controversial has been the sawn-off, with its 180 degree firing range and atomising power), but the important elements of the multiplayer experience – diverse weaponry, tactically varied environments – are all there. Gears of War 3 is a lot of big, brash, blood-splattered fun.The first surprise, though, has been the tactical nature of the gameplay. Although it's quite possible to get by in the confined maps like Thrashball and Check Out (find out more about these in mymultiplayer preview) by just sprinting through the centre of the map and blasting anything that comes at you, what tends to happen is a series of emergent team behaviours. Players will often fan out over the terrain until first contact is made with the enemy before bunching up and covering each other. I've been in lots of set-pieces where surviving team-members have got caught cooped up together in one of the Thrashball side-rooms, soaking up grenade attacks before charging out en masse like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid – but with space blasters."One of our core design mantras is never fight alone," says Bleszinski. "We want you to play on a team and like a team. Even on public servers where you don't know anyone else, hopefully there will be players spotting for each other [holding down the left analogue stick lets you tag enemy soldiers so your team mates know where they are] and leaders calling things out using the headset. Certain weapons encourage co-op behaviours. If you look at the One Shot and the Mortar – those weapons become twice as effective once you implement the spotting mechanic. But then there will be players who throw in smoke grenades to stop their opponents from spotting, so you get this finely layered gameplay."There's also variety. While the smaller arenas can often congest into horrendous sawn-off /gnasher blast-fests, the larger Old Town map has these ever-shifting front lines, as skirmishes flow from one cramped plaza to the next. There are also long-lines to shoot down for ranged combat fans, and the scenery – all crumbling Mediterranean villas and scuttling livestock - makes a lovely contrast to all the exploding limbs and gurgling death groans.There are other enjoyable aspects. Lots of players have developed ninja-like skills with the Retro Lancer assault rifle, which offers a bayonet charge rather than the usual chainsaw attack. Skilled protagonists, use long cover sections to speedily sneak up on victims (I believe the kids call this cover-sliding) before hitting B and scorching out to impale unwary victims. It also seems like the placement of the big messy weapons has been well-thought out; the mortars and mulchers are deadly and potentially match-changing, but they're usually in elevated positions, and open to attack from a multitude of covered angles.For me, the most successful element is the structure. In Team Deathmatch, each side only gets 15 spawns, and when they're gone, the last four players must engage in a tense game of cat-mouse-and-exotic-weaponry, hoping to pick off the surviving members of the other team. It's so subtle and gripping, it feels much more like the sort of gameplay dynamic we'd expect from a squad-based tactical shooter. I imagine that played with friends, these are going to be the encounters that really stick in people's heads.So far so good, then, for Epic's push into the controversial world of the beta test. If nothing else, it'll show sceptics that there's more to the Gears universe than mindless gunplay, and it'll impress veterans of the series with its solid matchmaking, well-balanced new weapons and scenic diversity. I still occasionally struggle with the prescriptive cover and running mechanics, I'm not sure about some of the more esoteric firearms (the flamethrower-like scorcher seems a bit of a dodo), but this is a multiplayer game that just chucks out memorable moments like molten chunks from an exploding frag grenade. Roll on September 20.Have you played the beta? Let us know what you think in the comments section.
There has been a big buzz around social TV apps in the last year, but much of it has been driven by US startups such as GetGlue, Miso and IntoNow, with the latter recently acquired by Yahoo mere months after launching its first consumer application.While these apps can be used in the UK, their focus has understandably been on US television schedules. Now there's an app specifically for British couch potatoes, from UK firm Live Talkback. The app is calledTellybug, but as Live Talkback explained in an interview with Apps Blog, it's the tip of the iceberg in terms of how the company is working with TV producers and broadcasters here.Tellybug appTellybug first, though. It's iPhone-only for now, and launched on the App Store this weekend, promising to tell users "what's worth watching right now based on which shows are creating the most buzz".That includes lists of shows that are trending now, and were trending 'last night', based on Live Talkback's data analysis "We're tracking around 2 million people in the UK who tweet about TV shows," explains the chief executive, Matt Millar. Users can sign in with their Twitter credentials to see what their contacts have been tweeting about specific shows, while also marking shows as liked and disliked."We started with Twitter because we want to be careful not to make any mistakes around dealing with people's privacy," says Millar. "Twitter is fundamentally public, but you need to be more careful with Facebook. But also, we want to build connections around TV shows with people who might not be your friends already."A strong point of Tellybug is the way it aims to filter tweets by show, which Millar says is based on a mixture of hashtags, show titles and matching other words and phrases – for example, tweets mentioning "Alan Sugar" can fairly accurately be tied to the about-to-start run of The Apprentice.The technology is still in development - while testing the app, we found that certain shows with more generic names (Tribe, for instance) still give the system problems in filtering out relevant and non-relevant tweets. Even so, the UK focus makes Tellybug more directly relevant to British TV viewers than its longer-established competitors.Tellybug is Live Talkback's D2C app, but in many ways it's as much of a showcase for what the company can do on a B2B basis for broadcasters and producers. It already has some high-profile deals to run online and mobile social features for shows and channels, including Britain's Got Talent, Sky News, ESPN and Liverpool FC TV.The Britain's Got Talent deal is interesting: Live Talkback is running a 'Buzz Off' feature for the reality show, which lets viewers wield their own virtual buzzer to express their disapproval of contestants while the show is airing – and push this out to Twitter and Facebook. It's part of the officialBritain's Got Talent app, and also the show's website."It's about watching the show, then glancing down to participate," says Millar. "We think it's genuinely more fun watching Britain's Got Talent and buzzing along, as well as being able to see how many other people are buzzing."In the future, Live Talkback is hoping that the resulting data will be able to be fed back to production teams live, to be used during the actual shows. Head of business development Irwan Owen thinks there will be a tipping point in the not-too-distant future for social TV interaction, "a time when TV producers will say 'you cannot make this show unless it has an interactive social element."Live Talkback is also working with ESPN on providing social voting for its Man of the Match selections during live football matches, while Sky News is also using the Tellybug technology for live viewer polls.Competition in the social TV space is heating up, and the US startups are well-funded in comparison to Live Talkback's bootstrapped team. However, the company hopes that its UK focus will prove a strength on this side of the Atlantic."We're strong believers that a big success in the social TV space can come out of the UK market," says Owen. "It's a very coherent TV market, very big and one of the largest syndicated TV markets in the world, so there are many advantages to being here. There's an opportunity to be that big success coming out of the UK, and beating Silicon Valley at their own tech startup game!"
Sony has hired private investigators to track down the computer hackers who stole the personal details of more than 100 million online gamers.Meanwhile the UK Information Commissioner's Office, which probes data breaches of this kind, said on Wednesday it has contacted Sony and is making inquiries into whether to investigate the attack, which affected a number of UK gamers.The Japanese electronics giant has recruited a former special agent with the US Naval Criminal Investigative Service to work alongside security experts from Guidance Software and Protiviti in the aftermath of the online attack. The FBI has launched a separate investigation into the huge breach.Although investigators are not thought to be close to identifying the culprits, at least some of the attacks came from a Malaysia-based server,according to the Wall Street Journal. It is not clear whether attacks were launched from the south-east Asian country or whether only the server was used.The crisis at Sony deepened on Tuesday after the companyadmittedthe names, email addresses, phone numbers of 25 million Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) customers were stolen in the attack, which also hit 77 million PlayStation Network (PSN) gamers. Debit card records of 10,700 customers in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain were compromised in the attack, Sony said.Sony moved to placate growing fears over the security of its users after earlier declining a chance to testify in front of a US congressional hearing. A spokeswoman for the company admitted that an "outdated database" from 2007, featuring personal details belonging to 23,400 people outside the US, was broken into on 16 and 17 April – two days prior to the huge PSN attack. A Canadian law firm on Tuesday launched a $1bn (£600m) proposed class action lawsuit against Sony for breach of privacy.The company admitted it did not know when or where the next attack would come. "They are hackers. We don't know where they're going to attack next," the spokeswoman said. Another Sony spokeswoman said that there was no evidence that the stolen personal details had yet been used for financial gain. However, some people have contacted the Guardian saying that they have seen unusual activity on their account: one said since the attack they had seen money regularly taken from their account via a cash machine in Florida.Connecticut senator Richard Blumenthal wrote to Sony on Tuesday asking how many credit card accounts were compromised in the attack, whichfirst came to light last week. Blumenthal said he would ask US attorney general Eric Holder to investigate whether the company's handling of the breach makes it civilly or criminally liable to prosecution.Sony further angered its critics on Wednesday as it admitted to waiting two days after discovering the private data was stolen before contacting the FBI, the company said in a letter to a US House of Representatives subcommittee. Sony did not meet with FBI officials until five days after the discovery, the letter said.The PlayStation Network remains offline after being shut down more than two weeks ago, when Sony first discovered the breach.
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) is to make Microsoft's Bing search engine the default option on its future devices, signalling a win for the software giant while giving the Canadian company a toehold in the mobile maps and search business.The announcement came at RIM's BlackBerry World conference in Orlando, Florida and has won approval from analysts. Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said Bing would be "deeply integrated at the BlackBerry operating system level" on RIM's new smartphones".The move could be interpreted as a sign of strength or of weakness on both sides. RIM's financial results show it is shipping a growing number of handsets, reaching 14.9m in its fiscal quarter from December to February, and has around 55m users. But it warned at the end of April it will miss profit forecasts for the current quarter because mobile carriers are forcing it to lower prices for its handsets. And analysis of its figures show more and more of its handsets are bought as replacements by existing users, rather than users who are new to the platform.Microsoft similarly is struggling in search, where the division that holds Bing has lost $8bn (£4.84bn) over the past five years, including a loss of $726m in the first quarter of this year. It also has a tiny fraction of the world search market and of the mobile search market, where it is installed on only about 2m smartphones. However that is expected to grow dramatically once its Windows Phone software becomes the default on Nokia's smartphones, expected to be after October this year.Analysts thought the deal was probably positive."Microsoft is suddenly gaining some considerable traction in mobile as the industry seeks to counter Google's growing dominance," said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber, who reckoned RIM had shrewdly gained a foothold in mapping and search without investing directly.IDC analyst Al Hilwa remarked that "the mobile wars will bring strange bedfellows together".RIM is also working on a close partnership with Adobe Systems to sketch out a strategy of cooperation in a mobile market dominated for revenues and search by Apple – which is the world's largest mobile maker by revenue, despite only shipping 18m phones in the past quarter – and Google, whose Android OS is the most-used in smartphones.RIM is eager to set its PlayBook tablet apart from Apple's iPad, and has long stressed its ability to handle Adobe's Flash software, a prevalent format for online video and other content. The iPad does not support Flash, but can play video from sites such as YouTube and the BBC iPlayer, which provide alternative video formats.RIM used the event to show off the integrated email and calendar software, as well as Android app support that it will add to the PlayBook in coming months.RIM's co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis, in a joint interview with Adobe head Shantanu Narayen, said publishers had long worked with Adobe and were reluctant to give up control, a complaint often thrown at Apple."The publishers want to be in control of their destiny, their business, their content," he said. "I don't think they are willing to be hijacked in the way the music industry was before," Lazaridis told a small group of reporters after his keynote speech.During the speech Lazaridis said RIM would give out more than 6,000 PlayBook tablet computers to participants at the Orlando conference, and that the device would soon feature the popular Angry Birds game.
IHS Screen Digest has published its latest forecasts for the global apps market, and it predicts that Apple's App Store will remain in pole position when it comes to app revenues through to 2014.The topline figures: IHS expects 18.1bnn apps to be downloaded in 2011, up from 9.5bn in 2010. When it comes to revenues, the company haschosen to focuson the four largest platform-owned stores: Apple's App Store, Google's Android Market, Nokia's Ovi Store and Research In Motion's BlackBerry App World.IHS claims that between them, those four stores will generate $3.8bn in 2011, with Apple taking a 76% share of those revenues ($2.9bn). The report suggests that Android Market will account for $425.4m of app revenues in 2011, ahead of BlackBerry App World ($279.1m) and Ovi Store ($201.5m)."With consumers continuing to show robust, unflagging interest in downloading games and other applications to devices like smart phones and tablets, collective revenues from the four stores will climb sharply this year," says IHS's mobile media analyst, Jack Kent.The company thinks that in 2014, more than 33bn apps will be downloaded overall – this is from all stores – with the big four stores generating $8.3bn of app revenues, of which Apple will still take a 60% share.SOURCE: IHS Screen Digest Research, May 2011What isn't included in that prediction is Microsoft's Windows Phone Marketplace, HP's Palm App Catalog, independent stores like GetJar or the mushrooming number of operator-owned stores. Making predictions for Nokia's Ovi Store in 2014 is particularly risky, since it is still unclear what kind of role the store will play on the company's Windows Phone devices in the coming years.IHS Screen Digest is far from the only company making app predictions. In late April, ABI Researchmade its own forecastof 44bn cumulative app downloads by 2016, hailing competition for iOS from Android and Windows Phone as the key drivers for growth in the next five years.Meanwhile, Portio Research has justpublished a reportthat claims there will be nearly 256m mobile app users by 2015, with app revenues growing from $6.6bn in 2010 to $23bn by 2015.Developers tend to be cynical of the numbers in these kinds of reports, despite (or more likely because) of the way they are fuelling the excitement and hype around the apps market from brands, investors and other industries.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnatomy of a Fake Quotation &gt;&gt; The Atlantic"Yesterday, I saw a quote from Martin Luther King Jr. fly across my Twitter feed:  "I mourn the loss of thousands of precious lives, but I will not rejoice in the death of one, not even an enemy." - Martin Luther King, Jr".  I was about to retweet it, but I hesitated.  It didn't sound right.  After some Googling, I determined that it was probably fake, which I blogged about last night.&#10;"Here's the story of how that quote was created."Send three and fourpence, we're going to a dance.Visual analytics: the EU-funded free ebook &gt;&gt; VisMaster"This book is the result of a community effort of the partners of the VisMaster Coordinated Action funded by the European Union. The overarching aim of VisMaster was to create a research roadmap that outlines the current state of visual analytics across many disciplines, and to describe the next steps that have to be taken to foster a strong visual analytics community, thus enabling the development of advanced visual analytic applications."Free ebook. Your tax pounds/euros at work.US wireless carriers scale down scope of mobile payment system &gt;&gt; Reuters"The joint venture, known as Isis, had originally planned to take market share from Visa Inc and MasterCard Inc, by setting up its own payments network and collecting fees on every transaction conducted via mobile phones.&#10;"But Deutsche Telekom AG's T-Mobile USA, AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless have now adopted a less ambitious goal to set up a "mobile wallet," that can store and exchange the account information on a users' existing Visa, MasterCard or other card, the paper said, citing people familiar with the matter."A win for the credit card companies.Dance Writer: App Uses Human Body To Render Type &gt;&gt; PSFKIf you need your words rendered with letters that look like a body contorted into different shapes... well, it's better than Comic Sans. Just.BlackBerry Bold Touch 9900 review &gt;&gt; PC Advisor"We were lucky enough to get some hands-on time with the new BlackBerry Bold Touch 9900/9930, and though it's difficult to get a truly accurate feel for a smartphone that's tethered to a table and while hundreds of feisty journalists peer over your shoulder, I can say with little hesitation that the Bold Touch 9900 is one very impressive BlackBerry."So it's not a "review", it's a "hands-on" to a device tethered to a table. A few minutes spent typing is apparently enough to determine that it's fantastic. 20 minutes is enough to award 9/10.Come on, this sort of stuff is nonsense. "First impressions", perhaps.Photoshop "JDI" Survey &gt;&gt; Survey MonkeyWhat are your concerns about Photoshop? What features would you like to see? List interface changes/additions? Knock yourself out. Don't forget to mention the price.Osama Shoot down video scam spreads on Facebook &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityLike night following day.Bing Microsoft and RIM helping people make better decisions with Bing on BlackBerry &gt;&gt; Microsoft Bing blog"This morning at RIM's annual Blackberry World, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer announced on stage a new alliance between Microsoft and RIM, outlining how the two companies can work together to help people make better decisions with Bing on BlackBerry devices.&#10;Central to this collaboration, , Blackberry devices will use Bing as the preferred search provider in the browser, and Bing will be the default search and map application for new devices presented to mobile operators, both in the United States and internationally.  Also, effective today Bing will be the preferred search and maps applications with regular, featured placement and promotion in the BlackBerry App World carousel."Two things. First, if RIM has been smart then it will have driven a hard bargain on this, which means that it will get a payment for every use - and installation? - of Bing. Second, will people who want to change it be able to?We'll Fix Our Platform In Post &gt;&gt; carpe aqua"Hardware specs are porn for the gadget blogs, but software and apps are what sell tablets and phones to regular users. iOS is not without flaws, but I can't think of any gaping holes in the platform that make it hard to justify an iPad or iPhone to someone. I would run out of fingers if I had to list all the holes in the Xoom or Playbook."Enterprise buyers will look at this sort of thing in detail, don't forget. Gadget blogs are one thing, business purchasers quite another.Windows generates less than a third the profit of iOS + OS X &gt;&gt; asymco"The end of an era is the end of growth in one dominant business model. The PC era was epitomized by the concentration of profits in a dominant operating system vendor. That growth has slowed if not ended. The post-PC era is being kicked off by a new business model where profits are being concentrated in a hardware+software+service integrator."It would be interesting to see the profits for Windows PCs manufacturers added in.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Wednesday is back!
If you hate using Apple's iTunes to synchronise songs on your iPod or iPhone, the music streaming service Spotify would like your attention. It is rolling out a new version of its desktop and mobile application for all of its users, including the ad-supported "free" users, which will synchronise tracks from their computer to iPods, iPhones and Android phones.It is also introducing its own music store, which will allow users to buy "bundles" to pay for MP3-encoded songs from the catalogue, in which buying a bigger bundle effectively gives a discount on the songs. Thus a "bundle" of 10 tracks costs £7.99, effectively costing 80p each, while a bundle of 100 costs £50.The company says the synchronisation – which also works over Wi-Fi, something iTunes doesn't do – has been the top most requested feature from its users for a considerable time. It has taken more than a year of programming to implement it, and led to other projects being put on hold while the engineers figured out the plumbing of the iPod to ensure seamless functioning.While the new version will not completely replace iTunes for people with iPhone or iPod Touches – which will still need them for synchronising apps and doing software updates – and will also not change calendars, photos, videos or other content on lower-end iPods, chief product officer Gustav Soderstrom told the Guardian that Spotify saw it as important to reach more users of its free service. Premium users can already synchronise content from Spotify playlists on iPod Touches, iPhones and Android phones, but free users were limited to the desktop version."There are studies which say that the iPod is the biggest music device in terms of hours listened," Soderstrom said. "Perhaps after the car, because people listen to a lot of radio in cars. But the iPod is certainly second, and the desktop comes a long way behind." Spotify reckons that if it extends its functionality to the iPod, more people will eventually upgrade to its service.The company said at the beginning of March it has amillion subscribers and 10m registered users; no further update was provided this week.There was also no announcement on when Spotify might reach the US: "We're still working hard on that. We're getting closer," said a spokesman.Asked how he thought Apple would react to the news, Soderstrom said he thought it would be happy: "They have encouraged third-party services through the App Store for the iPhone, iPod Touch and more recently the Mac platform. They believe that having a third-party ecosystem really drives hardware sales."In the past, Apple has blocked companies it thought were trying to unravel the digital protections around music on the iPod. But Soderstrom said Spotify is not doing that: it will not try to remove songs put on the device by iTunes, and will not try to synchronise DRM-protected songs, although he said that only a "small percentage" of people have such music. Apple stopped selling DRM-protected songs through its iTunes Music Store in January 2009, though some songs have not been updated.The Spotify sync puts the music on the device a second time, though Soderstrom said that most Premium users remove the iTunes music and synchronise their playlists from Spotify directly.At present Spotify can only synchronise "static" playlists from iTunes, and not "smart" playlists which are updated in iTunes when new songs are added to the library. Soderstrom said that functionality was being worked on both for synchronisation and for Spotify playlists generally.• Amazon has cut the prices of MP3 downloads in the US, reducing them to 69 cents, compared to the $1.29 that some songs in Apple's iTunes Store sell at. Amazon has about 10% of the music download market in the US but is now looking to expand.
Electronic Arts sprang a surprise on Tuesday by announcing the acquisition of Firemint, the mobile developer behind iPhone and iPad hits Flight Control and Real Racing.The deal was for an undisclosed amount, but is the latest example of a big games publisher snapping up an independent mobile developer – last week, social games giant Zyngabought UK studio Wonderland Software.According to Barry Cottle, vice president and general manager of EA Interactive, this industry consolidation should come as no surprise. "Because of iOS in particular, and the ease with which small developers are able to get to market, there are more of these players surfacing in the market with real material market achievements," he said in an interview with Apps Blog this afternoon."As the handset market has got more fragmented, so has the developer space. There's a plethora of really talented small shops out there able to get a breakthrough hit that people believe is repeatable. So this notion of small developers being acquired by larger players is probably more the type of acquisition that you're going to see going forward."Does that mean EA is looking to buy more indie mobile developers to swell its ranks? Cottle won't be drawn into specifics, but hints that EA may well open its wallet again. "We're always looking at and talking to the independent third parties and seeing what type of relationship makes sense. It could be work for hire, a commercial relationship, or bringing them into the family. We want to be flexible."Firemint will form a studio unit within EA, while another recent acquisition – mobile publisher Chillingo – will continue to focus on working with indie developers on a publishing basis. On which note, Cottle says despite the many column inches devoted to indie successes on Apple's App Store in particular, publishers still have a big role to play."The publishing relationship is going to get more and more important as this world continues to fragment and get chaotic," he says. "There is real value in publishing not just from a marketing and distribution perspective, but also scale and speed to market. There's a lot of value add that we can bring to third parties in a publishing relationship."Cottle also thinks consolidation will be driven by the shift in business models from pure downloadable games to freemium titles using in-app payments, as well as paid games with regularly updated content. He claims mobile game publishers will look to existing console publishing structures, where individual internal studios work on specific franchises over time, rather than "just launching a game then moving on to the next one".Alongside the Firemint announcement today, EA said it recently acquired another mobile gaming firm: cross-platform development and porting company Mobile Post Production (MPP). Cottle says that deal was about dealing with ongoing technical fragmentation with new mobile devices and operating systems, from Android to the BlackBerry PlayBook and Sony Ericsson Xperia Play."We all kinda hoped that over time we'd have to allocate less of our R&amp;D dollars to porting and more to the creative process, but that hasn't happened," he says. "The world continues to get more fragmented. But we want to be there early [on new devices] to learn and understand, so that when we see success we are ready to jump on it. We want to see and understand these new market dynamics before our competitors."
Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss are joined in the Tech Weekly studio this week by former Guardian Technology editor and artist Vic Keegan andArtfinderfounder Chris Thorpe to discover what the web can do to help art lovers find inspiration.Aleks speaks with Sam Yagan, chief executive &amp; co-founder of the biggest free online dating site in the US,OKCupid, to learn a little about finding love online.Plus Charles breaks down the political implications of the live feed from Pakistan to the White House in Washington DC, during this week's US military operation to kill al Qaeda's Osama bin Laden, and fills the team in on the other technology headlines that have been making waves around the world.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Latin America has seen a significant recent rise in the number of people using the web, driven by investment in infrastructure and broadband technologies. There are an estimated 204,689,836 internet users in Latin America, representing 34.5% of the population and growing.However, no other region has seen a greater increase in the proliferation of mobile devices than Latin America. According to eMarketer, Latin America has some of the highest adoption rates of mobile devices in the world and overall mobile phone user penetration of 55.4%. A study by Hunt Mobile Ads shows that there has been a 156% growth in mobile traffic in Latin America when comparing the first quarter of 2011 to the same period in 2010.And this growth isn't just restricted to feature phones, where apps are generally limited in size and scope, but also to smartphones. 62% of Latin American mobile users switched to a smartphone in 2010 and this trend is only set to continue, meaning that developers will begin to see an even bigger market opening up to them.This opens up vast opportunities and markets for developers. But they need to bear in mind that usage habits and preferences can vary country to country, so a one-size-fits-all approach is unlikely to be as effective as a customised experience that will appeal to local communities and local differences, especially when marketing an app.There are also two further things to consider in Latin America: a propensity for users to be on prepaid rather than pay monthly contracts, and limited data bandwidths.Most consumers possess prepaid phones and have learned to communicate efficiently through text messages, as data access plans remain expensive, meaning that any app that relies on heavy data usage may see a slow uptake in the market. This opens up huge opportunities for developers who incorporate SMS into their apps and services. Any app that uses text messaging as a way of delivering its service will be at a significant advantage, like Tweate.me from Mexican developer Arturo Garrido, which featured previously on the Guardianapps blog.But how can developers monetise these apps to subsidise revenue that might normally come from app store purchases or in-app advertising?With BlueVia's SMS API, developers can take advantage of a risk-free, revenue-generating business model. If a user sends an SMS from an app, developers can earn 10% of the messaging revenues. They can also receive SMS through their app and earn 20% of the messaging revenues.There are many challenges for developers to drive uptake in their apps and ensure it is the right experience for the region, but if developers make the right choices about delivering their services then they can look for big returns in a growing market.* This article was amended on 4 May 2011 at the request of the sponsor, BlueVia
Apple's iPad has already seen a steady flow of interactive book apps, from independent developers and increasingly the digital divisions of book publishers too. Two more have been thrown into the mix in recent days:Our Choice from Push Pop Press, andGems and Jewelsfrom Touch Press.Our Choice has a globally recognised frontman: it's an app based on former US vice president Al Gore's latest book on climate change, an update on the themes of his famous An Inconvenient Truth presentation.The app is the result of a partnership between Gore and his publisher Rodale with producer Melcher Media and apps firm Push Pop Press.It blends text with photos, animations, interactive graphics and video footage, and brings location into the mix too: tap on the globe icon in one of the many photos, and you'll see its location on a map of the world.Push Pop Press certainly isn't holding back on the hyperbole,claiming on its websitethat "Our Choice will change the way we read books. And quite possibly change the world."It's certainly a different experience to reading an ebook on the iPad. It almost feels wrong to read/use the app while lying in bed – the subject material and multimedia content almost require a more active reading position – yes, that does sound a bit pseudy.Gems and Jewels is more playful: it's the latest app from Touch Press, who won deserved acclaim for The Elements – which offered a tablet take on the periodic table – and more recently for the Solar System book app they developed for publisher Faber.It follows the template laid down by The Elements – more than 300 glittery objects to rotate and pinch-zoom, backed with text and live data from the Wolfram Alpha search engine. It's tactile and fun to use. Just as importantly, it has a premium price – £7.99 – matching that of The Elements.Touch Press, Push Pop Press and numerous other developers are doing some important work in fleshing out ideas of how books can translate to touchscreen tablets in more than their basic textual form.It's notable, too, that it's these developers who are being sought out by Faber and other publishers for partnerships. Much has been written about the success of indie game developers on iOS, but there is just as significant a shift happening in the book-apps genre – one traditional publishers have caught on to quickly.
Sony's Welsh-born chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer, faces mounting pressure on his six-year leadership of the company after a fund manager called on him to resign over hacker attacks that have compromised tens of millions of credit card details.The man seen as a potential successor, Kazuo Hirai, who led the development of the networked business until his promotion in March, is also facing questions about his handling of the affair and the company's security."The way Sony handled the whole thing goes to show that it lacks the ability to manage crises," said Michael On, a fund manager at Beyond Asset Management in Taipei. "The current chief executive should step down after the hacker problems and the company's failure to push out products that are competitive."On's fund does not hold Sony shares, which will lessen some of the leverage on Stringer. But the company has been outmaneouvred by hackers who broke into its PlayStation Network (PSN) with 77m and Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) networks, with about 25m credit card accounts.It is unclear whether the same person or group was behind both attacks. Sony said that the SOE was attacked first, on 16 or 17 Apri, and then the PSN. Both attacks appear to be the work of highly organised people with detailed knowledge of the system they were breaking into.The SOE breach may also have led to the theft of 10,700 direct debit records from customers in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain and 12,700 non-US credit or debit card numbersInvestors said Sony had botched the data security crisis, a further blow for the company, which has struggled to match recent hit products from rivals including Nintendo, Samsung and Apple.Stringer, a 69-year-old former TV producer who was knighted in 2000, has not commented on the security breach, leaving Hirai, who is now the company's deputy, to lead a news conference and apology on Sunday. Stringer in March committed to stay in his role for the current year at least.Hirai may not escape the fiasco unscathed, said another Taipei-based fund manager, who sold Sony shares last year and was not authorised to talk publicly about the company: "The leadership of Sony is not in a good place right now, which could lead to Stringer stepping down and may sabotage Hirai's chances of succeeding as chief executive."
Last time we saw everybody's favourite furious rabbit-shaped creatures, they were perched atop a perilous pile of rubbish wobbling its way towards the moon. With their latest Wii adventure, the noisy critters return to the mini-game format – with somewhat mixed success.After the properly storylined Rabbids Go Home, the mini-game format was always going to feel rather limited. And for fans of the rabbids bonkers adventures last time round, the number of adventures on offer might be somewhat disappointing. But the shrieking bunnies – as always – remain splendid creations, bringing with them a jolly sprinkling of jokes and a great big punch of joy.This time the rabbids have popped out of their time traveling washing machine (what else?) in a museum, where they set about playing various, often bonkers, games. There are lots of appealing little touches that set Raving Rabbids apart from other mini-game titles – you'll find little games within games, things are all neatly gathered around themes such as flying or shooting, and of course there's those brilliant and annoying shouty-burpy rabbids to control. Or at least to try to.However, that can't hide the fact that some of the games are a bit, well, flat. As if they're missing that hit of creativity that set previous rabbids adventures apart; certainly things feel like they're a bit more derivative than on other outings: the racing game, for instance, doesn't feel different enough from other, similar, titles.It's always been more fun playing with friends than spending time alone with the rabbids – diluting their shouty impact makes them a little more palatable – that seems to be underlined with this collection. The troublesome critters' new adventures left me distinctly underwhelmed when I first played them on my own, but proved a bona fide hit when friends popped over with their son, with adults and kids alike amused by their antics, and games pitched at a level where everyone could join in.So a quick dose of rabbids with friends remains a fun-filled way to while away an afternoon. But the joy seems largely to rest in the rabbids themselves, and the situations that have been created for them, rather than because of the gameplay on offer.• Game reviewed on Wii
The developing world has plenty of problems, but few are as important as piracy. Or rather, "piracy", by which I mean: "Trade reps from rich countries complaining loudly about copyright infringement and demanding that poor countries re-organise their domestic priorities around preventing unauthorised copying at any expense, threatening trade sanctions and worse for the recalcitrant."Social scientist and Social Science Research Council director Joe Karaganis oversaw the production of the report Media Piracy in Emerging Economies, billed as "the first independent, large-scale study of music, film and software piracy in emerging economies, with a focus on Brazil, India, Russia, South Africa, Mexico and Bolivia". This weighty, 440-page report took 35 researchers three years to produce, and it is a careful, thoroughly documented rebuttal of practically everything you've ever heard or read about copyright infringement in the poor world.Media Piracy's core thesis is simple: people in the poor world don't pay for software, games, music and movies because these goods cost too much. Whereas a DVD here might cost you an hour's wage, the same DVD in a poor country could cost a day's work, or a week's, or even more. In poor markets where legitimate media costs the same (in relative terms) as it does in rich markets, the amount of licit purchasing is about the same.But that's not what the media companies say they believe. In their official narrative – bolstered by a long line of studies with undocumented methodologies and assumptions – is that poor countries simply lack a "culture of copyright" that can be reinforced through education and enforcement.Karganis and co have much to say on this score. They document the way that the airwaves and newspapers in poor countries are dominated by the official, Hollywood view of piracy, presented uncritically and at length. The message is even integrated into the school curriculum through official teaching units produced by American entertainment conglomerates and given to teachers to be delivered verbatim to their students.On the enforcement side, entertainment companies often secure a kind of rough, streamlined justice that allows them to race to the head of the justice line, pushing past criminal and civil cases of much larger magnitude. They get their own police forces tasked to them, and their own special high-grade punishments that treat offences against them as inherently graver than offences against local firms and people.The years have flown past, the millions have been spent, the message has been diffused, the laws have been rewritten, and yet the objective observers behind Media Piracy see no sign of the entertainment industry's "culture of copyright".So why do it at all? Karganis and co explain that the entertainment industry's dilemma comes, fundamentally, from wanting to have its cake and eat it too. The entertainment industry can't afford to set its price to locally appropriate equivalents. Not because it can't profitably sell software or games or other intangibles at much lower prices – after all, the incremental cost of a new copy of Windows or Toy Story or Spore is the pennies necessary to transfer it over the net or burn it onto a disc. But if you could fly to Sri Lanka or Morocco or Mexico and buy a legit, licensed copy of Windows for a few pounds, you might be tempted to pick up a couple of dozen copies for your friends, or for the local car-boot sale. The entertainment industry fears this kind of arbitrage, so it sells its commodity goods at luxury prices in countries full of starving people and acts alarmed and hurt when people choose not to pay full freight.But by asking taxpayers – here in the rich world and also in the poor world – to foot the bill for trade sanctions, enforcement, new civil and criminal penalties, even global treaties like ACTA, the entertainment industry can still get a profit out of the poorest people in the world by externalising the costs and reaping whatever sliver of legit market they can drag out of the poor world by brute force.As good a read as Media Piracy is, many people might find the idea of getting to grips with more than 400 pages of research at home somewhat daunting. Luckily, there's an alternative: Karaganis is on tour with his report, heading to Brussels where he'll be presenting the work to the EU. On the way, he's stopping in London to givea free lectureon Wednesday morning, presented by the Open Rights Group and the LSE.This report and its researchers are rare examples of academic rigour in a world of special pleading and cooked industry statistics. Every one of us pays for the result of those bad figures, and we owe it to ourselves to become familiar with the objective facts underlying the aggressive lobbying and propaganda.
Routers aren't known for their sexiness; quite the contrary. Boxy, tricky to set up and, well, necessary are probably the most common descriptions. However, Asus has created if not a thing of beauty in this dual-bandwireless router, then at least a surprisingly not-ugly router. It's black, with a textured front and sparkly blue lights, stands upright and not only looks good, it comes bristling with features and deep tweakability.Its good looks are marred somewhat by the fact the ports – four LAN, one WAN and two USB – are on the side, so when you start plugging things in to it, it looks more like an untidy octopus, which is a shame: had the ports been on the back of the router, it would certainly look a lot better in use.Under the hood, this is one capable beast. But one caveat: it is a router only; you will have to connect it to the internet via another modem. In my case, this meant putting my existing modem/router, a BeBox supplied by my ISP, Be Broadband, into bridge mode. It's easy enough but you'll have to seek out the documentation for your own router, or buy a modem-only suitable for your broadband connection.If you're putting this on a fairly straightforward home network, once you've got it talking to your modem, you can run the wizard which should pretty much do the job for you. Anything more complicated though – I run an Active Directory domain network at home (yes, I know, overkill; I'm a geek with a high pain threshold) – and you will have to start tinkering with the settings manually.I'm pretty competent with networking stuff and I found this tricky to get up and running. There are dozens of config pages to explore – brilliant if you're a knowledgeable control freak running a complex network, but I would caution against tinkering here unless you really know what you're doing.First, you've got two wireless bands to choose from: 2.4GHz and 5GHz. The latter is great for high-demand streaming of wireless content; the former is for your average wireless requirements: the kids' laptop on Facebook, for example. You'll need to set up encryption and passwords for both separately as in effect you've got two wireless routers with this.Somewhat surprisingly, though, for a router of this complexity, it doesn't offer the option of setting up a guest network so that your visitors can connect to the internet without being able to access all your network stuff.Some of the terminology is confusing – for example, the router has three modes: IP sharing mode, Router (Disable NAT) and Access Point, with clunkily written config pages and help files: if you don't know your NAT from your PPPoE, you'll be tearing your hair out. Make sure you write down all the settings on your current router, including any stuff about VCI and VPI and multiplexing methods. See what I mean?Additionally, I found the config pages very slow to load – which is disconcerting if you're sitting there chewing your fingernails hoping you haven't broken anything on your network or your internet settings.You can't change its IP address range – it's 192.168.1.1-254, so if your current network is in a different range, you could have a painful transition, which is a surprising omission for a router this advanced. And a final niggle: you can only forward 24 ports, or ranges of ports, on this router. If you're running a server at home, that might not be enough.Up and running, the throughput speeds have been documented as fast: have a lookhereandhere. I didn't do any detailed benchmarking at home but it certainly seemed to be shunting files around faster than on my old Netgear.You'll see glowing reviews for this elsewhere on the interwebs: I am more ambivalent about it. The granularity of the controls is a control freak's dream; the wizard is straightforward; it's fast and looks great. But there are a lot of places you can get into difficulties if you don't really know what you're doing.Pros:looks lovely, very configurable, fast.Cons:some surprising limitations, poorly written config pages, slow to accept changes, potentially confusing and tricky to use.Asus.com
Obviously, Marvel's take on Norse mythology was always destined for the epic third-person adventure treatment. And, although God of War got there first by some considerable margin, Thor makes a decent stab at both the movie it's based on and the genre it aspires to.The graphics, while not exactly jaw-dropping, are at least varied with occasionally impressive animations of your hero and the humongous boss characters he must conquer at the end of every level. The action kicks off in Asgard, with the home of the Norse gods under attack and Thor fighting to prevent the place being overrun by ice giants. Although borrowing some set pieces from the movie, the game also features events from outside the timeline that may be familiar to readers of the comic. And some of the tussles – for instance, with relentless enemies such as the Destroyer – remind you exactly how inventive Marvel's back catalogue can be.When it comes to combat, there's a bevy of melee moves, ranged hammer throws and lightning strikes, grapples, blocks and dodges. You can also use the D-pad to flip between three types of magic – thunder, lightning and wind – each of which works better against one type of enemy. For ice giants, for instance, lightning attacks work a treat, although it might have helped if there was a clearer visual indication of which type of magic you are using at any given time. All in all, there's almost as many moves as a dedicated beat-em-up and, with six types of ability upgrades, a stronger RPG influence than these games usually offer.So why, when it promises so much, is Thor such a hit and miss experience? It's all down to the interface and the tediously linear style of combat. For control there are three button configurations but none deliver anything like a smooth transition between blocks and attacks. The ability to define the buttons yourself would have helped, but with so many combos to memorise, some of which only work in specific contexts, it's hard not to resort to basic button mashing to get you from one choke point to the next. This works fine till you get to the boss battles where you need to first approach the boss, activate a grapple move and then quickly get to a position to damage its weak-spots. And you have to do it over and over and over again until one of you loses interest or dies.Powered by the Unreal 3 engine, Thor certainly had the tools to be in the same league as God of War. Unfortunately, while it's energetic fun in parts, there's a series of near-vertical blips where the learning curve should be.• Game reviewed on PS3
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 30 AprilPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (33)PC (8)22 (2)Mortal Kombat(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)23 (4)Zumba Fitness (3+)Wii (81)PS3 (10)Xbox 360 (10)54 (6)Operation Flashpoint: Red River(15+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (33)25 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (30)Wii (6)PC (4)246 (5)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (22)DS (19)Wii (17)67 (7)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (26)DS (7)PSP (6)318 (9)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)709 (10)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)710 (15)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)29UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Well, that's the Bank Holiday onslaught over with. What took up your gaming time this weekend?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDVD sales fall poses challenge for Hollywood &gt;&gt; FT.comSales of new DVDs have collapsed, falling 20% in a year and presenting a significant challenge for Hollywood film studios, according to figures released on Monday.Worryingly for Hollywood, which has been grappling with many of the same issues that decimated the music industry, the decline of DVD sales, once the film industry's biggest revenue generator, has not been offset by other areas.&#10;Total sales from film-related "packaged goods", which include DVD and Blu-ray discs, fell from about $2.6bn to $2.1bn in the US, according to the Digital Entertainment Group, which represents film studios and consumer electronics companies."Suggestion is that it isn't piracy, but the shift to streaming. DVD rentals have also fallen sharply, by 36%.Bin Laden's compound, seen from space &gt;&gt; CNET NewsCommissioned specially: DigitalGlobe satellite caught these the day after the raid. The compound is clearly visible, especially for its high walls.Obama receiving update on bin Laden mission &gt;&gt; FlickrThe expressions on the faces tell so much - Obama and Clinton particularly.How Obama watched the Bin Laden mission &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKFascinating: basically, lots of video over super-secure links. But the detail is really good here.Twitter Introduces Text Ads &gt;&gt; Labnol"Twitter is experimenting with sponsored text ads on their website that show-up just after the 'trends' section. The first round of text ads mainly promoted Twitter apps and other services built around the Twitter ecosystem but that is no longer the case.&#10;"Twitter's new ad format includes a website URL that takes you straight to the advertiser's website (NFL in this case) and there's a related hashtag to help you see related tweets on Twitter search.&#10;"A bit surprising thing about this new format is that nowhere does it says that these are advertisements or sponsored links."Pew Internet Trends May 2010 &gt;&gt; Pew InternetThe key thing here is the graph, which illustrates why pretty much all internet startups pre-2005 that needed a fast connection to home users flopped.The Hot/Crazy Solid State Drive Scale &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorFirst, be scared: Jeff Atwood and Joel Spolsky, early SSD adopters, have seen them going down like ninepins. Average life: 12 months.So are they swearing off them? Not on your life."Solid state hard drives are so freaking amazing performance wise, and the experience you will have with them is so transformative, that I don't even care if they fail every 12 months on average! I can't imagine using a computer without a SSD any more; it'd be like going back to dial-up internet or 13" CRTs or single button mice. Over my dead body, man!"Just have a good rotating backup.Mac OS X Lion to feature iOS-like 'jiggling' app unistaller &gt;&gt; Unofficial Apple Weblog"New Mac users are commonly confused how to delete Mac apps. Coming from a PC, they are used to uninstallers and don't realize that one can (usually) simply drag any app to the Trash to delete it. The new uninstall feature in Lion is another sign that Apple wants to take the simplicity of iOS and apply it to the Mac in hopes of making OS X more familiar and intuitive to anyone using a Mac for the first time."Good point, since more people have used iOS than Mac OS. Also: Lion is becoming about as secret as a Windows beta.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The crisis at Sony deepened on Tuesday as it admitted that an extra 25 million customers who played games on its Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) PC games network have had their personal details stolen – and that they were taken before the theft of 77 million peoples' details on the PlayStation Network (PSN).The electronics giant said the names, addresses, emails, birth dates, phone numbers and other information from PC games customers were stolen from its servers as well as an "outdated database" from 2007 which contained details of around 23,400 people outside the US. That includes 10,700 direct debit records for customers in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain, Sony said.The dataset was stolen on 16 and 17 April, before the PSN break-in, which occurred from 17 to 19 April. Sony said that it had not previously thought that the data was copied by the hackers who broke into its systems.A Sony spokeswoman in Tokyo admitted that the company was unable to predict where or how or when the next attack would come. "They are hackers. We don't know where they're going to attack next," she said.Another Sony spokeswoman said there was no evidence that the information taken had yet been used illicitly for financial gain. "We had previously believed that SOE customer data had not been obtained in the cyber-attacks on the company, but on May 1 we concluded that SOE account information may have been stolen and we are notifying you as soon as possible," Sony said in a message to customers. The company denied on its official blog on Monday rumours claiming that the hackers who stole the PSN details had tried to sell back 2.2m credit card details.Though the latest credit card numbers did not include the CVV – the three-digit code used to verify credit card transactions – the hackers will almost surely be able to use the card details.The latest news will be a serious blow to Sony's management, already reeling from the enormous revelation of the problems with the PSN, which has been offline for more than a week. Though there have been no reports of management changes, it is expected that there will be serious ramifications from the security breaches inside the company.The SOE network hosts games that are played over the internet on PCs, and is separate from the PSN, which connects PlayStations online.The SOE network was taken down on Monday and Sony suspended its SOE games on Facebook because they use "microtransactions" and the sale of virtual goods, if subverted could be used by hackers to make illicit transactions.The company said it will grant players 30 days of additional time on their subscriptions, along with one day for each day the system is down.It is also working with the FBI and other authorities to investigate what it called "a criminal cyber attack" on its data centre in San Diego, California.The revelation comes after Sony No. 2 Kazuo Hirai announced measures had been put in place to avert another cyberattack like that which hit its PlayStation Network, hoping to repair its tarnished image and reassure customers who might be pondering a shift to Microsoft's Xbox.The PSN incident has already sparked legal action and investigations by authorities in North America and Europe, home to almost 90% of the users of the network, which enables gamers to download software and compete with other members.On Monday, Sony declined to testify in person in front of a US congressional hearing, but agreed to respond to questions on how consumer private data is protected by businesses in a letter on Tuesday, said a spokesman for Mary Bono Mack, a Republican Congresswoman from California, who is leading the hearing.Sony denied on its official PlayStation blog on Monday that hackers had tried to sell it a list of millions of credit card numbers.
News of Osama bin Laden's death was first leaked on Twitter by Keith Urbahn, the former chief of staff for Donald Rumsfeld, the defence secretary under President George W Bush."So I'm told by a reputable person they have killed Osama Bin Laden. Hot damn." hewroteat 10.25pm EST Sunday evening (0325am BST Monday morning).Urbahn's "reputable person" may well have been Rumsfeld himself - who in turn may have been tipped off by George W Bush, who was phoned by President Obama with the news ahead of the public announcement.Urbahn said in atweetafter this story was filed that his source was "a connected network TV news producer", adding: "Stories about the 'death of MSM [mainstream media]' because of my 'first' tweet are greatly exaggerated."At the time President Obama was still writing his speech in which he would announce the killing of the US's most-sought enemy.Urbahnadded"Don't know if it's true, but let's pray it is". A navy intelligence officer, Urbahn could have had multiple sources, given that the US Navy SEALS force - equivalent to the UK's SAS - was involved in the attack that killed bin Laden.The information having leaked out on the social network, it began to be confirmed by sources within the White House, the New York Timesreported. President Obama had initially planned to speak at 10.30pm EST (0330 BST) but the announcement was delayed to roughly 11pm, apparently because he was writing and redrafting thespeechhimself.Osama bin Laden's death was leaked on Twitter by navy intelligence officer and former Bush staffer Keith UrbahnThe announcement led to an explosion in interest and searching on news websites, causing a bigger spike in the US than the Royal Wedding on Friday. Dave Karow, senior product manager at Keynote Systems, a web monitoring service,told the Venturebeat sitethat the spike was so large that some news sites were struggling to cope, and seeing their response times slowed so that they took six times longer to respond, or even crashed under the load. Mobile sites were particularly vulnerable, Karow suggested, as people logged in from smartphones wherever they were to read the news.(Updated with details of Urbahn's later tweet.)
Sohaib Athar, an IT consultant living in Abbottabad, discovered on Monday morning that he had live-tweeted the fatal raid on Osama bin Laden's compound by acccident.Athar, who lives near the Jalal Baba Auditorium - about 250m from bin Laden's compound - put out his first tweet relating to the attack at about 9pm on Sunday BST, or 1am local time, when henoticed a helicopter hovering overhead: "a rare event", he commented.That wasfollowed by"A huge window-shaking bang here in Abbottabad Cantt. I hope it's not the start of something nasty."But hemusedthat something odd must be going on: "Since taliban (probably) don't have helicpoters, and since they're saying it was not "ours", so must be a complicated situation," he pondered.The downed helicopter alsopuzzledhim: "people are saying it was not a technical fault and it was shot down. I heard it CIRCLE 3-4 times above, sounded purposeful." He added "it was too noisy to be a spy craft, or, a very poor spy craft."The Pakistan army put outsuggestionsthat the helicopter crash was "accidental" and not an "attack".But the misdirection didn't fool many. Reports that the army had cordoned off the crash site arrived from a taxi driver, and then that it was conducting a door-to-door search suggested the crash was no accident. Soon another rumour surfaced: that two helicopters that followed the crashed one were "foreign" (ie not Pakistani).He awoke to discover "interesting rumours" about the events - and then realised, from reading Twitter, that "the helicopter crash in Abbottabad, Pakistan and the President Obama breaking news address [which at that stage was had not announced bin Laden's death] are connected."Therealisationhit him at about 6am UK BST (10am Pakistan time): "Uh oh, now I'm the guy who liveblogged the Osama raid without knowing it."
The compound in whichOsama bin Laden was found and killed in a targeted operationhas already been mapped on Google.The compound, in Abbbotabad, isabout 800 feet (250 metres) from a police station, according to the map, and alsofeatures in a Flickr photo from February 2007.The photo, taken by a Flickr user called "Environmentalist", who has taken a number of photos around Abbotabad, says that it lies inside the historic "cantt. police station (fortress)" and that it is included in the demolition list of the provincial government works department. It is unknown whether that was a ruse to divert people from its importance to Al-Q'aida.The satellite photo on Google Maps shows little detail beyond a rectangular compound, while the Flickr photo shows a ramshackle exterior.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Color Already Blew It &gt;&gt; Mike Rundle"The tough part about focusing on the first-run user experience is that, as a developer, you never see it. You start up your app, start adding data and using it, develop, test, develop, test, debug, use it some more, then launch it. Unless you're consciously thinking about it, you'll probably never see a bunch of blank screens. This is incredibly dangerous because all your users will see a blank screen in the first 10 seconds, and you may not have seen it in weeks, months, or ever."I ported an iOS app to Android. I've sold three (!!) copies &gt;&gt; Hacker News"I ported an iOS app to Android. I've sold three (!!) copies while in that same period, the iOS version has sold about 300. I dropped the price from $5 down to $2 over easter and still didn't sell a single copy during the sale.The two apps have the same content and the sales funnel is exactly the same. (The only difference is the iOS app has lots of 5-star reviews.) It seems clear to me that Android users can't or won't pay for certain kinds of apps."Interesting discussion thread.HTC's Q1 revenue leaps 174.5 percent &gt;&gt; Macworld UKHTC is the one to watch: it's in Android and Windows Phone. Ecosystems tend to break towards 80-20 as well - and HTC could turn out to be the 80.PlayStation Brand Faces Uncertain Future &gt;&gt; Gamasutra"There was a time -- let's say, for argument's sake, from 1996 to 2004 -- when the PlayStation brand was awe-inspiring. PlayStation represented all the shining possibilities of the future. Brilliantly, PlayStation ran with the goodwill Sony built up in the 1980s with the Walkman, and super-boosted this reputation for design and technical excellence as well as a natural empathy for what people wanted. &#10;"But things do tend towards entropy. Today, the PlayStation brand is in gentle decline. And the events of the past week could accelerate that decline into something more serious. Especially if Sony continues to handle the crisis with the incompetence it has thus far demonstrated."Shipments of iPad-like tablets to be affected by component shortages &gt;&gt; Digitimes"The global supply chain for tablet PCs is expected to brace for acute shortage of parts and components, including memory chips, gyroscopes, capacitors, chip-resistors, cover glass and even bismaleimide-triazine (BT) resin, which will seriously affect shipments of iPad-like tablets, according to sources at Taiwan notebook makers.&#10;"The market had originally expected the tight supply of components and key materials caused by the Japan earthquake will ease in May. Contrary to the expectations, the crisis of the possible interruption of the supply chain now is likely to emerge in the second half of May, indicated the sources..."...Affected by the component shortages, a number of makers have reduced their shipments of tablet PCs, said the sources, noting that combined tablet shipments from first-tier notebook vendors could be less than five million units in 2011."&#10;5m? That's not very many.(Note: Digitimes links go behind a paywall after a period.)Digital Foundry vs. iPad 2 - Page 1 &gt;&gt; Eurogamer.net"In this article we'll be looking at how that raw power has been utilised thus far by developers and answering the question of whether iPad 2 is a worthwhile upgrade for gamers over the original. From there, we'll be assembling a muscular body of evidence that suggests that the new A5 platform is powerful and scalable enough to form the basis for a new home console. With Apple's WWDC conference kicking off simultaneously with this year's E3, perhaps Nintendo's Project Cafe will not be the only new gaming hardware announced?"Apple won't announce a gaming console. It's already got two (three, if you count the iPod Touch). And it makes money on all the games it sells.Workers leaving the Googolplex, 2007 &gt;&gt; Andrew Norman WilsonStrangely delayed recitation of how some Google employees are - or were - treated almost as second-class: no perks, no bus rides, and so on. They were the ones working on the book scanning projects.Google faces $50 million lawsuit over Android location tracking &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Detroit area residents Julie Brown and Kayla Molaski filed a class action lawsuit against Google over concerns that the location data that Android devices send to Google 'several times per hour' is tied to a unique (though random) device ID. The lawsuit further alleges that this data is sent to Google unencrypted. 'The accessibility of the unencrypted information collected by Google places users at serious risk of privacy invasions, including stalking,'according to the complaint."Why You Should Think Twice About Opting-In to the Delicious-AVOS Transfer &gt;&gt; ZDNetViolet Blue: "Taking a look at the current Delicious Terms versus AVOS's new Terms is eye-opening. Considering what Delicious' nature is, I think users need to be aware that the new Delicious is not going to be the same Delicious.&#10;"The rules of the Delicious link game are now quite different.&#10;"Where Delicious users were once free to link, collect and post any link they want to, this will no longer be the case. Especially in when it comes to so-called - and undefined - 'offensive' content."Of course everyone reads terms of service these days.Sigh. More software update problems &gt;&gt; Windows Phone SecretsPaul Thurrott is unimpressed: "So it's May 1 today, or about five months after Microsoft completed development of NoDo. And yet we're still seeing issues getting this very simple and non-essential update out to particular phone models. (Remember: Microsoft told reviewers in early October 2010 that it would be "shipping a compelling update very, very soon.") This suggests to me that while Microsoft's plan to require handset makers to closely follow a single hardware spec (originally two hardware specs; the second was quietly dropped with nary a public comment) was a good one, it hasn't actually panned out yet in the real world. And that's a shame, because the point of this tightly controlled spec was to prevent exactly this kind of problem.&#10;"The fault, of course, lies entirely with Microsoft."Microsoft Management Discusses Q3 2011 Results &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaWindows Phone's licence sales are simply not mentioned. At all. And the answers to analysts are vague in the extreme. Interesting fact: the consumer PC market declined 8%, including a 40% decline in netbooks - Microsoft's calculation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's another Bank Holiday! But that needn't stop us talking about Blood Bowl.
Perhaps it's only to be expected, that the co-founders of one of the most powerful corporations on Earth, who have touched the lives of millions of people with products that they dreamed up when they were still kids, should turn out to have been a bit weird. After all, we already knew that Bill Gates had a habit of rocking to and fro when in deep thought, and Paul Allen's decision to build the world's largest privately owned yacht (replete with helicopter landing pads and submarine) is hardly the definition of normality.But not until now did we know the full extent of Allen and Gates's combined oddity. We didn't know, for instance, that when they got excited they had a way of talking to each other in quick fire that they called "popping up the stack". It meant that they would leap from one subject of conversation to a completely unrelated one, so that if you happened to be listening in to their dialogue you would think they were talking utter gobbledygook."So then we can move this string," Gates might say."You're right, the other thing will never happen if that's true," would come Allen's rejoinder."Exactly! That's the variable we used the last time."We didn't know either that the pair would go for days and nights struggling with some particularly difficult element of coding then, when they cracked the problem, would roll around the floor giggling hysterically. We didn't know that Gates liked to work in what he called "hardcore" Coca-Cola-fuelled late-night sessions until he would pass out on the office carpet, to the alarm of colleagues. Or that at weekends Allen would give the young Gates – who then weighed barely 50kg – a leg-up into a Dumpster so he could go rummaging around in the office rubbish looking for computer print-outs that would provide clues to early operating systems.These priceless insights have been brought to us courtesy of Allen himself who, now aged 58 and some 28 years after he quit Microsoft, has finally got around to writing his side of the story. His book is revealing in so many ways, many of them, one suspects, unintended by its author. It illuminates the peculiar cocktail of factors that lay behind the Microsoft miracle – the extraordinary drive, extreme competitiveness, creative brilliance and sheer luck that put the two of them way out in front of the opposition. It exposes the gruelling drudgery that is required to translate great ideas into commercial reality. It unveils Gates's ruthlessness in sweeping out of his way all impediments to success, Allen included. And perhaps most potently, it suggests that even fabulous wealth – Allen is worth $13bn (£7.8bn) – will not buy you satisfaction or heal your wounded pride.The first thing to strike the reader, though, is how astonishingly young the two of them were when they forged the relationship that would change the world. There is a photo in the book of Allen and Gates soon after they became friends at Lakeside school in Seattle, gathered around one of the lumps of metal that passed as computers in those days. Gates must have been 14 at the time, but with his blond hair and gangly frame looks closer to 9; Allen, all sideburns and corduroy, seems twice his age."We were very complementary," Allen says when we meet in Penguin's offices in New York. "From a very young age we both became skilled programmers and knowledgeable about the technology landscape, and excited to do something entrepreneurial. Bill and I were both equally fanatical about learning everything we could."From the start, it was obvious to Allen that Gates had exceptional qualities. He was smart, competitive and persistent. A couple of years into their friendship, Allen wrote of Gates that he was "very suggestible and is ready to jump at any chance to have fun in strange ways. We fit together very well."The bond was quaintly touching, knowing what we now know. "Bill and I had a discussion, I remember, probably some time around 1974," Allen says, with a smile. "We said, 'Hey, if we're really successful we could form a company that could grow to around 35 employees.' Microsoft is today north of 90,000 employees. So obviously we blew through our initial hopes and dreams there."What's striking is that most of that explosive growth occurred after Allen had left the company. When he resigned, in February 1983, the company had a workforce of just 500. Inevitably, perhaps, with the passing of so much time and with Microsoft moving on to new pastures (such as Windows and the Xbox 360), Allen's profile at the forefront of the technology revolution has faded to become something of a spectre – present but only faintly visible. He has become the "other guy", the other founder of the most successful technology company in history, who shares Gates's fabulous riches but little of his recognition or standing on the world stage. And yet in Allen's telling of what happened in those first formative years, it was he, not Gates, who had all the truly visionary ideas. The title of the book alone speaks volumes: Idea Man.So in the Allen version it was he who came up with the groundbreaking idea that they could write a BASIC software that would unlock the holy grail of the personal computer – the birth of a world in which computers would become so cheap and user-friendly they would be in every home. Gates at first tried to pooh-pooh the idea, he claims, insisting on waiting until more powerful hardware came on the market. Later, it was Allen, not Gates, who created the SoftCard, allowing a popular operating system to be run on Apple computers. It was Allen, not Gates, for heaven's sake, who came up with the name Microsoft (an earlier frontrunner had been Allen &amp; Gates – note whose name came first – but that was deemed too much like a law firm).As Allen describes their relationship, he would come up with great innovations that Gates would make happen. "During the founding first eight years my ideas were definitely key to the company. Bill would test my ideas. I would come to him with another 10 ideas that never went anywhere – he was the sanity check on the flow of ideas. When it came to selling and marketing and staffing and all those kinds of things, he was much more excited on the business side, so we became very complementary."This depiction, of Allen as visionary, Gates as glorified salesman, is an extremely radical retelling of the Microsoft story, and it makes me wonder what Allen is seeking to achieve in putting it out there for public consumption after all these years. Is he trying to create a legacy that has got somewhat lost in the way the story has usually been told?"I don't know about lost," he says. "I just felt it was important to tell my side of the story in as accurate a way as we could. We have hundreds of hours of interviews with people involved, and we have documents. Nobody has contradicted anything in the book on the record. It is what it is."But any lay person would say the most important part of a technology company is the ideas."Right, right," Allen says.And in the book you write that several of the key ideas were yours."Yup."So instead of the 60%-40% split that Gates insisted on at the start of the company, in favour of Gates, shouldn't it have been the other way round?"Well, at the time, Bill made an argument that I was getting a salary while he was still at Harvard making no money. I could see the logic of that. Maybe I could have argued more forcefully for the value of my original idea, but at the time I agreed to it."A politician's answer. I try a slightly different tack. So are you trying, I ask, to come to some resolution over the Microsoft years, to put to rest the feeling that you had all the big ideas that were never fully recognised?"It has nothing to do with recognition," he replies. "There were some things that nobody had ever really talked about – the final elements that led to my departure. I thought I should just record those. But at the time those things have a real power. I was really surprised. I was stunned and disappointed."He is alluding to the parts of the book in which he recalls the harsher side of Gates's character, anecdotes from the early days that portray Gates in such a poor light they make the reader cringe with embarrassment for him. Such as the fact that Allen stopped playing chess with Gates after only a few games because Gates was such a bad loser he would sweep the pieces to the floor in anger; or how Gates would prowl the company car park at weekends to check on who had come in to work; or the way he would browbeat Allen and other senior colleagues, launching tirades at them and putting them down with the classic denigrating comment: "That's the stupidest fucking thing I've ever heard!"Worst of all was the way Gates tried to maximise the money for himself, at Allen's expense. After insisting on a 60-40 split in his favour at first, Gates then renegotiated the terms of their partnership to give himself 64-36. As the final insult, Allen overheard Gates discussing with Steve Ballmer (now Microsoft's CEO) how to dilute Allen's equity in the company, complaining that he was so unproductive. Allen was fighting his first bout of life-threatening cancer at the time. "This is unbelievable! It shows your true character, once and for all," Allen said, bursting in.In some of the US reviews of Idea Man, critics have accused Allen of being driven by bitterness. Is he bitter?"I don't think the book is bitter at all. I think it's a direct telling of what happened, and tries to give you a real feel of the personalities involved."He adds that much of the disappointment he felt at what he calls their "failed romance" has faded. "After a few years all that passes. Bill and I have always been friends, even through the ups and downs, and there have been some. Those events were in 1982, there's been a lot of water under the bridge since then."In Allen's case, much of that water relates to the rather enviable question that he seeks to answer in the later chapters of the book: what do you do if you are a billionaire by the age of 37 and 10 times that by 43? What on earth do you do with all that money? It's a question I'd quite like to have to wrestle with myself, I say, though the quip singularly fails to elicit even a smile from Allen.As it happens, the answer is quite straightforward, at least it is if you are a boy. You spend billions of dollars playing with boys' toys: you buy a basketball team and an American football team and mingle with the stars of the sporting world. You revel in your passion for music, jamming with Mick Jagger and Bono and hanging out with Paul McCartney and Peter Gabriel. You indulge your love of Jimi Hendrix by buying the white Stratocaster he played at Woodstock and many other artefacts, then get Frank Gehry to design one of his trademark buildings in Seattle to house them. You play with rockets, pumping millions into the private space programme SpaceShipOne. Because you've always loved going to the cinema, you invest in DreamWorks when it is founded.Not to mention Octopus, that yacht he had built, all 126 metres of it, with a full-time crew of more than 50, an industry-standard recording studio, cinema, basketball court and swimming pool, in addition to the helicopter pads and eight-person submarine. That has got to be the ultimate boy's toy, I suggest.He gives a rare belly laugh, and says: "I don't know about a toy. It's another kind of platform for exploration, though it is big, much bigger than I expected."Admit it, I say, despite the name of the band you formed, Grown Men, you really never have grown up, have you?"Yeah. You love these things when you are young, and then you have a chance to realise them . . ."He pauses, before adding: "Hopefully, you try and do things that will change the world as well."The changing the world part has risen up his list of priorities in recent years, not least since 2009 when he had his second, unrelated tussle with death in the form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. By the time it was detected, it had already spread to his lymph nodes.After intensive chemotherapy, he is now in remission. He is tested every few months and is hoping that if he remains clear for a few more years he will be considered cured. He's found ways to cope with the terror of not knowing about the future – friends, working on the book, keeping positive – but he says it has changed his outlook. "All of this reminds you of the fragility of your life, that all of us have only so much time to enjoy life, to do good things, and hopefully make the world a better place."He's increasingly focusing his time and riches on scientific research into the brain. And he has joined Bill and Melinda Gates billionaire's club where members pledge to give away most of their wealth. Bill Gates again! Isn't he bored rigid of having that man loom over him all over again with his "philanthro-capitalism"? Allen is gracious in reply. "Bill's taken on some huge global health challenges in a great way. He's done some great stuff."And their relationship today?"He came to visit me a number of times when I was resting after chemotherapy. I really appreciated it."What about the book? Gates put out a statement after it was published in the US saying he remembered several of the key Microsoft events differently."We haven't had the chance to discuss the details of the book yet. I think Bill was a bit surprised by some of the elements in it, and he'll want to have a very intense discussion about that. That's the way Bill is."Where will you meet to have the showdown, I ask. He laughs out loud a second time. "Maybe he'll come to my house. Maybe it'll be in a public place so our voices can't be raised too much. Not in a lawyer's office, please."
There's a cool breeze blowing through the open windows of Songkick's sunny top-floor studio in east London, more art college than office. The live music service occupies the whole top floor of this quirky brick warehouse, and there are clues to its expansion plans mapped out on every spare piece of wall.Now nearly four years old,Songkickexemplifies a maturity and confidence in the UK startup scene, and it would be harder to find a more enthusiastic evangelist thanIan Hogarth, its exuberantco-founderand chief executive."London's creative startups are competing with the activity in New York," says Hogarth, reeling off the names of fashion blogsLyst,GoTryItOnandFashism, and art startupArtFinderin London.There's an explosion of European music talent too:SoundCloudin Berlin, Spotify in Sweden and Songkick, 7digital, Shazam and Mixcloud in London. "Historically you could argue that we've owned music, but what comes next? What are the best industries to come together in Europe?"Hogarth is very ambitious for Songkick, which aims to be "the home of live music on the web", inviting users to track gigs from their favourite bands and artists, such as Lady Gaga. They can import profiles from sites like Last.fm, and help build gigographies with posters, video and photos. Early backing includedSaul Klein at Indexand the American investor Alex Zubillaga, making up some of Songkick's £3.91m ($6.52m) funding to date. Revenues come from ticket sales commission, but other streams are being explored, and though Songkick won't share exact user numbers, those are in the millions and the run rate of revenues has doubled since the end of 2010.Superficially, it seems Ticketmaster is Songkick's main competitor, but its priorities are making information shareable and easy to find on the go.Hogarth won't say exactly what he has up his sleeve, but there are major plans in mobile and social. "We're focused on discovery because it's still the biggest problem for live music, and most people still miss out on concerts because they just didn't know about them." Hogarth says users end up going to four times more live music as a result. "That change in behaviour is not because we've made them like live music any more, but because we made them more aware of it."Songkick has 23 staff based in London, but Hogarth acknowledges it is getting hard to recruit tech talent. He has a plan for that too, this week co-launching Silicon Milk Roundabout – a recruitment event disguised as a party that aims to divert several hundred promising engineering graduates away from the lucrative financial sector. The fact that London, in particular, has so many cultural resources is a real plus for developers who need a life outside code."In San Francisco, maybe you'd find a developer who has 90% of his head space in code, but in Britain maybe it's more like [former Last.fm developer] Russ Garrett, who spends half his time at gigs and half his time thinking about scaling. That's an asset for what we're doing here."The comparison with Silicon Valley, like a handsome older brother, is becoming less and less relevant. Fledgling art discovery site ArtFinder wouldn't have the same context in San Francisco, but is a perfect fit for London."ArtFinder doesn't need to be in the valley, but if you want to build the next Facebook or Twitter and support 20,000 people then you'd need to be there for better infrastructure, more graduates and more VC money," says Hogarth.Songkick's latest recruit has given them an injection of confidence in evangelising for London.Dan Crowjoined as chief technology officer in January – a veteran of the California technology scene and from a generation of talent that migrated west to pick up some serious expertise, including Apple's design guru Jonathan Ive and influential VC Mike Moritz. Is it a sign that this experience and insight is coming home to roost?"When I came back to the UK, I wanted to find something like Songkick and feed back what I'd learnt in the US," says Crow, who spent four years at Apple as senior engineering manager, and then worked at a string of startups until he joined Google in 2006. "In the 13 years I was away things changed a lot, and UK startups now recognise they need global ambition – something that defines many of the best technology companies. Most of Songkick's traffic comes from outside the UK and we see that as an enormous opportunity, so there's no reason why we can't compete with any other company on the planet."Does success mean staying independent, rather than being consumed by a big US tech company? It might be that being small and specialist is a strength of UK startups. Crow also points to examples of acquired companies that had major impacts, like the influence of the mobile company Android on Google.Half-joking, I suggest to HogarthSongkickcould do a reverse takeover on EMI. "I'm not interested in recorded music – what a nightmare," he replies. "More than assets, you'd inherit a mindset that is too hard to turn."Instead, he argues Time Out is a great brand that hasn't transitioned to the web. The idea that someone as ambitious and industrious as Hogarth could start reinventing a brand like Time Out is instinctively exciting. He's aiming very high."It's bizarre that Britain has such a provincial mindset in business when we used to rule the world," he adds.I point out that the Empire was built on exploiting the people and resources of the colonies, but he's thinking big again."We used to just get on a boat and find some more land – we need to do that virtually. When did we stop thinking like that?"
The first world's fair exposition, the Great Exhibition, which happened 160 years ago, is celebrated in the latest Google doodle.It took place on 1 May 1851 in the Crystal Palace building at Hyde Park and was the idea of Queen Victoria's husband, Prince Albert.The graphic for the doodle incorporates the Google name, and online viewers can use their mouse to zoom in to look at particular sections as if using a magnifying glass. There are also animated features, such as a fountain.More than 14,000 exhibitors from around the world gathered at the Great Exhibition in the Crystal Palace's 91974 sq metres (990,000 sq ft) of exhibition space in 1851. The Crystal Palace, built with glass panels on a cast iron frame and 564 metres (1,851 ft) long, was created especially for the show and designed by Joseph Paxton. The building displayed examples of technology developed in the industrial revolution and Britain's exhibits were joined by items from colonies including Australia, New Zealand and India, as well as contributions from Denmark, France and Switzerland.Inventions included an early voting machine and a forerunner of the fax machine. Visitors could also marvel at the Koh-i-noor – at the time the world's biggest known diamond.After the exhibition, the Crystal Palace was moved to a new park in Penge Common next to Sydenham Hill. Here, it was enlarged and stood in the area from 1854 to 1936, when it was destroyed by fire. The name Crystal Palace was later used to denote this area of south London and the park that surrounds the site, home of the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre.Interestingly, the building and the original show also helped create the English euphemism "spend a penny", meaning go to the toilet, after sanitary engineer and plumber George Jennings created the first public loos.The so-called Monkey Closets were located in the Retiring Rooms, and visitors, who were also offered a shoe shine, were charged a penny to use them.The first show was a big success and the profit made was used to found London's Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum and the Natural History Museum.International exhibitions, which became known as world's fairs, have since been held periodically around the globe. Many have led to impressive works of architecture, including the Eiffel Tower from Paris's 1889 Exposition Universelle, the Atomium in Brussels and Seattle's Space Needle.The most recent world's fair was held last year in Shanghai, China, while the next is due to take place in Yeosu, South Korea in 2012.
Your relationship with the public has never been an easy one, Yoko Ono  (@yokoono). The art's a bit weird, the music's not much cop and then there was that whole "splitting up the Beatles" thing. Joining Twitter was the perfect opportunity to reveal the real you.Unfortunately things have not worked out like that. Most of the time I don't have a clue what you are on about ("Imagine the largest rainbow going from north to south. Visit the two ends of the rainbow.") Enough is enough! Time to show the world that, despite appearances, you're still Yoko from the block. Here's how.Fun with direct messagesI was touched when I first started following you and found this friendly message nestling in my direct message inbox: "Thanks for following! love, yoko IMAGINE PEACE: Think PEACE, Act PEACE, Spread PEACE." However, I think you could be having more fun with this function. Direct messaging is where all the juicy stuff happens. Think Vernon Kay's (@officialvernonkay) page 3 girl sexytimes. Spice things up, dude.Don't drink and tweetI am here to say "STOP! Step away from Twitter, drink a pint of water and get to bed." The alternative is that you are going to wake up to find you have tweeted something like: "I love you, I love you, I love you, Earth. I love you, I love you, I&nbsp;love you, now."Hang on – what do you mean you were sober when you tweeted that? Ah . . . OK . . . well, this is embarrassing.Bring back HevI'm worried about Heather Mills (@heatherofficial), Yoko. The last we heard from her was back in February when she tweeted "Sorry I have been offline, Ive been working with the police to trace all of the crazy nutters who spend their energy tweeting abuse." This is a job that could take decades. Please tell her to quit this foolishness and get back on Twitter. I need to know how her plans to get on the paralympic ski team and sort out all the problems in Haiti are going.Lots of love,@scouserachel
At a press event in Tokyo this morning, Sony Computer Entertainment president Kaz Hirai apologised for the PlayStation Network outage and confirmed that a gradual re-start for the online service would begin "within a week". Sony is also preparing a 'welcome back' program for PlayStation users, including free downloadable content and a month's free subscription to the PlayStation Plus premium service, which offers enhanced access to online services. Current PlayStation Plus and Qriocity subscribers will get an extra 30 days of free service.According to Gamasutra, Hirai re-iterated Sony's belief that this was a, "highly sophisticated attack by a skilled intruder." The compromised server was apparently located at AT&amp;T's service centre in San Diego, California. Sony's SNEI division discovered the infiltration attempt on April 17 and shut the service down on April 20, calling in a security firm to help begin an investigation. The FBI is now reportedly involved in the continued hunt for the perpetrator, who may well have accessed 10 million user accounts – although Sony insists there is no evidence the data has been stolen.A press release has been issued, giving the details of the phased re-introduction of the PSN and Qriocity music download services. The roll-out will begin with the following:• Restoration of online game-play across the PlayStation3 and PSP systems• Access to Music Unlimited powered by Qriocity for PS3/PSP for existing subscribers• Access to account management and password reset• Access to download un-expired Movie Rentals on PS3, PSP and MediaGo• PlayStation Home• Friends List• Chat FunctionalityAll PlayStation users will be required to change their passwords via an immediate firmware update. That password can apparently only be changed on the same PS3 in which that account was activated, or through validated email confirmation.Outlining the company's plans for increased security, Sony representatives claimed that a new data centre had been under construction for several months and that operations would be moved there shortly. New measures will include automated software monitoring and configuration management to help spot and defend against new attacks; enhanced levels of data protection and encryption; and the implementation of additional firewalls. 'The company has also appointed a new Chief Information Security Officer, "to add a new position of expertise in and accountability for customer data protection and supplement existing information security personnel."Sony's security measures have come under huge scrutiny over the last week. In the UK, the Information Commissioner's Office is investigating the company for possible breaches of the Data Protection Act. Although it has now been confirmed that user credit card details were encrypted, there are concerns about the level of privileged access hackers were able to attain.Speaking to eWeek Europe, Bill Tarzey, analyst and director at Quocirca, asserted "Sony has said the data was encrypted, but in some ways this is even more disturbing. The thief must have had access to the keys, suggesting a level of privileged users access and authentication had been achieved. It seems Sony is also unsure what has actually been accessed which implies data access auditing measures were not in place."Hirai pointed out in the press release, however, that the attack has highlighted problems across the entire ecommerce business:"This criminal act against our network had a significant impact not only on our consumers, but our entire industry. These illegal attacks obviously highlight the widespread problem with cyber-security. We take the security of our consumers' information very seriously and are committed to helping our consumers protect their personal data. In addition, the organization has worked around the clock to bring these services back online, and are doing so only after we had verified increased levels of security across our networks."Our global audience of PlayStation Network and Qriocity consumers was disrupted. We have learned lessons along the way about the valued relationship with our consumers, and to that end, we will be launching a customer appreciation program for registered consumers as a way of expressing our gratitude for their loyalty during this network downtime, as we work even harder to restore and regain their trust in us and our services."Interestingly, Gamasutra reports that in a Q&amp;A session following the press event, Sony admitted that the PlayStation Network had also been attacked by the hacker group Anonymous, which had allegedly distributed personal information about Sony's management, including the schools their children attended. Hirai also dealt with criticisms that the company had waited too long before informing customers of the attack. He re-iterated previous statements that due to the complex nature of the infiltration, it took Sony several days to analyse the data; the company wanted the full-story before going public.
In its 1990s heyday,Mortal Kombatoffered a graphically striking and controversially bloody alternative toStreet Fighter's more sophisticated one-on-one fighting, but a revival seemed unlikely given the lacklustre attempts to update the franchise ever since. Undeterred, Warner Bros has resurrectedMortal Kombat, with surprisingly enjoyable results.The new game retains the series' trademark gore and "Fatality" moves, but this is a much more polished brawler than before, with a wealth of content for the lone scrapper that embarrasses the comparatively meagre single-player offerings of its peers. A heartily silly "story mode" adds little besides filling the gaps between fights with daft dialogue and dodgy acting, but otherwise this is a solid offering that bodes well for any further sequels.The latest instalment in thePataponseries, meanwhile, offers a rather unusual blend of military strategy and music gaming, demanding that the player use rhythmic drumming to command squadrons of tiny warriors on a cartoon battlefield.Tapping the buttons of the PSP like tiny drums serves as a means to communicate with Patapon 3's armies, sending them to attack, defend and march in a gorgeous world that takes its distinctive visual cues from the medium of shadow puppetry.The core mechanic of commanding troops with tempo provides an immediately rewarding thrill, while the game has enough variety and depth to offer hours of fresh experience. It does, however, feature two elements that may put off less determined players. It is not only remarkably difficult, but also reveals itself, with extended play, to be fiendishly complex as well.
Maybe it's the sunshine; maybe it's the royal wedding, but last week the nation fell in love with love again. There's been a lot of it about; I've "accidentally" cycled over my fair share of lovers snogging in the shade in sun-drenched parks. But is love different today than when William's mum and dad were hitched in 1981? Sure, last Friday's regal nuptials were livestreamed on YouTube, but Charles and Diana's was broadcast live around the world on TV. How different is falling in love in the age of the internet?Personally, the modern, technologically mediated pursuit of love feels different. I was in a relationship for 13 years. It started in early 1997, before the web had inextricably woven itself into the fabric of society, and it ended in early 2010. I fell in love the first time in the age of email, not always-on, technologically mediated hyperlinked social media. I didn't even have a mobile phone.My instincts, based on this Rip van Winkle perspective, say that web technology has affected our practice of falling in love. "Online dating used to be something that people turned to when they were giving up on offline dating," says Sam Yagan, CEO and co-founder of OKCupid, a site that has the largest registered user-base of 18- to 34-year-olds in the US. "It is now a tool that people are turning to, to complement their offline dating, to meet other people you might not meet in your day-to-day life." Research from the Oxford Internet Institute's "Me, My Spouse and the Internet: Meeting, Dating and Marriage in the Digital Age" project corroborates Yagan's argument, reporting that22.6% of current relationships in the UKthat began since my ex and I began courting, began online.According to Professor Monica Whitty, author ofCyberspace Romance, our current concept of romantic love is based on a mid-19th-century evolution from strategic partnerships into the roses and white wedding dresses promulgated by magazines, soap operas and Disney movies. The latter invokes images of presenting a true self to a single lover who accepts us, warts and all; the former, the exchange of properties. Yagan thinks relationships that come from online dating are more likely to stick: instead of settling for one person out of a pool of 200, he argues, you'll be assured that the one you've chosen out of two million is the best fit. So what we're after hasn't changed conceptually, we've just become a bit more businesslike about it.Is it paradoxical that a cold, logical machine has become an important mediator for the most warm and fuzzy of human emotions? Social scientists and lay observers have been describing the bonds that develop through technology since the telegraph, around the time that our modern concept of romance first emerged; Tom Standage wrote about love over the wires in the late 1800s in his bookThe Victorian Internet. He also notes that the first "on-line" wedding took place between a bride in Boston and a groom in New York in 1848.Julian Dibbell's descriptions of his personal infatuations in the text-based community LambdaMOO in the early 1990s orient attraction as a product of semantics and idealisation: "Well-rounded, colourful sentences start to do the work of big, brown, soulful eyes; too many typos in a character's description can have about the same effect as dandruff flakes on a black sweater." The rules haven't changed. Well, not much.We do still pay heed to first impressions. Writing a profile for an online dating site or for an online community is an exercise in balancing personal marketing and reality. This can potentially backfire; if, as Dibbell says, "in [virtual reality], it's the best writers who get laid", it should pay to get a skilled ghostwriter. But, as a friend with an enormously successful profile for a dating site discovered, you have to live up to the prose. You can be too awesome; it pays to include a few warts and all."People cannot lie about constitutive personal features, such as a sense of humour, wittiness, and personal interests, all of which emerge during lengthy online conversations," says Professor Aaron Ben-Ze'ev, whose research has explored openness and honesty between people in online environments. "Online relationships encourage many people to present a more accurate picture of their true self," he says.When it comes to online services outside the dating websites that feed the love bug, social networks are great at providing a context for a potential match. They expose similarity based on the number of shared connections, or the types of things users like. Status updates on social networks give the impression of being in a place at the same time, even when one or the other person is away from the computer. And participation in subject-specific online communities gives people something to talk about.But there is one thing in this online love battlefield that does make it feel awfully different from my first courtship: our proclivity for sharing personal things with virtual strangers – whether because of a heightened sense of anonymity or reduced social presence – leads to intensely electric interactions. These "hyper-personal" relationships, as Whitty describes them, can create problems for people already in a committed pair. "Online seduction is just a click away," says Professor Ben-Ze'ev. Great for cheap thrills, but potentially destructive for long-term relationships.I'm reassured that the process  of falling in love has remained generally the same, but wonder  how, in the long term, our strategic pursuit of The One will affect what  we expect from a relationship.  Are we placing too much hope on technology to provide us with an unattainable romantic ideal, or will we be satisfied that we have found Mr or Ms Right out of the potential population of lovers?
I am at Dyson HQ in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, the beacon of British industrialism, which isnota dark satanic mill but all light, contoured glass and bridges over placid water between sculptures. This is the birthplace of the bagless, see-through vacuum cleaner that offers 100% suction (so well known it need only be referred to as "the Dyson") and the planet's most powerful hand dryer, the Airblade. Bright young engineers emerge from testing rooms wearing non-business dress (an informal rule) and mingle in the sunshine. People are smiling and holding lattes from the shiny canteen. I'm starting to wish I'd listened harder in science classes."I was hugely encouraged recently to hear that 13% of girls in school now actually want to become scientists," says Dyson. He has the wiry build of a long-distance runner and a look of Nigel Havers. And he bounds up the stairs in polka-dot Yamamoto trainers. "OK, so 37% still want to become models, but 13% are aspiring to be scientists!" He stops. "But then  I discovered that they all wanted to be pathologists because of that TV show,CSI." For every problem, James Dyson suspects there is a solution waiting to be designed. So he spends a few minutes contemplating a drama series that could similarly shift engineering in the aspirations of teenage girls."Of course there was that film about a chap who invented the windscreen wiper then allegedly got ripped off," he says; I think of the 2008 filmFlash of Genius. "Then he won some money, which went on the horses. Actually the film was more about the horses than it was about the invention. Same with Howard Hughes. His engineering activities are rather interesting, actually, but the film centres on his drug taking and so on," he laments.Hughes was also, famously, a recluse. Dyson is not. He has become as well known for his robust opinions as for the bagless cleaner. "The media thinks that you have to make science sexy and concentrate on themes such as rivalry and the human issues. But just look at the viewing figures forTomorrow's World. They were phenomenal, and that just showed pure technology. You don't need to sex things up. These subjects [technology and engineering] are sexy in their own right."Although I spent my childhood happily watching Judith Hann and team riding around in Sinclair C5s, I have a hunch that this next generation is more demanding. But, in an effort to inspire the next crop of engineers and designers, he is running the 2011 James Dyson Award through his eponymous foundation. The last winners to bag the £10,000 on offer to develop their invention – plus £10,000 towards their university education – were Yusuf Muhammad and Paul Thomas, who came up with a way to adapt kitchen taps to respond to domestic fires, thereby minimising casualties and deaths.All power to your elbow: the Digital Slim lightweight cordless vacuum, whose motor spins up to three times faster than a conventional motorYou wonder if these young innovators know what's headed their way. Because becoming an inventor also seems to mean opening yourself up to the possibility of betrayal. "At some point you're going to feel ripped off," says Dyson. One of his early inventions was the Ballbarrow – a wheelbarrow centred on a large, pneumatic red ball that gave it stability and made it easier to steer. And it was this odd-looking wheelbarrow that afforded the first professional "betrayal" when Dyson's business partners, having become majority shareholders, sold the invention to a US manufacturing firm that wrote Dyson out of the equation."If you invent something, you're doing a creative act," says Dyson. "It's like writing a novel or composing music. You put your heart and soul into it, and money. It's years of your life, it's your house remortgaged, huge emotional investment and financial investment. The Ballbarrow was just the start. Terrible things happen all the time with the vacuum cleaner. People copy it. Society allows and encourages it. But it is theft, and I wish courts and society regarded it as such. Theft or rape, that's what it's like."Perhaps to relieve an awkward pause after the rape reference, he is up on his feet collecting a series of components to demonstrate the inner workings of the Dyson. His enthusiasm and ability to humanise the workings of the materials and the structure is infectious (next day I find myself googling magnets to find out what they are actually made from). But in the corner of his office, filled with different evolutions of the vacuum, I also spy an example of a Dyson failure: the Contrarotator, a double-drum washing machine that never took off. "It was too expensive to make." He pauses. "We should have charged more for it, then it would have been a great success, probably." The inventor is seemingly at ease with failure.  "I have failures all day long, every day. I made 5,126 prototypes for the Dyson vacuum. All failed until number 5,127."And what a winner number 5,127 proved to be, arguably the totemic aspirational consumer product of our times, catapulting Dyson into Rich List territory. It didn't just suck up dirt efficaciously; it became a cultural signifier. In theRoyle Family Christmas Special, Barb is moved to exclaim: "Ooh Valerie. What a Christmas! Implants and a Dyson!""Yes, and there's also a bit when Jim says: 'I can't even afford a bloody Dyson,'" says the inventor, looking quite delighted. In a time when British retail, from fashion to garden furniture, all seems to be about discounting and cheap-as-chips products with the excuse that this somehow democratises consumer goods by making them "affordable", Dyson is strikingly comfortable about his brand being perceived as expensive. "It's a consequence of spending so much on R&amp;D. It's expensive. And I refuse to design down to a cost."In fact he scorns the idea of a brand at all. "I don't believe in brands. Here, we believe people should only buy because they want a vacuum cleaner that does what ours does. I know we sell a lot of Dysons to poor people. They regard it as a significant investment. Someone who is less well-off is more likely to take an interest in their vacuum cleaner. The well-off just say: 'Oh, the cleaner deals with that.'"But isn't this all a bit overengineered, I wonder. I think of my own vacuum, a simple canister on wheels: I've never found its reliance on bags or lack of suction cause for concern. "Are you competitive about other hoovers, like the one I have? It's red and black with big eyes and a smile," I ask him. Dyson is cool. "I'm not going to comment on competitors.  I know exactly which one you mean. We do what we do: do away with bags, 100% suction. Henry can do what it wants."Dyson's bladeless Tower FanDyson does not have a problem speaking his mind, or indeed being heard, and he's done a good job of keeping the topic of industrial design in the news. Take his recent suggestion that Chinese students were stealing intellectual property from UK universities, which caused a minor storm. "What that article was really about was the tragic situation that 80% of postgraduate students are non-British. It is great to have more undergraduates doing science, but for blue-sky research – important risky research that translates into new technology which we can sell to the rest of the world – we need them to stay on and do postgraduate research. This is not xenophobia – it's the simple fact that we need postgraduate scientists here to create wealth. That's my point, more than the theft of intellectual property from universities."So is there a problem with the thieving of intellectual property from British universities by Chinese students? "Well, I'm told there is. Yes. I have heard of a few instances. Of course it may not be confined to the Chinese."Ultimately the thing that appears to drive the inventor of the fastest electric motor in the world is a desire to reboot manufacturing in the UK. "When I was growing up, the balance of trade was on the news every night because it was of such desperate concern. Now it's so bad it's disappeared entirely. If we import more than we export, we're a declining economy." But you moved your manufacturing base overseas, I venture. "No, I didn't," he says. "You did. In 2002," I refer to the newspaper cuttings of the time. "No, I didn't. I moved myassembly. And that's because they wouldn't let me expand over there," he gestures towards a large house, the head office of a construction company.It's a careful distinction – to the lay person, assembly is part of manufacturing, and the media lamented the loss of 800 "manufacturing jobs" at the time. In 2009 there was  a similar tussle with the Environment Agency over a proposed Dyson academy in Bath which never happened. (The Environment Agency claimed the proposed site was a flood plain, and plans were dropped. Much was made of the fact that the Labour government ran with plans for a "rival" academy with Peter Jones ofDragons' Den.)He does, however, seem to feel that this government speaks his language. He has written a report for David Cameron on increasing Britain's technology exports. He gives George Osborne a "big thumbs-up" for what he sees as the right tax breaks for entrepreneurs in the recent budget.  "I feel optimistic. But then I am an optimist," he says.Is he happy with his achievements? The bagless vacuum cleaners, the Ballbarrow, the new bladeless fan – all exciting for the consumer, but considering Dyson's interest in the big themes such as energy policy and climate change, doesn't he ever want to solve a problem bigger than vacuuming? Is, for example, the Dyson nuclear reactor (he is a fan of nuclear and solar) in development? "Goodness, I know nothing about nuclear energy." I point out that he knew nothing about vacuum cleaners either. "True. I knew nothing about anything. I did classics at school and went to college to do design and then got interested in engineering. My limit is  a terrific interest in technology."Given that he is essentially an autodidact who has made millions, why is there so much emphasis on making highly trained engineers out of the rest of us? "Well, I couldn't have made that motor," he says, gesticulating to the innards of a Dyson. "In fact I can't do three-quarters of the work we do here. For that I need highly trained scientists."And when can we see your next invention, I ask. "When it's ready!" And with that, Dyson's chief engineer bounces off to the R&amp;D laboratory.Entries for the James Dyson Award are open until 2 August. To enter, visitjamesdysonaward.org
Almost exactly a year ago, I consigned my trusty old Volvo estate to the great crusher in the sky. It was bought at auction for £1,400 with 100,000 miles on the clock, and I drove a further 60,000 miles in it, pointing its great&nbsp;slab-sided snout  up north as far as Inverness, and south  to the rocky vineyards of the Languedoc. I can't say it never let me down – the petrol gauge was  as trustworthy as Tiger Woods – but there was something comforting about its blue velour seats and that vague odour (rotting yogurt, I'd guess). But then a man in a stolen car shunted it from behind, twisted its chassis irreparably, and disappeared into the night. Nice one!We decided to see if we could manage as a carless family – going without, using a car club or juggling the vehicles I'm fortunate enough to test-drive. This has led to some laughably inappropriate pairings. I've whisked my wife away for a romantic weekend in a Ford Transit, helped a&nbsp;friend's daughter move student digs in a white convertible Bentley and taken garden waste to the dump in a&nbsp;bullet-proof Audi S8.This week has seen&nbsp;another glorious mismatch. We are visiting friends in Dartmoor: a door-to-door journey of 208 miles. The travelling party consists of two adults, two adult-sized teenagers, one malleable nine-year-old and  a large canine with chronic flatulence. The test car I have cleverly lined up is Hyundai's i10 – a teensy-weensy city car. I feel as if we've entered a Thelwell pony in the Grand National. It's going to be tight. I chirpily point out that the record for squeezing teenagers into a Smart car is 17.It was a long journey – and the Hyundai was the only member of the team that didn't show its ugly side. The perky urban car was launched in&nbsp;2008 and has slowly been winning friends ever since. This year Hyundai has revamped it, but with a&nbsp;price of £9,195, there's only so much revamping you can expect. The controls are light, the turning circle is&nbsp;remarkable and the engine whines a little, but it is effective when it comes to ducking and diving along city streets. On the motorway we felt like flotsam in the slipstream of juggernauts at times, but the i10 sat at a steady 70mph without complaint. Meanwhile air conditioning, electric windows and a&nbsp;six-speaker stereo with iPod dock all helped calm the indoor turbulence.The i10's real star turn, however, is that with its 1-litre three-cylinder petrol engine, it is the most fuel-efficient car Hyundai has ever produced. It is also the cheapest five-door car to go under the magic 100g/km CO2, so it is road- tax and congestion-charge exempt.The i10 may be tiny, but Hyundai has massive self-belief. It's the fastest- growing car producer in the world and, in terms of volume, the fifth largest. It&nbsp;has seven vast plants around the planet but its flagship facility in Ulsan, South Korea, is the largest in the world, producing up to 1.6m vehicles a year.The Ulsan plant reclaims and recycles more than 75% of all its waste. Old cars, destined for the scrap heap, are stripped of paint and then fed back into the system – a sort of production line in reverse. Within the&nbsp;next four years, Hyundai aims to recycle up to 95% of every vehicle.If only I'd known, I could have shipped over my old Volvo…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
