Just when everybody decided to start using the microblogging service Twitter, things have taken a distinctly dark turn. All across the site, people's icons have started disappearing – their colourful avatars replaced, instead, withsimple black squaresalmost everywhere.And it's not just on Twitter: similar blackouts are taking place across Facebook, MySpace, Bebo and elsewhere too.It turns out that this isn't the result of a malicious hacker or even a random technical fault. Nor have these icons and photos been whisked away by aliens in some sort of avatar-snatching heist. Instead the so-called "internet blackout" is part of a political protest against a law that has outraged internet campaigners in New Zealand.The law in question is Section 92a, an amendment to the country's copyright law that is due to come into force at the end of February.It []tells internet service providersthat they "must adopt and reasonably implement a policy that provides for termination" of accounts used by anyone deemed a "repeat infringer" – regardless of whether the person has been convicted of a crime or not.Proponents say Section 92a is necessary to keep a lid on the problem of illegal downloading and copyright infringement online. Critics point out that it goes even further than the "three strikes" laws that have recently been under consideration in France and Britain – and that it eschews the burden of proof in favour of presuming guilt by association.Plus, they say, somebody could end up shutting down the internet connection at a library, school or hospital by downloading illegally over their network. "Under the new law, anyone who provides any form of services over the Internet is an ISP,"said Geekzone NZ. "That means libraries, councils, schools, businesses, government offices, you name it. If you share your Internet connection with your flatmates, you're probably an ISP too under the new act."As part of the protest, New Zealand'sCreative Freedom Foundationis asking internet users to replace their photos and icons with blank spaces to give people an idea of what the internet could look like under the new regime.Bronwyn Holloway-Smith, director of the CFF, says thousands of New Zealand musicians and artists have signed a petition against the law, and that the public needs to voice its frustration."While copyright infringement is a problem for artists, our petition shows that thousands of artists think that it is a greater problem for people not to get a trial," she said. "Treating fans as guilty untilproven innocent isn't what artists want done in their name, and many see that as being damaging to creative industries."Another pertinent question might be to wonder whether the internet blackout will have any effect. After all, online action has a spotty record of success at best – just witness the vast numbers of toothless Facebook protest groups orDowning Street's Petitions websitefor evidence.But the CFF is using the blackout as one part of a wider campaign including petitions, parliamentary protests and writing to the government to complain.Even though the blackout might not make a difference to ministers in Wellington, plenty of people are still joining in. Arch-Twitterer Stephen Fry, who gave the campaign a huge boost when he posted about it earlier this week, suggested that taking part could be the only real way for some people to show support."It may not bring the NZ gov to their senses," heposted. "But can it hurt for them to learn of our outrage?"
The ebook revolution may be on its way. Amazon released the Kindle ebook reader last year, andestimatesare that it has sold more units than Apple sold iPods in their first year of release. Amazon brought out Kindle 2 last week, with a specially written story by Stephen King to celebrate.Among people I talk to in the world of publishing – authors, agents, editors and digital publishers – there's some interest and a great deal of trepidation about what an ebook revolution may mean. Publishers worry about the potential for piracy. Comparisons with the music industry suggest this would be a legitimate concern. It's not too hard to find illegally pirated ebooks: Googling "Stephen King ebook" brings up many links. This isn't a huge problem at the moment because most people don't like to read long books on computer screens. If there were wide ownership of a device that was easier to read on – and even the Kindle allows users to read PDFs via "experimental" conversion – that would quickly change.But concerns about piracy may be a red herring. The ebook reader could have a far more immediate and profound effect on the way books are published and sold, and Stephen King handily provides a good example of it. In 2000, he published his novel The Plant as an ebook in instalments. He put it on his own website, circumventing the need for a publisher. Broadly, the experiment failed: you can read some interesting analyses onSalon,WikipediaandAnother Sky Press. It had a very idiosyncratic business model, and most people simply didn't own devices that made reading a long ebook pleasant.But if ebook readers took off, big-name authors such as King may be able to move to self-publishing. And that could mean the end of our current publishing system. Because of the way the publishing business is structured, big-name authors who sell millions of books are, in effect, supporting the industry. I've heard various estimates of the percentage of books that actually turn a profit. One agent I spoke to said 95% of published books make a loss. Others have put the figure lower. Either way, everyone agrees that a large majority of profits come from a small minority of authors.If King, Dan Brown, JK Rowling and Patricia Cornwell were all to decide to move to selling their books online themselves, rather than going through a publisher, they'd certainly benefit financially. Typically, an author only receives about £1 for every copy of their book sold. Rather than relying on a publisher, big-name authors could afford to simply employ an editor, a PR person, a typesetter and a designer. They could price their books at only £2 or £3 and still make much more money than under the current system.But without the revenue from these authors underpinning the publishers, the current system would be unworkable. And what would happen then? It's hard to know. Clearly publishing houses would have to become much smaller, and authors who aren't international bestsellers wouldn't be able to benefit from the useful upfront advances. It would be harder to keep writing as a midlist author if you didn't have a private income. People would still want to seek out great new writers, and so the brands of well-known publishers would still be valuable, enabling readers to sort the wheat from the chaff. But Penguin, Harper Collins and Random House could just become badges on ebook aggregator channels rather than the book-production engines they are today.As an author, I talk a lot aboutthe virtues of ebooksand my interest in the new creative opportunities they hold. And I don't doubt that readers will always want to read great books. But any massive upheaval is terrifying and this one could be as frightening as any Stephen King story.
Vodafone has landed a deal to supply the next Google phone.Vittorio Colao, the Vodafone chief executive, confirmed this morning that the mobile network operator had secured the rights to supply Taiwanese manufacturer HTC's new G2 smartphone. It will be called the HTC Magic, and Vodafone will sell it exclusively in Europe for a limited period.A formal announcement is expected later today.Colao was speaking at theMobile World Congressin Barcelona, followingnegotiations with Taiwanese manufacturer HTCthat continued up to the start of the show.Like the G1, the original Google phone, the G2 runs Google's Android operating system. Rival mobile operator T-Mobile won an exclusive deal to supply the G1, so Vodafone was keen to offer the upgraded version of the smartphone.The HTC Magic has a 3.2 inch QVGA touchscreen display and features a trackball and navigational buttons for quick, easy access. It will support several email options such as Google Mail™, POP3 and IMAP and Google Talk for instant messaging.Several other manufacturers are also working on devices running Android. The smartphone market is becoming increasingly crowded, following the buzz created by Apple's iPhone.A number of new handsets have already been launched at the trade fair, includinga futuristic wristwatch that doubles as a mobile phone.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The universal mobile phone charger, which relies on the micro-USB connection found in the new BlackBerry Storm, will appear later this year. Photograph: PRThe mobile phone industry plans to introduce a universal charger as part of a drive to improve its previously patchy environmental record.The plan from industry body the GSM Association (GSMA) is just one of a raft of "green" announcements at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.Not only will it mean phone users no longer have to hunt for the right charger, but the specifications for the new device include a 50% reduction in standby energy consumption.All five of the UK's mobile phone companies have signed up to the universal charger, as have the major handset manufacturers, and phones which can use the new charger - which relies upon the micro-USB connection found in the new BlackBerry Storm - will start appearing later in the year. By 2012, the GSMA has pledged that the majority of phones shipped around the world will use the universal charger.The mobile phone industry has been attacked by environmental campaigners in the past for being one of the least green areas of technology, but mobile phones made from recycled materials or sporting solar panels have been one of the most interesting features in Barcelona so far.Samsung unveiledthe Blue Earth touchscreen phonewhich has a solar panel on the back that can charge the phone. Available in the UK in the second half of the year, the handset is made from recycled plastic from water bottles and is also free from harmful substances such as brominated flame retardants, beryllium and phthalate.Samsung Blue Earth - Mobile World Congress 2009It also includes an in-built pedometer which tells the user how much CO2 they have saved by walking instead of using motorised transport. Samsung's SGH-F268 handset was last year named as the industry's greenest in a survey by Greenpeace.A range of solar-powered phones are also being created by Dutch company Intivation, in a joint venture with ZTE, China's largest mobile phone manufacturer, and mobile phone network Digicel, which has operations in such remote places as the South Pacific islands.And Sweden's Flexenclosure has showcased the latest in wind-powered mobile phone masts.LG pledged yesterday that it would remove brominated flame retardants, chlorinated flame retardants and polyvinyl chloride from the manufacturing process by next year. It also pledged to use green packaging across its entire line of 2009 mobile handset models.The company has used the trade fair to unveil a handset equipped with a solar panel battery cover as part of what it termed an "aggressive green initiative"."Using renewable solar energy in a mobile handset is an example of our ongoing efforts to help create a safer, cleaner environment for our customers," said LG's chief executive, Skott Ahn.Exposing the phone to the sun for 10 minutes gives it enough power for a three-minute call. Left in natural light for long periods, the solar panel generates enough standby power to enable the phone to be used without any further charging.
I fell out of love with Grand Theft Auto IV far quicker than I expected. The difficulty level of some of the later missions and the need to restart them from scratch soon killed off the enthusiasm the marvellous city setting had engendered. Plus the music wasn't a patch on Vice City. But I will be checking outThe Lost and Damned, the exclusive downloadable content (DLC) released today for the Xbox 360. The download adds around 15 hours of gameplay – you need to own the original GTA IV – and sees you roaming the city with a biker gang. Yes, this is a little more than the usual DLC and on paper at least justifies the cost (1600 points or around 14 quid).I've not had a chance to play yet – blame Killzone 2, Halo Wars, Chrono Trigger and two small kids – but the content is available for download tomorrow. The first reviews are in and – no real surprise here, given the franchise history – things look pretty good.Eurogamergive it an 8.While the company's talent with stories suggests the day may be approaching when GTA runs up against the inevitable limits of openworld titles - a Scorsese-quality narrative, where characters are happy to spend their time driving around in klutzish dodgem cars - for the moment, the trade-off still works.IGNis similarly impressed, although warns fans not to expect a revolutionRockstar may, however, be a victim of its own ambition, as players hold up the content of The Lost and Damned to direct comparison with its forebear. Nevertheless, it's a tale worth playing through and a welcome opportunity to once more step foot in the still magisterial Liberty City - and as an expansion it sets a new precedent for what's possible with downloadable content at a price that makes it unmissable.So what do you think then? Tempted to return to Liberty City? Or had enough of Grand Theft Auto? Or are you a PS3 owner felling a little left out? If the latter then you can at least console yourself that PS3 exclusive Killzone 2 is out next week. The Lost and the Damned then – downloaded yet?
It is a gadget of which James Bond would be proud and just one of many unveiled at Mobile World Congress yesterday that handset manufacturers hope will give them a much-needed edge over Apple's iPhone as well as countering the deepening recession.The Touch Watch device launched by LG at the industry's largest annual tradeshow will transport wearers of a certain age back to the days when they played at being a secret agent by talking into their wristwatch. The Touch Watch allows them to talk to a real person.Orange is expected to launch the LG G910 in the UK later this year. The phone is packed with all the features that consumers expect, including Bluetooth (so it can be attached to a headset) and a small touchscreen.But for the mobile phone companies, it is just one of many so-called smartphones they hope will keep consumers coming back for more as the recession bites.A host of devices with touchscreens, internet access and ever more powerful cameras were launched in Barcelona yesterday. Much of the development of these devices was sparked by the launch of Apple's iPhone in summer 2007.While that device has sold "only" 17m in a market that equates to a billion handsets a year, the iPhone showed that the combination of cutting-edge technology and ease of use could create a real buzz. It also shook the at times cosy relationship between mobile phone networks and handset manufacturers.Nokia yesterday unveiled its latest smart devices, which it hopes will lure consumers to the world of mobile email. The E55 sports a keypad reminiscent of the BlackBerry Pearl, combining two letters per key to make the phone smaller."I believe it is going to really introduce mobile email to a whole new generation of users," said Kai Oistamo, Nokia's executive vice-president of devices. Nokia also unveiled the E75, which has a slide-out qwerty keypad under its full touchscreen.Sony Ericsson, meanwhile, took the wraps off the Idou, which has a 12.1 megapixel camera, good enough for a professional photographer. It should be available in the UK by Christmas.A powerful camera is also one of the attractions of Samsung's new Omnia high-definition touchscreen phone, which allows users to watch HD films and videos.But the day was not all about top-end phones. Samsung announced a new music phone - the BeatDJ - which has been developed in with hi-fi experts Bang &amp; Olufsen and allows users to "scratch" tracks using the touchscreen as a turntable.Taiwanese handset manufacturer HTC, meanwhile, used the show in Barcelona to release the Touch Diamond 2 and Touch Pro phones. The latter has a host of business-oriented features, including the ability to phone the sender of an email merely by tapping the email.But it is not just with new handsets that the industry hopes to gain the upper hand against Apple. The company's move into supplying applications which allow users to customise their phones through its iTunes store last year has created phenomenal demand and forced its rivals to unveil their own so-called apps stores.Nokia has been particularly desperate to hit back at Apple, and it  announced the opening of an applications store as part of its Ovi suite of online services.
Mini-Notebooks Make Explosive Entry into EMEA PC Market in 2008, and Momentum Will Continue in 2009, Says IDC.Basically, in the final quarter of last year, netbook (mini-notebook) shipments reached 3.6 million units. This represented 20% of total portable sales and 30% of consumer portables in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. IDC says in its press release:"Driven by strong vendor and channel push, consumers benefited from the plethora of new models appearing on the shelves from October onwards, and the explosion in the product offering stimulated fierce competition for shelf space. Following in the footsteps of Asus, there are currently more than 50 vendors, from international players to local assemblers, with a mini-notebook offering across EMEA, which is clearly contributing to the ongoing buoyancy."Acer was the leading vendor, with sales of 1.1m units for a 30.5% market share. Asus placed second with 1.0m (28.0%), with HP's 253,000 units earning it third (7.0%). Samsung and Dell completed the top five.IDC expects models with 10-inch screens to dominate next year, with a growth market partly stimulated by telecoms companies such as Phones 4u, T-Mobile and Vodafone. It says:Market dynamics will remain driven by consumer demand, but improving specifications, larger screens, and integrated 3G will make mini-notebooks more appealing to businesses as well. The education sector will be another growth opportunity in the long term. There are already several projects running in the UK and Russia, for example, and demand is expected to rise in an effort to promote one-to-one computing across the region.
At a press conference with Steve Ballmer at theMobile World Congressin Barcelona this afternoon (videos), Microsoft unveiledWindows Phone 6.5, the operating software previously known as Windows Mobile. This has a new "lock screen" start page and a honeycomb-themed touch-based front end designed to make it simpler to access your stuff.Along with the new software, there's theMy Phone (beta) web site, which will automatically back up and sync what's on your phone, and a forthcoming iPhone-style app store.Alex Reeve, who runs the mobile bit of Microsoft UK, tells me that "Windows is the owning brand: Windows Live, Windows 7, Windows Phone."Otherwise, it's still a horizontal platform strategy. Microsoft does the software and hardware manufacturers such as HTC innovate on top.Windows Phone software also includes an updated browser, says Reeve, "enhanced for finger-based navigation. It's a big step forward." It will include Flash support. However, "it doesn't have Silverlight support at this time."Reeve says My Phone doesn't use Microsoft's Active Sync (licensed to Apple, Google, Palm, Nokia etc) or Windows Live Mesh. It's a dedicated consumer-oriented solution.He expects new phones to appear running Windows Phone in Q4 this year.Our Richard Wray is in Barcelona and wrote something in advance of the press conference:Microsoft takes on Apple with new moves in mobile phone market
One of most high-profile trials over copyright infringement in years began today in Sweden. Four men behind The Pirate Bay website – which enables people to find others willing to share audio, video, games and other files with them – appeared in court in Stockholm to answer the charge that they had assisted in copyright infringement.The film, music and games industries are saying that the defendants not only encouraged copyright infringement but also profited from it, while the defendants argue that they hosted no shared files and therefore are not responsible for infringement.The Pirate Bay is a "torrent" tracker, which uses the peer-to-peer file sharing technology calledBitTorrent. Trackers don't host the music, video or software files themselves, but allow users to search for and download "torrent" files. Those in turn allow users to find other people who have the file they want, and to share the files amongst themselves. Each BitTorrent user with a copy of the file contributes a piece to others who are downloading it.BitTorrent filesharing has been enormously popular: some internet service providers reckon that around 80% of the data traffic passing over their networks uses the service.This morning, prosecutor Håkan Roswall outlined his case, accusing the four men of profiting from promoting copyright infringement via one of the largest filesharing services on the internet. An estimated 22 million people have used The Pirate Bay site.Roswall said in court that the defendants were aware that Swedish law was changed in 2005, incorporating an EU directive that makes it illegal to download copyright protected files from the internet.The defendants include three of the website's co-founders, Fredik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg and Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi. Prosecutors also charged one of the site's donors, Swedish dotcom millionaire Carl Lundström.Lundström has donated money to the organisation, and the prosecution says that in 2004 he helped the other defendents configure larger numbers of computers to host the site.If convicted, the men face two years in prison and a fine of 1.2m kronor (£98,000).Lundström's lawyer said: "To supply a service that can be used illegally or legally is not illegal."The first day of the trial was such an event that Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter's media blogreportedthat tickets to get into the courtroom wereselling on the black marketfor 500 Swedish kronor (£41).However, the intense interest and festival atmosphere outside of the court was not matched by high courtroom drama. Most of the day was taken up by the prosecutor showing various screenshots of The Pirate Bay site demonstrating how to download from the site. As Snild Dolkow who is translating Swedish coverage of the trialinto English put it:On the first day of trial, the prosecutor gave to me..one screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,another screenshot of a torrent download,.... and so on.While BitTorrent is used to share copyrighted files, the technology is also commonly used to distribute software such as the open-source operating system Linux because it lessens the bandwidth costs for distributors of the software: everyone with a copy of the file contributes a piece to the overall download.Plaintiffs in the case include Warner Bros, MGM, Colombia Pictures Industries, 20th Century Fox, Sony BMG, Universal and EMI.Led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the plaintiffs are calling for damages of 120 million kronor (£9.8m). The chairman of the IFPI, John Kennedy, said: "The evidence in this case will show that The Pirate Bay is a commercial business which made substantial amounts of money for its operators, despite their claim to be only interested in spreading culture for free."The prosecution will rely on expert witnesses, emails between the defendents and invoices sent to advertisers.Pirate Bay held a press conference on Sunday, bringing in supporters on buses painted with pirate ship. The supporters carried banners with "ctrl+c,ctrl+v", the keyboard shortcuts for copying and pasting text, images or files.At the press conference, defendant Gottfrid Svartholm Warg said the music and movie industry "are welcome to send me a bill". If he does get one, he said he will frame it and hang it on his wall.Follow the coverage onlinevia the Technology blog.
The opening day of Mobile World Congress in Barcelonahas produced a flood of smartphones bristling with technology as traditional handset manufacturers such as Samsung and Sony Ericsson play catch-up with the iPhone.In a further attempt to grab back some of the ground lost to Apple, Nokia also announced it was opening an applications store. From May, the Ovi store will allow Nokia users to download a plethora of applications such as Facebook, MySpace, maps and even Lonely Planet guides.It remains to be seen, however, whether the mobile phone operators on whom Nokia relies to get its phones into consumers' hands will accept the Finnish company's attempt to muscle in on their relationship with customers.The world's largest mobile phone manufacturer also unveiled two new smartphones, which it hopes will take the use of mobile email beyond business users, an area which is dominated by bitter rival RIM with its BlackBerry.The first phone, the E55, looks rather like Nokia's answer to RIM's successful BlackBerry Pearl as it also sports a keypad which has two letters per key to make the phone smaller. It also has a 3.2 megapixel camera and will be available from the summer for €265 (£237). The phone, which is essentially an update of Nokia's critically successful E71, is expected to be free to customers willing to take a contract."I believe it is going to really introduce mobile email to a whole new generation of users," said Kai Oistamo, Nokia's executive vice-president of devices.The E75 has a slide-out qwerty keypad and will be available from next month for €375. It is also expected to be free with a contract.Sony Ericsson, meanwhile, unveiledits latest phone, codenamed Idou, which has a mammoth 12.1 megapixel camera, making it the most powerful camera phone on the market by just 0.1 of a megapixel. The touchscreen phone should be available in the UK by Christmas.A powerful camera is also one of the attractions ofSamsung's new Omnia HD touchscreen phone, which was also unveiled at Mobile World Congress. As its name suggests, the phone, available in the UK in the spring, can support HD films. Its 3.7 inch screen is an active matrix organic LED (AMOLED), which uses less power than a traditional screen but has startling resolution and a remarkably wide angle of vision.Samsung also announced a new music phone. The BeatDJ is a departure from Samsung's "candybar" handset design in that it hastwo curved ends. It is supposed to look like a DJ's record decks because the phone includes technology developed in conjunction with hi-fi experts Bang &amp; Olufsen that allows users to "scratch" tracks using the touchscreen as a turntable. Users can add samples and record the results or listen to them on the handset's stereo speakers, also developed with B&amp;O. TheBeat Disc, meanwhile, includes a slide-out keypad.Business featuresTaiwanese handset manufacturer HTC, meanwhile, used the show in Barcelona to update two of its more recent phones. The Touch Diamond 2 builds on the original Diamond model released last year but integrates the touch interface fully with the device's Windows mobile operating system. Out next month, the phone has a larger touchscreen than its predecessor and a 5 megapixel camera.HTC also unveiled the Touch Pro, which has a host of business-oriented features, including the ability to phone the sender of an email merely by tapping the email. The touchscreen phone, available in the summer, also switches into speaker-phone mode when placed face down on a table.Much of the innovation showcased in Barcelona is being driven by a desire to compete with the iPhone. Since its launch in the summer of 2007, Apple has sold over 17m, but it is not just the device that has shaken up the industry. Giving users the chance to download widgets and personalise the device has shown there isa huge demand for easy-to-use applications from consumers.Rival handset manufacturers and the network operators themselves - even O2, which has the iPhone exclusively in the UK - are opening their own applications stores to try to retain the link with consumers.Nokia has been particularly desperate to hit back at Apple, and its executives were particularly pleased to announce the opening of the Ovi store.Nokia believes its store goes one better than iTunes as it takes into account the location of the user. So, for instance, a Nokia user arriving in Spain would be recommended a Lonely Planet guide on the area they are visiting, and perhaps a phrasebook and maps.Nokia's "relevancy engine" also recommends potential new applications based on what a customer has used in the past and allows people to see what their friends have downloaded."The store is different," said Nokia executive vice-president Niklas Savander. "It is not just a place to find applications, it's familiar, it knows you. It recommends applications to you, it adds a social location dimension ... it's a smart store.""This is the next generation, this is the new benchmark," he said.The first phone to have the Ovi store embedded will be the N97, to be released in June. But when the store opens in May, a number of existing models will have access to it. Nokia is hoping that over 300m handsets will be linked to the Ovi store by 2012.
Friends Reunited could be worth between £20m and £40m, a fraction of the £175m ITV paid for it in 2005, according to City analysts – who say the ailing broadcaster should look to sell despite the dire market conditions.JP Morgan estimates that ITV's online assets, which include ITV.com, Friends Reunited and ITV Local, are worth approximately £66m. Based on a price tag of twice Friends Reunited's annual revenue, which JP Morgan estimates will be £18.9m in 2009, the social networking website could be worth about £38m on paper."ITV should sell Friends Reunited for whatever they can get for it," said Filippo Lo Franco, head of JP Morgan's European Media equity research team. "Although they do not have a credit or liquidity issue this year, their earnings to net debt ratio is heading for 5 to 6 times and £40m more in their pocket [for Friends Reunited] today would certainly help."However, Alex DeGroote, an analyst at Panmure, questions whether the market may value Friends Reunited at closer to one times earnings, about £20m. "It is not a sellers' market. There is value in the brand name but after the biggest two or three social networking websites they become two a penny," DeGroote said.Price tag aside, Lo Franco also questioned whether there were likely to be any buyers for Friends Reunited. "There are no obvious buyers in the UK. Perhaps outside the UK there may be a business looking to come into the market, but the real question is, who needs this?" he said.Ian Maude, an analyst at Enders, says that Friends Reunited has been struggling for some time. The possibility of a sale has been brought into sharp relief because of the deteriorating financial situation affecting ITV's core TV advertising business.Friends Reunited has seen unique users drop from more than 5 million three years ago to 1.7 million in December in the UK, according to comScore, and just under 2 million globally. The website did see a temporary boost in monthly unique user numbers last summer, back over 3 million, after itdropped subscriptions.The last big sale of a social networking website wasAOL's $850m (£417m) deal to buy Bebo, founded by British-born Michael Birch and his partner Xochi, in March last year, although questions have since been raised about the price paid for the business.ITV acquired Friends Reunited in 2005 for an initial £120m in cash and a three-year performance-based earn-out deal worth up to £55m. It is understood thatall the performance targets have been achieved.DeGroote says that at that time the valuation was based on 10 times Friends Reunited's sales and 18 times its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.Friends Reunited was founded in 2000 by Jason Porter and Steve Pankhurst. The co-founders left the business in 2005 when ITV acquired Friends Reunited.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Opening arguments have begun in the trial of four men behind the Pirate Bay BitTorrent site this morning in Stockholm. They stand accused ofassisting copyright infringement. The trial is generating tremendous amounts of interest, and even if you don't speak Swedish, it's easy to follow the proceedings.The trial atmosphere is quite festive, which is hardly surprising considering The Pirate Bay team are well known for returning fire from movie and music industry lawyers, responding tolegal threats with profanity and insult-laden e-mails. The Pirate Bay team held a press conference on Sunday complete with a small brass band, which they have posted onmobile video site Bambuser. In fact, there is a'spectrial' channel on Bambuserto follow breaking developments.Spectrial is also the primary hashtag on Twitter. Twitter usersippantheswedeasked:Is #spectrialthe world's first virally marketed court case?While the hashtag is useful, some of the best Twitter coverage is coming fromSofia, a Swede in San Francisco. Due to the 140-character limit on Twitter, she is using a abbreviations, whichshe explains on her blog. Blogger Zondron also has a good list of links forlive audio feeds and blogger coverageof the trial.The Pirate Bay team has also set up a special site for trial coverage, but as they say:As you can tell, you lucky bastard that made it into our site, we are suffering for extreme traffic. Please come back later if the site is slow
Reports that the veteran social networking site Friends Reunited is set to be puton the block by ITVhave set tongues wagging. Regardless of a willingness to sell, however, the identity of a potential buyer remains desperately unclear.Outpaced and outgunned by younger US rivals, Friends Reunited has lost financial value and market share sinceITV offered a surprise £120m for it in 2005(a figure which rose to £175m over time).It is a marked departure from the early days, when Friends Reunited became one of the early leaders in social networking in the UK. The site, started in 2000 as a British equivalent to the US school reunion network ClassMate, saw growth rocket and had millions of members paying to get in contact with each other.But instead of establishing a winning lead, Friends Reunited has been outmanoeuvred by more general – and free to use – social networks such as MySpace and Facebook.With rivals that were both stronger and more nimble than expected, Friends Reunited began to crumble. User figures dropped as low as 1.4 million before the site decided to open up and offer its services for free less than a year ago to stem the collapse.Even though it has now started to recover – recent figures suggest membership is now above 3 million – ITV requires a drastic change in fortunes if it is to recoup any or all of its investment.Finding a potential purchaser will be difficult as the traditional purchasers of social-networking sites have been media companies desperate for some dotcom success.Rupert Murdoch dipped into his pockets to splash out $580m (£400m) on MySpace in 2005, while last year AOL paid $850m to buy the UK-centric network Bebo.However, those acquisitions have not been unqualified successes. Growth at Murdoch's Fox Interactive Media has been hit by the recession, and MySpace has now been overtaken by Facebook. Meanwhile, AOL executives are already said to be privatelyconsidering the possibility of passing Bebo to somebody else.The most likely suitors for Friends Reunited would be British, and while the BBC and Channel 4 could never venture into such territory, it seems equally unlikely that Channel Five or the Murdoch-owned BSkyB would enter the fray.This potentially leaves the list of suitors empty – apart from, perhaps, a rival social network keen to increase its influence and reach in the UK.And anybody prepared to step into the breach will be looking for a bargain. Not only would they be hoping to capitalise on ITV's tricky financial situation, but also would haggle for a price that reflected the recession and the downward valuations of social networks in recent months.None of this will please the ITV chairman and chief executive, Michael Grade, who two years ago called Friends Reunited"one of the great undersung jewels in the crown". Perhaps it may now be time to accept that he has a rusty relic on his hands.
The mobile phone industry will today call for Europe's regulators and governments to set aside a quarter of the radio spectrum released by the switch to digital television for extending mobile broadband services into rural and remote areas.The call, by industry body the GSM Association at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, comes as European governments are deciding how to dispose of the so-called digital dividend.In the UK, Ofcom has already been forced to rethink the way it will slice the spectrum up once the analogue TV signal is switched off in 2012, in order to bring its plans more in line with Europe.The digital dividend is alongside the original spectrum that was granted to mobile phone companies when services first started in the 1980s and can carry mobile broadband over long distances, making it perfect for rural areas where fixed-line infrastructure is not up to the job.In the UK, mobile phone companies are locked in a fight with Ofcom over the potential re-use of their existing spectrum. Until a resolution is reached, they will not know how much of the dividend they will need.The communications minister, Lord Carter, has made getting broadband to everyone in the UK by 2012 a central plank ofhis plans for Digital Britainand is trying to broker an industry-led solution to the spectrum impasse.If one cannot be reached by April, he has said he will impose a solution.Last week, Ofcom announced that the imposed solution would be to remove a slice of the spectrum owned by the UK's two original mobile phone networks – O2 and Vodafone – and sell it to the highest bidder, with the government pocketing the cash.The GSMA calculates 97 million people around the world are using mobile broadband and there will be a billion using it by 2012, but the growth relies upon the spectrum being made available."The mobile phone industry is calling for 25% of the digital dividend spectrum to be made available for the mobile industry," said the GSMA's chief marketing officer, Michael O'Hara. "It must be harmonised across Europe so we all have the same bit."If that spectrum is made available, this industry is ready to invest in new services to reach rural populations."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Vodafone is close to signing a deal with Taiwanese mobile phone manufacturer HTC for the next version of the so-called Google phone.Vodafone and HTC are understood to be in discussions about the next generation of device based on Google's Android operating system – dubbed the G2. Both parties hope to have a deal signed in time for an announcement at Mobile World Congress, the mobile phone industry's annual tradeshow in Barcelona which opened on Monday.HTC was responsible for the first Gphone, the G1, which rival T-Mobile launched last autumn under an exclusive deal. While that device has done well in the US, recent numbers from T-Mobile in the UK suggest it has struggled to compete with Apple's iPhone, available exclusively on O2.Several mobile phone manufacturers including Motorola, LG and Samsung are working on their own handsets that run Andriod but so far the G1 is the only device using the search engine's software available to the mass market.Google's entry into the mobile phone market follows the success of Apple's iPhone and the search engine company is hoping that its operating system will help persuade more mobile phone users to access the internet on their devices and become the platform of choice for developers of mobile phone applications.While Apple's iTunes currently dominates the so-called mobile "apps" space, Android already has about 800 applications available even though there is only one device in the market. It hopes that its share of the market will increase as more mobile device manufacturers release products.Executives from Samsung admitted last week, however, that the launch of their Android phone will not happen until next week.For Vodafone, meanwhile, grabbing the next Android phone would give it another weapon in its armoury against the iPhone in markets where Apple has supplied the phone exclusively to one operator, such as the UK, Germany and the US.Neither Vodafone nor HTC would comment.Vodafone did announce the launch of its "most affordable" phone ever. Aimed at the developing world, the Vodafone 135 has just a two-line black and white display and is meant just for calls and texts.
The UK's mobile phone networks are to start selling data about the internet sites visited by their customers to advertisers.The companies have been collecting the information over the past year and will use it in an attempt to generate more advertising. News that the industry has been monitoring what users do on the mobile web is likely to infuriate privacy campaigners.The industry's body, the GSM Association (GSMA), believes that providing potential advertisers with better information about what people do online will help create the sort of advertising ecosystem seen on the fixed-line internet. In the current economic climate, where even online advertising growth is slowing dramatically, many in the industry fear companies will abandon mobile advertising altogether.The GSMA's chief marketing officer, Michael O'Hara, said: "We can see the top sites, see where people are browsing regularly. See the time that sites are being viewed, the number of visits, the duration of visits and we can also get demographic data so you can have age ranges, male/female ranges."You can really start to build up a compelling case that says if you are a media company or advertising company, this is where you should be targeting your spending."The GSMA will announce at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona today that it plans to make this data available to commercial third parties later in the year.O'Hara stressed that any advertising service that relied upon tying traffic data with personal demographic information would be done on an opt-in basis.In the fixed-line world,BT has come under intense criticism for using technology developed by Phormto snoop on what its customers are doing on the web, even though customers must give their permission before their traffic is watched and all information about which sites are being visited is immediately anonymised.The GSMA stressed that the traffic data it had been collecting in the UK had also been anonymised and it had checked with European regulators to ensure that its service complied with the relevant laws.In its trial, the UK's five networks – 3, O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone – used deep packet inspection technology to collect data covering about half the UK's entire mobile web traffic.The trial results, to be released today, show that 68% of mobile phone users visited their network's online portal while the top "off-portal" destination was Google.Users spent most time on Facebook, clocking up about 24 minutes a day, compared with 27.5 minutes by computer users. Mobile users visited the social networking site an average of 3.3 times a day, more often than their counterparts in the fixed-line internet world.Mobile web usage peaks between 7am and 10am, according to the data.O'Hara described the data as "a real measurement of what people are doing with their mobile device.""We are moving to commercial launch of publishing a set of metrics on a regular basis," he said. "At the moment, if you were trying to buy space in mobile you would essentially use survey data, so this is a major step forward."Advertisers, however, are only expected to get a real benefit from the data once it is integrated with demographic information which will allow them to target advertising campaigns at specific segments of society."The demographic information is not picked up from your profile with the mobile operator," O'Hara said. "It is based on an opt-in, with people filling out a profile as a text message or with a link to a web page. When you fill that profile in, it links that information across to the activity."
Microsoft is launching its own mobile phone applications store called Windows Marketplace as the software giant looks to counter the growing threat of bittter rival Apple in the mobile phones market.The company has also developed a new version of its mobile phone operating system, dubbed Windows Phone. Both will be announced later today at the Mobile World Congress, the industry's annual get-together, in Barcelona, Spain.The software giant has been losing ground in the lucrative market for smartphones to Apple since the launch of the iPhone 18 months ago. These high-end devices can access the internet and allow users to download widgets, which give them easy access to services such as Facebook.But the new version of its Windows Mobile service – essentially release 6.5 – is an attempt to integrate the phone's contacts book with communications services such as email and text messaging and make it easier for users to access their messages.Windows Marketplace will not be ready until the fourth quarter of the year. The company is in talks with the mobile phone networks about how revenues generated by the sale of applications will be shared.In the meantime, the so-called "apps" space is becoming crowded. Research in Motion is expected to launch an "apps" store for its legion of Blackberry users next month, while handset manufacturers including Samsung and Nokia are expected to announce their own moves into the applications arena in Barcelona this week.Microsoft sources admit they are playing catch-up with Apple, whose iTunes applications store has been a runaway success and has created a host of millionaires who can sell everything from games to location-based services to iPhone users.Microsoft has 19,500 applications for its Windows Mobile operating system but has failed to generate anything like the buzz that has surrounded the iPhone.The new version of Windows Mobile is still some way from the complete revamp that analysts reckon the company must instigate if it is going to be able to grow its share in the increasingly competitive mobile phone market.Windows Phone is expected to include a service that allows users to back up their phone in case it is lost or stolen – saving everything from contacts to music on the internet so it can be downloaded to a new device.
God of War designerDavid Jaffehas beentalking aboutstories in games and why they still fail to really emotionally engage:The recently released flower immersed me and made me feel something. Hell, I even felt a bit of emotion in Gears of War 2 (altho, to be fair, it was emotional connection created via cut scene, not gameplay). But overall, I feel the medium is either not capable of creating and sustaining deep emotions or we have simply not come close to understanding how to do it on a consistent basis. I am open to it, but I'm just being honest with how I feel about the current state of storytelling in gameplay.Most ofthe postis based around Jaffe's issues with the end of Metal Gear Solid 4 but the general point is valid. Cut scenes do their thing but can we ever have a truly compelling and emotionally powerful story while actually playing a game?  I think so, although it tends to be RPGs like Knights of the Old Republic or – cliché alert – Final Fantasy VII that spring to mind. Jaffe remains unconvinced though.I'm not saying folks who say they get emotional are 'wrong'. That's great they feel that way. Altho sometimes I get the feeling that SOME of those folks are just clinging and making false claims because they WANT games to be that way and are willing to tell themselves that games are that way even tho they actually are not.What do you think then? Can powerful storytelling ever work in gameplay? Or are cut-scenes the only way?
At the BBC Internet Blog, James Cridland has postedBetter audio for BBC Radio online, which says: "It's been some time in coming, but today marks the next step in improving the audio quality of BBC Radio online."In brief, the BBC's national radio stations are now available in higher quality AAC or AAC+ format if you become a BBC iPlayer Labs tester. That means "the streams don't need any new software - just a recent version of Flash Player. No media players, no Totem or VLC, no plugins for Quicktime," adds Cridland.The purpose is to test bit-rates, buffering and performance, so the audio quality may go down as well as up. Still, it's a step in the direction of greater accessibility.Since the BBC in general has neglected to publicise internet radio (compared with the vast sums ploughed into promoting DAB), and since Lord Carter's hopeless interim report on Digital Britain has ignored it, I think we should be grateful for small mercies. The BBC's history in this area has not been good, so we should applaud its real step towards greater goodness.However, Steve Green of the Digitalradiotech.co.uk website has already complained in advance*.He says on his site:The BBC has been using 128kbps MP3 and 192kbps MP3 for the stereo on-demand radio streams since last June when radio was integrated into the BBC iPlayer, but the BBC has reduced the bit rate levels of the stereo on-demand streams from using 128 and 192kbps MP2 to using 96kbps AAC+!In other words, the BBC has increased the sound quality (because AAC is a more efficient codec, as Apple iTunes users know) but it could have increased the quality even more by sticking to the bit-rates it was already using. However, since this is a trial, I don't think it's unreasonable for the BBC to start at a lower bit rate: we can only hope it's increased before the launch.As Steve Green also points out -- correctly -- the bandwidth used by all of BBC radio is trivial compared to what's used by BBC TV and video streams. Frankly, I think that if the BBC chooses to run a fleet of Hummers, it should stop bitching about the fuel consumption of a couple of mopeds.Either way, high bit-rate BBC audio streams -- preferably using AAC -- are important to the future of British broadcasting. Shops selling internet radio sets will then be able to demonstrate that the essential BBC stations are available in much higher quality than today's DAB, with a much greater choice of content, over a much greater geographical area (albeit with some loss of ease of use).This will, of course, make the BBC's massive investment in low quality broadcast DAB look somewhat nonsensical.Since a very large proportion of internet radios will also offer DAB and FM, the need to support AAC decoding will also encourage DAB radio manufacturers to support DAB+ -- the internationally-agreed replacement for the BBC's antiquated DAB.All this will also, of course, show up the abject failure of the Digital Radio Working Group, of Lord Carter's awful interim report on Digital Britain, and of the gutless regulators at Ofcom both to support internet radio streaming and to put the UK on a sound course for the move to DAB+.DAB+, which uses AAC, will enable broadcasters both to increase audio quality and, by reducing bit-rate requirements, reduce the cost of DAB broadcasting, which currently seems to be bleeding independent radio operators to death.* You can read Steve Green'sComplaint to BBC about the bit rate reduction on the on-demand Internet radio streams, which was filed before the latest announcement. It provides an overview of the technology, and raises some questions that thepublicly-fundedBBC should answer openly and honestly.Update: In the original version of this post, I quoted a comment (5) that James Cridland made on his own blog post. He has pointed out by email that when he wrote "I'd recommend the Windows streams: they sound better," he was referring to the choice between the WMA and Real streams, not AAC. I've also changedtaxpayer-fundedtopublicly-fundedin the final para. The BBC is paid for by licence payers, rather than tax-payers. Neither point makes the slightest difference to the story.
KYRGYZTAN'S CYBERWAR&gt;&gt; Short version (based on a quick skim, I hasten to add): Russia probably did it (cos Russia's evil and bad as any fule kno)."Russia" in this case, it should be noted, may not, as convention suggests, be the state (aka The Kremlin), but "a hacker/hackers living in Russia".Back to breakfast.sivkoburko.wordpress.comTWEET, MINISTER&gt;&gt; Last year, as many of our blog readers know, Sunlight [Foundation] sponsored the "Let Our Congress Tweet" campaign, where we helped convince Congress to change its antiquated rules on Internet use, allowing lawmakers to fully embrace communication technologies. [Cabinet Office] Minister [Tom] Watson and his taskforce are acting in a similar spirit.blog.sunlightfoundation.com&gt;&gt; The recommendations of the report in my reading overall are about using a combination of technology, open data (that is opening up government data to its owners, the public), and direct engagement with the public in order to more rapidly and more deeply engage citizens.It would seem to me that libraries and librarians, as traditional points of interaction between the public and information, could play a useful role. I think advocating and supporting "opener access" is an important library role (one sometimes compromised by library acceptance of DRM or restrictive licensing terms).scilib.typepad.comSPECIAL ACCESSAndrew Brown in Thursday's Technology Section ("Digital Britain Needs Access to Science Journals Not YouTube", 5 February 2009, Technology p2) opines that public libraries should provide access to scientific journals. Both our associations welcome such initiatives but coming up with appropriate models to achieve this without undermining the sustainability of the publications has not so far met with success. Pace Brown, Government investment in funding research does not pay for publication in the same way that its funding of the Olympics will not translate into free tickets for the public. Existing electronic licensing schemes are providing excellent online access to most of the scientific literature at UK Higher Education Institutions at a fraction of the misleading list prices quoted, in the case of Elsevier at an average of $2.75 per article rather than the $32 mentioned by Brown. In the US it is common for State University Libraries to allow the public to use their electronic and physical collections for free; it is a shame this is not the case in the UK.Michael Mabe, Chief Executive Officer, International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers; Graham Taylor, Director Educational, Academic and Professional Publishing Publishers AssociationIt's not just "some enlightened libraries" which provide online access to the OED (Andrew Brown, Feb 5). It's available to anyone with a public library card via the library's website.Michael Rank, LondonAndrew Brown (05/02/09) raises the important issue of open access to contemporary science, currently under the control of the private sector, in the digital age. There are two British institutions either of which could take up this challenge and win world prestige in so doing. Number one choice is surely the BBC but if it is unable/unwilling to do so, what about the Open University?David Hayes, BristolAs my work for over a decade has been in respect of people with low literacy or learning disabilities developing internet skills it has been public domain.Much is also voluntary, so I'm seriously considering whether it is appropriate for me to take an MA which relies so heavily on copyright journals.http://www.openicon.orghas symbols feeds, a symbol search engine and chat with symbol application, and more. It could do with some publicity in the current clime.One method of payment is according to ability to pay, so individuals have free access, but corporations, universities etc pay.Jonathan Chetwynd, London&gt;&gt; Brown is right that open access (OA) is a solution to this problem. Unfortunately, he seems to think that OA can only be delivered by OA journals. Both of his objections to OA are answered by green OA, or the practice of depositing peer-reviewed postprints in OA repositories. The best-kept secret of OA is that it's compatible with publishing in a non-OA journal.earlham.edu&gt;&gt; There is another answer: Open Access (OA) does not mean only, or mainly, open-access journals ("Gold OA"). The other, more widespread way to provide OA is for the authors of articles published in non-OA journals to make them OA by depositing an electronic version in an OA Repository ("Green OA"), thereby making them free for all (including those whose libraries cannot afford a subscription) -- as 34 research funding councils worldwide (including all the UK Research Councils, the European Research Council and the US National Institutes of Health) as well as 31 Universities and Faculties (including Southampton, Glasgow and Stirling in the UK, and Harvard and Stanford in the US) have already adopted mandates requiring the authors they fund and employ to do.openaccess.eprints.orgSONY'S WOES&gt;&gt; As much as i like the idea of the 45nm version [of the PlayStation 3], what was driving Reeves to speculate about a DVD-equipped PS3? What type of nonsense would this be? Whatever, this new hardware revision gives Sony the flexibility to react during those days of finanical crisis with an adequate price reduction, which will come for sure this year.playstation-disorder.com&gt;&gt; Reeves expects the PS3, to enter more homes as a home entertainment system by introducing more 'non-game apps'.We hope that he means the PlayStation Video Store which will become available to Europe before then year ends.talkplaystation.com&gt;&gt; One important issue to keep in mind is the pending PS3 price cut. Achieving to 45 nanometers (Yankee spelling) sooner makes the price cut more palatable for Sony. It can use the reduced price to get rid of many 65-nanometer systems while churning out even more 45-nanometer ones.pineviewave.com&gt;&gt; The choice for Sony has always been to suffer bigger losses now in the hope of selling more games and recouping those losses later or to suffer smaller losses now and not have an install base that you can shift the profitable software to at a later time. It is my opinion, and the opinion of almost every industry analyst, that Sony need to cut the price and suffer those bigger losses in order to compete with their competitor in the lucrative Q4 games market.Of course, Sony will deny a price cut right up until it is imminent because if you knew that the PS3 you were about to buy would be $100 cheaper next week you'd probably wait wouldn't you?thesixthaxis.com&gt;&gt; What we're a little confused about is why it's taking Sony so long to make this switch. Because, according to reports, IBM has long figured out how to make a 45nm Cell. So is Sony sitting on a pile of 65nm chips that haven't sold since last year?i.gizmodo.com&gt;&gt; He also mentions that, just for Europe, Killzone 2 has had 1.1 million preorders. If I may say, that is insane! Hopefully this will be a sign for good things to come!everydayplaystation.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; David Reeves isn't humble. I don't care if he gives a sniveling interview about how Sony has to take their licks. He's from RJR Nabisco, which has a reputation for the most extreme forms of corporate greed and excess. OK, he's not evil or anything, but I don't buy it.ps3blog.netELECTRONIC BOOKS&gt;&gt; for me, it's clear that the 'ethics' of access to the content of books has to be sorted out, so that we can be full 'players' with their knowledge and value. Until the wisdom of the library and fair-usage properly informs and shapes the growing e-book culture, I won't be rushing for this latest bit of kit any time soon. I'll just have to build up those shoulder muscles, so I can lug around those oh-so-vital volumes.theplayethic.comATARI CALLING&gt;&gt; If Bushnell had continued to just create games for his friends would the gaming industry be what it is today? The answer is probably not and certainly Atari wouldn't be the household name that it is.Yet, the mobile industry to a certain extent is still guilty of this - creating things that appeal to people already within the ecosystem. If we want to create more companies with the reach and recognition of Atari that model has to be scrapped and people have to look at products and services that can reach out to a mass market.smsisthenewblack.co.ukID CARDS FOREVER?Michael Cross is right to recognise that being able to use an ID card to travel in Europe is of real benefit.But he is wrong to suggest that we and the Home Office are only interested in creating a National Identity Service that benefits "uniformed officials".We are working very hard to ensure ID cards can be used in numerous ways that make life easier for the general public, while ensuring it can be trusted by businesses and the Government as a "gold standard" proof of identity.This is a large-scale long-term project and not every stated capability of an Identity Card will be available on day one, but I am clear we want there to be a way for businesses and banks to carry out electronic and biometric identity checks, including online.In all our plans it is essential we maintain the integrity of our systems and the security of people's data, and whatever method of checks we introduce individuals will always be in charge of who checks their identity and when.I passionately believe that as we start to introduce the cards later this year the public will find the National Identity Service gives them peace of mind and a useful and secure way to prove their identity in a variety of situations.James Hall, chief executive, Identity and Passport Service&gt;&gt; I suspect it will be companies such as Visa—and not governments—that deliver useful systems that individuals want to use, if for no other reason than that I can easily change my bank within a week—it is nowhere near as quick or easy to change my government or the projects they have commissioned. If my government misuses my identity, who do I complain to—who regulates them? If my bank or credit card company misuses my identity, I have a higher authority to go to.multinormal.wordpress.comMAC MINI TO THE MAXMac Mini for ever! Not everyone wants a monitor.Alan Gent wrote about the - in his view - "pointless" existence of the Mac Mini. I believe he ought to get out more, then he would realise that others have a very different view.Since Apple brought out an operating system with a built-in screen reader, "Voiceover", the Mac Mini has been ideally suited to the needs of the blind and visually impaired. It has everything going for it it takes up very little room and is no longer necessary to buy a monitor as it would be just one piece of hardware taking up space which cannot be used. This also has the effect of cutting down the cost. Thank you Apple!David Miles, IpswichWhen I said in my original letter that the peripherals to the Mac mini would have to be Apple, I was, in part, echoing Roger Larkinson's original point: the beauty of Mac equipment. My Apple keyboard for example is a slim 1/4" thick piece of aluminium, with totally silent keys. I suspect therefore that Will Gore, whilst he is also correct in what he says (God! we're an amenable lot) is not a Mac owner. It's not just about the Apple logo or whether they will work - they will - it's the build and the beauty. And now, having boosted the percentage of Mac-related letters considerably, I suspect it's time to go!Alan Gent, CheadleCHUMBY?I need a" Chumby", got to get one! It's a Linux box that connects wirelessly to your home connection and sits like a bedsite clock giving a myriad of data when you errr need it in bed.Also does Stephen Fry know that you can get such a thing as an R4 of DSTT card for your Nintendo DS so you can put all your DS games on a SDHC card, enabling you not to have to carry a wad of games around jungle locations. You load it with game *.nds files which you can download from various sites - of course only if you own the originals.Steven Gee, SolihullCRIME PREDICTIONI read your article (Forecasting human behavior carries big risk, 19 July 2007) with interest.Nearing 30 years as an executive administrator in the US court system, I am becoming alarmed at an emerging concept (actually a very old concept) generally called data driven outcomes being applied to court sentences.In a nutshell, this approach "profiles" a defendant based on a series of data and applies a sentence that will modify behavior based on a sentence strategy uses statistically based outcome data to the profile data. In short, you're white, 25 years old and have a criminal record involving 5 cases-- you are charged with X-- and we look at the chart and say if we send him to jail he will not re-offend based on a 80% profile of such sentences for that profile.Not in my future but not far removed from my passing, I expect to see this as the new standards for court sentencing.Ron Ledford, Plover, Wisconsin
Executives from across the mobile phone world will converge on Barcelona tomorrow for the start of the industry's biggest annual trade show. But behind the glitzy exhibition stands and the over-hyped press announcements there is a growing sense of panic as the effects of the global economic downturn start to show.Sales of mobile phones are expected to be at least 10% down this year – according to the world's largest manufacturer Nokia – at little more than a billion, and cash-strapped consumers are demanding ever cheaper deals.Attendance at the four-day Mobile World Congress is expected to be down on last year as companies, cutting staff and slashing costs, balk at the £2,600 price of a delegate pass. Organiser the GSM Association is still hopeful of a last minute rush, but by the weekend 47,000 people had registered, down from 54,000 last year. Even Carphone Warehouse boss Charles Dunstone has decided to give the show a miss with his yacht – scene of many an industry party – missing from the harbour.Representatives of the GSM Association will meet many senior figures from the mobile phone networks  at a "Leadership Summit" to discuss strategies for meeting the biggest economic challenge the industry has faced in its relatively short life."The business model of the mobile operators is creaking right now," according to Patrick Bossert from customer service experts Convergys, who has been watching the industry for years. "They are having to look at where new revenue is coming from and they are on the back foot."Research house TNS reckons that in Britain the average spending of customers on monthly contracts has dropped by £4 in the last year as they squeeze ­better deals from their supplier. Vodafone and O2 have admitted recently that many mobile phone customers are holding on to their existing handsets and 'trading down' to SIM-only packages or even abandoning contracts for pre-pay deals. The traditional heartland of the industry – the mid-range phone market – has all but disappeared in the more mature markets of Europe, while growth in new subscribers is slowing across the world.The glimmer of hope that many in the mobile phone industry see is the paradoxical explosion in the so-called smartphone market in the wake of the arrival of Apple's iPhone a year and a half ago. The number of smartphones – handsets with multimedia functions, web browsers and high-specification cameras – purchased has doubled in the last year, according to TNS. They accounted for about 13% last year according to Juniper Research – but are bucking the overall gloomy trend.This fact, however, means that competition is increasing among manufacturers as electronics companies that have not traditionally made phones move in to grab market share.American electronic organiser maker Palm, for instance, hopes to resuscitate its fortunes with the Palm Pre Smartphone while this year's conference will play host to the release of the first smartphone from Toshiba – with the TG01 touchscreen Windows Mobile device – as well as handsets from Taiwanese notebook producer Acer. There is even speculation that PC manufacturer Dell is looking to get in on the act, although the company has denied it will be attending the show.Moreover, traditional handset manufacturers including China's ZTE, Taiwan's HTC, Nokia and Samsung, which last year leapfrogged Nokia to become the UK's number one handset provider, will be revealing their latest smartphones at the show.But the boom in smartphones is a double-edged sword for the mobile phone networks. TNS research shows the UK users with a smartphone spend about £41 a month on their bill, double the average, but the phones are also generating a lot of revenue and internet traffic for rival companies – such as Google, Facebook and Apple – driving a wedge between the networks and their customers.The thin end of that wedge is the facility for consumers to download their own applications or onto their phone from an 'Apps store'. The obvious example is Apple's iTunes which has programmes from games and weather maps to iPhone ­versions of popular social networking tools such as Facebook and Twitter. This year's conference is expected to see mobile application stores launched by Samsung and Microsoft, which will also be updating its Windows Mobile operating system. RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, is working on its applications store; rumours are it will be launched next month.The worry for the phone networks is that these application stores are not under their control. The widgets do increase mobile phone usage, but as most smartphone users are on flat rate "all you can eat" internet access packages, that does not result in increased revenues."App stores distance the consumer from the network even further," according to Sam Curtis, sector development manager at TNS Technology. "The traditional way of looking at it is: he who controls the screen controls the strategy and controls the consumer. First it was the handset manufacturer, then the network operator through their own portals, and now you are getting applications coming in which has taken the interface away from the network provider. Because the application stores and the mobile internet are open there is a huge question mark over who controls the consumer."So one of the things the networks are trying to do, especially in the UK, is to build more of an emotional connection with their customers such as what O2 is doing with the O2 arena".O2 is also trying to produce its own application community with its Litmus application store. The company will announce tomorrow that customers who sign up to try out applications that are under development will get the chance to earn money for their time.Orange, meanwhile, will announce that it is expanding its application store – that is accessed through the Orange World portal – to support more operating systems to keep its relationship with customers.What the networks are also trying to do is capitalise on one of the last winning cards they hold: information about what their customers are doing with their mobile phones. The mobile phone industry has talked about the potential for mobile advertising for years and while there are notable exceptions such as Blyk – which gives 16- to 24-year-old free calls and texts for taking part in market research – there has been very little progress.Part of the reason, the mobile phone industry reckons, is because it has been unable to provide advertisers with the sort of market data that they require to launch serious mobile advertising services. As a result the GSM Association will announce that it has successfully collected information about which websites are visited by mobile phone users in the UK and it will provide advertisers with mobile internet traffic data towards the end of the year."There are these two competing forces right now," according to Sam Curtis at TNS. "On the one hand the recession and on the other hand the fact that for the first time in a while consumers are actually pretty excited and energised about the sorts of products and services that are being offered in the market. The big question now is: who is going to own this space."
Amid the flurry of marriage proposals likely to have taken place yesterday, one can be fairly certain that a novel handful happened on Twitter, the microblogging site that is fast colonising the world. Such proposals wouldn't be the first. That honour goes to Greg Rewis, a software manager from Phoenix, who popped the question to his fiancee (aka "stefsull") on Twitter last March: "@stefsull - OK for the rest of the twitter-universe [and this is a first, folks] - WILL YOU MARRY ME?" To which she giddily replied: "OMG - Ummmmm ... I guess in front of the whole twitter-verse I'll say - I'd be happy to spend the rest of my geek life with you."It was early proof that Twitter, like true love, knows no bounds.For those unacquainted (or "twirgins"), Twitter is a social networking service that combines elements of blogging and texting by allowing its users to send updates to their friends (or "followers") via the web or mobile phone in messages (or "tweets") of up to 140 characters each. Unlike Facebook, anyone on Twitter can follow your updates. The service, created in 2006 by San Francisco-based whizz kids Jack Dorsey, 31, and Biz Stone, 34, now relays up to 3 million tweets a day and is one of the fastest growing websites in the UK.Despite the site's question of intent - "What are you doing?" - users rarely restrict themselves to status reports ("Am going for run" or "Watching Loose Women."), twittering instead on a number of subjects. At any given time, you can expect alerts, observations, questions, wisecracks and links to other sites from the constellation of people you are following. In its uneven variety, it starts to resemble real conversation, albeit in 140 character gobbets.Granted, Twitter can look like blogging taken to its banal extreme. "Pointless email on steroids," is how author Tim Ferriss (The 4-Hour Work Week) described it. But, says co-founder Stone: "Twitter allows a kind of social alchemy."Not only is there a cumulative power in posting regular updates, even on the most mundane topics, but in broader terms Twitter becomes less about what we are doing, as the site's strap-line would have it, and more about what we are thinking and what we are talking about. It is, as one analyst rightly coined it, "the water cooler of the 21st century".It is also changing the shape of popular culture. Twitter lets us interact with each other and our politicians, business leaders, writers, producers and even our fictional heroes (in tweets dreamt up by fans). Twitter is the new cultural forum. Even the starriest celebrities, such as Britney Spears and Demi Moore, have embraced it. For good reason. It's an ideal format for chatting to (if not always with) fans.As Stephen Fry, owner of the second most popular profile on Twitter (more than 160,000 followers), imparted to his fans: "I love to see your tweets: I love your wit, your kindness, your observation, your occasional mean streaks of bitchiness, remorseless logic and your long memories that pounce on my all too frequent inconsistencies and rashly made promises ... I am delighted to have you as a follower. Let's enjoy ourselves and to hell with those who don't get it."TelevisionGiving voice to fictional charactersMad MenEven the office photocopier Xerox 914 from 1960s New York-based advertising firm Sterling Cooper has a Twitter feed (courtesy of one wry fan – xerox914): "Last night, the cleaners made copies of $5 bills. They haven't figured out the green yet. Hope they don't spend xmas in jail."DamagesAn FX network marketing ploy, the Twitter feed for Machiavellian litigator Patty Hewes (PattyHewes), played by Glenn Close, is laced with acerbity: "Everyone thinks they want to be at the top. But most are just fooling themselves. Few have the stomach for it. Or the balls."The SimpsonsThe handiwork of one diehard fan, H Simpson's Twitter feed (homersimpson) is riddled with Homerisms: "Homer got a donut. Homer not angry anymore."Behind the scenesDiablo Cody(diablocody) on writing her new US TV series United States of Tara: "I was assigned parking at the Fox lot today, but I'm kind of nervous because the spot says 'Kelsey Grammer Only'."Jonathan Ross(wossy) on meeting Brangelina at the Baftas: "Chatted to them both afterwards. Both incredibly nice and sweet – but impossible level of glamour! Needed to sit down afterwards."LiteratureWritersNeil Gaiman(neilhimself), author of the Sandman comic book series: "Clues you're twittering too much: during an interesting dream, you think 'I must twitter this' and start looking in dreams for your phone."Paulo Coelho(paulocoelho): "Right now – remembering yesterday. Stayed until 3am with Maradona talking about the film of this life – directed by Kusturica."Literary TriviaTwitterlit– Twittering the first lines of books. You guess by whom (twitterlit): "Within 24 hours, everyone would know."Twittories– stories written in 140 characters or fewer (From rgouldtx): "'Time travel works! ' the note read. 'However you can only travel to the past and one way.' I recognised my own handwriting and felt a chill."Twi-fi novella– a sci-fi novel in serialised tweets (From goodcaptain): "He didn't respond. I pointed to one of the cabin portholes, which offered a glimpse of space and a glimmer of light from the sun."BusinessAs a means of communicating with a lot of people at the same time, Twitter is acknowledged an invaluable business, networking and marketing tool, linking colleague to colleague and company to client.PRTwitter lets a company respond rapidly and directly to complaints from the public and bad press. "There's a rapid-fire element to Twitter," says Jackie Huba of the Society for the Word of Mouth, "that causes conversations to go viral when something bad happens with a company. Companies that have a Twitter account are prepared. If something goes wrong they can respond."Idea sharingIn the spirit of conferencing, business folk are using Twitter to trade information. From venture capitalists dispensing advice to CEOs forwarding or "retweeting" posts from other users and links to other sites.Off shoot servicesBusiness off shoots from Twitter include StockTwits (stocktwits.com) "Bloomberg for the little guy and gal" for tracking stock investments and market info and Yammer (yammer.com), used by Xerox and search engine firm Maholo, for internal communication between colleagues in an organisation.CelebritiesStars share their thoughtsAshton Kutcher(aplusk) andDemi Moore(mrskutcher) rant about their neighbour's early morning building work: "The neighbour doing construction with six guys pounding hammers against steel at 7am is no way to wake up!"Erykah Badu(fatbellybella) and rapperJay Electronica(JayElectronica) live-twitter their child's birth: "I can't believe it's over. Home birth, no painkillers, about five hours, she was a little past due date, but I didn't mind waiting. Breath."Stephen Fry(stephenfry) gets trapped in a lift: "OK. This is now mad. I am stuck in a lift on the 26th floor of Centre Point. Hell's teeth. We could be here for hours. Arse, poo and widdle."Spoof celebrities – fans' parodiesMichael Bay(Michael_bay), director of Armageddon and Pearl Harbor: "Just bronzed my testicles."Megan Fox(the_megan_fox), model and actress: "Just spent the past hour in front of the mirror, trying to seduce myself. Admit it, though, you would, too, if you looked like me."David Hasselhoff(Hasselhoff), actor: "Deciding which leather jacket to wear."MediaTwitizen journalismThe public reporting on events in real-time on twitter (and TwitPic, one of many picture-based sister sites). Recent scoops include:Bushfires sweeping through Victoria, Australia(From overingtonc): "Dawn at Kinglake. Those who survived the fire are coming down the mountain."See also the pic posted by neilharris:http://twitpic.com/1esriUS Airways flight crash lands in the Hudson River(Pic posted by jkrums):http://twitpic.com/135xaTerrorist attacks on Mumbai(From Dupree): "Mumbai terrorists are asking hotel reception for room #s ofAmerican citizens and holding them hostage on one floor."Trend surfingSites such astwitturly.com,Retweetist.comandtwitscoop.com, which track the buzz topics and most-linked sites, allow journalists, pollsters and marketers to follow emerging trends and opinion on Twitter. Similarly putting a hashtag in front of a tag (such as #bushfire or #davos) lets you follow a thread on any given topic.PoliticsPresident ObamaObama's online presence (combining Twitter, Facebook and MyBarackObama.com) was a linchpin of his campaign. The president now boasts the most popular Twitter account globally with over 250,000 followers (compared to Gordon Brown's 10DowningStreet account at 48,618).MPsAmong the UK politicians on Twitter (listed ontweetminster.co.uk) are Harriet Harman, Tom Watson and Sadiq Khan.The London MayorThe Real Boris (MayorOfLondon): "Just been rushed out of City Hall because of a fire alarm! Am told all is fine so the work on my speech continues from a nearby bar."The Fake Boris (MayorOfLondoff):"Considering appointing Lily Allen as my 'celebrity ambassador'. Dizzee Rascal still in bed."
Rock albums are constantly reissued and repackaged with extra tracks, detailed booklets and remastered sound, but the Beastie Boys' second album, Paul's Boutique, is among the first hip-hop classics to be given this treatment. With the Beasties dismissed as pranksters in their early days, Boutique's ambition and range came as a surprise. More surprising is the fact that it still sounds current.Turn the volume control hereto release bonus goodness including excerpts of the album, downloads, an audio commentary by the B-boys themsleves, the original promos and, best of all, enjoy a 1980s-style game of Ping Pong with Mike D.
The confidentiality of medical records is threatened by government plans to relax laws on data protection, doctors' leaders told the Guardian yesterday.Dr Hamish Meldrum, chairman of the British Medical Association, said the profession was "extremely concerned" about legislation tabled by Jack Straw, the justice secretary, which would allow the Department of Health to share information on NHS databases with other ministries and private companies.Health ministers have no immediate plan to make use of the power, which would give all Whitehall departments a fast-track procedure for getting permission to share data without parliamentary debate.The NHS is proceeding slowly with a scheme to upload the medical records of everyone in England on to a national database known as the Spine. Ministers have given frequent assurances to patients that the information would only be accessed by healthcare staff who need it.But Meldrum said patients could not know whether future ministers would abide by this undertaking. According to the BMA, the trust between doctors and patients would be destroyed if Straw's bill, as it stands, became law.In an interview with the Guardian, Meldrum said: "The bill gives any minister the right to access patient-identifiable information - and give others access to it. There appears to be no limit to what could be done with this information as long as the minister can make a vague ... justification, claiming that sharing the information is in line with government policy at the time."The doctor-patient relationship is built primarily on trust that information is given confidentially and will not normally be shared without the patient's consent. Once we go down the road where that principle can be breached, widespread possibilities could flow."The BMA's intervention came as the Royal Free Hospital in north London revealed a &pound;10m hole in its accounts, caused when the NHS provided an untested upgrade of computerised medical records. Andrew Way, the chief executive, said it was unable to bill other parts of the NHS for work done until staff had spent months struggling with the system.The data-sharing power is included in clause 152 of the coroners and justice bill, which is mainly concerned with reform of coroners' courts and death certificates. It would let any minister sign an "information sharing order" permitting the passing of data to another department, individual or company if it were "necessary to secure a relevant policy objective" and if the order "strikes a fair balance between the public interest and the interests of any person affected by it".But doctors fear that in future ministers may see a public interest in making medical records available to vet recruits or check people seeking benefits. Until now public bodies have not been allowed to pass on personal data - or let information collected for one purpose be used for another- without fresh primary legislation.Meldrum said he was not satisfied by safeguards in the bill that would give the information commissioner three weeks to comment on a data-sharing proposal, giving MPs an opportunity to vote it down. "I have not seen an argument why they need this general power," he said.The Information Commissioner's Office, the independent authority for data protection, called for "much stronger safeguards in the bill to protect sensitive data, such as health records".The Ministry of Justice said data would be shared only "in circumstances where the sharing of the information is in the public interest and proportionate to the impact on any person adversely affected by it". The Department of Health added it was "important to ensure that patient confidentiality is preserved and that patients consent to how their records are used".
The man at the entrance of the forecourt gestured to me to turn around. Confused, I lowered my window: "What's the problem?""It's a BMW-only night," he said.The Ace Cafe on the North Circular is the only place I know that has a door policy in the car park. It's a petrolhead's venue. Obviously I'm not a petrolhead, but I did at least know I was in a BMW 320d SE, so I told the attendant. "Sorry," he said. "I didn't see it was a Bimmer. They all look alike nowadays."He was right, of course - executive saloons do look remarkably similar. And he was on the lookout for "classic" Bimmers, an M3, say, or a 507. Yet, in its own way, the 3 Series is unquestionably a modern classic. The ultimate drive for upper middle-ranking executives, the 3 Series is justly renowned for power, handling, comfort and all-round senior middle manageability. It outscores the competition in every key category.For all these reasons, the 3 Series has been hugely successful, enabling BMW to claim a fat slice of company car allowances. Its plus points are many and varied. I like the way the engine cuts out when stationary in neutral, and that if you happen to stall, a quick gear change restarts the engine. And then there's the extraordinary acceleration. Few senior execs, outside the armed robbery business, will ever need to make it to 62mph in less than eight seconds. But if you should lead a pressurised lifestyle that demands such urgency, there is a handy prompt on the dashboard that signals when to change gear. The only drawback with this gauge is that, in focusing on it, as you shift up rapidly towards top speed, you may become distracted from what you're actually accelerating towards - an articulated lorry, for example.Enough pedantry. The point is, this car is smart, efficient and it shifts. And yet - what's wrong with me? - I found it a little, well, awkward to drive. For a start, I couldn't seem to find a seating position whereby I could simultaneously establish enough leg room and feel in control of the machine. Given the thought that's gone into other aspects of the car, the problem must obviously lie with me. I am the design fault.However, this sensation contributed to the slightly intangible business of the "feel" of the car. As with many diesels, the 320d feels - or perhaps sounds - heavy, even though it is remarkably responsive. But somehow acknowledgment of the reality doesn't really compensate for the experience of the perception.In the end I sympathised with that attendant. It's a handsome machine: just not meant for my car park. Call it irrational prejudice, I prefer to think of it as an executive decision.BMW 320D SEPrice£26,680Top speed143mphAcceleration0-62 in 7.9 secondsAverage consumption58.9mpgCO2 emissions128g/kmEco rating8.5/10At the wheelRuth BadgerBound forHead officeIn a wordDeceptive
Some peoplereally do have eyes in the back of their headsDavid Letterman'snine most embarrassingly awkward interviewsRock bandswill die out by 2026A goodvocabulary can help end world hungerJacques Cousteauwore lovely watchesFloors areamazingHow Mario Paintchanged the worldHow some mumsrelate to their kidsPhil Collinsis cool ......and sois Peter GabrielThe distancebetween A and B
Rock PaparazziUnguarded rock band moments captured by Danish paparazzi (the good kind).Little PeopleCharming photos of tiny folk trapped in a big, big world.White PeopleWhite people are so funny.Kitsune NoirWalls, sandwiches, trees and other exciting photos taken with an iPhone.Upside Down DogsEver noticed how weird dogs look upside down? No? You've never lived.Tube WalkingWalking the Underground overground and taking pictures to prove it.We Have LasersWho wouldn't want their picture taken with a laser background? No one!
The most high-profile anti-piracy case in recent years begins on Monday when four men behind the world's largest filesharing website will stand trial in Sweden.The team behind The Pirate Bay, which has more than 22 million active users worldwide, are due to appear in Stockholm district court, accused of assisting copyright infringement.The website does not host any material but acts as a search engine for more than a million "torrents", small files that act as pointers allowing people to download copies of music tracks, movies and television shows.Media and music companies, led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), have argued that Pirate Bay promotes copyright infringement, and has made millions of pounds in profits since launching in 2003. They are claiming more than $100m in damages.Pirate Bay has said its activities are legal under Swedish law because it does not host the material, acting only as a search engine. It has also denied making large profits, saying any money raised through advertising and donations goes into the maintenance of the site.The defendants include three of the website's co-founders Fredik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg and Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, but prosecutors also charged one of the site's donors, Swedish dotcom millionaire Carl Lundstr&ouml;m.Lundstr&ouml;m, a supporter of several far-right political parties in Sweden, has donated money to the organisation in the past, although it is not clear how closely he was involved in running the site. If found guilty, the men could face up to two years in prison and a fine of &pound;100,000 - as well as any damages the court may award."The criminal prosecution of the Pirate Bay is about protecting creators from those who violate their rights and deprive them of their deserved rewards," said John Kennedy, the chairman of the IFPI.The trial is the culmination of a long-running battle between the Pirate Bay's creators and Swedish police, who have made regular - but so far futile - attempts to shut down the website and its web servers.Pirate Bay has been a thorn in the side of the media and music industries for years, and has gained notoriety for its antagonistic attitude towards legal threats.Arguing that it is better to allow people to share culture for free, the group has even gone as far as setting up a political party, Piratbyr&aring;n, to promote its agenda. The website and its political offshoot have reacted angrily to attempts to shut it down in the past, suggesting that they were the result of the US government and entertainment industries trying to enforce American laws in foreign countries."I don't like the word untouchable, but we feel pretty safe," Kolmisoppi told the Guardian in 2007. "The US government is losing popularity every day in Europe, and people don't want to see us give in to them."
Ultra Culture is a movie blog that avoids the normal pigeonholes for such ventures - namely fanboy lusting and celebrity snarking - for the far preferable mix of trailers and gags. It's also British and talks about films that are out this week in the UK, which cunningly sets it apart from its more glamorous competitors. On the trailers front, the author has worked out how to make YouTube videos big, which makes a change, but it's the other stuff we love - not least the Lolcats-style captioning, links, mocking of rubbish posters and genuine enthusiasm for good films. Furthermore, this blog calls Jason Statham by his correct name "The Statham" in an excellent study of "INSANE VIDEO EFFEXXX" in his new movie, Crank 2.
"The Swedish trial against the notorious BitTorrent tracker opens next Monday, and it will come complete with live streamed audio from the courtroom, a Twitter feed, a translation service, and a city bus currently being driven from Belgrade to Stockholm," saysArs Technica.The pirate Bay people have launched a subsite to provide information about the trial athttp://trial.thepiratebay.org/and they're holding a big press conference on Sunday. Ars Technica says:The Pirate Bay won't speak to just anybody. Models of upright social behavior themselves, the site's backers can't waste their time with "people who really just can't behave." They also "do not speak with assholes," and reserve the right to deny press conference access to anyone "just having [a] bad attitude." Clear enough?If they lose, there's some chance that it would reduce the amount of BitTorrent traffic, which would be a Good Thing. But still, I like their attitude. If they need something else to do, they could come and run Comment Is Free and Guardian comments in general, which would benefit from their robust approach.Times Online kicked off its coverage with a long informative piece by Mike Harvey,Internet piracy trial of the decade to begin, which says: "The trial is expected to make daily headlines in Sweden, where illegal file sharing is a major political talking point, and will be followed closely on the internet around the world."Do you think it's that important? Are you planning to follow the case? (We are.) And will a local Swedish result have much global effect?Update: Here's some of our previous coverage, by Bobbie Johnson, starting August 2007:*How three Swedish geeks became Hollywood's Number One enemy*Is the Pirate Bay going to be shut down again?*Notorious pirate website faces copyright case*Team behind Pirate Bay filesharing site to stand trial in Sweden over copyright infringement
Exactly a year ago today, I closed the door of my flat in East Dulwich for the last time, pushed my keys back through the letterbox and began mylife as the littlest e-hobo. Since then, according to myDopplr account, I've flown enough miles to single-handedly warrant the building of a third runway at Heathrow. It's lucky that I don't offset my carbon because if I did, the world would be overrun by trees.  And no one wants that.It's fitting perhaps that – 52 weeks to the day after saying goodbye to London for the first time – I'm about to do it again. I've reached the end of a two-week stay in town to take care of some admin and, most importantly, to finalise a deal to write a second me-me-memoir, this time about my bizarre adventures as a technomad. A sort of Drunk And Disorderly In Paris and Las Vegas, if you will. The fact that the deal is with the same publisher – even the same editor – as myprevious bookis a frankly damning indictment of the level of sane judgement to be found in modern publishing. Ask anyone who has worked with me in the past and they'll tell you the last thing they want to do is make the same mistake again. I'm just going to put it down to an administrative error,  keep my head down and hope no one atOrion Houserealises what the hell they've done.So, yes, it's my last day in London – for a while at least – and I've chosen to spend it in the Soho offices ofPopJam, the new startup founded by (among others) Alex Tew ofMillion Dollar Homepagefame.I'm here for two reasons – the first of which is entirely practical. As someone who lives permanently in hotels, and who – for reasons outlined above – spends at least part of each week in front of a keyboard, writing, I've become something of an expert in the failings of hotel room furniture. In most cases, even if a room boasts a "work area", the desks and the chairs seem to have been purchased by completely different people; one a giant, the other a dwarf. I could count on the thumbs of one hand the times I've been able to work comfortably sitting upright in a hotel room. More commonly I'll work on the bed, but working on a bed is a bit like fucking on a desk - exciting and fun in an emergency, but hardly a practical long-term solution if you value your spine.Working at PopJam's office couldn't be more different, being home to the world's largest and most comfortablebeanbag, conveniently situated smack bang in the middle of the main work space.From the extreme comfort of my beanbag vantage point, I can all the better accomplish my second reason for being here: to try to recapture some enthusiasm about the state of London's startup scene. Thanks to investment from a famous name in UKdotcom, and the fact that one of the company's founders made himself a million dollars not long ago, PopJam has money in the bank and, thanks to very, very low overheads, they look like being able to carry on for quite a while before they run out. The site is mere days away from its official (beta, natch) launch and the mood here is unrelentingly positive, if a little fatigued.On one side of the room, Alex is on the phone to the company's lawyers confirming whether their terms of service are allowed to contain jokes, while on the other side, co-founder Mike Halls-Moore is sitting at his desk musing out loud on the problem of sleeping in the office. "I went home yesterday for the first time in ages and kept being freaked out when I saw things like buses, and people. I was like 'whoa!' You forget what the world looks like." Meanwhile the site's development team (of one) taps away, fixing bugs, finalising features and generally preparing to push the "go" button. If any of the team are worried about a downturn, they're doing a damn good job of hiding it.And yet, and yet ... with the exception of PopJam andHuddle(who have just announced a deal withInterCallwhich gives them access to a million more users), everything else I've heard from British web company founders since I got to town has been terrifyingly negative. On Monday, social gambling sitePikumclosed its doors, having burned several million pounds on a combination of securing very expensive gambling licences in Alderney and hiring - ahem -glamourous young ladiesto represent its brand on websites that no one visited and YouTube videos that no one watched. A tip to other startups, if your spokesmodels can't even spell their own names properly (there are two called "Hanna" listed on the site), you're probably on to a loser. Also: gambling's a mug's game.And speaking of ladies who launch, last week Shiny Media sent outa press releaseexplaining that co-founder Katie Lee is leaving the company, along with almost of its remaining staff. Her exit follows the departurelast yearof one of the company's other three founders, Ashley Norris. Losing one founder is unfortunate; two starts to look like infighting, pressure from investors and a whole storm of shit. Trust me, I'm something of an expert on that one having been kicked out of at least two – arguably three – of the companies I co-founded.And perhaps it's my own dreadful track record that allows me to see a real opportunity in the worsening situation and, specifically, in the attempts of ailing companies to put a brave face on things. If you thought Monty Python's Black Knight who couldn't accept he'd been beaten even when all his limbs had been chopped off was hilarious, then you'll literally wet yourself on reading Shiny's announcement that they'd lost another founder and most of their staff. Firstly it was headed "Moving Shiny forward" which is absolutely brilliant, but it also included the old chestnut that Katie Lee has "decided that the time is right to leave the business" and finished by describing Shiny as "a British new media success story". Perhaps they're thinking of Bebo.And then there was the quote from Pikum's Sean Glass, who explained to TechCrunch UK that they were forced to shut their doors when "closing become the preferred preference for our investors". I confess that on reading that, my own preferred preference was to spit coffee all over my keyboard.Perhaps I'm being cruel. I'm as guilty as anyone of issuing bullshit press releases when I (inevitably) get fired, but that's why I think I'm in the perfect position to offer the following idea to the now-unemployed members of staff from Pikum, Shiny or any of the other myriad of underperforming businesses that are heading south in the next few months. I've managed to forge out a reasonably lucrative career in writing about my failures in running businesses; why don't one of you follow my lead? If the level of  craftsmanship in those press announcements is anything to go by, you are veritable Brechts of bullshit, Dostoevskys of disingenuousness. With half of London's startup scene teetering on the brink, one of you should immediately launch a new business, charging an astronomical fee to write similar face-saving nonsense for others. After all, these doomed startups have already shown themselves willing to spend cash like water for things that bring little or no value, and doomed investors and entrepreneurs will stop at nothing to protect their battered reputations.In fact it's such a good idea for a business that I'd even consider coming on board as a consultant. Ask anyone who has worked with me and they'll tell you I'm really good at this crap. I should warn you though, I don't come cheap. After all, there's a recession on. And for an expert in failure like me, it's a seller's market.Interested? You know where to find me.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
A computer game in which players compete to rape women and get them to abort their babies has been pulled from sale on Amazon.com.Rapelay, a Japanese "rape simulation" game which revolves around the premise of "hunting" down and raping a single mother and her two daughters, had been available via the online retailer's US site untilan investigation by the Belfast Telegraph drew attention to it yesterday.One website review of the PC game describes "tears glistening in the young girl's eyes" as she is attacked in graphic detail.In the game, players begin stalking a mother on a subway station before violently raping her. They then move on to attack her two daughters, described as virgin schoolgirls.Players are also allowed to enter "freeform mode" where they can rape any woman and get other male game characters to join the attacks, the Belfast Telegraph reported.Pregnancy and abortion are listed as "key features". One review said: "If she does become pregnant you're supposed to force her to get an abortion, otherwise she gets more and more visibly pregnant each time you have sex."If you allow the child to be born then the woman will throw you in front of a train!"The game's producer, Illusion, is a Japanese company famous for making similar 3D Hentai games.Labour MP Keith Vaz said he was shocked that Amazon let people purchase the game and plans to raise the issue in Parliament after being contacted by the Belfast Telegraph website.Mr Vaz said: "It is intolerable that anyone would purchase a game that simulates the criminal offence of rape."To know that this widely available through a major online retailer is utterly shocking. I do not see how this can be allowed."I will be raising this matter in Parliament and hope that action is taken to prevent the game from being sold."Amazon.com stopped selling the game and removed its sale page from its website.Patricia Smith, a spokeswoman for Amazon.com, said: "The game was listed for sale by a private seller via a third party website and not Amazon directly. We have guidelines for all sellers and the vast majority of people abide by them. As soon as we were made aware that this game was listed, we realised that it was inappropriate and immediately took down the page."She added that there were millions of private sellers on Amazon and it was not company policy to vet them individually before they started selling.
Microsoft has put a $250,000 bounty on the head of the writer of the "Conficker/Downadup" worm that has infected millions of PCs worldwide in the past month – though past results suggest it might have limited success.The reward – for information leading to the capture and conviction of the author or authors of the software – follows similar cash incentives offered by Microsoft to catch virus writers since 2003."The Conficker worm is a criminal attack. People who write this malware have to be held accountable," said George Stathakopoulos, of Microsoft's Trustworthy Computing Group. "Our message is very clear – whoever wrote this caused significant pain to our customers and we are sending a message that we will do everything we can to help with your arrest."Graham Cluley, of the antivirus company Sophos, said: "Offering substantial rewards can do no harm. If a culprit isn't found then Microsoft hasn't lost anything, and it may just entice some members of the computer underground to come forward with information. People considering releasing malware in the future should take careful note of this and think again."Microsoft has brought together a wide group from within the industry to combat the effects of Conficker, which attempts to connect to a randomly generated list of internet domains every day. Experts fear that one of those domains will be a "control" site that will instruct the infected machines to perform an as-yet-unkown harmful action."The best way to defeat potential botnets like Conficker/Downadup is by the security and domain name system communities working together," said Greg Rattray, the chief internet security advisor at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, in a statement: "ICANN represents a community that's all about co-ordinating those kinds of efforts to keep the internet globally secure and stable."But while the words – and amounts on offer – are dramatic, it is hard to know whether they will be effective. Microsoftset up a $5m fundto catch virus writers in November 2003, shortly after another worm dubbed "Blaster" infected millions of computers and disrupted communications for thousands of companies. It offered $250,000 for the writer of that worm, and for a number of other viruses, such as Zotob, Sobig and Sasser. Though the alleged authors ofZotobandSasserwere caught, it has never been made clear whether the bounties were paid out.The Conficker worm though hascaused far more damagethan the amount being offered as a bounty. It has infected millions of PCs worldwide, including parts of the French navy and air force and the American air force. Security experts are still trying to work out what its intent is, although they note that it spreads throughout any network to which a Conficker-infected machine is connected.That could mean it is either intended to create a "botnet" of machines that could be used to send spam, or a network that would send private information such as credit card numbers and passwords to an unknown location on the net.Although Microsoft released a "patch" in October for its software that should have prevented computers being infected, many companies and organisations did not install it because they were worried about disrupting their existing setup. A version of Conficker began circulating at the same time as Microsoft released its patch, but had little effect.The lack of updating left a huge security hole which hackers abruptly exploited in mid-January when a new version of a "worm" that exploited the weakness appeared, apparently written by the same team that wrote the original.The new worm attempts to crack the passwords of machines on a network using the computing power of the infected machine to apply a "brute force" approach – so that passwords such as "admin", "password" or "123456" on potential target machines will quickly be broken.Once it has infected a machine, the software also tries to connect to up to 250 different domains with random names every day. Researchers believe that one of them will be the intended "control" domain, and that when the computers connect to it they will download a fresh program that will take over the infected computer.
Vodafone and O2 will be forced by regulator Ofcom to give up part of the mobile phone spectrum they were granted in the 1980s unless they can reach agreement with the rest of the industry to share it.Getting the two original mobile phone networks to co-operate is key to realising the ambition of communications minister Lord Carter that broadband should be within the reach of everyone in the UK by 2012.Freeing up some of the spectrum they own at 900MHz is important because it is perfect for mobilebroadband. It can be used to send high-bandwidth signals over relatively long distances and so can be used in remote rural areas.On Thursday, the communications minister called the five UK networks to a meeting with his adviser Kip Meek to try tothrash out a deal. Talks are understood to have been constructive but there is a lot of work to do and further meetings are being scheduled.In his interim Digital Britain report last month, Carter warned that unless a deal could be reached by April he will impose one on the industry. Today, Ofcom outlined what that imposed deal would look like.The regulator has been battling with the mobile phone industry since September 2007, when it outlined itsoriginal planto take back almost a third of the capacity that O2 and Vodafone own in the 900MHz band.Vodafone subsequently attackedthat plan as "based on a hypothetical and fanciful version of the future" while O2 estimated that implementing it would cost industry £13bn and require 7,000 new mobile phone masts across the country.The plan raised such a fuss thatOfcom was forced back to the drawing boardlast year to rethink its scheme.The regulator has now decided it needs to reclaim only 10MHz of the 70MHz capacity that the two companies own in the 900MHz band, much less than initially proposed.It will auction that spectrum off to the rest of the industry, with the government pocketing the proceeds, unless industry can come up with its own solution.Carter has said the mobile phone companies can trade the 900 band – as well as the spectrum granted at 1800 when T-Mobile and Orange launched services in the 1990s, and the 2100 band auctioned for 3G services at the height of the dotcom boom – in any way they see fit as long as mobile broadband services can then be pushed out to everyone.Both Vodafone and O2 have said publicly that they hope a deal can be done, but if it cannot then Ofcom is prepared for a long fight to impose its will on the industry.
Every so often between 1995 and 2003 or so I would meet Jakob Nielsen, the web usability expert whose Nielsen/Norman Group will tell you all sorts of things you hadn't thought about over usability.We'd talk for a while, and then Nielsen would get on to one of hisfavourite(in 1998)points(again, in 2001): that soon the web would figure out how to do micropayments, and then everyone would start coining it from successful websites.Micropayments? You know - a thousandth of a cent (or penny) for accessing, say, a picture, or a site, or a piece of text. Get dugg on Digg, get a few thousand people visiting your site, and voila - instant moolah. For newspapers that even then were struggling to figure out whether they should go down the subscription route or some form of free-to-view, micropayments would be a godsend.Jakob Nielsen was sure that micropayments would save web publishersAt which point I would always demur, and offer a bet in the other direction: micropayments aren't going to happen, I'd say. Not at all. And my rationale came from first principles, from simple observation of the web. When you've got a system where you have at least two different operating systems which won't talk to each other (Windowsignoresdrives formatted with Apple's HFS or HFS+ format; only recently did Apple's Mac OS acknowledge that it might have to live with FAT32 and NTFS) and browsers that don't render the same code in the same way, you'll never get something so complex as micropayments, Think about it: teeny-tiny bank transfers! (And you know how banks love to take money out as it moves around.) Authorisation! Confirmation! What a hydra of a technological mess it would be.For a while though it looked as though things were running in Nielsen's direction. During the first dot-com boom, there were lots of systems around which tried, like the long-forgottenGreen Shield stamps, to "pay" you for doing stuff online with a currency that wasn't really money. There wasBeenz, there wasFlooz, there wasCybergold; basically, loyalty points masquerading as a currency.Unfortunately they turned out to have as much credibility with the wider web as the Zimbabwean dollar now does. The bombastic claims of Charles Cohen, founder of Beenz, that it would become a universal currency (that's Beenz, not the Zimbabwe dollar) foundered on the fact that people don't like to have their money tied up in incompatible exchange systems. As the sign on the wall of some shops says, "In God we trust; all others pay cash." And that cash has to be backed by something more solid than some pretty HTML on a website.So the boom came, and then the dot-com bust, and micropayments kept not happening. I would meet Nielsen, and point out that they hadn't, and he would shake his head a bit. We did wonder at one stage whether mobile phone bills might be the way forward: mine, for example, has charges in hundredth of a pence. But then I pointed out that mobile phones aren't used everywhere that the web is, and if I was visiting an American web site, would I really want to give over my UK phone number, and could I be sure that it would be properly used for billing? Would my mobile operator even accept billing from an American website?(The irony of course is that using mobiles to shift real amounts of money about happens extensively in Africa and the developing world, where infrastructure and the cost of travel means that it's hard to get to a real bank branch and draw out real money. But then, when was the last time you visited the bank branch that is notionally your own to withdraw money?)And here's another micropayments problem. Assume for a moment that you did get a micropayment system up and running. Malware writers would target it in a heartbeat. Now, imagine such a system is introduced, and that if you come to this page you'd have to pay, say, 0.1p to see the full text, and then 0.1p more to see all the nice pictures that we've got with it. Having to authorise all those payments would drive you mad, so you'd have some sort of "general allow" set to authorise micropayments to sites you like.Next step: malware writers would grab authorities from those sites and lead people to sites that would, say, auto-refresh (grabbing that 0.1p every 5 seconds perhaps) or throw up hundreds of 1x1-pixel images, each of course costing 0.1p again. Pretty soon you'd be looking at your micropayment bill and deciding that you wanted no part of this "internet" thing. (And to those thinking such malware attacks wouldn't happen: all these systems get cracked sooner or later.)And while that was happening, you'd seen rivals in a race to the bottom to get more people to come to their site by chargingless. They'd need ever more micro-micropayments. It really would turn into the Zimbabwean dollar, in a strange economic twist where falling prices would demand smaller denominations, which could only be achieved by forcibly devaluing the principal currency - a flipside of real-life inflation.Kings Of Leon: not to be mistaken for ColdplayThat would destroy trust in micropayments, and lead to them being abandoned pretty quickly. We'd go back to what we have now, for better or worse: a system where people can pay large amounts for subscriptions, or small-ish amounts for one-off purchases (such as iTunes songs).Of course micropayments are abig noise at the momentbecause with dozens of American newspapers floundering, hobbled by therank oversupply of news. The problem being that newspaper websites (as Nick Carr points out in that latter link) can't really charge in the same way as music companies can:If you want the Kings of Leon's "Sex on Fire," you want the Kings of Leon's "Sex on Fire." A wimpy Coldplay number just ain't going to scratch that itch. But while there are certainly differences in quality among news stories on the same subject, sometimes very great differences, they may not matter for people looking for a quick synopsis of the facts, particularly if the alternatives are being given away free. And most news stories also go out of date very, very quickly.So there you have it on micropayments: they'd be impossible to standardise, hackers would feast on them, and they would only deter people from sites that used them to charge for content with a short half-life.On that basis, it seems like the most realistic way we're ever going to see micropayments in real life is in that real-world currency, the Zimbabwean dollar. Each one of which was worth,earlier this month, approximately one three-hundredth of a trillionth of a US dollar. On that basis, paying a Zimbabe dollar per page visited, you'd need to travel about 3,000 times around the entire web before you'd spent the equivalent of a US dollar. Seems like a good deal. And it does have the benefit that it's backed by a sovereign government - though not, let's admit, one you'd really want to deal with any longer than absolutely necessary.Perhaps we can now forget the whole micropayments meme. Please. And start dealing with the world as it is, not as it could be if we'd all made completely different decisions about 20 years ago.
What's your favourite piece of technology?I'm torn – I love my iPhone, I have to say, but I also hate my iPhone. It's an amazing piece of technology, but it's not a wonderful phone. The other piece of technology I love is my Sky+ box – it really is brilliant. It's the one thing I've bought where I sat down and said: "They've really thought of everything."How has the Sky+ box improved your life?I don't really watch much television, so I get to watch what I want when I want. I watch shows likeMad Menand I know I'm not going to miss an episode because of the series link. I also love the fact that I can skip through the adverts, and also being able to share something with my partner.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last night to record an episode of ER, which I've watched since it began.What additional features would you add if you could?I don't know – I think maybe something like the Genius feature of iTunes? So if you likeThe Wire, it should tell you to watchGeneration Kill.If you watch The Shield, it should tell you to watch The Wire. So it intelligently looks at what you tend to record and watch, and then makes suggestions. Or is that a little bit too Big Brother?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think it will have evolved, but I think that's where television is going now – TV will be on demand and networks are going to have to adapt to that.What one tip would you give to non-Sky+ users?A) Get it, and B) if you're a non-user maybe you're a non-telly watcher. It's much better having a TV schedule based around my schedule, rather than the other way around.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Oh, I'm probably a nerd – I'm definitely not a luddite. I love techy stuff, and spend so much time talking about these thing. They're meant to be there making your life easier, not taking over your life.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?We bought a plasma TV about six years ago, when they were very expensive. Then it would be my MacBook Pro.Mac or PC?I think that's fairly obvious – PCs enrage me. So Mac, but I am fast becoming anti-Apple because they are becoming way too big, and all about style over content. There's too much attention going into the packaging, which we all love, but it's annoying that every six months they're putting out something new.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?At the moment it would be one of two –Tool's song Parabola, from the album Lateralus, and Sex on Fire byKings of Leon, from their latest album Only By The Night.Will robots ever rule the world?God, I hope not. I'd love to say I don't think they ever will, but I think mankind will be stupid enough to let something like that happen.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Invisibility would be great in my scamming job! But for things that do exist, there are some gambling devices that use technology that I would like to have. But in what you can go out and buy on the high street? I wouldn't mind having an electric motorbike, or an electric car – a fast one, something like the Tesla.•A new series ofThe Real Hustlewill air on BBC3 in autumn.The World's Greatest Betsis now available on DVD
In San Francisco, where Twitter is based, gathering a crowd was the easy part. In a city where a gaggle of young, tech-savvy hipsters will turn out to watch paint dry, Twestival was basically on home territory.Regardless, the local organisers had brought together a mixed crowd of more than 400 people, who dutifully converged on a downtown club to meet each other and raise money.With their usernames scribbled onto badges, the attendees mingled with each other and got to know the faces behind the tweets."I'm relatively new to Twitter – I'd say I've been twittering for six months," said San Francisco resident Brit Pinkey, who had been told about Twestival by a friend. "It's cool watching people utilise it and doing positive things with it."Upstairs, where a silent auction was taking place to raise extra cash for charity, a row of banquettes was filled by twitterers who sat tapping feverishly on their BlackBerrys and iPhones. Downstairs the crowd was entertained by live music and the prospect of freebies donated by local companies."I heard about Twestival a month or so ago," said San Jose resident Derek Overby, who works for a real estate website. "Some guys I know in London were going to the London Twestival … so I went to the site and found out that they were doing it in 200 cities."His verdict on the evening?"Awesome," he said. "I can't believe how many people have shown up."Not surprisingly, given the proximity to Twitter's HQ, many of the team behind the site were in attendance – including chief executive Ev Williams and co-founder Biz Stone. And although it played a role in helping the event happen, Stone told the Guardian that the credit was due to the organisers, not Twitter itself."I've been emailing … asking how we can help," he said. "But really it's been all them, it's been all Amanda [Rose]. We've just helped promote it."He added that he was pleased that users of the website could come together and do something positive, rather than simply socialise with each other over the internet."One of the things that this helps hammer home for us is that Twitter isn't about the triumph of technology … it's about people," he said. "If we can provide a simple enough tool to help people do stuff like this, then we're really happy."
Microsoft has surprised technology industry rivals and high street retailers by announcing plans to open its own line of branded shops.The decision to launch a "small number" of Microsoft stores comes during the worst recession for decades, and just weeks after the company and made its first ever mass redundancies.The company, which is based in Redmond, Washington, said that it was hiring David Porter, an executive from the movie studio DreamWorks, to oversee a network of shops that will sell Windows PCs, mobile phones and other devices."This is an exciting time with our strong line-up of product releases, including Windows 7 and new releases of Windows Live and Windows Mobile," said Kevin Turner, Microsoft's chief operating officer."We're also working hard to transform the PC and Microsoft buying experience at retail … so that it's clear, simple and straightforward for consumers everywhere."Although it made its fortune providing software and operating systems for computers, in recent years Microsoft has moved further into making hardware and devices.The company's Xbox 360 videogame console has helped knock Japanese electronics giant Sony off its perch, while it also produces a popular range of keyboards, mice, webcams and other computer peripherals.Not every venture into hardware has proved successful, however: the company's Zune music player – which made a solid but unremarkable start on its release in 2006 – saw sales drop sharply last year. Recent financial figures suggested that revenues from the device had dropped by nearly $100m on the previous year.Despite the range of hardware now being made by Microsoft, Porter implied that his primary focus will be selling PCs, which could be an important way for the company to stimulate sales of the upcoming Windows 7 operating system."I'm excited about helping consumers make more informed decisions about their PC and software purchases," said Porter in a statement.Microsoft's long-standing rivalry with Apple led to immediate comparisons with the iPod makers own hugely successful string of shops.Overseen by vice president Ron Johnson, who joined the company from America's fifth-biggest retailer Target, Apple's chain of stores broke records by achieving more than a billion dollars in sales within two years. There are now more than 200 Apple stores worldwide.However, several large electronics chains have closed outlets or collapsed entirely in recent months, perhaps prompting the audacious plan."It'll be great to have a store to demo Microsoft tech and Windows laptops side by side, since so many chains are dropping away," wroteBrian Lam, the editor of gadget blog Gizmodo.Regardless, the decision to launch into such an expensive undertaking while the economy is in dire straits baffled some analysts, while others suggested that remaining electronics retailers are likely to be angered by the move.But the company will be hoping that Porter, who was previously an executive at retail giant Wal-Mart, can bring some of his experience to help the company's marketing push."Retail will help Microsoft in telling a broader story it wants to get across about products from Windows Live to Windows Mobile," said Matt Rosoff, an analyst with the independent research company Directions on Microsoft.
Emote Gameshas been around since 2006, the brainchild of two Directors at EIDOS and iFone. The team has just released their first title,theHunter, which aims to combine social networking with pure gameplay. It's a meta-RPG: one that allows a player to take a single character from one game to another, using skills developed in each environment. It just so happens that this environment is a field full of animals, and you've got a gun. Dave Rose, COO of Emote, led the gamesblog through the carnage. Vegetarians, look away now.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words."theHunter" is an online Hunting Game. The game does not involve red coats and horses. In "theHunter" you track an animal through the wild, using the landscape for cover, making sure you're downwind. You take your shot only if you know you can kill the animal ethically. We're following real world ethical hunting codes, so it's measured play, not constant shooting.Because it's online, the game develops and evolves. One of our next updates introduces cameras, and with that photo safaris and photo-journalism missions. Added to this is a special social network where you can set up journals, share stories and pictures of your hunt, and message friends .Finally, it's free to play. You can buy better equipment and permits, but the basic game is absolutely free.How do players control the game?There's two sections to the game - a social networked website and a 3D client. The website works like you'd expect - you can add friends, leave them messages, add images and journal entries etc. But it's also an integral part to the game - so you'll find game generated characters who will set you tasks, get detailed hunt reports that you can display, a trophy room etc. In fact, the website is designed to be as fun to play as the client.The 3D client is beautiful. Written by Swedish developers, Avalanche Studios, this is where you spend your time hunting. Feedback from our US hunters tells us that it's the most realistic game they've seen and it's just like the forests they go hunting in.This is controlled much like any other 3D game - mouse and keyboard - but we kept the control method as simple as possible so the game can be played by everyone. Even your mum.What is your background?Emote Games was founded in 2006 by former Directors of iFone and Eidos. Together with one of the most experienced teams in the industry we have been making top ten games for over 16 years, since the launch of PlayStation.  Emote Games is a very modern company though, formed to combine social gaming, online delivery and high production value. All this realised through characters that inhabit a social space similar to Facebook from which they can share experiences and lead their characters through theHunter and soon a series of other games. In a way we all get to be 'Mr. Benn' (at last).This has been the concept that has caused the most excitement in our audience – the idea that you have one character and that character can play many, many different games which all affect that character. So, 'Mr Benn' wants to be a gladiator. As he progresses through the ranks his muscles get bigger and he gets stronger. If 'Mr Benn' wanted to be a boxer, he could take the strength he earned in one game and carry it over to another.Name your competitors.Hunting games have existed for 10 years, being dominated by the Deer Hunter series. Deer Hunter 2005 is the benchmark title in the genre and the game which we have undertaken to better. We have set out to make the most realistic hunting game ever both graphically and through game play.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We currently are inviting additional people into the game every day before opening the game fully in the near future. To date we have around 5,000 people playing and offering feedback. Our ambition is to grow a community around the game numbering hundreds of thousands and given the success of the genre previously, the lack of high quality competition and the feedback we have received so far are confident of achieving this.What's your biggest challenge?Our greatest challenge is explaining to people an entirely new way of games delivery. Most websites have been an adjunct to an existing game and not a fully integrated part of the experience. We also have prejudice to overcome, as the hunting market has been dominated by budget titles and simple flash games. theHunter has been described as photo-realistic and that's a substantial departure from the games that have gone before, especially as in its basic form it's still free to play.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?There're two that instantly come to mind and both stem from the fact that I've never lifted a gun in my life.The first was the absolute, instant hatred of Turkeys. The first time I saw the model the only thought that went through my head was "I cannot wait to take a shotgun to that." It was an absolute visceral response and somewhat unexpected!On the other hand, the very first time I killed a deer, the opposite happened. I was heartbroken. I'd tracked it across the map, spooked it, picked up its trail again and caught up with it. I got it in my sights, took the shot and put it down on the spot. The excitement was amazing! I ran up to it and looked at it. It just lay there, obviously.But I couldn't do anything with it. I couldn't pick it up. It didn't leave the play area. And I stood there for about 10 minutes. I circled the area, walked back to the carcass. I know it was just a model but it felt wrong to just leave it in the woods.I couldn't go and hunt anything else knowing that I'd left that deer there. I eventually quit the game and started again so I didn't have to deal with it.The game now sends wardens out to collect your kills.What's your distribution/publishing plan?The website is the destination through which the game is played and the community built. All game set-up, missions, inventory, competition, community events etc. are played out within the browser. Players then launch the 3D client from within the browser and start a connected game session. Distributing the game in this way enables us to partner with other complementary companies and to further drive distribution. Soon we will be launching social applications which will distribute the game via the common social network sites.We recently announced a partnership with Boone and Crockett, the leading authority on hunting ethics and conservation in the US. Partnerships such as this are important to theHunter to ensure credibility amongst the outdoor community and help reengage the youth of America.Are indie games the latest killer app?There's a groundswell of independent games that are fuelled by participation - from home grown Alternate Reality Games to games where people just "play" together - like Chore Wars – a game based on cleaning - or SF0 – a San Francisco based game where players earn points by completing a wide variety of different tasks, often with a focus on creativity, exploration, community, or performance.I think that gaming has always known that as we take games into the mainstream we're going to have to compete with, or co-opt, other mainstream interests.For us it was Online. Specifically social networking and distribution.Online publishing certainly offers the indie developer the opportunity to break from traditional retail publishing models. Once the preserve of low budget casual games it's now possible to finance and take to market high quality titles for direct distribution, building a relationship with your customer as you do so. This is an exciting prospect and so I do believe that we will see an increasing number of indie games competing. The increasing number of sequel and derivative titles traditionally offered has been well documented and it's also the originality offered by the indie approach that I hope the consumer will find appealing.Are you the next big thing?Yes. We're part of a new movement in games, and that's the next massive thing, but we have a big role to play in that.You are always judged on the quality of your games and the service you provide and your ability to respond to community feedback. Emote Games is breaking with tradition in being an online publisher/developer independently financed and fully embracing changes in online content. That we hope has potential to be big and future titles which are lifestyle games with mass market appeal built on the same technology have real breakout potential.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The January sales figures from the US are in. The big surprise isn't Nintendo's continued success – surely every Wii owner must have a copy of Mario Kart by now? – but how well co-op zombie shooterLeft 4 Deadis doing. It was the fourth biggest seller behind Wii Fit, Play and Mario Kart, outselling the likes of Call of Duty: World at War and Guitar Hero: World Tour.  For an old-fashioned hardcore game that is essentially multiplayer only – yes you can play offline, but you know what I mean – to sell so well in the current casual-friendly climate must be as surprising to publisher EA as it was to me. And it's only available for PC and Xbox 360.I played L4D around launch and enjoyed it but never fell in love with it in the way that some of my friends did. Hearing their tales of being holed up in dark rooms facing a zombie onslaught was often more entertaining than actually playing the game itself.  I'll be back for more though – Left 4 Dead's insane action could well be the ultimate gaming stress reliever.  Anyone here a fan?Anyway, the full January NPD software sales for the US are:1.	Wii Fit (Nintendo, Wii) - 777K2.	Wii Play (Nintendo, Wii) - 415K3.	Mario Kart Wii (Nintendo, Wii) - 292K4.	Left 4 Dead (EA, 360) - 243K5.	Call of Duty: World at War (Activision Blizzard, 360) - 235K6.	SKATE 2 (EA, 360) - 199K7.	Guitar Hero: World Tour (Activision Blizzard, Wii) - 155K8.	New Super Mario Bros (Nintendo DS) 135K9.	Mario Kart DS (Nintendo, DS) 132K10.	Lord of the Rings Conquest (EA, 360) - 113K
What is space junk and where does it come from?There are millions of pieces of rubbish orbiting Earth, from defunct satellites, launch vehicles and rocket stages to nuts and bolts and even flecks of paint. In 2007 the crew of the International Space Station (ISS) jettisoned a fridge-size tank containing ammonia that was part of the cooling system.How much is out there?There are roughly 18,000 pieces of man made debris at least 10cm (4in) in size orbiting Earth. Nasa believes there are more than 200,000 objects between 1cm and 10cm and tens of millions smaller than that. The debris orbits the Earth at up to 25,000mph. Orbital debris is considered the biggest threat to a space shuttle.How common are collisions?There have been four other collisions, but they involved parts of spent rockets or small satellites and were considered minor. The collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian satellite launched in 1993 and believed to be non-functioning was the first high-speed impact between two intact spacecraft. Nasa expects more such events.What has been the effect of the collision?The US Space Surveillance Network has detected the two massive debris clouds after the satellites collided nearly 500 miles over Siberia on Tuesday. Early radar measurements have detected hundreds of pieces of debris.
Taxpayers face a &pound;46m bill for the cost of communications companies storing details of all personal email and internet use, the Home Office has revealed.The introduction from April of a requirement on internet service providers to keep details of personal internet use follows a 2006 EU directive on data retention agreed after the 2005 London bombings.Many British communications companies have kept customers' data on a voluntary basis but said they would only comply with a mandatory requirement if the government was prepared to pick up the bill. The move towards compulsory data retention represents a major step towards the creation of "super-database" to track all phone, email, text and internet use.Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, is expected to publish a paper this month on the new database as part of the government's "interception modernisation programme".The Home Office says the data being stored is not the content of emails, texts and phone calls but the traffic and location data and other details needed to identify a subscriber or user.Ministers say the data is needed to enable police and national security investigators to identify suspects, examine their contacts, establish relationships between conspirators and place them in a specific location at a certain time. The data is used to build up a profile of the suspect, and can be used to disrupt a criminal enterprise or terrorist operation, or in a prosecution.The Home Office admitted in an assessment published this week that the use of data in this way involves interference with personal privacy but said it was balanced by the benefit to investigations by the police or security services. The use of such data is governed by safeguards in the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which says it must not be disproportionate and must consider the privacy of people who are not the target of the investigation but whose communications data may be involved.A draft parliamentary order published this week implementing the change said it was needed to ensure internet records remain available for long-running investigations such as murder, serious sexual offences and terrorism.The Home Office estimates internet and telephone companies will need to spend &pound;30m to design, develop and set up the facilities they need to store the data for 12 months. The system will cost a further &pound;2m a year to run, giving a total cost of &pound;46m over the next eight years.Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, said: "If this sounds expensive just wait for the government's proposed Central Communications Database. &pound;12bn would be spent on recording every email, text message and phone call. The waste of public money is sickening enough without the devastating cost to our personal privacy."Home Office minister Vernon Coaker warned, however, that solving crimes such as the murder of Rhys Jones, the boy shot in Liverpool in 2007, would be difficult, if not impossible, without police access to communications data.He said: "Communications data is the what, where, and when of communication and plays a vital part in a wide range of criminal investigations and prevention of terrorist attacks as well as contributing to public safety more generally."A privy council review into the use of intercept evidence in court cases is now unlikely to be completed until the summer at the earliest, it was announced yesterday. Smith told MPs that a further stage of work was urgently needed to "test the viability of the model" that has been developed.
Facebook paid $65m (&pound;45m) to squash allegations that its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, stole the idea that has grown to become the world's largest social networking site, with more than 150 million users, it has been revealed.The site was sued in 2004 by ConnectU, a company founded by former friends of Zuckerberg at Harvard. A deal was agreed last year, but until now its terms had been secret. Divya Narendra and twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss claimed Zuckerberg had worked on their concept of a social networking website for students at America's oldest university, and stolen the idea to build his version. ConnectU said it deserved a substantial slice of the credit for Facebook, claiming it was worth $15bn.Facebook wanted the details of the protracted legal battle kept confidential. It had reporters removed from a California court so talks could go on in secret.This week, however, the law firm that represented ConnectU, Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver &amp; Hedges, sent a newsletter to clients saying Facebook paid $20m and handed over 1.2m shares of common stock, valued at $45m by the court. The firm said it had revealed this in error.The $15bn valuation of Facebook had been based on Microsoft's decision to pay $240m for a 1.6% share in October 2007. That deal, much talked about, saw it fight off rivals Google and Yahoo.According to court documents, Facebook's lawyers in its battle with ConnectU argued it was in reality worth far less than what Microsoft was prepared to pay, and hence the settlement should be substantially lower. Facebook, still privately held, valued itself at $3.7bn; as a result, ConnectU's share settlement should be $11m.The figure, in an internal appraisal, was discovered by reporters from the Associated Press after a computer error. Unfortunately for Facebook it was Microsoft's valuation that was used by the court."$65m is a significant sum - it's certainly more than the cost of the defence," said Chris Scott Graham, an intellectual property lawyer with Dechert. "But it's a very small percentage of Facebook's valuation." Since the two were founded in 2004, they have gone on to wildly divergent fortunes. ConnectU has fewer than 100,000 users, and the twins have instead made careers as rowers - they came sixth in the men's pairs at the Beijing Olympics.They are disputing the $13m fee due to their law firm because it broke an agreement to keep the deal secret. The firm said it was an error. "Our PR people released something and it didn't get caught by the people who knew," said a spokesman. "We had a policy against talking publicly about this case."
What is it?Telecom companies keep data on who communicated with whom, when, and for how long, for billing purposes. Data includes emails, phone records, texts and internet surfing histories. But they have no lawful basis to record the content of such private communications.What is about to happen?It is going to become mandatory they keep this data for 12 months for anti-terrorist, crime and public safety purposes. Police and security services have to ask for it on a case-by-case basis.What next?Within weeks the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, will outline options for new centralised "superdatabase".What will it do?This will give the police and security services direct access in "real time" to this tracking data without having to make a new request each time. The Home Office also says it is necessary to capture new data, such as use of chatrooms, social networking sites, VOIP phone services such as Skype.What are the privacy implications?A sea change in the quantity and types of data that the state has on the average citizen, with potential access to data on every email, text, phone call, internet site, chatroom or message board.Any loopholes?Plenty. Now much harder to link an individual to a particular online identity with multiple user names and often weak online registration. Difficult to track which company holds data as services can be used across networks.
I devotedthis week's columnto Microsoft's offerings for Windows 7, partly because there has been so much rubbish written about it on the web. However, there is plenty more that we still don't know, such as when Windows 7 is going to appear, and how much Microsoft is going to charge for it.The main point of the column is that, as far as most of you are concerned, there will only be two versions of Windows 7: one for home users and one for business users. This is much like the situation with Windows XP, but not exactly the same. With Windows 7, I expect most home users will buy Home Premium, whereas with Windows XP, the biggest seller overall was Windows XP Pro.The more difficult question is how you can upgrade to Windows 7. It seems there will only be three options:Vista Home Premium to Windows 7 Home PremiumVista Business to Windows 7 ProfessionalVista Ultimate to Windows 7 UltimateEach of those will be a paid-for upgrade, at a price to be announced. But it should be a simple process, because Windows 7 will migrate your data across (9GB of free space needed). However, if you have a 32-bit version of Vista, you should really be moving to the 64-bit version of Windows 7, and that will mean reformatting and starting from scratch.If you are still on XP, which most people are, then it looks as though you will have to pay full price for a copy of Windows 7, then do a clean installation, then reinstall all your software and data. Given that full price copies of Windows 7 are rather likely to cost the same as full price copies of Vista (I'm guessing), then it may make more sense to buy a new PC.This isn't so much a technical issue as a financial one. You could have had a cheap upgrade to Vista then a cheap upgrade to Windows 7. If you didn't pay for the Vista upgrade, Microsoft lost out financially, and Microsoft isn't about to give you another discount for that.However, if you paid extra for a PC running XP as a Vista downgrade, you can now upgrade your XP to Vista, then upgrade Vista to Windows 7. What fun. Make sure you back up your data first.If you're a business with 50,000 XP desktops, and hundreds of Windows apps that need testing in what to you is a wholly new environment, then I wish you the best of luck.Of course, I'm sure that, being sensible people, you've already fully tested the migration to 64-bit Vista, and updated your in-house software, even if you didn't roll it out. Windows 7 uses the same drivers and probably won't break too many programs. But if you just lazed around dimly enjoying XP's long run, you're in for a tough time against a rapidly approaching deadline. Let's face it, you don't have time to wait for Windows 7 SP1. As soon as Microsoft stops providing patches for XP's many insecurities, you're toast.At some point, as Windows 7's launch date approaches, Microsoft will allow PC manufacturers to offer Vista PCs with a free upgrade to Windows 7. It always does. Most PC suppliers will take this optional deal because they're afraid of losing too many sales while people wait for Windows 7 to appear.But the idea that Microsoft will offer all Vista users a free upgrade is, I think, wishful thinking. I'd do it. But there will be 300 million Vista users, and if 10% of those are willing to spend, say, $100 on an upgrade, that's $3 billion in Microsoft's pocket. Frankly, Steve Ballmer doesn't look like the sort of Fairy Godmother who is going to pass up the chance of an easy $3 billion during these harsh economic times.
YouTube is starting to offer users the chance to download videos straight from the popular website to watch on their computer or iPod.In an announcement this morning the site, which is owned by internet giant Google, said it is trialling a system that lets users keep videos to watch even when they are not connected to the internet."We've started working with a few partners who want their videos shared universally and even enjoyed away from an internet connection," wrote Thai Tran, YouTube product manager.Some users who sign up to partner with the website will also be allowed to offer their video downloads for sale – allowing users to pay a small amount and receive a permanent, offline copy of the file in return."Partners could choose to offer their video downloads for free or for a small fee paid through Google Checkout," Tran added.It is not entirely clear how much of a cut Google plans to take from the service, but to begin with the company is trialling it with a series of American colleges – Stanford, Duke and the University of California – as well with a small number of popular users.The ability to download videos from YouTube is not new - it has been possible to do so for some time, thanks to tools such as SaveVid and Video Download Helper.However, the new approach could allow millions of ordinary users to grab videos directly from the site with a single click – and without needing to install any complicated or technical extras.Additionally, the officially downloaded files are available in an unprotected MP4 format, allowing users to transfer their videos onto many other devices and media players.This neatly sidesteps a potential problem that could have hampered those who want to download YouTube videos to watch on an iPod or iPhone.Despite the ability of the iPhone and iPod touch to surf the internet wirelessly, Apple has so far refused to include support for Flash - the system that is used by YouTube and thousands of other multimedia websites.However, the iPod is able to play MP4 files – therefore enabling millions more users to potentially make use of the new service.In order to prevent the system from being used for piracy, only approved users will get the chance to offer their content for download - and anybody who breaks the terms of the agreement is likely to have their account closed.
