Only connectThe fact is that more than 14 million people don't use computers or the internet at all, and they're often digitally excluded by complex social exclusion factors - not just age, but culture, income, education or disability (The kids are alright online, May 10). Technology can connect people to each other, to their communities, to information, to government. Those unable to make digital choices or take digital opportunities are left further behind than ever before.Helen MilnerManaging director, UK online centres, Sheffield&middot;Not only do I find MySpace an interface design hell, but the notion that loyalty can shift en masse is crucial to anyone working in this area. It shows how quickly your humming community can become a ghost town.polaine.comA dab hand at radioJack Schofield is right to question the progress of radio technology in the UK (Ofcom is still clueless when it comes to DAB radio, May 10). However, consumers should look to the internet. While large broadcasters dominate DAB, internet radio opens a world of consumer choice - from niche stations to student channels and beyond. The latest portable internet radios free you from your PC so you can listen to music from anywhere in your home. The way we listen to radio has changed. Instead of tuning in to the past, shouldn't radio connect with the future?Andrew BakerGM Devices, BT Retail&middot;I was bemused by Ofcom's so-called poll over DAB sound quality. I don't know how they managed to get such favourable results.Richard EvansCaterham&middot;I can remember watching Tomorrow's World when they showed the benefits of digital radio. We were never going to lose the signal in our car radio even when in an underpass. It would be the be all and end all of broadcasting. DAB and Freeview bear no relationship to what was promised.Reg KeeganCumbriaListen here - and thereAs a loving father it horrifies me to see the cavalier way Scott Colvey is exposing his pride and joy to unquantified risks of future health damage with recklessly unnecessary low-level microwave radiation exposures (Technobile, May 10). By far best is to minimise exposure, pending the science, not laugh about "interference".Rod ReadElectrosensitivity UK, Ely&middot;Scott Colvey has a huge gap in his technological savvy. You use a kettle, not a microwave, to power up Pot Noodles.Ed WalkerWest YorkshireDon't go bespokeI couldn't understand why you would give such complex advice to someone setting up a campaign site (Campaign promises the web can't keep, May 10). You don't have to bother with all the underlying techno stuff. Just use simple off-the-shelf components - a Typepad blog, free widgets, YouTube, Flickr, Feedburner, Yahoo! groups and No10 e-petitions. You have to sacrifice a tiny bit of customisation, but over-bespoking is the curse of many IT projects.William PerrinLondonI see redWill it be marketed as "Bloody Marvel"? (How plastic blood could move from test tube to battlefield, May 10).Professor Bruce RoyanEdinburghDriven mad by VistaIt is for manufacturers to decide if it is in their interests to write Vista drivers for their older products (Who should you blame if your kit doesn't work with Vista, May 3). To use an analogy: you wouldn't expect whoever you bought your gas boiler from to upgrade it for free just because you decided to turn the old attic into a nice warm bedroom.Leo RyderCardiff
According to Jim Gamble, former head of the National Crime Squad who oversaw the crackdown on suspected paedophiles, "very soon". That is, once the operation (which started with 7,000-odd names from the database of the US porn portal Landslide) has been "wrapped up", the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre which he now heads will release statistics on how effective it has been.So how soon is "very soon"? Though we asked him this question multiple times, Gamble declined to put any timescale on it. He says, though, that 140 children have been "rescued" in the UK "in cases where we have found evidence of actual ongoing abuse".Gamble also stands by his remarks, made in January to the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology, and again last week in a BBC Investigation programme about Operation Ore, that "we never prosecute someone simply on the basis of their credit card being used [on Landslide]".This might seem to be contradicted by the example of a doctor tried in Hull in 2004, where the police found no incriminating pictures or emails on his machine. There were, however, credit card transactions in the doctor's name via the Landslide site, and the doctor was tried for "incitement" - that is, inciting Landslide to provide child pornography. (Whether it arrived or not is immaterial to the charge of incitement: if you ask someone in the street for a wrap of heroin, you're inciting them to commit the crime of supplying.)The judge instructed the jury to acquit the doctor, given the plain evidence that the credit card had been used fraudulently in the US, raising the obvious possibility that the Landslide entry was the work of a hacker.Does that disprove Gamble's statement? Not necessarily. Landslide's database contained names, email addresses, billing addresses, usernames, passwords and often telephone numbers. Expert witnesses defending Ore "incitement" cases (where no incriminating evidence has been found) say thousands of those had been stolen from legitimate sites and used to generate cash for associated site owners (Operation Ore flawed by fraud, April 19). But "credit card details" might mean just the card number, name and billing address. Might a username, email address or password be enough to spark an incitement prosecution?We asked CEOP if Gamble could clarify what "credit card details" means. It declined to elucidate. "To the best of our knowledge, no one was prosecuted on the basis of credit card details alone,"it repeated.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ins and outs of IE7Internet Explorer 7 has become very very slow of late; it had previously been OK. I have tried turning off the automatic phishing filter. Opera is unaffected and remains much faster.Van TranJS:Internet Explorer 7 is generally snappy but some people have had problems with MS07-027: Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer, released on May 8. There are details and fixeshere. Generally, however, the problem is most likely to be caused by an add-on, which is known in Microsoft jargon as a BHO (Browser Helper Object). You can get a good idea if this is the case by running IE7 with no add-ons, which is easy because Microsoft has provided a separate version. To run it, go to Start/Programs/Accessories/System Tools and select Internet Explorer (No Add-ons). IE7 makes it much easier to handle BHOs. Go to the Tools menu, select Manage Add-ons, then Enable or Disable Add-ons. If there are any entries you don't recognise, use Google to research them. With ones that are just numbers, the first eight characters should be enough.You might also find an obscure one called Research. This has recently been added by Microsoft for Office users. If you have it, there will be a Research icon on the toolbar, but usually it will be too far along to be visible. Click the chevrons at the far right of the toolbar to see the drop-down list. If all else fails, you can reset IE back to a base level. To do this, go to the Control Panel, run the applet called Internet Options and click the Advanced tab. There is a button at the bottom labelled Reset. This deletes temporary files, disables all add-ons and reverts any changes you have made to settings. It warns: "You should only use this if your browser is in an unusable state." And you do know all your passwords, don't you?Can't play my MP3I have acquired a set of early recordings that won't play and won't convert. Windows Media Player 11 says that the .mp3 file extension doesn't match the file format. Using various tag editors, I find the info is: Mode MPEG-2.5, Bitrate 0, Frequency 11025.Steve ButcherJS:These seem to be 11.025kHz MPEG-2.5 Layer III files, encoded in a low-quality format developed by Fraunhofer IIS. This is not part of the MPEG standard so most MP3 players probably won't play them. I think your best bet is to try one of the players that uses the open source MAD (MPEG audio decoder) code, which says it supports MPEG-2.5. There's a listhere. I'd start with Audacity and/or CoolPlayer (coolplayer.sourceforge.net) for Windows.Can't play my MP4I have downloaded a .mp4 video from ITV Anglia's website but Windows XP won't play it.John H FaggJS:Microsoft has been shockingly derelict in providing MP4 support and its website directs you to a third-party codec (support.microsoft.com/kb/316992), though mp4 files can also be repackaged as .asf files. Instead, I recommend downloading theK-Lite Codec Pack, which includes the open source Media Player Classic (don't download this separately). This will play MP4 videos and just about anything else. If you also get the QuickTime Alternative and Real Alternative add-ons, you don't need any other bloatware players. An alternative is the cross-platform VLC (www.videolan.org/vlc/).Password pasterIs it a good idea to copy a password from an (encrypted) file and paste it into the appropriate place? Will this defeat keyloggers?Derek WinslowJS:It's often convenient to paste in passwords but this would defeat only the simplest keylogging malware. It is trivially easy to capture the contents of the Windows clipboard.Backchat&middot;Wiebina Heesterman wanted an energy-efficient notebook. Last week's answer should have included information about theEnergy Star programme, run by the US Environmental Protection Agency and the US Department of Energy, which sets standards for energy efficiency. Its new Version 4 specification comes into effect on July 20. I'd regard any notebook PC that meets most of the Tier 1 requirements as acceptable&middot;I said that our domain names should end in gb, not uk, which prompted complaints. My point was that gb is the code "officially assigned" under theISO 3166-1 standard. We don't follow the standard. Feel free to argue with the International Organisation for Standardisation and Nominet about this
If you're Bruce Willis facing down doubters, the 'how' is Apple's iChat instant messaging program. Most people use nicknames on internet forums to keep their identity private. But Willis decided that wasn't enough on the Ain't It Cool News forum.Willis popped up as"Walter B"on a thread about the movie Die Hard 4.0 and made it clear that he knew more about it than most posters. "As someone who worked on the picture, and has seen a cut of it ... this is as good, if not better than the first movie". Others begged to differ, and the thread got heated until finally Walter B posted: "I am John Mafuckin'Clane [Willis's character in the film]." But how to prove this online, where you can be anyone you like? And why? Willis explained: "I feel a strong personal pull to hear from an audience, sans bullshit, just the straight, tight shit."Seeing is believing, so finally Walter B offered: "Send me your biggest doubter, who has iChat/video ability, and have them call." Three hours later, all was revealed."HOLY SHIT - IT'S WILLIS!"squawked one user as screengrabs of a poster iChatting to Willis were published.Of course, Web 2.0 means that celebrities of all kinds interact with their fans, usually via MySpace and their personal sites and blogs. Last week singer Lily Allen posted "in a sea of tears" on her MySpace blog that she had spent the past hour researching gastric bypass surgery and liposuction because she'd "fallen victim to the evil machine". A stream of supportive comments from fans immediately followed her long-dark-night-of-the-waistline post, for which she later thanked her fans.However, as far as we can discern, Willis is the first star openly to have joined in the far more democratic medium of forums, where they have no control over the content posted by others. Unless of course you know better.So if you're a movie star wanting to prove who you are, get iChat. But it might be a good idea not to post your iChat ID, as Willis did.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Motorola smellphoneMotorola has been granted a US patent for a "communication device having a scent release featureand method thereof". But will it will play Pong?Top Blair clipsThe Viral Video chart has a Top 20 chart of Blair clips, led by Tony Blair f&eacute;licite Nicolas Sarkozy (en fran&ccedil;ais).viralvideochart.com/more/blairReally FASN8ingAMD has announced a new family of quad-core processors calledPhenom, and its first PC "enthusiast platform" codenamed FASN8 (for "fascinate").UK welcomes hackersNTA Monitor's 2007Annual Security Reportsays 32% of the UK organisations tested had security holes that are actively exploited by hackers, down from 61% in 2006.BT's IP TVBT has started marketing its BT Vision internet-based TV service, which uses a V-box digital video recorder to store up to 80 hours of programmes.btvision.bt.com/visionReading in bitsDaily Lit is sending out books in five-minute chunks, free, by email and RSS.dailylit.comIt's a snapCrucial, which sells memory upgrades, has videos showing how to install them.crucial.com/uk/installguideUse MimeTrust5, which runs MimeCity.com, has launched Use Mime, which enables mobile phone users to create their own portal pages for access to sites they like.usemime.com
The latest in a long tradition of bands who've managed to utilise videogames and game controllers to make music has been unearthed by CNET.Behold, the Guitar Zeros, a US band who've modified their Guitar Hero controllers to make, 'synthesised sounds'.The band'swebsitefeatures a helpful guide on converting your own Guitar Hero axe in a similar fashion. I'm not sure if it's permanent - best check before you give it a go.Previous examples of this sort of thing includeThe Electric Familywho released a whole album of music created using Mario Paint on the SNES. Then there'sNullsleep, the band name of New York musician, Jeremiah Johnson (who also co-founded8bitpeoples, a collective of musicians inspired by early console and computer music). Oh and theMikro OrchestraProject (formerly Gameboyzz Orchestra Project), an experimental art group that uses (abuses?) networked Game Boys.
For party hosts who constantly change songs midway through, the Hercules DJ mobile MP3 will be a godsend. The idea is simple - instead of being tethered to your computer creating playlists and selecting tracks or stuck behind the decks, this gadget allows you to wander around picking tracks and feeds the information back to your computer via a radio signal. The device itself has lots of buttons, joysticks and wheels, designed to let you mix your music, be it through the pitch, tempo or volume. Two LCD screens show you the tracks you have selected. The software mirrors what you see on the device, which in theory should make it easier to understand just which buttons do what. Sadly, this isn't the case. While I'm clearly not a DJ in the making, I was hoping to make a little more progress in the time I spent trying to figure out how to crossfade tracks and progress beyond basic scratching. Thankfully there's an automix button, which transfers responsibility for mixing between songs back to the software, so you're not left with silence should you get distracted and a song ends. I suspect any DJ worth their salt would find this gadget little more than a diversion. The DJ Mobile MP3, priced at &pound;59, is a fun toy, but you're unlikely to set the music world alight.
Just in case you missed this yesterday...From GameDaily Biz:"Sony today revealed that through the fiscal year ended March 31, the company shipped about 5.5 million PlayStation 3 units and sold around 3.6 million of those. 13.2 million units of PS3 software were shipped. The expensive console took its toll on Sony's bottom line, however. For the year operating income plummeted 68 percent from 226.4 billion yen to just 71.8 billion yen ($608 million). Sales and net income, however, were up 10.5 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. Total sales amounted to 8.3 trillion yen ($70.3 billion) and net income was 126.3 billion yen ($1.07 billion)."The gaming division took a sound pummeling with operating losses of 232.3 billion yen. Ow! On the positive side the company was able to improve the operating income of PSP because of cheaper productions costs. Phew!Bloodied but unbowed, Sony is predicting better things for this fiscal year - to the tune of 320 billion yen profits. "The PS3 business will really get off the ground this fiscal year," said Corporate Executive Officer Nobuyuki Oneda, a pair of fingers tightly crossed in his suit pocket.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Back in 2004, a company called Perfect 10 sued Google on the grounds that its use of thumbnails violated its copyrights. This attracted attention because of the subject matter -- nude photography -- and because it represented a significant challenge to the working of the Web. (Perfect 10 also sued Amazon.)Google has now won the case on appeal, according to theWashington Post. It says:The appeals court ruled that the thumbnails fell within a "fair use" exception in copyright law because they play a role in the search process and thus have a function different from that of the original photos."We conclude that the significantly transformative nature of Google's search engine, particularly in light of its public benefit, outweighs Google's superseding and commercial uses of the thumbnails in this case," Judge Sandra S. Ikuta wrote for the panel.However, "Yesterday's ruling was not a complete victory for Google, because the judges directed the lower court to reconsider a separate finding in the company's favor," says TWP. Basically, it seems the problem is that while Google's thumbnails may not infringe copyright, it was linking to sites thatdoinfringe copyright -- and knowing that, not stopping it.
Search at Google.com on evolution or Iraq or Aids or Gordon Brown, and the same site will appear at the top of the list of results: Wikipedia. Alter your search into one for John Keats or Muhammad Ali or Christianity or platypus or loneliness, and the same thing will happen. Pacific Ocean? Wikipedia. Catherine de Medici? Wikipedia. Human brain? Wikipedia.In fact, if you Google any person, place or thing today, you're almost guaranteed to find Wikipedia at or near the top of the list of recommended pages. Despite its flaws, the amateur-written encyclopedia has become the world's all-purpose information source. It's our new Delphic oracle.The hegemony of Wikipedia is only the most striking manifestation of a broad and unexpected phenomenon: The world wide web is shrinking. I don't mean that there are fewer sites than there used to be. On that measure, the web is bigger than ever. I mean that more and more of our time online is being spent at an ever-smaller number of megasites. The wilds of the internet are being carved up among a handful of vast information plantations.Web statistics tell the tale. The blogger Richard MacManus recentlyexamined trends in online traffic over the past five years. He found that between the end of 2001 and the end of last year, the number of Internet domains expanded by more than 75%, from 2.9m to 5.1m. At the same time, however, the dominance of the most popular domains grew substantially. At the end of 2001, the top 10 websites accounted for 31% of all the pages viewed on the net. By the end of last year, the top 10 accounted for fully 40% of page views. There are more destinations online, but we seem to be visiting fewer of them.Much of the increase in traffic consolidation can, as MacManus points out, be attributed to the growth of social networks such as MySpace, Facebook and Bebo. In 2001, MySpace didn't even exist. Now, the sprawling site, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, is the most visited on the net, accounting for a whopping 16% of all page views.The concentration is happening in other areas as well. Take search engines. According to Hitwise, Google now handles 65% of all web searches, up from 58% just a year ago. Despite aggressive attempts by Yahoo!, Microsoft and Ask to boost their own shares of the search market, Google continues to widen its lead.If Google is an example of the shrinking of the Net, it's also one of the causes. Because the search engine determines a site's relevance based on its popularity, as measured by, among other things, the number of other sites that link to it, it has had the effect of turning the web into a giant feedback loop. The more popular a site becomes, the more it comes to dominate search results, which ends up funnelling ever more links and traffic to it.On the internet, the big get bigger. It wasn't supposed to be like that. When the web arrived in the early 1990s, it was heralded as a liberating force that would free us from the confines of gated communities like AOL and Compuserve. The internet was supposed to be an open, democratic medium, an information bazaar putting individuals on the same footing as big companies.In the end, though, the internet seems to be following the same pattern that has always characterised popular media. A few huge outlets come to dominate readership and viewership and smaller, more specialised ones are consigned to the periphery. Most of the largest sites are now in the midst of acquisition sprees or expansion programs intended to extend their dominion. Just last week, MySpace announced it would buy Photobucket, the largest photo-sharing site; Facebook said it would expand into the classified advertising business; and Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said that his company has been acquiring small companies at the rate of one a week to build out its portfolio.It may be that internet users will revolt against the dominance of the mega-sites. But I wouldn't bet on it. All the signs point to a continuing concentration of traffic within the fences of the new information plantations.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book is called The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last Saturday, the Guardian reported on Google's scary plans to psychologically profile online gamers and then hawk the information to advertisers. The search engine behemoth has filed patents for a technology that analyses the tactics we use in games like World of Warcraft and Quake, so that in-game ads can be individually doctored to the player. For example, if you're the sort of gamer who explores every inch of the environment, you might see ads for trekking holidays on in-game billboards. Alternatively, if you just shoot people, you could be offered psychological counselling.We shouldn't be shocked about this - corporations are desperate to know what we're thinking, and we're often more than happy to tell them. Ever used a reward card or signed up for an email newsletter? Congratulations, you've shared your personal life with a corporate spy monkey.In-game advertising is already a multi-million dollar business ; some expect it to be worth around $2bn (&#163;1bn) by 2010. If you've played Battlefield 2042, Anarchy Online or Splinter Cell Chaos Theory you will have been bombarded, not only by enemy fire, but also by ads for flashy trainers and the latest Akon album.The problem is, shoving billboards in a virtual space is a pretty clumsy solution - too obvious and gamers feel violated; too subtle and they don't notice. Google's patent is one answer, ensuring that the product is at least of interest to the individual gamer. But really, the sensible way forward for advertisers is to engage in the interactivity of gaming. This can be achieved explicitly, through dedicated "advergames" like last year's hugely successful Burger King titles. But up to the experience; in effect, you're preaching to the converted.How long before advertisers exploit the rudimentary social elements of online games? The adbots that spam blog comments sections could easily be modified and let loose in online game worlds, using advanced AI and voice synthesis to chat with real gamers. You could be talking to someone for hours before it suddenly dawns on you that they're channelling all your conversations toward herbal Viagra.After that, the developers of camera games like the dance title EyeToy Groove will work out a legal way to sell your upstreamed webcam footage to advertisers. Imagine it, you're dancing about in your living room when the level comes to a close and a grating robotic voice announces that your wallpaper has been unfashionable for 10 years and your jeans don't go with your head shape. If you think psychological profiling is invasive, just wait 'til they come for your living room.
You might not consider Labour deputy leadership contender Alan Johnson the most likely person to embrace the latest social networking trend. But according to his campaign team, Johnson is not only the first UK politician to be sending out Twitter updates, he was nearly the first in the world."I had the idea for Alan to use Twitter back at the start of January, long before John Edwards started to use it for his [US] presidential bid," says Stuart Bruce, Johnson's head of PR. "Unfortunately, he started before we were ready."So how does Johnson fit in among the 8m "tweets" (short Twitter messages) sent worldwide so far? At the time of writing,twitter.com/johnson4deputyreports the last time he update he was "Heading off to Leeds after a really successful campaign launch. 65 PLP [Parliamentary Labour Party] supporters already declared ..." You can almost hear the bandwagon rolling.It is one of 50-odd updates, shared with a rapidly growing number of "friends" (personally invited to keep in touch) and "followers" (who have chosen to see his Twitter feed) since March 10. The number will be growing fast, with the deputy leadership race in full swing following John Prescott's resignation last week.21st century PRBut as a 21st-century piece of PR, it certainly beats Hazel Blears's logoed baseball caps, beer mats and sweatshirts. According to Bruce, there are several reasons why Twitter works well for Johnson's campaign. "Only 60% of UK households use the internet regularly. Mobile phone penetration is nearly 100%," he says. "Twitter is a way of making the campaign much more accessible to most people. We've taken a decision that Alan is not going to start a blog just for the deputy leader contest."But why? "Being secretary of state for education and employment is a critical job and there is no way Alan could do a blog properly. It's better to not blog than to do it badly. Most people don't have a clue what senior politicians do. Using Twitter gives a real insight and clearly shows that he's an ordinary guy."But aren't the numbers of Johnson's followers and friends too miniscule for it to mean anything? "So far it hasn't really been promoted," says Bruce. "Now the deputy leadership campaign starts properly. Alan's campaign leaflet features Twitter prominently and supporters are encouraged to text in to subscribe. This is where we hope the biggest number of followers will come from."He acknowledges that Twitter can become an irritation. "It has the potential to be the biggest waste of time in the world - by spending time Twittering your every action or reading about other people drinking their espresso."That's why Twitter is attracting the same sort of criticism that blogging has.Twitterati.tvsays: "Twitter divides opinion like blogging did through the perceived self-centredness of people twittering about what they did two minutes ago. There are a lot of people twittering about their cat or their sandwich. Yet there are also some great uses, including websites and blogs experimenting with a new distribution channel."Twitter's growth is also now being compared to that of blogging - and reportedly is growing a lot faster, especially since SXSW, an interactive film and music festival held in Austin, Texas, two months ago, which is when Twitter is said to have taken off.And now the discussion centres on how reliable the growth figures are - and whether it's a valid comparison to make.Jason Kottke concludesthat the data available so far is useless because it hasn't been "strictly sequential".However, Twitter's Biz Stone, who also worked as an adviser to Blogger.com, counters: "We've been doubling the number of active users about every three weeks for a sustained period of monthsnow. Comparing the growth of Twitter and Blogger is interesting but I think Kottke makes a fair point by acknowledging that when Blogger fi rst got started it was much more diffi cult to get started compared to today."Counting the total number of users on its own is not "a healthy way" to measure the success of a service, Stone says, and points to the Twitter Fan Wiki twitter.pbwiki.comas one way that success can be measured. "When users form community around a product, discuss that product, and build compelling applications on top of a product, then that service is showing signs of success. Accommodating growth while providing a sophisticated, deviceagnostic message routing service for our users has helped Twitter grow. We expect to see more folks invite their friends to Twitter or discover our service through various integrations made possible by our API."That API (applications programming interface) off ers a way for external programs to hook into Twitter feeds, so that they can be displayed on web pages or other devices, for example on mobile phones. Dredge says: "One of the most interesting things about Twitter is the openness of it, with people creating websites, applications and mobile apps using the Twitter API. I think this will fuel a lot of its growth going forward, as will integrating Twitter more with other websites, with embeddable feeds and so on."Stone acknowledges "growing pains" - Twitter has struggled to keep up with the growth of its users and database - but adds: "These have not been signifi cant beyond an initial surprise interest in our service and subsequent eff orts to make sure that our hardware and engineering resources were appropriately allocated. We are building Twitter in a new web application framework called Ruby on Rails, which means we are solving new puzzles as we move forward which we share with the developer community."MicrobloggingSo will we all be Twittering in five years' time? Dredge thinks it's too early to say if Twitter is here to stay. "It has done a great job with word-of-mouth recommendations," he says. "But there are plenty of examples of web companies who've done this, only to find someone else coming along, improving on their idea and leaving them for dust. Think of the social networking site Friendster creating an early buzz, only to be surpassed by MySpace."Twitter is sure to face stiff competition from other companies refi ning its microblogging concept - Jaiku is one example. Meanwhile, it could also face competition from micro blogging being incorporated into larger social networking sites. For example, Facebook's Status Update feature does a similar thing, but within a much richer social networking site."There were definitely some bandwidth problems, with the Twitter site slowing down to a crawl when it suddenly took off. It has been much better since. Like any web craze, it's bound to suff er from fall-off as people who were mad keen on Twittering find other online toys to play with."Whether those initial devotees losing their taste for Twitter will include Alan Johnson remains to be seen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google has recently been experimenting with different home pages, and now it has plumped for something dramatically different. You didn't notice? The headings that used to be tabs -- Web, Images, News etc -- have become simple text links and have now moved to the top left of the home page. This is consistent with other Google properties such as Gmail, and leaves the front page looking even cleaner than before. However, there are now so many Google products, most of them are on a drop-down list. Unfortunately.Google has also "announced its critical first steps toward a universal search modelthat will offer users a more integrated and comprehensive way to search for and view information online." It says:Google's vision for universal search is to ultimately search across all its content sources, compare and rank all the information in real time, and deliver a single, integrated set of search results that offers users precisely what they are looking for. Beginning today, the company will incorporate information from a variety of previously separate sources - including videos, images, news, maps, books, and websites - into a single set of results. At first, universal search results may be subtle. Over time users will recognize additional types of content integrated into their search results as the company advances toward delivering a truly comprehensive search experience.Google is also experimenting with ways to display searches atGoogle Experimental. It's trying timeline- and map-based views, and left-hand/right-hand navigations. For example, trythis.Google has provided some background to its thinking inBehind the scenes with universal search.Also, at Search Engine Land, Danny Sullivan provides a detailed overview inGoogle 2.0: Google Universal Search.
I got a very special invitation the other day. It came in glossy girlie pink and I was told how very honoured I was to be receiving it. It was an invitation to join a peer-to-peer music sharing site. Just sit back and watch free music pouring into your inbox, I was told. All the free albums you want; how cool is that?I did a bit of research to see just how cool I was about to become. Very, it turns out. These invites are so highly sought after that they are auctioned on eBay - though that's very much against the spirit of the site and will get you kicked off instantly if you're caught. Which is kind of ironic, isn't it?With a boyfriend who's a guitarist and as a writer myself, I guess I always knew my pink invite would go unused. But I felt a bit prissy saying so in the online community from where it came. So I said nothing. I kept very quiet and hoped I'd never be asked if I'd used my special invite yet. Instead I secretly kept buying from iTunes. Why secretly? Was I ashamed of doing the right thing? Actually ... yes, I was. I felt guilty.I emailed around to see if I was the only one who felt this way. I wasn't. Several replies came back saying, er, actually I don't use the site either but please don't tell anyone. It's my guilty shame, said one emailer: he preferred iTunes (and the other legal download services) to free tunes.His "shame"? That he does the right thing? What has happened to our values when we feel ashamed of not doing the wrong thing? This isn't the place to go over all the arguments of free music downloads versus paid-for ones. Isn't it a bit odd, though, that many people feel they must keep it secret if they don't go in for illegal downloading? It must be like being the only one who doesn't throw your car keys in the bowl at a swingers' party. Though at least that's entirely legal.What does this say about our mores? We hear much about teenagers facing peer pressure, but this is peer-to-peer pressure and it's daft. I suspect our real fear is being thought a bit fuddy-duddy and old-fashioned. In a world of shiny new lovely technology, has that become the greatest sin?And it turns out peer-to-peer isn't really free at all; you have to "contribute" bandwidth to stay a member, which means uploading as well as downloading. And you're watched like a hawk to make sure you do your share, because sharing is what it's all about - and that includes your IP address. Perhaps some lovely viruses too, if you're lucky. And if you hit the lottery, maybe a prosecution from one of those bodies that scans the networks for suspect downloads.But that's not why I'll be sending my pink invite back. Oh what the hell ... My name is Laura, and I love iTunes.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A few weeks ago a man turned up at my front door, having been guided there by a GPS satellite navigation system on his dashboard. He was a bit surprised when I told him that the place he was looking for was six miles away. I was less surprised because I have been testing these potentially wonderful devices for nearly five years and have yet to come across a single one reliable enough to justify shelling out hundreds of pounds for something that is often less reliable than a map.One still marvels at a technology able to pinpoint your position and guide you to restaurants and hotels nearby - when it is working properly. I meet people who swear by them, though if you probe further they often encounter bugs such as being directed the wrong way down a one-way street or being given instructions on the motorway seconds after the turning has been passed. They work brilliantly when you don't really need them - in the open country - but much less well in crowded cities such as London, where high buildings interfere with satellite signals. But I am still gagging to buy a reliable one now they are now being incorporated into mobile phones.When I reviewed the admirable Nokia N95 recently I was surprised at how spasmodic the GPS reception was and how sparse the information was on the very few occasions it linked up with the satellites: the nearest restaurant mentioned was a mile away, despite my being in central London. As I was going on a three-city European holiday, I asked for the loan period to be extended so I could test it more extensively. In case I had been using a rogue model, they biked around another one. The new one couldn't be persuaded to receive any signals despite email exchanges with Nokia representatives.Back in London, I was about to start writing when I borrowed another N95 from a visitor who happened to have one (it is selling well) but who hadn't been able to get the GPS to work. This one worked fine after a (not uncommon) 10-minute wait for an initial connection, though it was difficult to follow the streets on the phone's screen, especially as not all them were named. When I searched for nearby restaurants they were all franchises such as McDonalds or Pizza Hut and all of the pubs were O'Neills. It picked up local art galleries and some hotels, but was disappointing if you were looking for something different.It is worth mentioning all this because while I don't doubt that GPS on phones will be successful, it is not enough to get the technology right. The experience has to be user- not producer-driven, and phone companies are not very good at that. We want to know what other people think about local attractions, not just what big brands are advertising. Google and others realise that local search could be a huge market; hence the recurring, if unlikely, rumour that it might market its own phone. If Google becomes the first to harvest locally generated information it could be the catalyst for an explosion of GPS services.The possibilities for GPS are endless - including traffic charging, keeping track of ageing relatives and discovering which of your MySpace friends is in the area (if you are up for that sort of punishment). Blind people can be helped to navigate through towns and the market for tagging children (and pets) could be huge. HP Laboratories has just announced a prototype for GPS phones to trigger images, text, sounds and video clips relevant to where you are going. A lot of positional data will be used by corporations and governments for often dubious reasons. But opposition won't halt the march of the surveillance society. Just as criminals caught on CCTV defuse criticism, so saving lives when accident victims are located by GPS, as happens in the US, will do the same. There is a perverse principle at work: criticism of surveillance is inversely related to the speed of its spread.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the hottest web trends right now is widgets, small little applications for very specific tasks. Browser company Opera is not only creating a framework for widgets but also a way to easily create the little apps.And we got a look at the inner workings of Joost, the hot IPTV startup, that is getting a lot of attention and recently a$45m investment from major media companies.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:joost,web2.0,widgets,XTech,XTech2007technorati tags endFinally, I've 'found' some WiFi or possibly created my own network with a little bandwidth lying around. ; )Again, if you want to take a look at some of the blog posts about XTech, check out theXTech tag at Technorati.Opera widgetsOperais the grandfather of alternative browsers. It's fast and standards compliant but has always fought an uphill battle to displace browsers like Microsoft's Internet Explorer or Netscape before it. However, it has found a niche in people who liked the speed and compliance. They also have a foothold on mobile devices and other platforms like the Nintendo Wii or the set top boxes.Now, they are moving into widget development. They are working to create widgets that work across all of the platforms they development such as desktop computers, mobile phones and the Wii. They also wanted to allow users to create their own 'mashups', interesting ways that bring together two sets of data for a specific presentation or to visualise the data in novel ways.One thing about widgets is that they tend to require a lot less development knowledge. The Opera team wanted to create a way for people with basic web services not only to add information to the widgets but create their own widgets. They havea service to 'widgetize'your RSS feeds or photo albums.They took the lessons learned from Apple's Dashboard and Konfabulator/Yahoo! Widgets as well as their own development on mobile phones. Opera has long been known for its rigourous adherence to web standards, and they have based their development on a range of web standards. Users can submit their own widgets and submit it to Opera at aspecial widget site. They will evaluate it against some requirements they have and release it if the widgets meet this security.Widgets are required not to leak browser information or between widgets. Widgets also can't access the operating system. Widgets can inspect documents but not modify them.Opera has submitted their basicwidget specification to the W3C.They are looking to offer some form of offline support in line withFirefox 3.Firefox 3? Hmm...goes off to look. How did I miss that one? Busy setting up my Ubuntu DVR setup at home I guess.Question: Monetising widgets?Answer: That is an interesting question. We're looking for ways for developers to monetise widgets.Joost: Putting web standards to use in an internet desktop applicationAntoine Quint: Senior software architect for JoostHe has been working on Joost for the last 18 monhts.What is it?Best of internet plus the best of TVa P2P global video distribution systembranded, high-quality channel based contentfully indexable and searchable using RDFAn interactive, social experience. "We don't want to just use the pipes of the interact but make it a web experience."The business model is advertising based.Powered by open standards and open source software.Joost provides full-screen SD (standard definition). They will add HD capability when they have more bandwidth. No more scheduled TV. All of the content is always available. All content has metadata. The level of metadata depends on the content provider. As with Smart Folders in OS X, you can create a special, personalised channel of the content that fits the criteria you provide. The video is fully controllable: Pause, rewind and forward.You can instantly connect to other people with similar interests through channel chat. Users watch fewer ads, but more targeted ads.He gave a little demonstration. He watched some football, some Sports Illustrated swimsuit model. He then viewed some classical music because his father loves classical music. They have some widgets, such as user programme ratings. You can rate the content on the fly. It has a news ticker showing your RSS feeds. When you turn it off, the screen goes black with a small dot of light in the middle, like an old television.What they wanted?They wanted to create a TV experience not more video playing software like Quicktime or VLC.They wanted to allow advertisers to push their brand to the UI.They wanted to allow third parties to extend the Joost platform through widgets.They wanted an engaging and dynamic user interface.They wanted to develop their own look and feel, not a typical form based interface. They wanted to build something where video was the main thing and the interface was transparent.They wanted to handle all kinds of resolutions and screen ratios. They also wanted to anticipate the ability for HD as the bandwidth became available.They wanted to future-proof the use on devices such as set-top boxes.They knew that they needed some strong technologies with strong graphics and dynamic capabilities. Web standards would make it easy to extend the platform like all widgets. Advertisers' designers were familiar with web technologies. And they had lots of open source products to build the system on top of it.They chose XHTML for its ability to work with structured text for dynamic content. They used CSS for flexible and automatic layout. SVG wouldn't limit their creativity and render all the shapes, transforms, gradients, paterns, etc. And it scaled. XBL allows them to reuse their widgets. DOM and JavaScript provide logic and platform integration.Formerly XBL was only available on Mozilla, but now it's a W3C standard. I'm going to steer clear of the deep tech. The main thing to know is that it allows the creation of custom widgets that can create your own user interface components.They used a compound document format. They used SVG within XHTML, XHTML within SVG and CSS all over. It's pretty complex but with the complexity and elegance of Joost, it's amazing what is possible with web technologies.They wanted to be cross platform but use the special features of the native systems. They must be able to develop rapidly. They used Mozilla XULRunner as an open-source framework that allowed them to find a decent pool of talent to develop the app.The full-size video playback is a background layer. Mozilla's gecko rendering engine renders the overlay that is the user interface. A Javascript engine object gives access to all custom Joost services such as video control, SPARQL searches, channels, advertising.What are the challenges?Mozilla performance is not up to the standards of what we expected. They think the main problem is the low optimisation. The bigger the DOM (document object model), the slower the performance.With open source, they created their own custom element that renders web content inside hardware textures. The hardware performs all of the transformations, which I guess is why Joost requires a dedicated video card so at the moment integrated graphics won't cut it for Joost. Maybe that will change with Intel and AMD's next generation integrated graphics solutions. UPDATE: I spoke to Antoine after his talk, and with each iteration, Joost requires less hardware. You don't need a dedicated graphic card, and the app will run on any computer made in the last three years. Also for you Linux lovers out there, they do have internal builds running on Linux.They are working with Mozilla to deal with some of these shortcomings. They cannot use custom events to have interaction between widgets. Mozilla has pretty good SVG support, but they need better animation and interactivity features. They also haven't found a good debugging environment. Everything is running at high level but the performance problems are low level.Joost is looking to launch globally. (UPDATE: Soon says Antoine. The company has publicly committed to launching globally in the second quarter of this year.)I'm not going to pretend to understand all of this. I put it out there as best I can because I know there is a lot of interest in Joost.
Lucy thought she had got something good: she was selling her tickets for the NME tour at the Brixton Academy on eBay, and with just 20 minutes to go the highest bid of &#163;21 had abruptly been trumped by one for &#163;56. The only odd thing was the new high bidder had no eBay feedback - suggesting they were very new to eBay. With the new offer so far over the others, nobody more bothered to bid.But seconds before the end of the auction, the new bidder withdrew the bid, leaving the original &#163;21 bidder in the lead with a bargain.Lucy smelled a rat. Looking around, she found that that same "zero feedback" user was bidding high for tickets for the same gig - and then repeatedly withdrawing moments from the end. And the winning bid? Always from the same person who had just won Lucy's auction. She refused to sell the tickets, suspecting a tout trying to corner the market, and declined the PayPal transaction for the auction.Lucy had been a victim of "bid shielding", in which one account is used to make extravagant bids for items in order to shield smaller bids by another account.Since eBay accounts can be set up for free, the shielding account can be junked if eBay targets it. And if both accounts come under suspicion, both can be thrown away.The current, and (judging by the angry messages swelling eBay's message boards) growing problem with bid shielding seems to have grown directly from two recent eBay actions: hiding bidders' identities; and allowing people to withdraw bids without giving the seller the chance to extend the bidding or ban certain bidders.The new system by which bidders' identities are hidden - called"Safeguarding Members' Identities"- was implemented in January - because of the growth in "second chance" frauds, particularly in car sales, where people who had failed in a bid were sent an email telling them that the winning bidder had declined to pay, and offering a second chance to buy the item - but not through eBay's payment mechanism. That led to spiralling fraud in which buyers sent money but were not protected by eBay's protection schemes.But the changes have made it easy for buyers to game the system, and protect mediocre bids with huge ones before withdrawing them.EBay's North American president, Bill Cobb, said that he was aware of members' concerns and is taking the necessary measures to ensure there is no increase in bid shielding. However, he could not discuss the specific measures for security reasons.As for Lucy, she challenged the winning second-placed bidder in an email. The reply denied the accusations and told her there was "little or no point" going to eBay: "I've had problems with zero-feedbackers before ... you can't do much about them as if they get kicked off eBay, who loses?"Who indeed? Certainly not eBay, since if the transaction goes through to the second bidder, it still gets a cut. Not the second bidder, who gets a bargain. Not the mysterious un-bidder, who had no eBay reputation to lose. Only the seller, who cannot see behind the eBay IDs to learn more about who is doing what.When Lucy complained to eBay, it responded with a long email - apparently boilerplate - saying, in part: "Bid manipulation by using the retraction option is considered to be a bidding offence on eBay for which disciplinary action may range from a formal warning, up to the indefinite suspension of the member's account ... Thank you for helping to keep eBay a safe, fun place to buy and sell."When the Guardian told eBay the user names of the two bidders, eBay responded: "We have investigated the accounts in question, and we cannot find any evidence of suspicious activity."And Lucy's conclusion? She and her mother "have lost confidence in eBay and would not contemplate selling any items again".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At the New York Times, David Pogue has done an exhaustive, though happily not exhausting,analysis of the new Kodak printers- which cost more per printer, but have cheaper ink.Printers and especially printer ink are Hewlett-Packard's cash cow. Profit margins for that part of the business are, most recently, 16.3% - compared to 4.8% for the PC side of its business. (Overall, its most recent net income across the company was just 1.4% - see theBloomberg writeup.)Into this happy situation, where pretty much every other printer maker is also doing the same sell-the-razor-profit-on-blades model, comes Kodak.Kodak, of course, has nothing to lose at this stage. Its film business is being crippled by those damn digital cameras. Digital cameras are a diverse business which it can't dominate. But it knows how to do inks that will make great photographs: it's got a century of experience there.Pogue's analysis draws on outside work, but show that while H-P narrowly (as in 0.1 cent per page) wins for a black ink non-colour page, Kodak's products pull aheadAnd ironically, H-P's new pricing scheme (with a small and XL cartridge), introduced exactly to coincide with Kodak's and somuddy the watersincrease consumer choice turns out to make its inksmoreexpensive. Oh my.Pogue's conclusions:So no, the new Kodak doesn't run away with the crown in every department. But it easily holds its own against much bigger, more experienced manufacturers. And it has its priorities straight: great-looking photos that last a lifetime; easy-to-use controls; American-based toll-free tech support; and speeds and features that are no embarrassment.Kodak's going to be selling its All-in-One printers through Dixons Store Group from next month. We'll be watching to see whether this takes off.
Technology Guardian:So what was the motivation behind Second Life?Philip Rosedale:My background is physics, a lot of math and computer programming and I am really interested in chaos, chaos systems, non-linearity and emergent behaviour. SL is one of those weird kind of phenomena where every new piece of content makes it marginally more appealing. People think that our growth has been aperiodic and discontinuous but if you look at the growth, it has been a perfect curve and it is organic and exponential because it is a network effect business. But it all has to be co-visible because if that were not true you wouldn't have the network effects. So what we don't want is little silos of marketing - nobody is interested in that.TG:But brands and broadcasters want to control the environment that their content or brand is in.PR:I know, but it has never worked like that in the internet. What I think will happen is that a few advertisers and media companies will embrace this uncontrolled environment and they will have success and then everyone will jump in. It's another one of those discontinuous phenomena. You get a couple of people with a slight economic advantage and then everyone jumps in.TG:What you are doing with SL is such a different kind of experience. Most media has been passive, delivered to people as a finished product.PR:Because that is all that the technology has allowed. But look at gaming. Those are non-passive experiences and they are much more engaging. And then look at video responses to YouTube videos; these are signs that people want to create. Perhaps a more nuanced point is that most of us are not creative because the world doesn't make it easy for us to be creative. In this next phase of the web we are going to use technology to make creativity easier and I think we are going to see everybody wanting to be creative. This means that people better rethink the nature of media.TG:In SL, through the avatar that you create, you can walk, fly, dance. You can buy real estate, open a store, make love. Can you commit suicide?PR:Yeah. You can kill off an account. In fact I think someone is going to write a great dramatic book about that some day.TG:Talk about the technology. SL doesn't work with Vista ...PR:Something is broken on Vista and we'll figure it out. The real technology challenge we have is rendering a world in 3D because historically only games have used 3D. What we are saying is SL is the next worldwide web and so every computer has to do 3D perfectly and we are not there yet. We are probably one PC development cycle - so 18 months - away from where every machine with Vista or Mac OS X should be able to run SL. I think we started a little bit early with SL but the sheer enthusiasm that people have had about co-creating the world has sustained it. What is amazing is that we are not even there yet. This is only the beginning of the 3D web and SL.TG:So what is the next big step for SL?PR:I think the voice technology we are developing is very powerful and transformative. The big problem is that it takes a long time to figure out how to do things in SL. Once you get over that, I think SL is a smoother road than the web itself, so taking that average of the four hours it takes now for people to understand SL down to 40 minutes will move us from 10% retention of users to more than 50% and then the 3D web will rapidly be the dominant thing and everyone will have an avatar. Are we the company that can do it? I think we are but in all fairness I think we are creating what is the tip of a whole new category of experience and I think we can be the leaders of that.TG:How big an idea is SL? You say it is the next world wide web.PR:If we recognise that SL is really a big idea, that means that there could be different orientation paths into it. Today there is only the one we provide, but we aren't going to do that long term. What I really want to see is companies developing branded-orientation experiences that are better then ours.TG:What does something like that do to your business plan? Right now the way you make money is selling the land in SL - in effect, a land tax. Basically it is a real estate play in cyberspace.PR:It is a virtual real estate business but it is a little less abstract than a lot of people suggest. What we are really selling you is computation. We are selling you CPU core. If you buy a 16-acre piece of land, which is about four city blocks, what you are renting is one processor.TG:Since 2004 you have allowed people who have made money in SL, called Linden dollars, to convert it to real money. You have an exchange rate with real money and SL has even produced its first millionaire. How do the virtual and real worlds start to collide?PR:The gross domestic product (GDP) of SL is now about $500m (&pound;250m) but it is growing rapidly. Having our own currency makes sense because it allows people to make micro-transactions.TG:Did you envision this? I mean SL is like running an independent country.PR:We have learned a lot about monetary policy! I love it. We recognise that the GDP in SL is growing at a rate that is staggeringly fast, relative to real world economies. I call it light central bank functions. We would love to find a great economist to come and join us!TG:You are running a real economy but it is essentially a dictatorship, one headed by you, Philip Linden - as you are known in SL - the dictator.PR:Yes, but it is a subtle question. If a country establishes a record of repossessing land for no real reason, then that colours the extent to which it's a dictatorship. We haven't done that. Could we shut the servers down if we get pissed off with somebody? Yes, we could do that but we haven't and I think it is very unlikely that we will because it would so risk everything we have built.TG:You have had to step up your policing in SL. There have been disruptions at some corporate events, so you are not completely hands-off.PR:We do a bit of central policing in cases like fraud and extreme harassment or in cases where there has been the disclosure of somebody's real-life information. We don't allow that.TG:I understand that porn is the biggest part of the economy.PR:I don't think it's the biggest, but it's hard to tell. Some of the transactions are person to person and some are transactions from vending machines. Sometimes the transactions have some text that allows us to tell what it is but people are so inventive that we don't always know. From what we can tell it's clothing, jewellery and furniture that are the biggest part of SL's economy.TG:How about money-laundering?PR:This is not my expertise, but real money-laundering involves the passing of real paper bills so the big problem is real currency.TG:What do you think about the idea that an avatar built in SL could move off Second Life and wander the web?PR:We are building the backend to support that. We believe the concept of identity through your avatar will span the web. We are going to seek to enable that. Technology-wise, it's only about 18 months away. I do think we will see some interconnected virtual worlds and I think we can lead by being as open as possible. If you are open and you are dominant, you win, forever.&#183;The full text of this interview will appear on the Technology blog:blogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyChild pornography claims: Linden Lab investigatesGerman police are investigating allegations that Second Lifers trade images of child porn in the online world. The allegations came to light when Linden Lab was contacted by ARD, a German TV network, whose reporter had been invited to meetings in Second Life where virtual and real child pornography was allegedly shown.Second Life responded on itsblog: "Linden Lab has absolutely zero tolerance for depictions of child pornography within Second Life. We were outraged to see the images that ARD showed us, and will cooperate fully with any legal authorities. It goes without saying that anyone engaged in this activity will be permanently banned and subject to legal consequences."ARD's reporter, Nick Schader, said that he had been invited to pay 500 Linden dollars (about &pound;1.50) to attend the meetings. The users had also offered to put him in touch with people who trade in real child pornography, he said.Linden Lab is working on a voluntary age verification procedure. Although under-18s are not allowed to register, in practice it is almost impossible to prevent them.
Internet Explorer 7 has become very very slow of late; it had previously been OK. I have tried turning off the automatic phishing filter. Opera is unaffected and remains much faster. Van TranInternet Explorer 7 is generally snappy but some people have had problems with MS07-027: Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer, released on May 8. There are details and fixes athttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/931768Generally, however, the problem is most likely to be caused by an add-on, which is known in Microsoft jargon as a BHO (Browser Helper Object). You can get a good idea if this is the case by running IE7 with no add-ons, which is easy because Microsoft has provided a separate version. To run it, go to Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools and select Internet Explorer (No Add-ons).IE7 makes it much easier to handle BHOs. Go to the Tools menu, select Manage Add-ons, then Enable or Disable Add-ons. If there are any entries you don't recognise, use Google to research them. With ones that are just numbers, the first eight characters should be enough.You might also find an obscure one called Research. This has recently been added by Microsoft for Office users. If you have it, there will be a Research icon on the toolbar, but usually it will be too far along to be visible. Click the chevrons at the far right of the toolbar to see the drop-down list.If all else fails, you can reset IE back to a base level. To do this, go to the Control Panel, run the applet called Internet Options and click the Advanced tab. There is a button at the bottom labelled Reset. This deletes temporary files, disables all add-ons and reverts any changes you have made to settings. It warns: "You should only use this if your browser is in an unusable state." And you do know all your passwords, don't you?
I have acquired a set of early recordings that won't play and won't convert. Windows Media Player 11 says that the .mp3 file extension doesn't match the file format. Using various tag editors, I find the info is: Mode MPEG-2.5, Bitrate 0, Frequency 11025. Steve ButcherThese seem to be 11.025kHz MPEG-2.5 Layer III files, encoded in a low-quality format developed by Fraunhofer IIS. This is not part of the MPEG standard so most MP3 players probably won't play them. I think your best bet is to try one of the players that uses the open source MAD (MPEG Audio Decoder) code, which says it supports MPEG-2.5. There's a list athttp://www.underbit.com/products/mad/. I'd start with Audacity and/or CoolPlayer (http://coolplayer.sourceforge.net/) for Windows.
I have downloaded a .mp4 video from ITV Anglia's website but Windows XP won't play it. John H FaggMicrosoft has been shockingly derelict in providing MP4 support and its website directs you to a third-party codec (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/316992), though mp4 files can also be repackaged as .asf files.Instead, I recommend downloading the K-Lite Codec Pack (http://www.free-codecs.com/download/K_Lite_Codec_Pack.htm), which includes the open source Media Player Classic (don't download this separately). This will play MP4 videos and just about anything else. If you also get the QuickTime Alternative and Real Alternative add-ons, you don't need any other bloatware players. An alternative is the cross-platform VLC (http://www.videolan.org/vlc/), which also has Mac OS X and Linux versions.
Is it a good idea to copy a password from an (encrypted) file and paste it into the appropriate place? Will this defeat keyloggers? Derek WinslowIt's often convenient to paste in passwords but this would defeat only the simplest keylogging malware. It is trivially easy to capture the contents of the Windows clipboard.
One of the themes at XTech is called Open Data, and on Thursday, speakers addressed e-voting and copyright term extension in the UK and how to expand the number of people able to participate in the democratic process.As more of our lives become digital, activists believe that digital rights will become an important part of human rights.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:democracy,web2.0,XTech,XTech2007technorati tags endDigital Rights in the EUSuw Charman:one of the founders of the Open Rights GroupIn the interest of full disclosure, Suw is my fiance. We blog together atStrange Attractorwhen I'm not blogging or writing at the Guardian.With that out of the way, Suw started off giving a background of the Open Rights Group, which was launched after discussions amongst several digital rights activists in the UK and after someone stood up at the OpenTech confernce in 2005 and said he would pledge 5 a month to launch the group if 1000 people joined him. You can find more aboutORGon their website.The UK had local elections on 3 May, and ORG has been campaigning about e-voting. E-voting is a black box system. You can't tell if your vote is being recorded as you wish. There are concerns about preserving anonymity, security and accuracy. Problems with the pen and paper ballot tend to be randomly distributed whereas problems with e-voting tend to be systematic. E-voting doesn't improve voter turnout, and she took issue with a recent YouGov poll which said that more youth would vote if e-voting was an option.She listed several criticisms of the e-voting system. This is live-blogging, and consequently, this isn't intended to be balanced report of the issues around e-voting in the UK but a listing of the Open Rights Group's concerns based on reports from their 25 volunteer election observers. They are issues you might to investigate further. I'm still WiFi-less for the most part or would do a bit of Google to provide some relevant links. Feel free to post some links in the comments.The UK government decided that it would be a good idea to pilot e-voting including electronic counting and telephone voting. Five areas used e-counting machines, four areas used telephone voting and three did internet voting. Scottish elections used e-counting. The date for applying for the pilot was November 2006, and the applications were approved in January 2007. The local authorities were only given only a few months to test the system. The Electoral Commission criticised the government for the short lead time. They recommended that the pilots should be scrapped, but these recommendations were ignored.ORG fielded 25 volunteer election observers. On the day, they sent out three observers to Scottish constituencies and the rest to constituencies in England. However, the regulations were for pen-and-paper elections not electronic elections. Observers were not allowed to have any access to the server rooms to observe the operations. They had to negotiate with individual councils, but legally, they had no right for access. Some councils did block observation. There were problems in Scotland with spoiled ballots, but there were significant technical problems in Scotland. All of the ORG observers saw problems with the voting process.Software crashed in South Bucks. Rushmore and Swindon had security issues. Nearly all of the terminals crashed, several times throughout the day. She said that the UK national media did not report these problems. Local media had a few stories. With e-voting, this is done at home so it's difficult to see if there had been pressure placed on voters.In one area, a Conservative candidate had a Labour rose by his name. In local elections, some people are only voting by party. They rely on the signifier for the parties for cues. It was spotted by the first voter. The system was taken down and the problem was rectified.The councillors were given a demonstration of the system, but the candidates weren't.In Rushmore, one of their observers was asked to leave the server room. The observer did see that they were downloading data by wireless but were unable to confirm whether they were using wireless security. USB keys were also plugged into the machines, but the observer was unable to verify what was on the keys.She said that she is not implying that there were problems with the counting, but she also said that their observers had no way to verify the security or accuracy of the vote. One would have to assume that the software and hardware worked properly and according to design.One candidate said to an observer: "I guess because it is not a manual process, nothing can go wrong."ORG is compiling a full report to be given to the Electoral Commission and will also be published on 20 June.Another campaign that ORG is involved with is copyright term extension for music. At the moment, the copyright for sound recordings in the UK stands at 50 years, but the music industry wants to extend that term with various recommendations for 75 or 90 years or perpetuity.ORG says that there are strong economic reasons for not extending copyright. They released a report last autumn called "Release the Music" calling for copyright for sound recordings to remain at 50 years.Andrew Gowers said that copyright term extension should not be extended, but recently, there has been a report from the Department of Culture, Music and Sport advising that it was unfair that the term of copyright should remain at 50 years because composers receive longer copyright protection. The music industry has been writing editorials about widows being left penniless.Suw contacted Age Concern whether many musicians widows were being left in poverty. Age Concern went away and did some research and found that the loss of royalties was not a significant contribution to poverty amongst the elderly.A Labour MP recently filed an early day motion to extend copyright for sound recordings, but Suw said that different branches are pushing for extension. She urged British citizens to write to their MPs, using a site called Write to Them to find out contact information for their MP.Question: A person in the audience from Edinburgh said that the problem there was that there was a private company contracted to handle the vote. The count was very delayed, and he said that there was very little information in the press about the delays or problems.Answer: Suw said that they had observers in the area, but that she had not seen the observer reports. She said that observer reports will be part ORG's full release in June.The Long Tail of Democratic ParticipationRob McKinnonThe Long Tail is one of those terms bandied about in the Web 2.0 world. It's often talked about in terms of media in that there are only a handful of movies, say, that are blockbusters, but there are hundreds or possibly thousands of films that are of interest to a lot more people if you aggregate those audiences. There is value in the long tail. You can create a business model in the Long Tail, or in the case of Rob's work, a democratic model. As Rob says, only a very small amount of people can dedicate large amounts of time to monitoring or developing pubic policy, but there are a lot more people who are impacted by and have an interest in public policy, although usually specific policies not all policy.Rob lived in New York for several years, leaving in 2004. Tens of thousands protested during the Republican National Convention. Some 1800 were arrested. At least 500 were not charged after being detained for more than 24 hours. The New York Supreme Court forced the city to release people.How do we increase the number of people able to participate in established democractic processes via the Web?We need to make the information transparent.we need to faciliate social collaborationWe need to emerge outcomes from deliberative participation.He has been inspired by Open Society, a book written by Karl Popper, in New Zealand after being an exile in Austria. George Soros founded the Open Society institute. Quoting George Soros:We need to create institutions for the promotion of the common interest, knowing full well that they are bound to be imperfect. We must also build these institutions a capacity to change in accordance with the evolving perceptions of the common interest.Rob gave a quick rundown of sites that are doing this around the world. In the UK, you have MySociety.org. In the US, you have the Sunlight Foundation. Politix.nl in the Netherlands. OpenSecrets.org.In New York, there is a conference starting tomorrow called Personal Democracy Forum.Rob McKinnon tailored the UK's They Work For You site for his own country, New Zealand. He is proposing a Long Tail for Participation. Only a small amount of peopleMedia presents politics as a personality driven drama, but this turns many people off. There are several issues that people might be interested in, and Rob gave a few examples such as no software patents in Europe or free public wifi. But most people don't have the time to participate.Hierarchies are becoming networks. Yochai Benkler wrote a book called the Wealth of Networks. For 150 years, the high cost of communications networks tended to centralise control over those networks and narrow the range of participation. The web is leading to a radical decentralisation in our communications networks which could lead to an expansion in participation, he said.He called for unambiguous URIs for official documents. Instead of very long, non-readable URLs, Rob converted readable URLs that contained information about the subject of the documents and the date which it was released. He also included pictures of the members of Parliament. Utilising the web, we can expose the information.He used the TagSoup Java library and the Ruby Sax parser pipeline to convert the New Zealand Hansard documents to more readable URLs and easier display. He used Ruby to add this to a relational database and then the Rails development framework to create the site. He even created some graphs - spike lines - to show relative activity on specific issues. With a little programming magic, he was able to add a lot of easily browsable, easily digestible information about the complex working of the New Zealand Parliament.The UN Security Council uses session specific temporary URLs so you can't deep link to UN Security Council resolution n a blog post. The resolutions aren't indexed by search engines! Rob said:I don't know if this is a cock-up or a conspiracy.Someone has screen scraped the information of the Secretary General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, and is adding them to Twitter.Upcoming.org allows people to view and add events that you'll be attending. Rob is adding something that would allow people to follow and track bills. It lowers the time needed to find bills of interest. He showed the Personal Democracy Forum Conference on Upcoming. It makes it more fun and interesting, gives people motivation to get invovled.The bottom line is to create outcomes that represent the common interest. Whether than recording what everyone thinks on a wiki or a forum, Rob said that there is no way to consolidate this down. E-petitions might present things in terms of false dichotomies.We need to create a system of thinking which leads to decisions around people clustering around ideas. A group called Open Strategies allows people from communities of interest to work together through a web framework in a very structured way. They have four levels of organisation: Projects, results, uses/applications and benefits.Question: I asked a question about how to grow investment in the community or process enough so that people who like to hijack or break such systems - trolls - can't derail the process and prevent anything worthwhile from being accomplished.Answer: Rob said that in the Open Strategies process, there were criteria for participation. It is controversial, but in the process, people must be approved and must show that they represent a community of interest.
The SegaDreamcastwas quite possibly the most innovative computer games machine ever released. I didn't realise at the time, but itsinternet access,voice activation,motion sensoranduser-generated contentfacilities made it a console beyond its time.It had afishing rod controller, for goodness sake.But the thing that reminded me of just how bloomin' great it was, wasthe announcementthat Sega plans to release a sequel to its magnificentTyping of the Dead(Type or Die), the game which challenges players to learn their QWERTY keyboards by correctly spelling nonsensical sentences before the zombies attack.Unfortunately, at present there are no plans to release an English version of the game.See a video of it in action over the fold.>
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Member of the Twittering classesMP Alan Johnson is using the microblogging tool in his campaign to be Labour deputy leader. But is it 'potentially the biggest waste of time in the world'? Linda Jones reports.Free Our Data:Free groundwater information dries upThe Environment Agency's decision to charge businesses for information on groundwater threatens the safety of drinking water.Dismay at eBay's unsatisfactory response to 'bid shielding' offencesGrowth in high bids which vanish sparks concern among auction site users.Newly Asked QuestionsWhen will we know whether Operation Ore was a success?According to Jim Gamble, former head of the National Crime Squad who oversaw the crackdown on suspected paedophiles, "very soon".Why, and how, would you prove your ID on a forum?If you're Bruce Willis facing down doubters, the 'how' is Apple's iChat instant messaging program. Most people use nicknames on internet forums to keep their identity private. But Willis decided that wasn't enough on the Ain't It Cool News forum.Gadgets:Motorola Q9hMotorola seems to have got the basics right: the 9h not only looks good and is very slim at 11.8mm, but is very simple to use, with an excellent full Qwerty keypad with very responsive buttons.Hercules DJ Mobile MP3For party hosts who constantly change songs midway through, the Hercules DJ mobile MP3 will be a godsend.BlackBerry Curve (8300)After reinventing the business BlackBerry with the 8800, RIM is now refreshing its consumer offering with the launch of the Curve.Bombarded by baddies, aliens - and advertsKeith Stuart: Last Saturday, the Guardian reported on Google's scary plans to psychologically profile online gamers and then hawk the information to advertisers.Yes, GPS will be great - once it works for usVictor Keegan: A few weeks ago a man turned up at my front door, having been guided there by a GPS satellite navigation system on his dashboard. He was a bit surprised when I told him that the place he was looking for was six miles away.The net is being carved up into information plantationsNicholas Carr: Search at Google.com on evolution or Iraq or Aids or Gordon Brown, and the same site will appear at the top of the list of results: Wikipedia. Alter your search into one for John Keats or Muhammad Ali or Christianity or platypus or loneliness, and the same thing will happen.TechnobileLaura Marcus: I like getting my songs from legitimate sources. So why does it feel like something I should be ashamed of?Today Second Life, tomorrow the worldInterview: Philip Rosedale, The founder of the virtual world Second Life, believes that his company, Linden Lab, is at the forefront of the internet's next big revolution - the 3D web.Kill ID cards before they kill your government, Mr BrownCharles Arthur: Precisely what will it take for the government to abandon its pursuit of ID cards? Last week the Home Office issued its latest estimate of the cost of implementing this vast IT boondoggle, which has risen 12% - another 640m - in the past six months.Holographics set to feed a market hungry for data backupIt has taken 40 years, but our insatiable appetite for data has finally led to holograms for storage - if you've got the cash.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesMotorola smellphone | Top Blair clips | Really FASN8ing | UK welcomes hackers | BT's IP TV | Reading in bits | It's a snap | Use MimeLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Mobile phone company O2 has delayed the launch of its broadband offering to UK customers for the second time this year, with the service not due to roll out until September at the earliest, nine months later than originally planned.Chief executive Peter Erskine also warned yesterday that the UK mobile market has "gone quiet" as it reaches saturation point with most pre-pay customers locked into longer 18-month contracts."Everybody is reporting a quiet first quarter," he said as O2, owned by Spain's Telefonica, announced it added just 118,000 new customers in the UK over the first three months of the year, compared with 359,000 last year.Rival operators T-Mobile, Orange and Virgin Mobile fared even worse and lost customers over the quarter. "It's a very competitive market, as I have said before - there are winners and losers," said Mr Erskine. "You can already see the losers and I think we have proved ourselves to be one of the winners."Amid intense competition, mobile companies are looking to "lock in" customers by adding new services. Orange and Vodafone have already launched residential broadband in the UK and last year O2 bought Be Broadband for &pound;50m.Its launch had already been delayed from January to June and yesterday Mr Erskine admitted it has slipped to September. "The one thing I will not do is launch something that isn't ready on the customer," he said.By September Be Broadband will cover only half the UK population, so rather than plan a nationwide roll-out O2 will offer the service only in areas where customers are able to get online.
I thought the 7 inch screen which is standard on the Origami/UMPC (Ultra Mobile PC) was small enough, but Fujitsu has taken the system down to pocket size -- if you have big pockets -- with its new U Series. These have 5.6 inch widescreens (1024 x 600 pixels) and weigh only 580g (20 ounces). Battery life is 4 hours, or up to 8 hours with a high-capacity battery, according toFujitsu's press release.The operating system is either Windows XP Pro or Vista Business. The processor is the 800MHz Intel A110 (Stealey chip, McCaslin platform) announced last month in Beijing to compete with Via's C7-M. Intel's new low-power architecture (Silverthorne chip, Menlow platform) is not due until next year.Since it's a convertible, you can either use it as a stylus-operated Tablet PC or a conventional notebook with keyboard. Fujitsu says:With its combination of go-anywhere portability and ease of use, the new U Series is expected to elicit strong demand as a popular second computer for users who work away from a desk, such as salespeople, who always need to carry a PC in the field for customer presentations, and repair technicians.If the Japanese price became the UK price (144,000 yen is about 600) it might sell to a wider market, though not a mass market. However, it will probably cost rather more, unless you're buying by the hundred.WinFuturehas seen a sample at WinHEC and has more pictures with its German text.
According to Thomas Hawk, the popular photographer, Flickr (owned by Yahoo) hasdeleted the photos of a professionalwho complained about the resale - without repayment - of thousands of pounds worth of her pictures.According to Hawk:Rebekka is a single mom and art student living in Iceland. She's an artist and a talented one at that. She does amazing things with her camera. Recently she discovered that a gallery ... had been ripping her off. They'd sold thousands of dollars worth of her images and when she caught them and tried to make them give her the money that they stole from her they refused. So Rebekka did what anyone with a following on the internet might do and she posted about her frustration and plight on her flickrstream. And her story resonated loudly with the flickr community. Her story made the front page of digg and by days end she had 100,000 views on this particular photograph with hundreds of supportive comments.So what's got me pissed today? What's got me pissed today is that according to Rebekka, Flickr has removed her image from their site. That's right. Not only did they remove and kill her image and her *non-violent* words of protest, but they censored each and every one of us who commented on her photograph, who offered support to Rebekka, who shared in her frustration by wiping every single one of our comments off the face of the internet forever.Flickr's explanation, he reports, is that the account was being used to "harass, abuse, impersonate, or intimidate others".Well, one could certainly argue that it would have been less reliant on Flickr's - that is, Yahoo's - views to do it on her own blog. But that wouldn't have the traffic, would it?Interesting how the issue of censoring what large groups of people say is becoming an important meme this month, followingDigg's reaction to the posting of a DVD cracking key. Where next?
Unless you're a child, a planespotter or a keen purchaser of Duty Free silk ties, airports can be crushingly dull. Not any more. Delta Airlines has teamed up with Nintendo to offer Wi-Fi demo pods at several US airports. Just turn up at the terminal with your DS, loaf about near the pod and, hey presto, it's download time. As the press release explains:"Within a few seconds, a temporary demo version of a popular Nintendo DS game transmits wirelessly to the Nintendo DS. Game demos available for download include Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day, Elite Beat Agents, Cooking Mama and Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Legend. Demos are updated periodically and will showcase everything from brain training to action games, appealing to baby boomers and seniors, and to teens and kids."Of course, where we really need these thing is in the check-in queue - the absolute worst part of flying. I would happily download anything Nintendo could throw at me in order to block out this shuffling nightmare.
Amazon is taking advantage of EMI's industry-wide offer to allow music downloads free of DRM (Digital Rights Management), and will also provide DRM-free downloads from 12,000 labels,says the company.Every song and album in the Amazon.com digital music store will be available exclusively in the MP3 format without digital rights management (DRM) software. Amazon's DRM-free MP3s will free customers to play their music on virtually any of their personal devices -- including PCs, Macs, iPods, Zunes, Zens -- and to burn songs to CDs for personal use."Our MP3-only strategy means all the music that customers buy on Amazon is always DRM-free and plays on any device," said Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com founder and CEO. "We're excited to have EMI joining us in this effort and look forward to offering our customers MP3s from amazing artists like Coldplay, Norah Jones and Joss Stone."It was widely expected that music libraries would go this way following the EMI announcement, and MP3 was the obvious choice of format, given its ubiquity.Amazon already has millions of customers with accounts at its online store, and it could become more attractive than Apple's iTunes store -- especially if Apple continues to stick its proprietary DRM on music against the wishes of some of its suppliers.
When you want to prove that anything can be connected to the internet, what do you connect first? A rabbit, of course. That was the conclusion that French intelligent objects makerVioletdecided, and Nabaztag, the WiFi-enabled rabbit was born.And Ian Forrester with BBC Backstage shows why the future of the web isn't tubes, it's actually pipelines.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:smartobjects,web2.0,XTech,XTech2007technorati tags endNabaztag and the Emergence of the internet of thingsViolet: Rafi HaladijianThey first developed things for Minitel and then the Internet. They got bored with building things on the internet so they decided to do something else. Chips began to be embedded in everything, either in home automation systems or in more abstract things. In the future, you will be surrounded by intelligent objects.There is no future. There is a succession of nows.Today we are in a very simple world with just computers, mobile phones or handhelds to connect. We're interested in connecting everything else. There are a lot of people out there such as Sony, Microsoft, Nokia and Sony building consumer electronics.But Violet wants to embed intelligence in other things. Teddy bears now have chips in them. But soon we will have connected objects. The scale communicates your weight and body mass. This is a massive ecosytem.What to connect first? A rabbit. If we started connecting fridges, then people think it was about connecting fridges. We were interested in connecting everything. If we can connect anything, we can connect everything so we started by connecting a rabbit. It is not just an object. We explain how to live with a rabbit, not just use a rabbit. We wanted to show that there was life after the PC.>It's name is Nabaztag. It has lights on its tummy and nose. It can play sound files, and it moves its ears. You can use chat services for rabbit-to-rabbit communications. People can send MP3 files to your rabbit. People can manipulate your rabbit or have it read RSS feeds. Everytime something new happens, your rabbit will tell you about it.How do you make a screenless one button device? You face the complexity of un-interactiveness.In May 2005, Nabaztag, you have only one hit. But by August, you had 1.5m hits. It means rabbit in Armenian.What to call the second generation Nabaztag? Not Nabaztag 2.0. 2.0 was already in use so they called it Nabaztag/tag, of course. They added a belly button for a microphone jack for voice recognition. If you say radio, it plays the radio. If you say weather, it tells you the weather. They gave it a nose, which is actually an RFID reader. You can stick an RFID tag on your children's key chain. The child swipes the RFID tag under the rabbit's nose. It sends you, her mother, an e-mail, and you can e-mail back saying that the dog needs a walk.Doing hardware is very easy. You can do hardware the way that you used to software. There are different kinds of hardware that can be imagined. Let's do things. Let's connect our things. Hardware is fun.Question: What is your stance in opening your product?Answer: Today we offer complete openness. This thing has meaning and is useful, andWe never applied for patents. We have only trademarked the name.Question: For those more software oriented, can you give us insights on how to manufacture hardware.Answer: Making this was not rocket science. All of the components are rather cheap. It's more design challenges an interactivity design challenges.Question and comment: These are great. Go on YouTube and see online.Answer: Someone wrote an opera for a hundred rabbits. Real people brought their rabbits on stage in Paris to sing the 20-minute opera.(At the Guardian, our development team used to use a Nabaztag as a system monitor for some new development they were doing. When the bunny's ears were down, the build was bust.)Question: What was the success to your community?Answer: It is the rabbit factor. If you have only 1000 users, you don't learn anything. You have only a handful of geeks. One of the reasons people bought it was that it was cute.Home automation never worked because it's not fun. Fun helps sell. It helps educate.Question/comment: Your community manager was excellent and your website is great.Answer: We don't maintain the community. People write code and sharing code. This is not happening on our website.Pipelines: Plumbing for the next webIan Forrester:BBC BackstageIan is a designer, and he was amazed when he learned about XML and XLST and the options that opened up. But that was only about working with a single document. But then he learned aboutApache Cocoon, a framework for pipelines which are ways to automate the work to deal with lots of types of files and documents. He also wanted to share his pipelines with other people. Not being a developer, he couldn't write Perl scripts.As Ian says, APIs open the silos. APIs are application protocol interfaces and make it easy to pass data between applications and websites. Web services also have revenue models such as Amazon S3. Feeds are everywhere. Widgets and gadgets are starting to become useful. There are the Semantic Desktop projects. The most interesting data is online but it's also on your own computer, bridging the worlds of the internet and one's own computer.Ian thought someone had to have built this, and then he discussed applications and services that came close to his idea, Touchstone/Particles, Automator and Yahoo Pipelines.Touchstone/Particls is based on many inputs and outputs. There is only one input type: RSS. It is completely XML driven. It takes all of these RSS feeds, puts it through its own attention engine and then spits out more ordered information including flagging up really important things.Automator makes it very simple to automate tasks. It has a powerful GUI, levels of abstraction. It plugs into the web, but it's proprietary. It's only on the Mac.Yahoo! Pipes is the next service Ian reviews. I've used it. As a matter of fact, I used it to create a combined RSS feed of several showbiz and fashion blogs for ourLost in Showbizblog. It is really, really easy to use, but Ian says that there is no underlying definable language. I find it slightly difficult to understand some of the operators as a non-coder. But that's probably just the limits of my own understanding.Ian has his own idea for an application: Flow. It allows access to the local file system and anything connected to it. The Flow system has all of these things on the desktop such as applications but also a host of web services such as Twiter, Blip.TV, Technorati and Yahoo. Instead of using a traditional GUI, he suggeted using a widget.Flow doesn't currently exist. It's not an application. It's not a service. He has partially built it. He uses RSS Bus to pull in XML files and turn it into RSS. It pulls in Jabber, Outlook, output from all kinds of applications. He then uses Apache Cocoon and Widgets. But it's not quite there. It usually crashes.He wants Flow to be definable, graphical, standard, shareable, open and non-proprietary.I like Ian's ideas, and I'm not just saying that because he's a friend and former colleague. I am beginning to use the web like this, although Ian is doing this on a more advanced level than I do. But as he says, novices can use other people's widgets or pipelines. This is already happening on Yahoo! Pipe. And people with little idea of programming can actually look and learn at other people's pipelines.You can already chain together little web widgets and pipelines that do simple analysis to sift masses of information online. I wonder how useful it is for most users. Well, it's not even whether it is useful. I guess it's how much people are willing to invest in creating their own little apps.But we are moving to a web where people aren't just creating content but also creating widgets, simple, small easily developed applications.Question: Paul Hammond from Yahoo, who actually worked on Yahoo! Pipes for a while. He asked if Ian had thought about the issue of an automated process having access to the local desktop. And RSS feeds tend to leak, and it could share all kinds of personal data on the web.Answer: Ian had thought about these as concerns. He wants to try, but he does see the concern about accidentally leaking all of your personal browser data or your friend's e-mail addresses onto the web.Ian has put uphis presentation on his blog, Cubic Garden.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates gavethe opening keynotefor this year's WinHEC (Windows Hardware Engineering Conference), which is where the PC industry gathers to adopt technology trends, or not. It's a slow process.The main themes this year include ultra-mobiles (with the Origami/UMPC),Rally technologiesand Pika, which you probably haven't heard of. Rally is a bundle of stuff for connecting things automatically, and includes Link Layer Topology Discovery, PnPX (Plug and Play eXtensions) and the Wi-Fi Alliance's Wi-Fi Protected Setup. Pika is the code-name for the latestWindows Media Center Extender Technology, which lets you send stuff (including HD movies) from a PC to another device -- but so far, the only Pika device seems to be the Xbox 360.Gates also showed theWindows Home Server, whichappeared at CESin January. Basically it's just networked storage for home users, but it can automatically back up and restore attached PCs. Hardware suppliers will include HP, Gateway, LaCie and Medion.Linda A. Epstein hasblogged the keynotewith pictures at tabletpc2.com. She even mentions thePussy Cat PC.
Sony was today counting the cost of glitches in the production of its PlayStation 3 game console as the consumer electronics giant announced that group losses in the January-March quarter widened to &yen;67.6bn (&#163;283m) from &yen;66.5bn a year ago.But on a brighter note, it forecast a better year ahead on the strength of a significant recovery in its key electronics division, with overall results suggesing that the long-awaited revival under its chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer, is under way.Sony said quarterly sales had risen nearly 13% to more than 2 trillion yen thanks to a sustained recovery in sales of consumer electronics and the success of its film division, which enjoyed box office successes with The Da Vinci Code and Casino Royale. Net profit for the fiscal year through March rose 2% to &yen;126.3bn, the firm said.But Sony said it had shipped 5.5m PS3s worldwide by the end of March, failing to achieve its target of 6m units. "The product delays have now been resolved," the firm's senior vice president, Takao Yuhara, told a news conference. "We didn't have enough units for Japan and the US so the launch was not ideal, but sales in Europe have been strong because we had enough units available there."The US and Japan launch of the powerful PS3 was delayed until last November because of a shortage of a key component, and the console, whose price is double that of Nintendo's rival Wii machine, did not appear in Europe until two months ago.The firm added, however, that it expected to ship 11m PS3s worldwide by the end of March 2008, but conceded that software sales would continue to drop as demand decreases for games for the best-selling PS2. "The PS2 is in its eighth year so it is only natural for demand to decrease," said Sony's chief financial officer, Nobuyuki Oneda. "On that basis there will be a marginal decrease in software sales."Executives also conceded that an operating loss in the past year of &yen;232bn would hinder their attempts to bring the gaming division into the black during the current fiscal year.The firm's main rival, Nintendo, by contrast, has shipped 5.84m Wii machines worldwide since late last year.Sony, however, said the gaming unit's fortunes would improve significantly with the introduction of new PS3 games this summer, thereby driving sales of the console. "The PS3 business will really get off the ground this fiscal year," Mr Oneda said.Elsewhere, Sony was buoyed by the success of its film division, which saw sales increase 30% last year. Speaking briefly to reporters on the sidelines of the news conference, Sir Howard said he was particularly pleased with the performance of Spider-Man 3, which has racked up huge box office sales since it premiered in Japan last month.Bravo BraviaBut it was the success of Sony's electronics unit during the final quarter, driven by its Bravia range of flat-screen TVs, Vaio personal computers and Handycam video cameras, that will have given the Welsh-born Sir Howard most cause for satisfaction.The electronics unit registered an operating profit of &yen;157bn in the last fiscal year, up from a &yen;7bn profit the previous year. Electronics sales were up across the board, gaining 7% over the year to the end of March in Japan, 8% in the US and 24% in Europe. Sony also said it aimed to ship 10m LCD TVs for the year to March 2008.Despite the PS3's teething problems, Sony was upbeat about its fortunes in the year ahead.It expects profit to more than double to &yen;320bn by the end of March as sales of consumer electronics, the traditional driving force behind the Sony brand, continue to increase after years of losing out to domestic rivals such as Sharp and foreign competitors that include South Korea's Samsung.Sales, for example, are expected to rise 6% to &yen;8.78 trillion during the current fiscal year, with profits from the recent sale of its previous headquarters in Tokyo bringing a windfall of a further &yen;59bn. The firm will also be unburdened by the cost last year of a global worldwide recall of 9.6m potentially faulty computer batteries, which added &yen;51bn to its 2006 costs.Some analysts regard the new optimism surrounding Sony as a vindication of the focus on consumer electronics and the ditching of unprofitable businesses under Sir Howard, who became the firm's first non-Japanese CEO in mid-2005."The good news is that profitability is being maintained in the electronics unit as well as sales," Mitsuhiro Osawa, electronics analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities, told the Associated Press."The results came about because of wise steering on the part of management."Other analysts were similarly upbeat. "The forecast looks really good. It will be a matter of whether the company can actually achieve that goal," said Tomomi Yamashita, a senior fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management. "Investors think highly of Sony's efforts to turn around its struggling electronics business. Now its game business is under-performing and whether it can fix that too will be closely watched."
Reading aboutEvesham Technology's struggle to remain profitableafter the government threw it (and everyone else) the juicy bone of the Home Computer Initiative (pay for a computer at home through your gross, not net salary) and then abruptly withdrew it, I suddenly thought: when are the lights going to go out on PC making in the UK?A couple of decades ago you could barely walk down the street without coming across another British computer maker. Amstrad, Sinclair, Research Machines, Acorn (OK, sorta the same, those two), Apricot (anyone remember Apricot?) and a trumptillion others that blossomed in the 80s.Now who? Off the top of my head, Research Machines, Amstrad's subsidiary Viglen, Evesham.. and who else? I'm only counting companies that make them in volume.Rather as the Rover scandal rang down the curtain on British car making, how long will it be before the last British PC maker turns off the lights?
Welcome toXTechin Paris, a conference that looks just over the horizon into the near future or, in many cases, the advanced present of the internet. This is not your parents' internet. It is an internet freed from the not only the desktop, but the computer entirely.The schedule for theconference is here. If there is anything you'd like to know or anyone you'd like to put a question to, leave a comment, and I'll do my best to get you some answers. WiFi is a little scarce here, oddly, so I'll be online as much as possible but not as much as I'd like. Everywhere internet, design, location-based services, web app development is just a taster of the topics covered.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:web2.0,XTech,XTech2007technorati tags endUPDATE:The WiFi situation is pretty bad, and I can only get online in between sessions. This is going to be a bit raw as I'm liveblogging and then running up to my room to get online. Apologies for the subsequent butchery of English. Hopefully the ideas come through and aren't obscured.Software becomes 'Everyware'Adam Greenfield kicked off the second day with a keynote that looked at the broader implications of the increasing reach of networked technology in our lives. (I missed the first day, but you can find a lot of posts by searchingXTech in Technorati.) He said that he comes from the confrontation of human beings with technology. He looks at how people use technology, and he says that he feels their pain.What is ubiquitous or pervasive computing? He said that very little of what he was going to talk about will deal with the web. He wanted to talk about what he calls Everyware (Get it? Software goes everywhere.) Back in 1990, Mark Weiser thought about embedded, wireless computing that went far beyond the desktop computer, beyond a GUI. It automates and digitises all kinds of 'unheroic tasks of everyday life'.He gave examples such as a digital doorlock that is part of everyday life in Korea. You can use bluetooth, a biometric scanner or even a plain old key to open your door. Technology is 'going to the body', and he gave the example of the Nike+ iPod, where not only would it gather your exercise information but allow you to share that with others. The world becomes your exercise partner.There is an emergent 'internet of things'. All of these services communicate not just with human beings but also with each other.A class of systems tends to colonise everyday life. We're in France, so Adam gave a reference to Michel Foucault's idea of the Panopticon (UPDATE: as Mark notes in the comments, thePanopticonwas originally an idea by Jeremy Bentham that was extended by Foucault). The prisoners never knew whether they were being surveilled so they had to assume that they were always being surveilled.How does this impact us now? He gave the example of the Kinko, a networked toilet. It would analyse your bodily wastes and transmit information to your doctor. Surveillance becomes not just the watchful gaze but a product of the technological systems deployed in everyday life that gather a lot of data.Is this all science fiction? No, he believes that this is a present, real-world concern. Most of the time he has had to illustrate his talk with prototypes, but the systems are now becoming real-world, commercially available products.For example, he says that the new internet protocol, the 128-bit address space IPv6, provides some 6.5 to 10 to 23 power addresses for every square meter of the earth. You can give an internet address to almost every object in the world. Seem ludicrous? He gave the example of proliphix.com, a service for networked thermostats.He's worried that most people see ubiquitous computing as unproblematic. What do you have to consider? Inadvertency. They didn't mean to engage this system. Now, what happens when people don't know about the system or are unwilling to engage with that system? And with all of these interlocking systems, there may be a lot of unintended consequences. One system triggers another and causes a cascade of unintended and unwanted results in systems around it.It's time to take everyware seriously, he says. He laid down a few principles that he believes need to be considered as these systems are developed (someone in the audience echoed what I thought that his principles mirroredAsimov's laws of robotics).Principle 1: Default to harmlessness. Ensure users' physical, psychic and financial safety, but realise that means different things to different cultures.Principle 2: Be self-disclosing. Seamlessness must be optional, and it has to be clear who owns them, what they use and what they do.Principle 3: Be conservative of face. They must not embarrass, humiliate or shame their users. We have to build systems that operate a high degree of precision but then 'fog' those results in imprecision.Principle 4: Be conservative of time. Don't make life more complicated than it already is.Principle 5: Be deniable. People have to be able to say 'no'.Open API to counter climate changeGavin Starks with d:gen networks spoke about climate change and quoted a statistic from World Changing. We ship 2.4 trillion kg of cargo from port to port per year. It's like shipping every human being six times. "Isn't that insane?", he asks.Temperatures are expected to rise between 1.8 to 4 degrees Celsius, according to the Climate Group. The last time this happened 125,000 years ago, the sea was 4 to 6 metres higher. We are looking at hundreds of millions of people under threat. The Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change said that greenhouse gas emissions need to be 75% lower by 2050.He argued that 75% of that reduction could come from current technologies. We could get a quarter of the way through conservation and increased efficiency. Wouldn't it be great if we could shut down some power stations? Two years ago, he was asked: "How would you get a billion people to reduce their carbon emissions by one tonne per year?"I can't just click somewhere to absolve my life if I want to reduce my energy consumption by 85%. We need more than a campaign. We need a movement. We are missing a development framework. What would we build? What should we do?There needs to be trust in the information. To scale, we need to share tools. We need to give away the tools and share things. We don't need to re-invent the wheel, build another carbon calculator. We need an available engine, that we can trust and share and remembers what I've done. It needs to be extensible and open.In December of last year, he got a call from the UK government and got all the data and calculations from the government. They have their own scientists who add data, and they source every single item of data. They have created a 'profiling engine'. Anyone can run a campaign and use anonymous keys to share stats. They are giving it away for free via GPL.He sees toolkits for schools, builders. Use RFID versions to 'track the trackers'. He sees league tables for the good and the bad. Data sets over districts, regions and campaigns to create competitions to cut carbon emissions. He wants to integrate it with Pledgebank. How do you integrate this with Google, Flickr, Dopplr, Twitter, Make or NagMe?They have a generic engine with generic anonymous keys that allow the sharing of data.Let us be very clear that it's not the planet we're saving, but its species and most notably our own.It is launching today. The site it launching today. Go tohttp://www.dgen.net/ameeAMEE=Avoiding Mass Extinction EngineThere are database issues and database rights issues. We have some potentially big privacy issues. We have done our best to keep it anonymous, but there is still a need to protect this information.Ian Forrester, withBBC Backstage, asked what public broadcasters like the BBC can do, and Gavin said, "You already are." He would not go into details.Matt Biddulph is buildingDopplr, a traveller site that allows people to show where they are travelling. It helps people let their friends know if they will be in the same city at the same time."It is not a competition," Matt said. He wants to know how the site might work with this service. The site is in a private beta at the moment. (I use it, but I think I've given away all of my invitations.) Dopplr users have booked 9 million miles of air travel, Matt added.Jabber: Social Software for RobotsBlaine Cook, Obvious CorpKellan Elliot-McCrea, Flickr/Yahoo!Flickr and Twitter. We say we put the point in Web 2.0, they say.Social software is people asking computers to talk to people. Your actions are aggregated in one place.It took me a while to get my head around what they were talking about, mostly because I use web services. I can't code. After a while, I figured it out. They were talking about using messaging protocols, in this case the Jabber messaging service, for computers to talk to each other rather than people chatting online. It gets around some of the problems of pushing around real-time information between computers without the computers idling and waiting for information. The 'Are we there yet?' problem.There are big clouds of data floating around, and the current models are breaking down. "It makes computers cry", Kellan said, adding, "We say at Flickr that we make computers cry everyday."Let's consider a new model for web services. Message passing through asynchronous communications. The computer asks: Let me know when we're there. When it is, the server says, "We're there". Social software for robots is message passing.Where it works? It's not actually useful for everything, but it's good for real time and wire level data with no database interaction. It doesn't work so much with historical and static content or interactive searches.What we're thinking about is a real-time Craig's List. In San Francisco, it's really important if you want to rent an apartment. If you could see that listing when you're out on the street, you can get the apartment. But if you poll the IP every three seconds, then you'll be blocked under current models.What happens when you're fishing for information? Tell a little bot that you want to know when a new apartment is listed on Craig's List. You put a net out, and you'll get notified when you catch something. It's important when you're waiting for something to happen as opposed to looking for historical information.How do you build it? Jabber. It's usually considered a messaging protocol, but it's a standard. You can do internet scale message passing. It's just XML. You can do this securely and verify the identity of the sender. No spoofing!This brings up a whole new set of services. Private, secure services."It's hard to talk about how cool this?" We can have the server asking the client what's new.If a server is processing a 100MB wav file, the client gets in the way of the processing by asking "Are we there yet?" Is the processing done? Instead, they can use Jabber to pass the message of when the task is completed instead the client pestering the server needlessly.Jabber is asynchronous, real-time, extensible, secure, delegated. It has callbacks. It's standardised. It has presence. It is decentralised but not P2P. (Sorry, I'm going to leave that one hanging there for the code-literate amongst you.)The http protocol, one of the most common protocols on the web, just doesn't work for everything. It calls and waits for a response. With real-time information, the number of data calls quickly becomes problematic, especially if the response is a long time in coming.Jaiku: Rich Presence.Ralph Meijer:JaikuWe used to use mobile phones just to call people. Later on, you had contact lists to make it faster to call them. But how do you know if they are there? If they are available? Maybe the person you're trying to call is in the theatre, busy or driving.But now you can have pervasive net connectivity. You can find out where a person is. You can have many-to-many communications. They have written Jaiku for S60 phones, the OS for many Nokia phones. You can see your contacts and what the person was doing recently. Your contacts can know what you are doing and if you are busy.They use cell tower information and bluetooth neighbourhood information to give a sense of presence, some location information. They have worked to integrate calendar data. On some of the newer mobile phones, you can show your friends your photos to allow them to see what you are seeing. They are working to balance battery use and the need for frequent if not persistent connection to the mobile data network.Jaiku also is on the web. You can send messages. You can also pull in web feeds from your blog, Flickr, last.fm or Twitter. People selectively subscribe to your feeds to keep a balance between knowing what their friends are doing and being overwhelmed with information. You can add comments to other people's blog posts or Flickr pictures.Jaiku pulls together a lot of the social applications through RSS and aggregates this information in one place as well as making this 'lifestream' mobile. They also are working on an SMS service. They have created 'channels' or groups. They recently did this for the Eurovision song contest.They use most modern web technologies like JSON, RSS and Atom, different ways to distribute all kinds of data and information such as blog posts, a listing of your latest Flickr photos or your podcasts.He is asked about something between location and presence so letting someone know you are home without specifying where home is. Ralph says that the XMPP protocol, which is used quite a bit in Jaiku, allows you to specify how much information that you'd like to publish. You don't have to publish exact GPS coordinates. You can be as precise or fuzzy as you'd like.On Jaiku, you can also set your messages to be public or private to determine how widely the information is available, to everyone or just your contacts.Why did they include RSS? We think your personal feeds are part of the complete picture of what you are up to.What about the data prices? Some of these services can cost a lot of money with all of the data being passed.We are talking with various telco providers to arrange something in that area. SMS aren't very expensive. In the Netherlands and Finland, you see smaller providers providing flat fee data plans. We are counting on always-on data plans.What is your provenance?Gavin Bell:NatureThis talk is about identity on the internet. I get frustrated with the pace the people push things forward. I want to look at slower expression of who we are.Provenance is the history of an object. Who has handled it? What are the dates and times of who owned it? He gives the example of a Rothko that was sold this week for 74 million. It had very good provenance. It sold for a lot of money because it had a clear history of ownership that could be validated.People think about the internet as web pages, but each one of those pages is created by person. The photos on Flickr are taken by a person.At Nature, they found that most people prefer things that have been recommended to them. Gavin asked: "In 10 years, what devices will we have? How will we find people? How will our identity be created?" Identity used to be about profession, but then it became post codes and phone numbers as well. And now, identity is connected to e-mail as well.Gavin shows four of the IDs that he uses online. Off the top of my head, I can think of six IDs that I commonly use or have uses. Gavin shows off the IDs that he uses on different sites such as tumblr.com or del.icio.us. Our existence is distributed with blogs posts, photos or even the wine we drink on site like Cork'd.Is this solved with something like OpenID? Ostensibly this is only authentication, but OpenID can also be used as a representation of myself. hCard has the rel="me" microformat. Microformats are an emerging way of adding semantic data to elements on webpages.But beyond who I am, we can look at our contacts in social networks. We have pages that says who I am and who my friends are. There are ways to connect social networks.Can my output, the things I've created, be summed up? There are lots of metadata and geolocation information through tags and summaries."People keep asking me to join the LinkIn network," he said, "but I'm already part of a network called the Internet." via Jon UdellWhat is a tag? Ruby? To some, a programming language. To others, a song by the Kaiser Chiefs. To others, it means a gem. It relies on context.In his own investigation, Gavin has found a bit of serendipity in how people find content through tags. Nature Network is using this to helpCan I sum up the output of my friends and figure out who knows what? Gavin is trying to focus this on people instead of RSS feeds. How does someone find via Google someone who knows a specific bit of information, can perform a specific task or might be a good speaker at a conference? How do we use social relationships to find other people who have the information or expertise that I'm looking for?He shows off a page that he has created using the XFN microformat rel="me". It helps pull together a portrait of Gavin as a person. He is using a service called hpricot to add tags, people and photos from Flickr. It's ascreen scraperthat looks for specified information in a webpage and spits it out as structured data.He has created an arc of his identity through Flickr, Del.icio.us and Upcoming.com through the social software sites and back again. But it works on several sites including vox, mag.nolia, and Cork'd. Through publicly available data, he has created profiles of his friends to see what they are doing, their sites and how he is connected to them. It is private. It's just his view of his friends.I don't want to create a service for stalkers.This is about surfacing your friends from a sea of feeds. Is this a new type of application? Is this a plug-in for your feed reader? Is it a desktop app? A website is probably the easiest thing to do, but the bandwidth bill might be hideous. It's an aggregation of network effects.How it works. Login in with OpenID. Scan the page. Find friends and e-mail a notice when it's done. Rinse and repeat.Is this scary? There are privacy and disclosure issues. This is data that we've all given out freely and openly. As we live more and more of our lives online, it becomes more and more important to think about what we put up online. It could be a Utopian or distopian service depends on who runs the services, one friend pointed out to Gavin.There are some unsettling possibilities with the ability to do this. Could a person be passed over for promotion or for a job because of what they have done online?Identity consolidation is real, and this is about people not feeds. Microformats are really useful but not widely used yet. There are details of the project on idsix.com.Questions: There was an interesting question about personnas. Antiques are an object, but people take on certain personnas online. How do you keep those separate?Facebook and LinkedIn don't support his kind of service because they require a login. People may want to keep some of their identity private.Vox is like LiveJournal. It has privacy built in. You can keep your entire profile hidden.Question: You can start to create visualisations on who are my friends and friends, friends. With my digital rights, that gives me the willies? How to protect people from malicious use?Answer: You must be able to authenticate who you are. You must use OpenID. If they have rel="me" on their website, you can find out reams about that person. What we are doing enables a lot of non-permissions based activity to happen. We have made explicit decisions to publish. We think these are my photos on Flickr and these are my friends.As Internet users, privacy and partial privacy are things we need to educate people about.
We have three copies of the hotly anticipated follow-up to game design guruTetsuya Mizuguchi'spuzzle game Lumines on our desk and are looking for three creative gamesblog types to give them to!Lumines Plusis the PlayStation 2 version of the widely acclaimed PSP game, featuring over 100 music tracks and J-pop icons and a multiplayer mode for head-to-head puzzle battles.But because it's such a unique product designed by one of the masters of the music-heavy game genre, we're not going to just give the games away; instead, you get to show off! The lucky three winners will get the chance to demonstrate their talents on the gamesblog by creating something based on Mizuguchi's previous music-based titles:Space Channel 5,Rez,Every Extend Extraand, of course, Lumines.Your entry can be an image, a video, an audio file, a link, a short story, lyrics, art, a pic of your best score in one of his games, your interpretation of Michael Jackson's dance in Space Channel 5, a particularly noteworthy cake (a pic of it will be fine, thanks (wipes crumbs from mouth)), a website, an animation... Anything at all!We'll be posting the best entries to the gamesblog,flickrandYouTube. You can chuck yours up to the gamesblog'sflickr group!Check outCatmoo's gingerbread cookiesfor inspiration.Please send your fabulous entries in a common digital format of a reasonable size to gamesblog(at)gmail.com by Friday 25 May. We'll announce the winners Monday 28th. Thereafter, great praise shall be showered down upon you from your peers and the world in general, and you will be celebrated from on high. And you'll get a copy of Lumines Plus!Good luck!
Today's the day that Halo fans have been waiting for. Not only have Microsoftannouncedthe release date for Halo 3 - 26th Sept in Europe, 25th in US - but the Halo 3 multiplayer beta will be available to download on Xbox Live from early afternoon (UK time). Prospective fraggers will need a copy of Crackdown - the beta is accessed through the downloads menu - and a lot of patience as they wait for the file to download. Early shots looka little underwhelmingbut judgement will be reserved until we've played the thing.Personally I've never bought into the Halo hype, partly because getting sniped by over-caffeinated teenagers is not my favourite pastime and partly because I always felt I was missing something with the game generally. Sure the AI was impressive on the harder levels and yes some of the innovations - such as the shield regeneration - worked well. But essentially you're just shooting aliens again, in much the same way we've been doing since Space Invaders. Is this still enough in 2007? Microsoft's Peter Moore describes Halo 3 as the, "biggest entertainment event of the year". Let's hope the hype finally matches reality. Let us know your thoughts on the Halo 3 beta.
US news site Next-gen.biz has compiled a list of theTop 50 development studios in Europe, based on revenue, product sales, review scores and other criteria. The locations of each studio were then compared, with scores distributed to each country depending on the number of developers representing them in the chart.England houses most of the key studios amassing 887 points. Next up is France with 109 points and then Scotland with 77.But which studios make the top ten? Place your bets now!10. Sports Interactive - England 9. Lionhead - England 8. Ubisoft Montpellier - France 7. SCE Studios London - Erm, England 6. EA UK - England 5. Ubisoft Paris - Oui, France 4. Criterion - England 3. Crytek - Germany 2. Traveller's Tales - England 1. Rockstar North - ScotlandIt's an interesting list and a reminder of the huge, reasonably diverse pool of talent hidden out there in the wilds of Britain - and Europe in general.But say you were a member of the UK Independence Party - could you live on English games alone? Take a look at the full list and let us know...
Konami and mobile games publisherGluhaveannounceda deal today which will see the latter distributing mobile titles for the former throughout Europe, Australasia and the Middle East. It's also been revealed that Konami has set up a dedicated mobile development studio in France, specifically to service these markets with their own versions of top-selling Konami brands.Konami has made little impact in the mobile games scene outside of Japan, even though the company has released dozens of mobile titles for its domestic market. The problem is technology: Japanese handsets are about three years more advanced than ours, allowing for lots of community, multiplayer and micro-transaction elements that we can only dream of. This makes the titles difficult to port, and they'd be severely delayed. Capcom's Resident Evil: The Missions 3D for example, is only just being rolled out to UK operators, but it was released in Japan two years ago. Not great if you're looking to create a unified release schedule with big console titles.So which Konami legends are coming across to UK mobiles?No specific titles have been named, but several are in development and the first are due within a matter of months. Reading between the lines at a press briefing yesterday, I felt that Pro Evo, Metal Gear Solid and Silent Hill are likely - as is a version of Castlevania. The Konami exec I talked to spoke at some length about plans for the latter, mentioning the series' suitability for the platform.I'm not that excited about PES - footie games just don't work that well on mobile, but a 2D Castlevania title? Or a Metal Gear Ac!d conversion? They'll do for starters...
Stories suggest Microsoft is opening a manufacturing plant to make Zune portable music players in Doumen, China. Microsoft has been selling hardware for more than 25 years -- including a mouse launched in the early 1980s -- without feeling the need to own a manufacturing plant, so it's not clear what's happening. More likely it's working with Flextronics, which is a leading manufacturer for the Xbox 360. But either way, it points to new types of Zune available in bigger volumes, probably at lower prices.So far, Microsoft has only put a toe in the water with a Zune based on a Toshiba Gigabeat design. This is big, boxy and strikingly unsexy compared to Apple's iPods or even a Creative M. However, the Zune user interface is better than the iPod's, it doesn't scratch badly, and it even sounds slightly better, if you use the earbuds supplied, so it's not all bad for a first attempt.Presumably while Zune sales have been low, they have been promising enough for Microsoft to use the knowledge and feedback gained to create version 2, and set up version 3. Whether it can ever upset the iPod-cart is a much tougher question.Still, it must be interesting to work inRobbie Bach's Entertainment &amp; Devices Divisionat Microsoft nowadays because it's the same team that's taking on Sony with the Xbox 360. Another team in that division is fighting Nokia with mobile phone software, and losing, but they're evidently not short of chutzpah.SeeMicrosoft delves further into manufacturing with Zune plantby John Letzing at MarketWatch.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
This is one of those guilty posts because I forgot to mention something before. Anyway,phone | not phoneshows half a dozen interesting phones complete with product info, tariffs and even video commercials. Only you can't actually buy them. This is a project created by second year Interactive Media Design and Innovative Product Design students at the University of Dundee.It's good, but not nearly as good as a previous project, theMuseum of Lost Interactions. This includes "such diverse wonders as the Victorian 4-track sampler and the portable Morse code device, hailed as the earliest precursor to the mobile phone."The nine MoLI exhibits were produced by third-year students from the same course, and there are links to it all over the web. There would have been one here, too, but it slipped between deadlines..... Hence the guilt.I don't know what they're doing up there, but clearly it's working.Why Dundee? Well, why not?The world is flat.
For the past couple of weeks I've been using a new Curve handset from BlackBerry - the one that's supposed to fill the space between corporate blocks and consumery fare such as thePearl.The name's a bit of a misnomer - it's hardly banana-shaped - but after putting it through its paces, I have to say it is a pretty good piece of kit.The blurb:"You love to be where the action is. So does the BlackBerry Curve 8300 smartphone. At the hottest new club, a friend's place or work - your messages find you so you stay connected to everything that matters." Cough.The stats:Hits the prosumer space with support for up to 10 email accounts, instant messaging and all the BlackBerry basics. Adds a host of multimedia gubbins, including a 2 megapixel camera with built-in flash, drag and drop media player, trackball control, expandable microSD slot and 3.5mm headphone jack.The test:After a protracted testing period - no off-the-cuff fluff here, my friends - I have to say I'm very impressed with this little bleeder. The trackball is way ahead of the control sticks used by most rivals and the interface is fairly intuitive - it will instantly be familiar to Pearl owners, or users of other BlackBerries. The Qwerty keyboard is better for seasoned BB users but unforgiving on those with larger fingers. The media player works really well, supports a bunch of formats and the inclusion of an ordinary headphone jack makes a mockery of all those horrible proprietary ones. It's also very good on battery life - listening to music on my two and a half hour daily commute barely made a dent.Thumbs upMedia capabilities are much improved, and the Qwerty keyboard makes email a lot easier than the Pearl.Thumbs downUltimately it's still a BlackBerry. The Pearl might have some sex appeal, but you're not going to look like James Bond when you whip a Curve out of your pocket: you're going to look like somebody checking their email. That's not a bad thing if you value practicality more than swish.
This Thursday, Imperial College London is hostingGame 07, an event with a line-up that would make most gamers' hearts palpitate. With speakers from Lionhead (Peter Molyneux), Frontier Developments (David Braben), Introversion (Mark Morris and Chris Delay), Criterion/EA (Richard Parr), the show's undoubtedly more tech than design, but looking at thescheduleit seems there could be something for everyone. In fact, I'll just let the blurb speak for itself:The Games and Media Event aims to bring together people from industry and academia in order to discuss some of the technical problems and solutions within the entertainment industry. This year's event will consist of a day of talks, demonstrations and poster presentations intended to inspire discussion and collaboration between industry and academia.Even better, it's free!thanks toBulent Yusuffor the top tip!
Would you play a game that required no actual input from you, but responded directly to things you did every day? Where your in-game progress was mapped to your real-world movements, or your success against enemies was matched to how often you made a phone call?This is the strange world of Ambient Gaming, a movement tied toZero-Player Gaming. Titles likeProgress Questor the newly releasedAmbient Questincorporate no actual interaction between the user and the game at the time of play, but play themselves out purely based upon the natural, ambient lifestuff that players engage in when away from the computer.Progress Quest is a game where the player's only interaction with the computer is to start the role playing game going. Ambient Quest is slightly more "interactive"; the number of steps a player takes per day controls the number of spaces she or her moves in the game.Mark Eylesis the creator of Ambient Quest. He's also got a heck of a lot of game design experience, including a stint as Head of Design at Rebellion and consultant to EA, Sega, Microprose, Hasbro, Activision and SCI. Mark is currently Principal Lecturer in the Department of Creative Technologies in the Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries at the University of Portsmouth and is doing a PhD with ambient gaming. He asks:If the seminal 1976 ambient music album Music for Airports (Eno, 1978) became a 21st century ambient role playing game, what would it play like? What technologies would be required? What would we need to know for this to happen? Who would be the target audience?I have a couple more questions to add: Is this an exercise in computational power or a new interface between human and machine? And importantly, how might this kind of game-like human-computer interaction change people's behaviours away from the screen?I imagineblackbeltjones' (fictitious)Theri-ring, a technology which would create a new ringtone for my phone based upon my movements, would make me gesticulate more. And Mark's Ambient Quest pedometer has got me up and around more than my deskjob traditionally allows. What would happen if you combined this kind of interaction with an ARG likeWorld Without Oil, where, for example, the number of miles you drive had a negative impact on the amount of information you had access to?This is quite a wild idea, but I find it rather compelling. We'll be posting an interview with Mark soon, so go find your copy of Music for Airports and tune in.
The phone company Orange reveals today how its 15 million customers are using their mobiles as entertainment centres for music, videos and games.The company's first digital media index shows its customers send 872m text messages a month, with most sent between 4pm and 8pm as people plan a night out. Despite being launched five years ago, picture messaging, however, remains something of a niche service with 5.4m sent a month.Many mobile phones can access the internet - Orange also has more than 2.1 million customers accessing the web each month - as well as downloading games, ringtones and video clips. In the first three months of this year, almost 750,000 games were downloaded on the Orange network, with Sonic the Hedgehog, Worms and Space Invaders (Anniversary Edition) the top three choices.Gavin Forth, head of entertainment at Orange, said players are split fairly across the gender divide. "The average age of a mobile games downloader is 30 - older than traditionally seen in the games industry," he said.Part of the reason for the age difference between players on consoles and handsets may be because mobile phones that can easily and quickly access games are usually more expensive or tied to a contract, while the teenage audience tends to use pay as you go phones.But when it comes to downloading wallpaper, which most phones can do, the picture is very different. About 65,000 images are downloaded by Orange customers every month and scantily clad women dominate the charts.The most downloaded images in the first three months of this year include a host of female "wrestlers" - known as "WWE Girls" and "WWE Divas". Animal, the exuberant drummer from the Muppets, is also in the top 10 as is the flag of St George. "There's an interesting correlation between the posters that adorn teenagers bedrooms and the wallpaper they download for their phones," said Mr Forth. "Generally, boys download more mobile wallpapers than girls, and your average 16-year-old lad's bedroom wall is plastered with wrestling, girls and film posters ... that's what they're downloading on to their phones as well."The youth end of the market also seems more taken with downloading songs, with more than 250,000 music tracks, ringtones and music videos downloaded a month. Most activity is in the late afternoon and at the weekend, suggesting the majority of users are children just out of school.As for mobile video, movie trailers remain the most requested clips, followed by sports clips and what Orange terms "babes". More "adult" content accounts for 4% of mobile video.Sporting events score high on mobile TV - which is "streamed" live to a handset rather than downloaded to be watched whenever the user wants. Orange's live coverage of the cricket World Cup was the most popular content watched over the first quarter of the year."The Live World Cup Cricket channel was only launched in March, but it topped the charts of the highest viewed channel for the entire quarter, said Deborah Tonroe, Orange's head of TV and video. "Clearly, live sport is going to play a key role in the future of mobile television."Top tensVideo downloads1The Simpsons Movie trailer2Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix trailer3Rocky Balboa trailer4Creature Comforts for Comic Relief5South Park - Earth is a Reality Show6Celebrity Big Brother - live stream7Hot Fuzz trailer8Angry Kid - Love Bites9Leona Lewis - A Moment Like This10WWE Diva Short - CandiceMusic Tracks1Chasing Cars - Snow Patrol2Grace Kelly - Mika3Ruby - Kaiser Chiefs4How To Save A Life - The Fray5Same Jeans - The View6What Goes Around...Comes Around - Justin Timberlake7Boogie 2Nite - Booty Luv8Alfie - Lily Allen9Tell Me - Diddy and Christina Aguilera10Put Your Hands Up For Detroit - Fedde Le GrandeGames1Sonic the Hedgehog, part one (pictured right)2Worms 20063Space Invaders (Anniversary Edition)4Tiger Woods PGA Tour 075Deal or No Deal6Sonic Jump7Brian Lara International Cricket 20078Midnight Bowling93-in-1 Pub Pack10Dogz
The Guardianreports that the Internet search giant Google has filed a patent for a technology which keeps tabs on gamers in order to develop psychological profiles of consumers. The profiles would then be used to target advertising at players, both outsideandinside games:The company thinks it can glean information about an individual's preferences and personality type by tracking their online behaviour, which could then be sold to advertisers. Details such as whether a person is more likely to be aggressive, hostile or dishonest could be obtained and stored for future use, it says.Current play patterns aren't the only element of interest; the technology can also scrape information from console memory cards. Any games machine that connects to the internet is a possible haven for tracking bots.Google argues that it has no plans to incorporate the tech in the near future.
