I have done a bit of travelling recently, and each time I've flown, I have had a conversation with the cabin crew that goes something like this."Turn off your Kindle, please, for landing.""You can't turn off a Kindle. You flip it to wallpaper mode, which is the same as displaying a page with words on it. I've already turned off the 3G.""Turn it to wallpaper mode, then, please.""... and whether I'm sitting here looking at words on the screen or the wallpaper display, it doesn't make any difference to the amount of potential interference it could cause – which is pretty much none.""I'm afraid that doesn't matter. Turn it off, please."Infuriating, but you have to do as you're told by cabin crew. In fact I have since discovered that you can turn a Kindle off (by holding the switch for a few seconds rather than simply sliding it and letting it go as if you were flipping it to wallpaper), but the irritation remains: because of the way e-ink  devices work, they draw no power when displaying either the words on the page or the wallpaper, and so should pose no more of a threat to an aircraft than the hardback the person in the next seat is reading.But as more of us are flying with more and more electronic gadgets – what the airlines call Personal Electronic Devices (PEDs) – how high is the risk of them interfering with the aircraft's avionics systems? The answer is a complicated one.Dave Carson, an engineer with Boeing who co-chaireda US Federal Advisory Committee that looked at the safe use of PEDs on aircraft, says there are two ways in which devices could mess with your flight: "intentional emissions" and "non-intentional emissions". Devices such as mobile phones or those with Wi-Fi are sources of the former, meaning "they intentionally transmit radio frequency electromagnetic radiation", says Carson. He also points out that mobiles left switched on during flight may be a great distance from the nearest cell tower and consequently try to operate at higher power levels. Other devices such as CD players and e-ink readers pump out "non-intentional emissions", says Carson. Those emissions are caused by the switching circuitry in the electronics.Emissions from devices leak out of the aircraft via windows, doors and hatches and could degrade the signals picked up by the antennas mounted on the aircraft's fuselage. And although an aircraft's internal systems are shielded, using your laptop right next to the wall of the plane could also interfere with "sensitive circuits", says Carson.The UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) points to a handful of incidents where a mobile phone has been "involved", although noting that problems had occurred at the same time a passenger happened to be using a mobile device doesn't exactly represent proof. And ina piece for Aero magazinein March 2000, Boeing admitted it could not find "a definite correlation" between PEDs and aircraft systems malfunctions. Case closed, then? Well, no.Says Carson: "There is a very small risk from devices such as laptops and mobiles, and while that remains, their use isn't going to be allowed in flight, or at any rate, during take-off and landing."But what about Kindles? Richard Taylor of the CAA acknowledges that they "represent a much-reduced safety risk compared with mobiles". Carolyn Evans of the British Airline Pilots  Association (Balpa) admits that "an e-ink reader with 3G connectivity disabled would not cause a problem", but adds that "it is too difficult for the cabin staff to confirm who has got their 3G on, and who hasn't".That's a reasonable argument – it's the cabin crew on whose help you might rely if you're unfortunate enough to be heading for a dangerous landing. They want you paying attention to them in the event of an emergency, not watching a video on your tablet.When pressed, both the CAA and Balpa cited another reason for switching off bits of electronic kit: they're potentially deadly if they're flying through the cabin in an emergency. You don't want to be hit in the head by a laptop that should have been put away. Again, the logic is hard to follow where e-readers are concerned. I have read a book all the way down to the ground; and the latest hardback bonkbuster is certainly heavier than a Kindle.In the final analysis, your Kindle is extremely unlikely to bring an aircraft down. What matters is – reasonably enough – that the regulations are uniform: everything electronic must be turned off.Is this going to change? The New York Times journalist Nick Biltonhas carried out research in the US on the same issue, and extracted a pledge in March from the Federal Aviation Administration that it would take "a fresh look". Bilton says that there's been no change so far; however, the tectonic plates may be shifting as more and more Americans bearing gadgets board planes .Back in the UK, the CAA says: "We keep our regulation under review to ensure it remains appropriate and proportionate to potential safety risk. As technology develops, we are committed to ensuring our regulation keeps pace while continuing to maintain flight safety."So maybe the day will come when you can continue reading on your Kindle until you arrive at the gate. Until then, though, you might be better off with an old-fashioned paperback.
Apple will seek an injunction against the products found by the jury in its key trial with Samsung to have infringed its patents. Apple won on virtually every count, although some phones were determined not to infringe some patents; and the jury especially decided that the Galaxy Tab tablets did not infringe the "trade dress" of the iPad - that is, appear to be a copy. (The Galaxy Tab was determined to have infringed various of the "utility" patents such as the so-called "rubber band" patent, where when you scroll to the end of an onscreen list it seems to bounce back.)Apple will therefore seek an injunction against 17 phones and their variants that are sold by Samsung. It had claimed $2.5bn in damages; the jury knocked that down to $1.05bn, because - according to the foreman - they thought Apple's estimate of Samsung's margins was too large. (The jury included people with expertise in legal and engineering work.)How much will that hurt Samsung?According to its US website, it sells 152 different mobile phones and smartphones.So what will its page of phones look like if Apple succeeds with its injunction? It's worth pointing out that the Samsung Galaxy S3 and the Galaxy Note aren't affected by the injunction - they weren't part of the lawsuit.However, high-profile phones such as the Galaxy S2, Galaxy S, and Nexus S (designed to Google's specification) are included.In a statement after the verdict, Samsung said in part: "Today's verdict should not be viewed as a win for Apple, but as a loss for the American consumer. It will lead to fewer choices, less innovation, and potentially higher prices. It is unfortunate that patent law can be manipulated to give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded corners, or technology that is being improved every day by Samsung and other companies."By my count, the amended list includes 39 phones described as "smartphones", of which 35 are Android-powered and four run Windows Phone.So here's what Samsung's mobile lineup in the US will look like if Apple's injunction succeeds: (if the image isn't appearing on your platform,view it here; note that it is very long):If Apple succeeds in banning infringing Samsung phones, this is what Samsung's US lineup will look likeSamsung reckons that it shipped the largest number of both mobile phones and smartphones in the past quarter. It doesn't make the figures public, but briefs analysts with the figures it offers.The figures for sales in the US provided by Samsung to the court surprised a lot of those analysts, because they seemed much smaller than would be expected given the briefings that Samsung had given. But it turns out that the list of smartphones in the Apple trial only seem to count for a small fraction of its smartphone and mobile phone sales in the US.
Okay, you might NOT have a day off today – some of us don't. For example, I'm writing a feature for the Official Xbox Magazine. How about you?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCounterintuitive: Did Samsung emerge a winner? &gt;&gt; GigaOmIn ablog post, Robert Scoble said while Samsung will take a big PR hit and lose $1 billion, it was worth it to copy Apple because it vaulted the company ahead of other smartphone rivals. Samsung also sells an array of products that Apple doesn't and setting up the comparison with Apple worked out well for the entire company, Scoble said."It only cost $1 billion to become the #2 most profitable mobile company. Remember how much Microsoft paid for Skype? $8 billion. So, for 1/8th of a Skype Samsung took RIM's place and kicked HTC's behind...I bet that RIM wishes it had copied the iPhone a lot sooner than it did. So does Nokia, I bet. Samsung is a much healthier company than any of those BECAUSE it copied the iPhone," he wrote.Analyst Jeremiah Owyang, of Altimeter Group,agreedsaying Samsung still comes out ahead despite the potential ban on sales and punishment. He said Samsung does $1 billion in revenue every 2.4 days.Tim Cook tells Apple employees that today's victory 'is about values' &gt;&gt; 9to5MacCook's email, in part:Many of you have been closely following the trial against Samsung in San Jose for the past few weeks. We chose legal action very reluctantly and only after repeatedly asking Samsung to stop copying our work. For us this lawsuit has always been about something much more important than patents or money. It's about values. We value originality and innovation and pour our lives into making the best products on earth. And we do this to delight our customers, not for competitors to flagrantly copy.Pressing issues: Pink Floyd's "soundtrack" to first moon walk &gt;&gt; Greg MitchellHere's another: It seems that Pink Floyd was in a BBC studio in London "jamming" live to the first moon walk. This "soundtrack" was missing for years, then bootlegged, before finally ending up, where else, on YouTube. Here it is:Goodbye, Neil Armstrong.Stanford researchers discover the 'anternet' &gt;&gt; Stanford ReportOn the surface, ants and the Internet don't seem to have much in common. But two Stanford researchers have discovered that a species of harvester ants determine how many foragers to send out of the nest in much the same way that Internet protocols discover how much bandwidth is available for the transfer of data. The researchers are calling it the "anternet."Brm-tish. (Brought to our notice by Dan Crow of Songkick, who adds: "it's my aunt.")Exclusive: Apple-Samsung juror speaks out &gt;&gt; CNET NewsGreat exclusive for Greg Sandoval:Apple v. Samsung juror Manuel Ilagan said the nine-person jury that heard the patent infringement case between the companies knew after the first day that it believed Samsung had wronged Apple.Ilagan told CNET in an exclusive interview that the jury had several sometimes "heated" debates before reaching its verdict yesterday. He also said nothing in the deliberation process was rushed and that the jury carefully weighed the evidence."We found for Apple because of the evidence they presented," Ilagan said. "It was clear there was infringement...What was happening was that the appearance [of Samsung's phone] was their downfall. You copied the appearance.... Nokia is still selling phones. BlackBerry is selling phones. Those phones aren't infringing. There are alternatives out there.""Worth reading in full as an insight into the jury's deliberations.Copying Works: how Samsung's decision to mimic Apple paid off in spades &gt;&gt; PandoDailyFarhad Manjoo:On Friday, a federal jury decided that Samsung was guilty of doing [copying Apple]. But you don't need this decision, nor any of the damning internal documents uncovered during the patent case, to realize this. Just look at the devices Samsung released in response to the iPhone - for instance, the 2010 Galaxy S, pictured above. If that's not copying, the term has no meaning.It's tempting, after such a sweeping verdict in Apple's favor, to conclude that Samsung's decision to mimic the iPhone was a terrible mistake. The firm will now be on the hook for at least $1bn in damages, and the judge could triple that amount. Samsung will likely face sales injunctions on many of its products, and will be forced to quickly design around Apple's patents in its current and upcoming devices, if not to pay a steep licensing fee. Other companies that took inspiration from Apple - including Motorola, HTC and, at the top of the chain, Google - will also be stung by this decision.But if you study what's happened in the mobile industry since 2007, a different moral emerges. It goes like this: Copying works.Compared to RIM or Nokia's choices, you'd have to say it worked for Samsung. And later in the piece:Samsung's decision to copy Apple has also been inarguably good for consumers. If it weren't for Samsung and Google, Apple would have faced no meaningful competition in smartphones--which would have been great for Apple shareholders but terrible for everyone else, including for Apple's customers.Jury in Apple v. Samsung goofed, damages reduced - uh oh. What's wrong with this picture? &gt;&gt; GroklawObviously, something is very wrong with this picture. The Verge also reported that the juryforeman, who is a patent holder himself [this appears to behis patent, "Method and apparatus for recording and storing video information"], told court officials that the jury didn't need the answer to its question to reach a verdict:The foreman told a court representative that the jurors had reached a decision without needing the instructions.That's why I don't think this jury's ruling will stand, amongother reasons.The instructions that the jury didn't need help with aren't specified. Note that this was a jury with more technical experience than you'd generally expect to find in a courtroom.Why can't you have just three columns in Windows 8? &gt;&gt; Tim AndersonRunning the RTM, and wants to have three columns, not four. Watch the video..Why your news site should never open external links in a new window &gt;&gt; Martin BelamImagine a not-too-distant world where you are manipulating your device mostly by touch and voice, and the whole document paradigm might have vanished. Operating systems might not have "new windows" in the future, just as browsers didn't used to have tabs.Opening up an external link in a new window basically shouts out "Darling, don't leave me!", with your site sobbing in the background like a jilted lover.There are other pertinent accessibility reasons too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Lady Gaga has almost 30 million, Wayne Rooney nearly five million and David Cameron a more-than-respectable two million plus. But how many of their Twitter followers actually exist?A British start-up company has pledged to root out and expose the phantom, fake and fraudulent followers being used to massage the numbers claimed by celebrities, politicians and the merely insecure within the Twittersphere.It used to be that the number of an individual's Facebook friends was a measure of value in the social media era, but that source of prestige has been supplanted by the Twitter index. The number of followers of an individual Twitter account is seen as a measure of influence that can be translated into financial value by advertisers and marketing companies. Before the Olympics began, many British athletes were encouraged to tweet about products such as cars they had received from sponsors.The company,Status People, has now deviseda software tool that divides followers into the fake, the inactive and the good. Company executive Rob Waller said it had been decided to create the "fake follower" tool after reports that former Tory MP Louise Mensch had 40,000 fake followers. The fake follower tool aims to expose the true extent of the problem of phantom Twitter followers.Waller said: "A fake account is set up to follow people or send out spam. They normally have no followers, but follow large numbers of people. An inactive account is one in which there has been no activity for a while. They could be real people, but we would describe them as consumers of information rather than sharers of information. A good account is everything that remains." The tool analyses an account's 100,000 most recent followers, but Waller said they hoped to improve its accuracy. Lady Gaga has only 29% "good" followers, Wayne Rooney 30% and David Cameron 37%. Comedians and entertainers also have a relatively small proportion of "good" followers: Stephen Fry 36%, Alan Carr 39% and Ricky Gervais 34%.Almost every Twitter account has a small percentage of fake followers because, unlike Facebook, anyone can follow you – from a genuine friend to a computer-generated account set up to promote pornography. That freedom has created a market for the sale of Twitter followers. Scores of internet sites offer thousands of Twitter followers for small sums of money. According to theNew York Times, it would be possible to buy 220,000 followers for £260.The sites work in two ways. One kind of software identifies Twitter accounts that include keywords such as football, and "follows" these accounts in the hope they will reciprocate. Other programmes create artificial accounts and sell them by the thousand. On the Fiverr website, 2,000 followers can be bought for $5.As suspicions have grown about the authenticity of some Twitter follower counts, increasingly high-profile figures are being interrogated about their numbers. After the revelation that she had fake followers, Mensch tweeted: "I've asked @Twitter in the UK to see if they can remove the 40k spambots and reset me to my 66k count ... need a better filter."Grant Shapps, the minister for housing, was recently accused by a political website of using a programme to generate more Twitter followers. Dozens of people said they were "followed" and "unfollowed" several times by Shapps, which suggested the actions were being executed by a computer programme.Katy Howell, chief executive of Immediate Future, a social media consultancy, said Twitter was still new and people were still working out the rules and etiquette. "It's a young industry and there is still a lot of immaturity in it. Most celebrities and brands will start off their Twitter accounts by following people who they think might follow them."It's a kind of flirtation, but there is a thin line between what is in the spirit of social media and what is gaming the system," she said.The accounts of most celebrities and companies are managed by agencies or assistants who may be keen to inflate the numbers of their clients' followers to demonstrate their value, said Howell. "They lose some control over them. The easiest way to demonstrate success at managing a Twitter account is showing the increase in the number of followers."People do it to show off, but the other rationale is that you need a critical mass of followers before some people take you seriously … you need 20,000 followers before people will look at you."But Howell added that the artificial increase in followers might have a superficial attraction, but offers no long-term benefits. "You need to build a connection and a relationship with people who are interested in what you do."
Retro games continue to jostle for attention with glossy modern blockbusters, demonstrating that there is still as much interest in simple, accessible gameplay as there is in photorealistic 100-hour long adventures. But there is another take on the retro genre, one in which completely new ideas combine with retro models to take games in unique and intriguing&nbsp;directions.Take newly released PS3 and PS Vita music gameSound Shapes. Utterly modern and brimming with fresh ideas, it's anything but dated and yet its smart combination of 2D platforming gameplay and interactive audio offers a distinct sense of gaming's past. Allowing players to create music through interaction, it is visually brilliant, witty and&nbsp;varied.Over on the Nintendo DS and 3DS,Flip the Coreoffers more classically formed retro in the shape of a scrolling 2D shooter. The modern twist here? The 2D world is but the skin of a 3D environment, allowing the player to shift perspective, with the action then continuing in 2D.Finally, a level deeper into obscurity, late-70s games maker Leo Christopherson, who made his name on a computer called the TRS-80, has just remade his classicAndroid Nimfor PC and Mac. The 2012 version of this abstract action game, available from its author's website, is certainly a curio, but one that is incredibly addictive and that may offer gamers a gateway to the eccentric&nbsp;fringes of retro gaming.
Despite jaw-dropping visuals and being free to play, the originalGuild Warscould never quite unseatWorld of Warcraftas the king of massively multiplayer online RPGs.WoW's more varied playable races simply cemented it as the more imaginative effort.Not so forGuild Wars 2, which is set 250 years on from its predecessor. Players can now choose from monstrous fire-cats, the Charr; the dwarven Asura; werefolk Norn; tree-like Sylvari or the (yawn) humans. Each has individual skill sets, unique starting areas and varied lore surrounding them. Being able to invest time in the different cultures inhabiting the world of Tyria makes for engrossing fantasy gaming and is arguably the best choice developer ArenaNet could have made forGuild Wars 2.Gameplay itself is ostensibly unchanged – assign skills to number keys, engage in real-time combat – but a plethora of new and better-balanced powers grants depth. Mercifully, the quest system now offers more imagination than "go here, kill this" or "find 10 of these". Instead, missions guide players throughGuild Wars' story, which sees the disparate races unite against Lovecraftian dragon gods, proving an unusually captivating tale for an MMO.With art direction so bewilderingly gorgeous that I was frequently stunned into silence,GW2tops its predecessor in just about every regard. And, yes, it's still free to play. Time to rethink thatWarcraftsubscription.
Developer Humble Hearts is actually Dean Dodrill, making his one-man effortDust: An Elysian Taileven more impressive, boasting stunning animation that outclasses many so-called AAA games. Players control the eponymous Dust, a wandering samurai type out to recover his memories. Joined by a mythic talking sword and a flying sidekick named Fidget, a deeper – and at times darker – narrative is revealed along the journey.Gameplay merges action platforming and frenzied melee combat with role-playing elements, such as experience points and item crafting. Though there aren't too many surprises here,Dustbuilds up an expansive repertoire of impressive attacks, eventually allowing the domination of screens full of enemies with ease.Yet it is the side-scrolling world of Elysia that is the real strength, full of beautiful backgrounds, clever level design and interesting anthropomorphic characters. Certain paths can be traversed only with appropriate moves or items and, while that generates some backtracking, you'll do so eagerly, hungry to discover what secrets await.Practically the only flaw is an irksome tendency to replace assigned quick-use items when an arguably better one is picked up, though this is largely down to personal preference. With charming voice acting, speedy combat and – to hammer the point home – really lovely visuals,Dustinstantly marks its territory as one of the finest digital download offerings on the 360.
BeforeBright Simonsbecame one of Africa's most dynamic technology innovators, he was an astrophysicist. He won a scholarship to Durham University but decided in the end that it was "not sufficiently practical"."I had been in student politics and I had this idea I could help change things," he says. He turned instead to migration studies, winning another EU scholarship, having decided that he wanted to help refugees. "But I  felt that even that wasn't practical enough."To change things effectively, he realised that he would have to return to Ghana and create his own enterprise. "I realised I needed to become an entrepreneur. And I had no money. So I needed to find an area where I could make an impact without a lot of money. And that is where technology came in."His big realisation was that the greatest investment in technological infrastructure in Africa was coming from mobile telecom companies. "They'd invested a huge amount of money. All you needed was a good idea to convince them to give you access to this infrastructure."The good idea he came up with was to tackle the problem of counterfeit medicine. Fake pills and pharmaceuticals are a massive problem in the developing world. TheWorld Health Organisationestimates that they account for 30% of all medicines on sale, and kill up to 2,000 people daily worldwide, though other studies suggest the figure is even higher. Simons's idea was to put a code on all packaging, enabling consumers to check if it was authentic or not with a simple text message.His organisation,mPedigree, now works with 20 telecoms companies and is in discussions with two dozen more. Its system has appeared on 6.5m packs of medicine and been adopted as the national standard in three different countries.Most exciting, perhaps, is that the system is now being taken beyond Africa. It's become a model for the industry in India and is being extended across south Asia. "It's the first time that innovations from Africa are going to other parts of the world," says Simons. "It's changing the traditional story about the continent and demonstrating that Africa can be the source of groundbreaking innovations. "This is a genuine reversal of the usual narrative."Simons is hopeful that it's just the start. Innovation, he believes, has the power to transform Africa. "And it's not going to be about shiny gimmickry as it often is in the west. It'll be about innovation that has an impact on human lives."It hasn't been easy going. The old stereotypes about Africa "absolutely" still exist. When it came to approaching multinationals, Simons encountered stiff resistance to the idea that innovation could come from Africa rather than go to it, added to which there "is almost no institutional funding for innovation in Africa". There's no bank money, no aid money. And the greatest challenge is "scale"."There are a billion people in Africa. And the majority of them are young and they need jobs. We need to create the infrastructure to induce productivity. And this can't be done by micro-interventions. We need leadership. Better allocation of resources. New infrastructures."What Simons has shown is that it's not impossible. MPedigree has had an astonishing amount of success with very little resources. Studying in the UK, Simons says, gave him the confidence that entrepreneurs can change society. But it also "made it obvious to me how peripheral Africa is on a global scale. It's what provided me with the impulse to return to the continent and reverse this narrative."Businesseshe most admiresUshahidiKenyan developers who have created a crisis management platform.M-Pesa, a successful Kenyan mobile payments system, with 17 million subscribers in that country alone.Apopo, an NGO that uses African giant pouched  rats to sniff out anti-personnel landmines and detect TB.
He was born in Ireland, studied in America and worked in Britain. But when GhanaianHerman Chinery-Hessedecided to build a software company, he was determined that it would be in Africa."I didn't have an option in America," he says. "I was a black African there; until Obama, we didn't have a track record of leadership. It would be an uphill battle, whereas in Ghana the sky was the limit. Also I'm African: we need development here and it's Africans who are going to develop Africa. I felt a sense of responsibility, apart from the fact that I thought I'd have a brighter future here."Moving to Ghana in 1990, Chinery-Hesse had no money but did own a  computer. With a friend, he began writing programs and selling them, eventually moving from a bedroom to a garage to an office. Today, he is dubbed the "Bill Gates of Ghana".SOFTtribeis the country's leading software developer, providing management systems todozens of companies,including Guinness and Unilever, and products to thousands of consumers. One of its most popular programs allows a user whose house is being attacked to text their GPS co-ordinates to police, neighbours and local radio.Landlines and PCs remain scarce in Africa, but the mobile phone is changing lives in countless ways; there are reportedly695 million subscribers among the continent's 1 billion population. "Our rural populations were in a black hole," he says. "You couldn't speak to them. You had to go on a screwed-up road and cross a river and so on but today they all have mobile phones. Suddenly they're part of a mobile community and that's 50% of our population. It's boom time, you can sell them all kinds of things from shoes to cement to building materials… it's made things efficient. Even if you have to drive to the village, you don't go there blind; you make sure Kofi is home first."I'm optimistic about the future," he adds. "We haven't turned the corner yet but we're rapidly approaching it. In terms of the poverty and being disconnected, it's not because people are stupid or not creative, they just didn't have a chance, they weren't at the table. Now they have mobiles, some have internet and suddenly people are getting educated online, trading online, and this is the future."The west's misconceptions about Africa matter less too, he says. "The perception of Africa is wrong. But the Chinese are busy investing here, the Nigerians are busy investing in Ghana. Some populations are misinformed; at this stage it's their loss rather than ours. We need to be concerned about it as Africans less and less."No matter how much money comes to us from outside aid and so on, our real investments are coming from within Africa, Brazil, China, India. They don't think there's anything wrong with Africa."Africans he admiresDivine NdhlukulaShe has built her security company Securico into one of Zimbabwe's largest.Jason Chukwuma NjokuAs the founder of Iroko Partners, a media distribution company, he challenged online piracy by licensing 1,600 Nollywood movies directly from production houses.Herbert MensahFounder of Ghanaian radio station Xfm which focuses on social media and youth.
Juliana Rotichchuckles down the line from Nairobi at the suggestion that she is one of the people helping to shape a new image of Africa. "Well, I'm a big nerd," she says. "So if a nerd can be part of the future, let's do this."In 2008, whenpolitical and ethnic violence broke out in Kenya after disputed elections, Rotich was trapped at home in the western city of Eldoret, wheresome of the worst fightingwas taking place.A blackout on live news broadcasts had left Kenyans unable to get basic information about what was going on. So Rotich and a group of friends created a website, calledUshahidi ("testimony" in Swahili), that used updates from ordinary people, via emails and text messages, and plotted these on an interactive map."We did something which was pretty natural for us but it was very cathartic," Juliana explains. "It was important to share what I knew."Within days, Ushahidi was providing information about the spread of fighting to thousands of Kenyans across the country. And throughout the conflict and its aftermath, ithelped to document the scale of the violence, despite the attempts of politicians to play it down. Since then, the Ushahidi model has been adapted for humanitarian crises worldwide – it was credited  with locating survivors under the rubblefollowing the Haiti earthquake– and also found a variety of other, less dramatic uses – a recent application mapped small UK businesses keen to promote themselves during the Olympics.The 35-year-old Rotich bubbles with excitement when talking about its global reach: "The platform has been translated into 20 languages. Can you imagine?' But she's cautious of the kind of breathless post-Arab-spring rhetoric about the power of information-sharing technology to bring sweeping political change. For Rotich its primary role, at least in Africa, is a more prosaic one: helping people get better and cheaper access to basic goods and services rather than inspiring revolution. "Democracy is an alluring idea," she says. "And we do hope that our technology plays a role but I want to keep that in the context of some of the challenges that are on the ground and the opportunities for technology to help with some of the inefficiencies."She's proud of the way Ushahidi gave a voice to ordinary Kenyans to explain what was happening in their own communities. "Africans tell their story better and represent the reality that they live better. When you have a view on a situation from on the ground, it can complicate the narrative in an important way. It wasn't easy for the rest of the world just to say, oh that's another genocide happening'."As a regular speaker at global technology events, she is all too conscious of how Africa is perceived by the outside world. "I usually dive straight into the technology and people are shocked, because they are thinking, 'She's an African woman, I expected her to talk about how things are terrible or tell a sad story.'"But in my world, the reality is very exciting. I see young people here in Nairobi and they come up and they say this is my startup idea. People have the option of creating something, filling a need, scratching an itch."So how would an Africa that has shaken off its negative image appear to the world?"When you see those online adverts, those ones that say, 'Volunteer in Africa – come and work in an orphanage or a game park', and there's usually a picture of a lion," she says. "There might be a future where you'll see an advert that says, 'Come and work in the hi-tech sector'."Innovators she admiresLukonga Lindunda, the founder ofBongoHive, an incubator of startups in Lusaka, Zambia. "The idea is to galvanise the tech community in Zambia to think about what problems they'd like to solve. It's a nascent thing but it's going to make a very big impact."Rachel Gichingafor the125/100 project in  Kenya,an outreach work with girls from marginalised communities, helping them to understand technology.Dr Sheila Ochugbojuof  the Foresight group exploring a futurist vision for Africa – analysing trends and figuring out different scenarios, whether they be economic, environmental or technological. "It's quite academic but it's very important."
Apple will seek injunctions against the sale in the US of dozens of Samsung smartphones and tablets, including its Galaxy brand, and could triple the $1bn damages it was awarded in a high-profile patent trial after the jury decided the South Korean company "wilfully" infringed its patents .The injunctions will be the next step after Applewon on almost every count against Samsung, which failed to win any of its counterclaims against the Cupertino-based company.Apple, which makes the iPhone and iPad, could apply for injunctions as early as next week, after winning a significant victory in the battle over the fast-growing smartphone and tablet market, worth $219bn globally.Removing the infringing products may have only a limited effect on Samsung's US business, where itoffers 152 different phonesthrough a number of different carriers. The injunctions, if effected, would hit about 24 different devices.Judge Lucy Koh, who is presiding over the trial, could also triple the damages of $1.05bn awarded by the nine-strong jury, because they decided that the infringements of Apple's patents – some to do with the devices' behaviour, and others to do with close resemblances to the iPhone – were "willful". US law permits a tripling of damages in such cases. Even so Samsung, whose electronics division made an operating profit of $5.2bn in the second quarter of the year, can bear such a payment.It may also offer tweaked devices to get around any injunction: "Samsung has already made some design changes to new products since the litigation first started more than a year ago," said Seo Won-seok, an analyst at Korea Investment &amp; Securities. "With the ruling, they are now more likely to make further changes; or they could simply decide to raise product prices to cover patent-related payments."But lawyers for the South Korean company indicated that they will ask Koh to throw out the verdict, and that if that fails they will appeal the case to a higher court. "This decision should not be allowed to stand because it would discourage innovation and limit the rights of consumers to make choices for themselves," Samsung lead lawyer John Quinn said.Koh will give her decision in the next few weeks.Meanwhile analysts think that Google, which writes the Android mobile software used by Samsung and dozens of others, may have to indemnify handset makers against such lawsuits. They also fear it could mean fewer smartphone options for consumers."Some of these device makers might end up saying 'We love Android, but we really don't want to fight with Apple anymore,'" said Christopher Marlett, CEO of MDB Capital Group, an investment bank specialising in intellectual property. "I think it may ultimately come down to Google having to indemnify these guys, if it wants them to continue using Android."Horace Dediu, of the Asymco consultancy, said that he thinks there is no chance of Google offering such an indemnity. Google has instead acquired Motorola Mobility (MMI) for $12.5bn, bringing with it an extensive patent portfolio which it hopes to use to fend off Apple's attacks on Android handset makers.Nomura analyst CW Chung, speaking before the verdict, predicted it could take "many years" for Apple and Samsung to settle the case, whatever the result of the latest round, leaving the two firmly in control of the global smartphone market."The litigation may end up with both parties entering a cross-licensing agreement, which should enable them to build a higher patent wall in the smartphone market," said Chung. "This would have a positive impact on the share prices of Samsung and Apple, while posing a substantial threat to other competitors." Apple had testified that it previously offered the allegedly infringed patents for licence to Samsung for about $30 per device. Samsung declined at the time.Apple filed its patent infringement lawsuit in April 2011 and engaged the country's highest-paid patent lawyers to demand $2.5bn from its top smartphone competitor. Samsung Electronics fired back with its own lawsuit seeking $399m.The jury on Friday rejected all of Samsung's claims against Apple, but also decided against some of Apple's claims involving the two dozen Samsung devices at issue.The nine-strong group, which included people with experience at companies including Intel, found that several Samsung products illegally used such Apple creations as the "bounce-back" feature when a user scrolls to the end of a list, and the ability to zoom text with a tap of a finger. But they decided that Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablets did not mimic the "trade dress", or appearance of Apple's iPad in a way that could confuse consumers.The US case was the latest skirmish in a global legal battle between the two tech giants. Its outcome is likely to have ripple effects in the smartphone market. Other device makers relying on Android, the mobile operating system that Google has given for free to Samsung and other phone makers, may be more reluctant to use the software and risk getting dragged into court.During closing arguments, Apple attorney Harold McElhinny claimed Samsung had a "crisis of design" after the 2007 launch of the iPhone, and that its executives were determined to cash in illegally on the success of the revolutionary device.Samsung's lawyers countered that it was legally giving consumers what they want: smartphones with big screens. They said Samsung didn't violate Apple's patents and alleged innovations claimed by Apple were created by other companies.Samsung said after the verdict that it was "unfortunate that patent law can be manipulated to give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded corners"."This is by no means the final word in this case," Quinn said in a statement. "Patent law should not be twisted so as to give one company a monopoly over the shape of smartphones." The jury had determined that Samsung did infringe the iPhone's "trade dress" with a number of its products.The jurors' determination that Samsung took Apple's ideas probably matters more to the companies than the monetary damages, Marlett said."I don't know if $1bn is hugely significant to Apple or Samsung," Marlett said. "But there is a social cost here. As a company, you don't want to be known as someone who steals from someone else. I am sure Samsung wants to be known as an innovator, especially since a lot of Asian companies have become known for copying the designs of innovators."DJ Jung, representative patent attorney for SU Intellectual Property, said: "The impact on Samsung will be quite limited, as affected models are mostly legacy products and its new products did make some design changes to avoid potential litigation. Still ... it's a sweeping loss in the most important market. It's inevitable that Samsung's brand will be negatively affected - Samsung could be perceived as a copycat."Apple and Samsung together account for more than half of global smartphone sales. Samsung said in court that it sold 22.7m smartphones and tablets that Apple had claimed use its technology. McElhinny said those devices accounted for $8.16bn in sales since June 2010.Samsung's Galaxy line of phones run on Android, and ISI Group analysts viewed the verdict as a blow to Android as much as Samsung.If Android loses ground in the mobile computing market, that would hurt Google, because it relies on Android to drive mobile traffic to its search engine and services to sell more advertising. Apple presently uses Google's search on the iPhone and iPad, but observers have wondered whether that will persist as Apple has removed more and more Google defaults from the iPhone and iPad. Its upcoming software for the devices will replace Google's maps with Apple's own, and stop offering a YouTube video player.Google entered the smartphone market while its then-CEO Eric Schmidt was on Apple's board, infuriating Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, who considered elements of Android to be blatant rip-offs of the iPhone's innovations.After shoving Schmidt off Apple's board, Jobs vowed that Apple would resort to "thermonuclear war" to destroy Android and its allies.The Apple-Samsung trial came after each side filed a blizzard of legal motions and refused advisories by the judge to settle the dispute out of court. Legal experts and Wall Street analysts had viewed Samsung as the trial's underdog. Apple's headquarters is just 10 miles from the San Jose courthouse, and jurors were picked from the heart of Silicon Valley, where Jobs is a revered technological pioneer.A verdict came after less than three days of deliberations, surprising observers who expected longer deliberations because of the case's complexity.While the issues were complex, patent expert Alexander I Poltorak had said the case would likely boil down to whether jurors believed Samsung's products look and feel like Apple's iPhone and iPad.Samsung's lawyers argued that many of Apple's claims of innovation were either obvious concepts or ideas stolen from Sony Corp and others. Experts called that line of argument a high-risk strategy because of Apple's reputation as an innovator.Apple's lawyers argued there is almost no difference between Samsung products and those of Apple, and presented internal Samsung documents they said showed it copied Apple designs. Samsung lawyers insisted that several other companies and inventors had developed much of the Apple technology at issue.Apple and Samsung have filed similar lawsuits in South Korea, Germany, Japan, Italy, the Netherlands, Britain, France and Australia."This is not the final word in this case or in battles being waged in courts and tribunals around the world, some of which have already rejected many of Apple's claims," Samsung said in its statement.Samsungwon a home court ruling earlier on Friday in the global patent battleagainst Apple. Judges in Seoul said Samsung didn't copy the look and feel of the iPhone and ruled that Apple infringed on Samsung's wireless technology.But like the jury in California, South Korean judges said Samsung violated Apple's technology behind the "bounce-back" feature. Both sides were ordered to pay limited damages.The Seoul ruling was a rare victory for Samsung in its arguments that Apple has infringed on its wireless technology patents. Samsung's claims previously were shot down by courts in Europe, where judges ruled that Samsung patents must be licensed under fair terms to competitors. Europe's antitrust lawyers are now investigating whether Samsung abused its position of having "standards-essential patents" and failing to license them.The US case is one of 50 lawsuits among myriad telecommunications companies jockeying for position in the global smartphone and tablet markets.
Apple has been awarded more than $1bn (£632m) in damages after its rival smartphone and tablet manufacturer Samsung was found to have copied critical features of its iPhone and iPad.The US jury stunned observers by returning a decision after just two and a half days' deliberation following four weeks of legal argument.The jurors rejected every single one of the South Korean company's patent claims, and backed Apple's claim that Samsung had breached US antitrust laws by trying to keep its wireless patents as a monopoly.The decision means that Apple has gained a major weapon in its fight against Samsung, which is the biggest maker of smartphones and mobile phones in the world, and the biggest of the Android handset makers.The verdict will also be a key platform in Apple's ongoing court battles with other Android smartphone companies, including HTC and Motorola.Samsung and Apple have been at war through the courts since April 2011, when Apple filed a suit in the US alleging that a number of Samsung smartphones and tablets used some of its patented technologies – such as the "rubber band" effect when scrolling a long list of items – and mimicked its "trade dress", the general cosmetic appearance of its iPhone and iPad, in a way that could confuse potential customers.On Friday Samsung issued a statement saying: "Today's verdict should not be viewed as a win for Apple, but as a loss for the American consumer. It will lead to fewer choices, less innovation, and potentially higher prices. It is unfortunate that patent law can be manipulated to give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded corners, or technology that is being improved every day by Samsung and other companies."Consumers have the right to choices, and they know what they are buying when they purchase Samsung products. This is not the final word in this case or in battles being waged in courts and tribunals around the world, some of which have already rejected many of Apple's claims. Samsung will continue to innovate and offer choices for the consumer."Apple's founder, Steve Jobs, kicked off the battle, telling his biographer Walter Isaacson that he would go "thermonuclear" in his battle against Androidbecause he felt that it had copied elements of the iPhone's behaviour. That started with HTC's implementation in 2010 of Android."I will spend my last dying breath if I need to, and I will spend every penny of Apple's $40bn in the bank, to right this wrong," Jobs told Isaacson. "I'm going to destroy Android, because it's a stolen product. I'm willing to go thermonuclear war on this."An attempted peace pact between Jobs and Eric Schmidt, then Google's chief executive, came to nothing. But Apple's war against Google has been indirect — targeting the handset makers that use Android rather than the search giant which writes the software itself.Evidence of Jobs's antipathy to Android was excluded from the evidence heard in court.Samsung, in this case, responded that Apple had used its patented technology for 3G wireless connectivity without permission, and that it used some of its patented methods, such as sending photos from a camera-equipped phone. Those claims were rejected by the jury.Samsung had also insisted that Apple's technology patents were invalid because of previous inventions by rival firms, which it demonstrated in the court. It said that the "trade dress" claims were nonsensical, and that customers were not confused.An area of relief for Samsung was that the jury decided its Galaxy tablets did not look so much like the iPad as to breach "trade dress". But they hit it with a billion-dollar damages decision for infringing Apple's "utility" patents on its behaviour.Samsung is expected to appeal to a higher court. But the victory for Apple is a publicity coup as the battle for control of the smartphone and tablet market intensifies ahead of the Christmas period — during which Apple is expected to have a new iPhone on release, and possibly a new, smaller version of the iPad.Apple and Samsung are suing each other in more than 30 cases around the world in Europe, Australia and the US. Apple, based in Cupertino — just 10 miles from the San Jose court where lawyers for the two sides made their case — is fighting multiple cases against rival smartphone makers which use Google's Android software, including Samsung, HTC and Motorola — the latter now owned by Google.The decision is a critical blow in the smartphone wars now going on around the world between Apple and Samsung, and by proxy between Apple and other makers of smartphones using Google's Android software. Samsung is the biggest mobile, smartphone and Android mobile company — meaning that this decision will resound throughout the industry.Reaching a decision had looked like a labyrinthine process. Judge Lucy Koh's instructions on how to decide ran to 109 pages and took over two hours to read out after the two companies had spent four weeks arguing in court.The jury then had to negotiate a verdict paper consisting of 20 pages with 33 questions which offered, in total, about 700 options – although it all boiled down to four: were Apple's claimed patents infringed and if so how much was it owed? And: were Samsung's claimed patents infringed, and if so how much was it owed?Yet they reached their verdict after barely two days' deliberation, surprising legal experts who had thought that the decision could take weeks. The jury for the high-profile trial in which Oracle sued Google alleging that the Android mobile operating system infringed its patents. The jury then took two weeks to reach a verdict that largely exonerated Google.Apple brought a high-profile array of executives to testify including Phil Schiller, its longtime head of marketing, and Scott Forstall, who heads its iPhone and iPad software division. Apple also showed prototypes of the iPhone and iPad dating back to 2003, as well as an internal Samsung document comparing the iPhone's behaviour with that of Samsung's smartphone, which described the difference as "Heaven and Earth" and noted hundreds of items of difference where Samsung needed to improve.The jury of seven men and two women, all from California, included four who have worked for technology companies including chipmaker Intel and phone business AT&amp;T, and two engineers.One member owns multiple Apple and Samsung products, according to CNet. Five are over 50; three were born outside the US – one in India and two in the Philippines.The result came just hours after a South Korean court had ruled against both Apple and Samsung, deciding that they had each infringed each others' patents. Both were fined and told to take some of their products off the shelves in that country.
For Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, who took over from Steve Jobs a year ago, the court victory over Samsung will have been sweet. Normally, patent disputes rarely produce clean victories. But the decision by the nine-member jury in San Jose, just a few miles from Apple's headquarters, is dramatic.Apple had been suing Samsung for $2.5bn in damages, claiming Samsung's phones and tablets copied its devices' behaviour and appearance; Samsung counter-claimed about $200m, saying the iPhone and iPad used its wireless 3G standard technologies, and methods for tasks such as sending a photo by email from a phone.Apple won on almost every count it claimed; Samsung, on absolutely none. It was a dramatic demonstration of the home court advantage. Samsung Electronics can bear the $1.05bn in damages – in the second quarter of this year alone its operating profit was $5.86bn – but the hit to its reputation is substantial. Apple can portray it as a looter of intellectual property, a copyist, an unimaginative follower.Apple can also now go after HTC and Motorola, its two principal smartphone rivals in the US, with renewed vigour. They may have to consider whether to sue for peace, for Samsung lost despite being the biggest of the mobile makers, the biggest smartphone maker, the biggest implementer of Google's Android mobile software, and extremely rich — it spent $9.5bn on market in the past 12 months, and is a major sponsor of the Olympics.More than that, though, Apple will hope that this decision will put second thoughts and self-doubt into the minds of every industrial designer and software engineer competing in the smartphone and tablet business around the world.Apple's key rival here is Google, whose Android software Samsung used to build its phones. But Apple can only go after the handset makers that implement Android, not the creators themselves; even so, by winning on Friday, it will have nervous engineers at the handset makers, who are using Android in ever-growing numbers, pausing as they compare their latest products with the next iPhone. Is it too similar? Will this trigger a lawsuit? Should I change it?The patent wars have dismayed many, who find the legal fighting tedious, and wish the companies would just work on innovation. Apple, for its part, insists that it is happy with competition — but that rivals should do their own innovation. The rivals shoot back that Apple is trying to patent ideas that have been obvious and implemented before.Despite this result, Android is likely to keep winning the battle to run the world's smartphones; it ran on 64% of the smartphones shipped worldwide in spring, and 80% of the smartphone shipped in China in that period; the iPhone had 12%. Android is running on phones that are getting cheaper and cheaper all the time. It wouldn't be worth Apple's time to sue every company using it.But in the US, where its most valuable customers are, Apple definitely sees the effort as worth going to. The decision in San Jose may be the first of many. The question now is whether Google, whose Motorola subsidiary a week ago filed a fresh series of patent infringement claims against Apple — claims which could halt sales of the iPhone and iPad, if upheld — can manage to drive the war to a settlement. So far, there's no sign of that happening. And Apple is yet another billion dollars richer.
Sound Shapes, PlayStation 3, VitaPart platform game, part strange musical instrument, Sound Shapes has you rolling and hopping a ball across screens whose collectibles add notes, percussion sounds and noises to its crescendoing musical score. Red things kill you, light-coloured surfaces let you stick to them and there's a record deck somewhere that marks each area's end point, but it's the ingenious and varied level design, taking in music from Beck and Deadmau5, that makes it a continual source of joy and wonder. Campaign mode is captivating if not exactly vast, and the level editor has the ability to make a mini maestro out of every PlayStation owner. It's a thing of beauty that ought to coax out player-created content that goes well beyond the usual manufacture of levels shaped like dicks.Sony, approx £9.99 PSN downloadPapo &amp; Yo, PlayStation 3Papo & Yo. Photo: PRPapo &amp; Yo is about a boy called Quico and his alcoholic father, personified in a giant, blind-rage-prone monster who needs gentle nurturing to solve many of the puzzles you encounter. Wandering through sun-drenched favelas, Quico finds glowing chalk drawings that come alive when touched, opening mysterious new avenues of exploration. Its darkly allegorical subject matter and whimsically childlike presentation make for a dreamlike experience that's only occasionally hindered by technical problems. Papo &amp; Yo remains an unusual experience that holds on to a sense of playfulness despite budgetary restrictions.Sony, approx £11.49 PSN downloadDust: An Elysian Tail, Xbox 360Dust: An Elysian Tail. Photo: PRIt looks like a blockbuster 16-bit-era side-scrolling adventure with bold colours, large, slightly bouncy-looking characters and pastoral locations staffed by doe-eyed cartoon animals. What you'll discover, though, playing Dust: An Elysian Tail is a lot of screen-filling sword fights bolted on to the role-playing game staples of experience points, incremental upgrade paths and multiple hidden treasures. The conversations have sparks of humour but also a tendency to drag on for just a bit too long, although all are voiced with considerable character, which helps to bulk up an indie game with atypical levels of gloss.Microsoft, approx £10.20 XBLA downloadGames newsSony, apparently stung by widespread commentary about Vita's low likelihood of success in a smartphone world, used its press conference at European games exhibitionGamescomto roll out the big guns, includingAssassin's Creed,Call of DutyandKillzone. All three are being developed by worryingly second-tier studios, but along with the announcement ofTearaway, a brand new game from the makers of the wonderfulLittleBigPlanet, it's news that should cause tentative buoyancy in the hearts of Vita owners. Also being touted at the show was the latest, even grittierTomb Raider(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) reboot; the utterly gorgeous bounty hunter simStar Wars 1313(TBC) andRemember Me(Xbox 360, PS3, PC), Capcom's techno-amnesia actioner. Sadly conspicuous by their absence were the two most anticipated games in the world:Half-Life 3andGrand Theft Auto V.
This is the second generation cee'd. They've made it longer, lower and narrower. More aerodynamic, with resulting improvements in fuel efficiency and C02emissions. It's also stiffer, which – for anyone who isn't an expert in automotive engineering – is a good thing (no one wants to drive a flaccid car, do they?). Better all round, then.There is one thing they've blatantly failed to address, though. I'm talking about the apostrophe, of course. The lower-case c, well, that's just childish and irritating. The apostrophe is a catastrophe, a punctuation abomination. Apostrophes are used to signify possession, or to mark missing letters. The d following this one would suggest the latter – 'd means either had or would. So, given a&nbsp;good subediting, this is either a&nbsp;Kia Cee Had or a Kia Cee Would, right? Had or would what, though? Has it reversed itself into the past perfect tense? Is there some kind of&nbsp;condition attached?Come to think about it, how do you refer to this car in the conditional mood, conversationally, with contractions? A Kia cee'd'd be an excellent car if it didn't have such a stupid name – like that, with a double apostrophe? Huh, they didn't think of that, did they? Idiots.It is… an excellent car. If not a&nbsp;specially lovable one. Kia says it no longer makes cars that just appeal to the logical rather than the emotional side of the brain. That may be true of the Soul or the Sportage, both of which have a certainTonka toycharm. Not so the cee'd. Even in its new, slinkier form, it still looks like a&nbsp;whole bunch of other cars. No one's going to get one because they've always dreamed of having a cee'd. Or because they see it and they think: yes, I love it, that's the car for me. Or because of the thrilling driving experience.They're going to get one because it's good value for money, with an impressive amount of kit, plenty of space, too, in the back and in the boot, and an amazing seven-year warranty. It makes sense.We went to Norfolk – sensibly, logically, unexcitingly (no one's going to be calling it a lightning cee'd, as a little pun). With everything required for a weekend in Norfolk, and space to spare.And we may have looked a little enviously at the Golfs, but then laughed when we remembered they'd paid more than we did. Or would've done, if the cee'd'd really been ours. Plus, they probably didn't even have cruise control.Where in Norfolk? Not far from King's Lynn, as it happens. With an&nbsp;apostrophe. Because it's a lynn, and it probably once belonged to a&nbsp;king. OK?Kia cee'd GDIPrice£17,195 (trim level 2)Top speed118mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.8 secondsCombined consumption52.3mpgCO2emissions124g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating3/10
Every week, we're filtering through the thousands of new iOS apps to pick out the 10 most noteworthy. It's invariably subjective, so please do make your own recommendations in the comments section.No games are included: there's aseparate weekly post for them. Why not Android? There's aseparate post for that too. Windows Phone and BlackBerry will be getting monthly roundups, although as the flow of high-quality apps increases, the intention is to take those weekly too.Here is this week's iOS selection:Broadcast for FriendsThis social video app is the work of Ustream, a company that's been helping people livestream video for years. The idea here is to make the process easier, and also tie it into Facebook. The app enables you to broadcast live to your Facebook friends over 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi, with Instagram-style filters thrown in for good measure.iPhonePrismatic: Always InterestingSoon there may well have to be news aggregation apps to aggregate all the news from all the news aggregation apps. Yes, there's quite a few. Prismatic is the latest entrant into the market, serving up news based on your interests, and promising to learn from your usage.iPhoneMaxthon Web BrowserIs there room for a new player in the mobile browser space, given the competition from Chrome, Opera Mini and (obviously) Apple's native Safari? Maxthon hopes so. Its separate iPhone and iPad browsers claim to be "lightning fast", with tabs, cloud-synchronised bookmarks, a reader mode for articles and a private mode for... Well, whatever you use private browsing modes for.iPhone / iPadNeil Diamond HDA non-HD version is alsoavailable for iPhone, but for the full coffee-table effect, the iPad is probably the better platform. This is an official app for crooner Neil Diamond, complete with 20 full-length songs, an hour of audio commentary from the man himself, a wardrobe of his "most iconic stage costumes", and purchasable digital tour-books from his various tours down the years.iPhone / iPadQuark DesignPadQuark, of QuarkXPress desktop publishing fame, has released an iPad app for quick experimentation with design and layout ideas, which can then be imported into the desktop software or shared. The company is hoping it will appeal to design students and pros alike.iPadThis Is My Body – Anatomy for KidsIf you have children who've reached the age where they're fascinated by the human body, this book-app may be just the thing. It aims to explain human anatomy in a clear and friendly way, from the digestive and muscular systems through to the skeleton and senses.iPadJBL MusicFlowThis music-player app is designed to work with JBL docks – although it can be used independently too – with the aim of ensuring "your digital music library becomes tangible again". Which means navigation based on album artwork rather than text lists, but in a different way to Apple's own CoverFlow UI. When connected to a JBL dock, it also has five equalizer presets.iPadLumify"Technically, we are ridiculously fast and easy video editing," claims the blurb for Lumify, which is picking up a lot of buzz in the US since launching earlier this week. "We use advanced algorithms to mash up your videos in real-time. We highlight the most interesting parts and pair them with music for a 20-second montage". Not everyone's cup of tea, certainly, but younger iPhone users may love it.iPhoneAudioboo iPad EditionBritish startup Audioboo has had its iPhone app available for a while now, helping people record audio and share it online. The new iPad app – described as a "prototype" by the company – doesn't do that. Instead, it focuses on the Audioboo listening experience, serving up audio in themed channels from partners including the BBC, Red Bull and The Guardian.iPadMatt Berry Does Your Dirty Work For YouThe pitch for comedian Matt Berry's second app: "Let me deliver those nasty little messages that you really don't want to do yourself" – dumping a partner, reporting a dead pet, disowning a child and sacking an employee. In theory, you send the message to the person via email or Facebook. In practice, you listen to them all, and chuckle. It may sound like a novelty, but it's interesting to see a comedian trying out new material through an app rather than a stand-up show.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, now have your say in the comments.
I'm a bit of a gaming addict and was perfectly happy with my seven-year-old Xbox 360 until I saw Battlefield 3 running on a friend's gaming PC. It blew me away. I have been patiently waiting for the next gen consoles to come out but can wait no more: I need a decent gaming PC to satisfy my cravings. As I am normally a console gamer, I would play games through my HD TV, so I can lounge on my couch with a wireless keyboard and mouse rather than be cramped on an office chair. I'd also love to use it as a media centre, so I could record Freeview channels. I have a budget of about £1,000, and would like it to be as quiet as possible. Can you help?AlexI expect that if you asked a thousand gamers this question, you'd get at least a thousand different answers. There are so many different parts that the number of combinations is impossibly large. The answer also requires a balancing act, because your £1,000 budget will not enable you buy the top-rated components in many categories without making sacrifices elsewhere.Fortunately, there is a wonderful website calledPC Part Picker. This allows you to build a system and buy the parts. It aims to restrict your choices to parts that are compatible with one another. It also provides user ratings and benchmark results so that you can check the effects of changing particular components. You can check the system I specced on your behalf athttp://pcpartpicker.com/uk/p/ft9r. Click the Edit button to change the parts for ones you prefer.I've taken a somewhat conservative approach. In general, I've gone for well known parts rather than obscure ones, so you can check up on them by reading reviews. I've also tried to allow for upgrades.I don't think there will be too much argument about the best processor: a 3.4GHz quad-core Intel Core i5-3570K (£174.94). This is the Ivy Bridge equivalent of the Sandy Bridge i5-2500K, which is the chip in my main PC. You can overclock it to 4GHz and possibly more if you install a better cooler, such as the Cooler Master Hyper 212 EVO (£26.65).Choice of motherboard is tricky, as you need something that supports Ivy Bridge, USB 3.0 and so on. The Gigabyte GA-Z77-D3H ATX LGA1155 seems good value at £77.72: it's around £100 less than an Asus Sabertooth Z77.The GA-Z77-D3H has four memory slots and supports up to 32GB of memory. However, 8GB is enough for most gaming, so start with two 4GB sticks of Corsair Vengeance DDR3-1600 low-profile memory (£37.99). You can always fill the two empty slots later, if you really need 16GB or more.The price of solid state disks (SSDs) has fallen to the point where any new gaming PC should have one. The 128GB Samsung 830 is another economical choice at £79.98, and while it isn't the fastest, it seems to be pretty reliable. It has enough space for 64-bit Windows Home Premium (£71.05) and your main games. A 128GB Crucial M4 (£78.95) would be an alternative.For a second drive, I've picked the 1TB Western Digital Caviar Black (£79.76), to store your movies, photos and other applications. It's nippy at 7200RPM. I've had years of good experience with Caviar drives, but some people prefer other brands. A 1TB Samsung Spinpoint HD103SJ (£66.22) or Seagate would be a good alternative. If you need 2TB, you can get a bigger, slower 5400RPM drive such as the Samsung Spinpoint HD204UI (£75.84) or WD Caviar Green (£80.00) for slightly more money.For an optical drive, I've chucked in a Sony DVD/CD Writer because the price is so low (£12.88) that you may as well have one. Of course, you could step up to a Lite-On iHOS104-06 (£41.52) for a Blu-ray drive.You will obviously need a power supply and an ATX case in which to fit all the parts. The Cooler Master HAF 922 (£86.38) is a popular case but the design is somewhat racy by normal (boring) standards. Perhaps theCooler Master Silencio 550(£64.12) would be a better choice as it includes foam mats and air vents designed to reduce noise.For a power supply, I've picked the Corsair 650W (£83.58), which should be big enough. Since it's not built into the case, you can easily upgrade it if you want to run some high-end graphics cards.The graphics card is usually the most expensive part of a games PC, and often the most contentious. The 920MHz Sapphire Radeon HD 7850 is a good all-rounder with 2GB of video memory, at a very reasonable £177.98. The same chipset is used in other cards such as the Gigabyte GV-R785OC-2GD (£168.94) and the Asus HD7850-DC2-2GD5 (£187.98), so you could equally well choose one of these, and the Gigabyte card would go with the Gigabyte motherboard.All this brings the total to £906.68, excluding a Freeview tuner.Should you want to upgrade in the future, you could add a second Radeon HD 7850 card using ATI'sCrossFireXsystem. This doesn't work with Nvidia cards, which are the preferred choice for Adobe CS software. The Gigabyte motherboard supports CrossFireX but notNvidia's SLIsystem, so if you want to take that route, choose a different motherboard, such as the Asus Sabertooth Z77.If you mostly want to run Battlefield 3 (which I have not played), then web discussions suggest it would be worth going for a graphics card with an Nvidia GeForce GTX 570 chipset instead. Examples include the Asus ENGTX570 (£239.48), EVGA 012-P3-1573-KR (£198.68) and Zotac ZT-50203-10M (£281.98). Going for the EVGA card would not change the price significantly, but would give you much better scores on graphics benchmarks such as 3DMark and Cinebench and, one hopes, real games. If your mate's PC has a similar GeForce card, that could swing it. Ideally, buy a better one!As for PC gaming on a TV set, I'm not wholly convinced. Gamers tend to use high-resolution monitors with much higher pixel densities, but if you sit far enough away, it shouldn't be noticeable. If you can get drivers that will display higher resolutions, all the better. Also, TV sets tend to suffer from "input lag" or "display lag". This may be caused by the TV doing some clever post processing to improve the picture quality. If there is a noticeable lag between you pressing a button and the screen responding, then you are not going to last long in online multiplayer games.See if your TV has been benchmarked atHDTVTest.co.ukor a similar site that measures input lag. Also check to see if your TV has a game or PC setting that avoids the problem.You can certainly use your new PC as a media centre, either using Microsoft's Media Center software or by installing the open sourceXBMC with native MythTV Supportfor Windows. You might also want to check out theTVCatchup plugin for XBMC. (What started as Xbox Media Center has no connection with Microsoft.)You will also need to install a DVB-T2 (Freeview) tuner card, such as Kubik's high-definition dual-tuner TBS6220 or TBS6280. The former is within your budget.Whether the PC will be quiet enough remains to be seen. Or heard. PCs designed for TV use tend to have slow processors and slow hard drives, no graphics cards, very small power supplies, and no fans. As a result, they can be almost silent. Your games PC won't need to use the graphics card to play movies, but the rest of it is likely to make some noise. There's no way round that, at the price. However, awater cooling systemcould reduce fan noise, and you get loads of bragging points for installing one of these.
Facebook has radically increased the speed of the iPhone and iPad versions of its app by dumping the HTML5 version it used for one written in Apple's own Objective-C code to improve the mobile experience - and, potentially, begin making money from phone users.The move,says Facebook's Jonathan Dann, "signals a shift in how Facebook is building mobile products, with a focus on digging deep into individual platforms". The blog post hints that versions written specifically for Android and other mobile platforms are on the way.With Facebook's shares having slumped to about half their value since their flotation in May, Mark Zuckerberg's company is under increasing pressure from investors and interally to begin making money from the mobile side of the business. More responsive apps - and so increasing the time users are likely to spend on the site on mobile - is a key step there.Users have reacted positively to the speed increase, reckoned to have doubled, of the new iOS version, which runs as a native app on Apple's platform. But it also signals a key moment in the debate over whether native apps or mobile web versions of sites will be dominant. For Facebook, which Dann says serves "more than 500 million people on more than 7,000 supported devices", the realisation was that "when it comes to platforms like iOS, people expect a fast, reliable service, and our iOS app was falling short".By rewriting what had been done in HTML5 as a native app, "one of the biggest advantages we've gained… has been the ability to make the app fast," Dann says.The HTML5 app was slow because it had to download the user's entire timeline every time they called it, and had to use slow implementations of Javascript, as explained inan analysis by Dirk de Kok of Mobtest.A number of commentators have previously suggested that most native apps - written in the codebase for each different mobile platform, such as iOS, Android, BlackBerry OS and Windows Phone - will eventually dwindle and be replaced by web-based apps written in HTML5. The Financial Times abandoned a native iOS app in favour of an HTML5-based website, which has been hugely successful. But Google's attempt in October 2011 to offer a "native" Gmail app for iOS which was simply an HTML5 view was widely derided. And though Steve Jobs suggested after the launch of the iPhone that developers should write web apps rather than native apps, the hostility from developers and the urging of his own executives eventually persuaded him to change course.Facebook's move is likely to tip the debate decisively for any organisation with the resources and requirement to write different versions for each platform. On the same day, the US music servicePandora released a new version of its Android app, which now sits alongside an iOS version and an HTML5 version for other platforms and desktop users.A native Android Facebook app is also believed to be in the works. Business Insiderreported on Thursdaythat the company is encouraging engineering staff with iPhones to swap them for handsets running Android in order to experience the Facebook app on that - apparently because management thinks that the product there is "subpar" and that staff need to experience it at first hand in order to realise what needs to be fixed.Facebook originally chose to write its app in HTML5, Dann says, because it "has historically allowed us to keep the Facebook mobile experience current and widely available… not only did it let us leverage much of the same code for iOS, Android and the mobile web, but it also allowed to iterate on experiences quickly".But now with the company reorienting itself around mobile, it is recruiting heavliy and theNew York Times reportsthat it aims to have 200 extra engineers writing for mobile by the end of the year, and is holding weekly training sessions on how to write code for iOS and Android.
Anyone who cares about the WWE video game franchise knows two things. First, the best title the series has ever produced was 2003's WWE Smackdown! Here Comes The Pain, which was a close to perfect a wrestling title could possibly get. Secondly, if last year's entry is anything to go by, the series is in desperate need of some new ideas and an engine overhaul.It's worth bearing both of these aspects in mind when considering the chances of Yuke's forthcoming entry, WWE 13 – and not least because Here Comes The Pain's cover star, Brock Lesnar, returned to the WWE's roster just over four months ago.Unfortunately, the dicky engine doesn't have a prayer of being addressed in WWE 13, and this makes sense in a way. If the smart money is correct and the next generation of consoles is less than a year away, then Yuke's decision to hold off on implementing a new technology is prudent. After all, what would be the point in inserting any radical changes that may find themselves out of date within a year?So, WWE 13 isn't to be the recipient of better gameplay mechanics – although it should be noted the game's Predator engine benefits from a number of necessary tweaks this year. Instead, Yuke's strategy for shifting units seems to be mainly content-based. Unlike last year's game, however, the approach with WWE 13 has been to offer more quality than quantity – although it should be pointed out that this year's roster is the biggest to ever feature in a game of this type (players have 80 wrestlers right off the bat, with the option to increase to 100 with DLC).The reason that Here Comes The Pain is the franchise's high-water mark isn't just that the Yuke's wrestling engine was at its pinnacle of performance at the time. It was also due to the fact that in the period of its release, the WWE had arguably its strongest roster of superstars since the halcyon days of the early nineties when the Ultimate Warrior was the organisation's corporate face. It also boasted – as bizarre as this may sound to those who don't follow wrestling – the strongest plot writing the series had seen for ages.This was because it was riding a wave of success that had been set in motion in the late 1990s, during a period that WWE fans will remember, was branded as the "WWE Attitude" era. At the time the WWE was involved in a ratings war with WCW Nitro, which proved both good for business and for the WWE brand. WCW began the war streets ahead of its competition, and this prompted the WWE to toss the marketing rulebook in the trash and engage in increasingly edgy and preposterous plotlines to draw in audience numbers. This in turn gave rise to some of the most colourful and charismatic superstars the WWE ever produced.Yuke's is trying to tap into the appeal of this fertile period in the WWE's history for WWE 13. Its campaign mode doesn't  plonk wrestlers from the current roster and player-created characters in a fictional storyline. Rather, the new campaign mode is set entirely during the Attitude era and covers the key matches and storylines of the eight wrestlers largely responsible for rebuilding the WWE's brand.Players take control of the likes of Shawn Michaels, Triple H, Stone Cold Steve Austin, The Rock, The Undertaker and more in some of their best and most memorable matches. Each match is preceded by unlockable cinematics that detail not only the storylines that were trundling along at the time, but also how they impacted on the WWE's ratings compared to those of the WCW.Both cinematics and ratings charts are stored in their own separate sections once unlocked, in case players want to view them without ploughing through the campaign. Yuke's has also put a lot of effort into recreating the Attitude era in the game, including re-recording commentary tracks from that time, making sure all of the arenas and stage decorations are on the money and even using the same fonts the WWE TV show used at the the time. However, in rather revisionist turn, the logos in the campaign still read "WWE" rather than "WWF" and any mention of the latter brand has been excised from the commentary track, presumably because the organisation lost the "WWF" in court to the Worldwide Wildlife Fund in 2002.Players also have a list of objectives to accomplish in each match they take part in during the campaign mode, in order to make their matches more historically accurate. In Stone Cold Steve Austin's campaign, for example, players can win the WWE championship by simply pinning HBK, but they also have the option of triggering an in-match event, where Stone Cold clocks the referee prompting Mike Tyson to leap into the ring and issue the pin count.In-match events, by the way, have been kept to a minimum and only appear if they aid historical accuracy. This goes some way towards addressing complaints from fans about how, in last year's game, certain contests would end in a cinematic in which the player lost the match. However, it's likely the new campaign mode may draw some criticism from the WWE faithful as, at the time of this writing, there doesn't seem to be any option for a player to take a wrestler they've created through the campaign mode.This doesn't mean there aren't any customisation options at all, though. Players can still create their own wrestlers, stables and arenas and the creation tools allow for some pretty zany results. Visually and sonically, the game is a step up from last year's iteration; wrestlers look more like their real-world counterparts and less like bulky shop mannequins and the match commentaries are less repetitive. The game's mechanics are also more solid; there's less chance this year of the game misinterpreting the player's commands and it's possible to counter an opponent without having the reflexes required to pluck flies out of the air with a pair of chopsticks.WWE 13 does feel like the bookend to an era, though. The game's referencing of the WWE's most successful period and the lack of a new engine feels more like a product of the fact that this generation of consoles is winding down than anything else. It may be that WWE 13 is a placeholder and better things are planned for the franchise once the next-gen machines rumble out of the gate. Still, it handles better than its predecessor, its creation tools are robust and its campaign mode is sure to rekindle nostalgia in long-time fans this coming November.• WWE 13 will be released on PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 2 November
The weekly Android Apps Rush post is back to Fridays after last week's lateness. As ever, this roundup doesn't include new Android games – you canfind those here. The weekly iOS roundup will be published later in the day.Here's this week's Android selection:John LewisThe British retailer has launched its official Android app, promising details from its 200,000-product catalogue, and the ability to scan items in-store to find out more information and watch videos. If you want to actually buy from within the app, you're directed back out to the John Lewis mobile site.O2 Priority SportsMobile operator O2's latest app is a partnership with Nike: the Priority Sports club. It's dangling the prospect of "exclusive access to Nike offers and experiences" for O2 customers, as well as the option to buy products from within the app.Karaoke by PureSoloPureSolo has been helping people record and share their own versions of classic songs on its website for some time now, but the company is taking the experience mobile. You can browse tracks from genres including pop, rock and hip-hop, then share the results to Facebook and Twitter.DriveOFFA mobile app designed to help you stop getting distracted by mobile apps when driving? Sounds like a good idea. It's the work of esure, analysing your speed when driving, and turning off all notifications and incoming calls once you're going faster than 10mph.Waterside ChallengeThis is actually a web-app optimised to run on Android (and iPhone) smartphones from conservation charity WWF. Its aim is to get people exploring London's waterways and looking out for wildlife, using quizzes, videos and simulations.Popcorn PlayerThis app's in alpha, so it's early days, but you may wish to get in early and provide feedback to the developer to help it evolve. Available for smartphones and tablets, it's a pop-up video player that can float on top of your homescreen. MP4 and WebM formats are supported, as well as YouTube.BirdGuidesMore wildlife action here with the official app for the BirdGuides website, providing news on all things feathered from around the UK and Ireland, as well as photos from contributors. Registered users can upload their sightings from within the app.Confused.com MotorMateDriving safety is also high on the Android agenda this week, with this collaboration between Confused.com and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents. This app runs in the background and tracks your driving habits over 250 miles, before presenting you with a rating (out of five stars) based on your skills.PairinThere's a rash of "social-network-for-couples" apps on iOS, but Pairin is one of the few to have made the jump to Android. This is a private social network for sharing comments, photos and Kimochi stamps ("aka emoticon on steroids") with a distinctly Japanese feel.ShuckRelayThis is another alpha release for early adopters. ShuckRelay is a podcast player and management app capable of handling subscriptions and individual episodes of audio podcasts, using their feed URLs. Support for video and Google Reader is promised for the future.That's our selection, but what has impressed you on Android this week? Share your recommendations or experiences with the above apps in the comments section.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSony Mobile Communications announces new operational structure and reduction in workforce &gt;&gt; SonySony Mobile plans to reduce its global headcount by approximately 15% (approximately 1000 personnel, including consultants) throughout the financial years of 2012 and 2013 (i.e. by the end of March 2014) as the company seeks to increase operational efficiency, reduce costs and drive profitable growth.Today Sony Mobile filed a redundancy notification ("varsel") with the Swedish authorities to notify them that the company expects around 650 employees across a number of functions at Sony Mobile in Lund to be affected by job closures. The remaining headcount reductions will be primarily consultants in Sweden. Lund will continue to be an important strategic site for Sony Mobile, with the main focus on software and application development.The company headquarters are moving from Lund to Tokyo.The incredibly detailed, beautifully illustrated, insanely intricate birth of a video game Mech &gt;&gt; Penny ArcadeIt is indeed all those things.An old iPhone 4 design prototype from 2006 &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedWith a "Sony" logo, no less, for internal consumption. Among the fascinating elements is that the metal mockup looks startingly like what is now the Nokia Lumia, though that is a much nicer shape (and not metal). However, the article's suggestion that these are precursors to the iPhone 4 sounds off. Perhaps just an iPhone prototype they later returned to?The Bain Files: inside Mitt Romney's tax-dodging Cayman schemes &gt;&gt; GawkerGawker has obtained a massive cache of confidential financial documents that shed a great deal of light on those finances, and on the tax-dodging tricks available to the hyper-rich that he has used to keep his effective tax rate at roughly 13% over the last decade.Today, we are publishing more than 950 pages of internal audits, financial statements, and private investor letters for 21 cryptically named entities in which Romney had invested--at minimum--more than $10m as of 2011 (that number is based on the low end of ranges he has disclosed--the true number is almost certainly significantly higher). Almost all of them are affiliated with Bain Capital, the secretive private equity firm Romney co-founded in 1984 and ran until his departure in 1999 (or 2002, depending on whom you ask).For clarity, we'd like to point out that the "dodging" here would be tax avoidance, not evasion.Helen Edwards: TripAdvisor and the looming decline of user-generated content &gt;&gt; Marketing BlogsThe decline is yet to come - but here's what the scholars will tell: the flaws of the user-generated model were the inverse of its strengths, with the seeds of decline sown into the model itself.User-generated sites such as TripAdvisor eventually begin to sag under the weight of their own banality. Millions of offhand comments - 'the breakfast was nothing special' - become digitally ossified in the ever-sprawling tentacles of the site.There they stay, creating an uncomfortable temporal tension. Whereas no-one would take seriously a guide book from 2002, there is something about the immediacy of the internet that lends unjustified currency to decade-old reviews. Readers start to feel tripped up by dated content, and the criticised brands feel they can't move on.Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 (Wi-Fi) Review &amp; Rating &gt;&gt; PCMag.comThey're impressed:the iPad's primary pressure-sensitive stylus accessory, the Adonit Jot Touch (which we'll review in the future) costs extra and doesn't offer the sensitivity and palm rejection of the S Pen, and the iPad can't do the Galaxy Tab's marvelous split-screen trick. For offering compelling features found nowhere else, we'll let the Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 share the Editors' Choice award for large tablets with the Apple iPad.Also worth noting: with the Note 10.1 and its pen apps, Samsung is clearly embracing and extending Android. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link)Samsung store looks like Apple storeIt's a flagship consumer electronics store on Sydney's George Street with smiling blue shirt-wearing sales staff, a minimalist design and smartphones and tablets that invite customers to pick up and play.But according to Samsung, the new store - just a block from Apple's Sydney store - was all its own idea.Let's look forward to Samsung suing Apple for copying its idea but somehow getting there first.Google Finally Leads in China -- in App Ad Sales &gt;&gt; Businessweek"Since 2010, Google has been trying many things to keep its presence in China," said Steven Chang, chief executive officer of ZenithOptimedia's China division, which buys advertising from Google and Baidu. "AdMob now has quite a significant share of the market."Revenue in China's mobile-app ad market will probably more than double to about 1.8 billion yuan ($283 million) this year, exceeding the 1.2 billion yuan from mobile-search queries, according to iResearch.Google facing irrelevance in China &gt;&gt; The RegisterGoogle's key local partner Qihoo dropped has dropped the text ad giant from its popular portal site and promptly replaced it with its own newly launched service.A visit to Qihoo's hao.360.cn directory site, which it claims gets more traffic than a similar page run by Baidu - hao123.com - shows the firm has indeed relegated Google to alternative search options along with the likes of Baidu and newcomer Jike.In its place is Qihoo's so.360.cn search service, which it launched last week.The firm's move could be bad news for Google, according to market watcher Bill Bishop.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Phew, it's Friday, and that means I can stop everything and finally play Sleeping  Dogs like everyone else!
In the 1980s, the neutron bomb was the new thing to be Worried About. Plain old atomic weapons which devastated cities and their populations were passé; now the idea was that warring sides would fight it out by detonating weapons which released a devastating neutron blast, which would rapidly kill the population (from radiation poisoning) yet leave the buildings standing, and (in comparison to conventional atomic weapons) not very radioactive at all. Because of its intended design to kill people while leaving the valuable property standing, the neutron bomb was also known as the "capitalist bomb".Well, it's taken a little while, but Twitter is now unleashing its own neutron bomb on other social networks around it.The latest to feel its effects is Tumblr, which has been blocked from letting Twitter users search for their friends on the blogging network. Tumblr thus joins LinkedIn and Instagram in being banned from piggybacking on Twitter's social graph, and expectations are high that Flipboard (whose chief executive left Twitter's board this month, not happily) is next.Tumblr, for its part, said it is "truly disappointed by Twitter's decision… to our dismay, Twitter has restricted our users' ability to 'Find Twitter Friends' on Tumblr", it said in astatement to Techcrunch. ""Given our history of embracing their platform, this is especially upsetting. Our syndication feature is responsible for hundreds of millions of tweets, and we eagerly enabled Twitter Cards across 70 million blogs and 30 billion posts as one of Twitter's first partners. While we're delighted by the response to our integrations with Facebook and Gmail, we are truly disappointed by Twitter's decision."Why is Twitter doing this? If you think, it's quite obvious. It doesn't want other social networks, whether longstanding or fast-rising, to piggyback on its social graph - the web of interconnections of who follows who which, if you mine it well, tells you about peoples' interests (aha! You follow Will.I.Am and Nicki Minaj, so there's just a faint chance you're interested in R&amp;B) and so helps you build not just an engaging social network, but also to get a leg up on successfully monetising it, especially through adverts.And so, it deploys the Twitter neutron bomb. Boomph. No more authorisation of requests from those fledgling (or larger) social networks. It leaves the infrastructure standing - all those database tables waiting to be filled up with peoples' names and connections - but prevents the creation of connections between them. The "social" part of the network is prevented from growing.Twitter's in a special place in the social network field, too. It's smaller than Facebook, and perhaps even Google+, but its users tend to be more active and to range more widely. That makes them, and their social graph, much more valuable to a wannabe social network (hello, Tumblr) that wants to connect people easily; if you can essentially transplant your Twitter friends from Twitter to Tumblr, then there's a good chance you'll spend more time on Tumblr. That, of course, is not what Twitter wants, because less time spent on Twitter means less attention paid to Twitter ads.What Twitter is saying to Tumblr, Instagram, LinkedIn and any number of other social networks that want to build themselves into attractive places to go is: good luck with that. We did it the hard way; now it's your turn. Those empty buildings of your social network? Yeah, pity, that. I'll bet there won't be more than one social network able to build its "connections" database from Twitter's by the end of the year. The exception? Posterous -Twitter bought itin March this year. (Pinterest is still in there; if Twitter allows it to stay in the "approved list" then either it is eyeing it up for acquisition, or it thinks it isn't a threat.)This strategy should be obvious enough that it's surprising that anyone is surprised by it. Twitter, with a billion dollars in venture capital backing already sunk into it, isn't actually in the business of giving away its social graph. And we've seen an earlier version of this battle play out before. Remember howin 2008 Google cut off the then fast-rising social network Facebook's access to its Google Contacts API, so that you couldn't import email addresses from Gmail into your (new) Facebook profile? Google said that Facebook would have to provide a reciprocal API back out - something which Facebook had banned when it stopped the use of Google's Friend Connect, intended to let people export their Facebook contacts.The intriguing point about that, of course, is that in retrospect Google was trying to piggyback on Facebook's social graph, even as Facebook was trying to do on Gmail's. Google at that point wanted them for Google Buzz. Yet even after Buzz ran aground, the row with Facebook went on - and in retrospect, it's obvious that Mark Zuckerberg didn't trust Google not to be trying to build its own social network and using Facebook's social graph to do it. Which turned out to be wise: imagine if Google had been able to mine the Facebook social graph to create Google+. The neutron bomb tactic looks the same everywhere; all that's required to deploy it is to have become the Silicon Valley equivalent of a nuclear nation - and these days, that means a social network with user figures in the multiple tens of millions.Twitter's latest deployment of the social network neutron bomb isn't the first, and likely won't be the last, but it's probable that it's going to mark a turning point. If wannabe social networks can't piggyback on Facebook, or the non-API-offering Google+, and not now Twitter either, it may suddenly become extremely difficult to get the scale you need to break through. We may have seen the last of the big new social networks. A capitalist bomb indeed.
Fans of traditional 2D adventure games can rejoice – after a long wait,Revolution Softwarehas finally announced the fifth title in its legendary Broken Sword series. Subtitled The Serpent's Curse, the game once again follows George Stobbart and Nico Collard on a conspiracy-laden quest through Paris and beyond.The York-based developer has decided to self-publish the title, after considerable success updating the first two Broken Sword titles for iOS devices. However, to fund the latter stages of the development process, the York-based studio has launcheda Kickstarter appeal, and is looking to raise $400,000. A range of perks for investors starts at a digital copy of the game for $15 and ends at $10,000 with Broken Sword jackets, comics, lunch with the dev team and an invite to the wrap party."The process of game development has previously been remote from our fans," said Cecil. "By self publishing, we now have a direct relationship with our audience – a position that we value enormously. We're delighted that the latest Broken Sword title is to be the first of our adventures that we can take with our fans. By pledging support now, we'll be going on a journey which will end when the opening credits roll – it's going to be excellent."As part of the Kickstarter project, Revolution has made a video outlining its appeal to investors. The amusing sequence shows Cecil directing his animated characters in a scene from the game, before appearing with them on the 'set'.The game will be available on PC, Mac, iOS and Android in early 2013.
It's time for our third weekly post rounding up the best new smartphone and tablet games, returning to its Thursday slot. Why Thursday? That's become the biggest day of the week for new mobile releases, as publishers jockey for high positions on the app store charts ahead of the weekend.Here's this week's selection:Vote!!!Easily the best game involving Mitt Romney whacking Barack Obama with a giant sausage you'll play this week. This is a politically-themed beat 'em up for the US presidential election, with the surprise twist being that its developer is Chair Entertainment – best known for the Infinity Blade games.iPhone / iPadEternity Warriors 2US publisher Glu Mobile has released a polished sequel to its Eternity Warriors dungeon-crawler, set 100 years after the first one. Once again, it involves battling your way through dungeons laying into demons and monsters, while upgrading your items along the way. The freemium game also includes an online co-operative multiplayer mode.Android / iPhone / iPadKooZacFamously described as "between Tetris and Sudoku", this popular web game has been ported to iOS by publisher Square Enix. The gameplay involves positioning falling blocks to make target numbers, with 60 levels to play, and a KooZac Blitz mode to compete against friends.iPhone / iPadMonpla SmashGree's Monpla Smash is the latest mobile game that's been a big hit in Japan – 5m players, apparently – to be transferred to the West, starting with iPhone. It involves raising monsters and battling opponents, like an online Pokemon with a freemium business model.iPhoneLego: Build Your BrainLego has launched this smartphone game to be used with its boxed Life of George set. Styled as a game show, you have to build bricks in the real world, then take photos of them using the device's camera to score points, and "build your brain bigger and stronger". A nifty blend of digital and physical play.Android / iPhoneShoot 1UP"Why play shoot 'em ups one ship at a time?" asks the Windows Phone Marketplace listing for this new game. Why indeed? Microsoft Studios' newie sees you launching a fleet of bullet-laden ships at once to battle your way through vertically-scrolling levels. Converted from an Xbox 360 Indie game, it's fully Xbox Lived up.Windows PhoneKing's Bounty: LegionsA rich feast for hardcore iPad gamers to sink their teeth into, this. It's a fantasy-themed turn-based strategy game that has you raising a monster army and crafting armour and weapons to beat a succession of opponents online.iPadOne Epic KnightWhere next for Temple Run-style endless runners? Back to medieval times, seemingly, as shown by One Epic Knight. Its star appeared in developer Simutronics' previous game Tiny Heroes as a villain, but now you're controlling him as he smashes his way through a dungeon.iPhone / iPadStar SplitterIf you have fond memories of space-based adventure games in your youth, and have an Android device to hand, Star Splitter may be just the thing this weekend. It's an intergalactic 3D shooter, with lots of ship upgrades, space battles and missions to complete.AndroidLost CitiesDeveloper TheCodingMonkeys did a grand job with its iOS conversion of board game Carcassonne. Now it's looking to repeat the achievement with Lost Cities, a version of Reiner Knizia's Solitaire-esque board game. Online multiplayer is included.iPhoneThat's our selection, but what new games have you been playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations (or pass judgement on the games above) with a comment.
The 3.5in floppy drive has long been obsolete. Its tiny capacity - just 1.44 megabytes - is laughable in an age when we have USB thumb Flash drives that can store up to 32GB, where 512MB thumb drives are so cheap they're virtually unpriceable, and you can send that much data wirelessly in a fraction of a second.Yet there's one place where, as has been previously noted, the floppy drive lives on: as the icon for "save" in widely-used products such as Microsoft Office.The floppy disk icon: what does it say to you?Harking back to the 1980s, when PCs didn't have hard drives, and your documents lived (and died) in RAM until and unless you saved them to the floppy drive, the idea of that strange beast as the icon for "save" has become embedded in consumer computing culture. Nobody else can think of an icon that has the same meaning of "store this file". A lifebelt? No, that means "rescue". An industrial hard drive? That tends to mean "server".Now I've noticed another icon that seems to have become embedded in our visual language, even though the precise physical item is pretty hard to find.Phone handset icon on a smartphoneThat's right, the phone handset. On millions of mobile phones around the world, this is the icon that is used to mean "the app with which you make phone calls".The irony is that the device on which people make those calls looks nothing at all like that; in general it will look more like this: a typical Nokia "chocolate bar" phone.The Nokia 1100, the most widely-used mobile phone in the world in 2010And the thing that the icon is harking back to? It's the phone handset from around 1939 or so, like the orange thing at the top of this page. In fact, it's countries where you find these "chocolate bar" mobile phones most often that you'll probably see the largest number of landline handsets that look like that old one.But in western countries, most landline handsets don't look like that; certainly they have the speaker and earpiece part, but nothing like the same curvature or design. (A pity, actually, because that old design is optimised to capture voice sounds and shut out external noise.) The old-style handset is very rare. Except, of course, on your smartphone screen, or your featurephone's buttons.This realisation was triggered by the Apple-Samsung trial, where Apple alleges that Samsung changed its icon for the phone app from a square grid of numbers (like a keypad, which is what you use to make the call) to a phone handset. To which Samsung riposted that some icons are simply more recognisable than others.For the generation that designed the first mobile phones, and that used them, that green icon represents what arealhandset looked like - so that's what they showed on the mobile phone. (For the floppy disk, the icon was a necessity to explain where the file was going to go.) And having become embedded into the visual language, it's possible that the handset icon will remain long after the actual object has mutated far away from it; many of the people now getting their first mobile phones have never had a landline.Any other suggestions for icons that we still use which have survived beyond the original product?Update: via Twitter and comments, a couple more:Level crossing warning. What sort of train is that?The UK Highway Code symbol for a level crossing - with a steam engines. Is there really any serious risk of finding one of those at a level crossing in the UK any more?Speed camera icon from the Highway CodeThe irony of speed cameras being indicated in the UK by the 19th-century "bellows" camera (which took some minutes to capture daguerreotypes) may be lost on those who are tagged and subsequently fined by them.
Worried that your collection of Final Fantasy games is incomplete? Here's your chance to grab the ultimate addition. EBay seller Frank Cifaldi isoffering an American edition of Final Fantasy IIfor $50,000."$50,000 – for an old video game?!" you may well scream. But this is the unreleased NES version of the title, which was localised for the American market after the success of the original Final Fantasy role-playing adventure, but never released. As the seller points out in his auction description:"This particular cartridge was put together by the fine folks at Square Soft USA to display at the 1991 Winter Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The plan was to release the game later that year, but instead, Square scrapped its 8-bit NES plans to focus on the new 16-bit Super Nintendo."Fefea claims to have bought the cart from a private collector in 2003 and maintains that it's the only official version available. It's certainly no looker; a blank grey cart with 'Final Fantasy II Sample' scrawled on a label on its surface. That hasn't stopped 85 eBay users putting in offers so far – though most have been rejected.If this cart goes for anywhere near its asking price it will become the most expensive video game ever purchased. Previously, the most valuable piece of gaming software was thought to be another NES title – the gold version of the Nintendo World Championships cart, given out in a Nintendo Power magazine competition in 1990. Only 26 of the cartridges were made and they now fetch up to $20,000 each.Retro video game collecting has become increasingly popular over the last decade as nostalgic gamers have sought to track down the favourite arcade cabinets and game cartridges of their younger days. There have also been increasing efforts to begin the academic preservation of these often delicate artefacts. In the US, the universities of Texas and Michigan have both set up archives, while Britain has its ownNational Video Game Archiveat Bradford's Media Museum.Whether or not any of these collections will have the budget to bid for this slice of gaming history is another matter. $50,000 will buy you a hell of a lot of Spectrum tapes and BBC Micro floppy disk games.
So you got the gig as a member of the jury on the Apple-Samsung trial. It's been a blast so far: big names such as, well, perhaps not, but Phil Schiller, Apple's longtime head of marketing has testified, and Scott Forstall, head of the iPhone and iPad software division, as well as members of Apple's design division. Samsung has also had designers on hand, though more of the time has been spent with expert witnesses.Now comes the tough part, though. The judge is winding up and you have to decide on the merits of the cases of the two companies in front of you. The judge has given you a briefing note that is (we kid you not) 109 pages long. Even the paper on which you're meant to write your verdict is 20 pages long, consisting of 33 questions, for which there is a literally astronomical number of possible permutations if you were to answer at random.Luckily, you've got the Guardian's guide to help you with your decision.The decision is going to make an enormous difference, and will be heard around the world. The two companies between them control about half of the world's smartphone market; Samsung has more than half of the Android smartphone market; the two collect the majority of the profits and revenues in the smartphone market; Apple is Samsung's largest customer, and Samsung is Apple's largest supplier.This is an unusual case because it's not one-way traffic. Apple is accusing Samsung of violating patents on how a number of its phones work, and also of creating products intentionally designed to look like the iPhone and iPad so as to tempt buyers into thinking they're the same thing.But Samsung is accusing Apple of infringing a number of its patents, particularly relating to 3G ("UMTS") standard which is used in the US and Europe on millions of phones by using the technology without a licence.OK. Deep breath. Here's how to work through the list.1) Start at Samsung's end of the caseIts claims are, in comparison, pretty simple to figure out. Did Apple use the UMTS/3G patents without a licence? It certainly used them, because the codes are part of the 3G standard. But Apple says that by using Intel chips which had licensed the patents from Samsung, it is protected by "patent exhaustion" (you can't charge someone twice for using the same patent); and that Samsung's pricing, of about 2.75% of the device's price, is unreasonable use of its monopoly.Samsung says that although the Intel chips do use its 3G technology, they're designed and built in Germany and shipped to China – and the law requires that they be sold in the first place in the US for "patent exhaustion" to apply. So, is the meaning of "sold" where they're incorporated into an iPad or iPhone – or where Intel and Apple sign the contract for their inclusion in the devices? Apple's lawyer says the receipt lists "California [Apple's HQ] and Chicago". Decide, jurors.Samsung also says that Apple infringed three other patents: the use of email in a camera-equipped phone; bookmarking a photo in a camera-equipped phone's image gallery; multitasking on a mobile device so you can listen to music in the background. Apple says these are either invalid or not infringed. Samsung says they're valid, and infringed, and it deserves a payment (of about $200m).Answer those, and that's10 questions of 33 sorted out. You'll have to figure out how much, if anything, Apple or Samsung is entitled to damages from this part, but you can probably come back to it later.2) Now figure out Apple's claims. Start with whether Samsung really copied the "functions"Apple says that it patented a number of elements used in the iPhone and iPad – the "rubber band" effect when you try to scroll past the end of a list, the "double-tap to zoom" effect on the screen, the "pinch and squeeze to zoom", and the general shape of the iPad (the "D'889" patent). It says Samsung infringed them all with a number of phones and tablets.Samsung says they were either obvious, or that it didn't infringe them, or that there was already existing "prior art" that incorporated them.Decide, jurors – based on the many objects and prototypes that have been (in at least one case literally) wheeled into the courtroom. Apple or Samsung? And if you decide in Apple's favour, there's always the question of whether Apple actually suffered financial harm as a result. Did it lose sales?Oddly, one of the strongest pieces of evidence for both sides is a study Apple carried out, looking at why people bought a Samsung smartphone rather than an iPhone. It was a small study, with fewer than 100 respondents, but the most common reason was because people were on the wrong carrier – the iPhone was only sold on AT&amp;T's network until January last year – and so couldn't get an iPhone. So, jurors, did they get the Samsung because it looked a bit like, and behaved quite like, an iPhone? Or because they liked the phone?Get this sorted andyou've answered another 11 of the 33 questions.3) Figure out the "trade dress" stuff, which is where the real "copying" claims come in"Trade dress" is a lawyer's phrase for "what it looks like when you're far enough away not to spot minor differences". It's a sort of "first reaction" thing. Calor Gas bottles have a distinctive shape and colour; if you tried to make a pressurised cooking gas container in the same shape and colour, its lawyers would doubtless grab you on a "trade dress" suit.Apple is claiming that Samsung attempted to fool the public (not the specialist public, but just the general, undiscerning public) by making a number of its smartphones look like the iPhone 3G and 3GS, and some of its tablets like the iPad. Were people confused by the appearance of the device in a shop to the extent that they bought one thinking it was the other? That would be proof absolute of trade dress confusion – but Apple doesn't even have to show that; only that people mightin generalhave been confused about which is which. That is "trade dress dilution", and another 10 of the 33 questions relate to this.Apple had a good start on trade dress, with some data from Best Buy about people who had returned Galaxy Tabs because they had bought them thinking they were iPads. The idea that Samsung intentionally copied Apple's designs is one that Apple's lawyers pushed extremely hard during the case. They have produced internal documents in which Samsung staff talk about a "design crisis", minutely compare Samsung's icons with the iPhone's, talking of the difference being "heaven and earthhell".Apple's lawyers also showed the evolution of Samsung's icons pre- and post-iPhone – such as the symbol for the phone going from a grid of numbers (for a keypad) to the "landline handset" icon. (It even faces the same way.) Apple also says that Samsung was warned by Google in December 2010 not to make its tablet designs look too much like the iPad. A Samsung engineer who worked on the Galaxy Tab testified to not having heard about that – which Apple's lawyer used in his summing-up to suggest means Samsung executives kept information from its staff and "let them keep copying".Samsung's rebuttal is to say that it was working on touchscreen phones before the iPhone, and tablets before the iPad. The document was to gee up the troops, not an instruction to plagiarism. And some icon designs just work better than others.As to the "trade dress" issue, Samsung said that there are key differences in the appearance of the Galaxy Tab and the iPad (the former has a two-tone back, for example) and that anyone who turned a device on would know the difference at once. Apple, it said, is just trying to stifle competition – and the idea that if Samsung hadn't been there then all those people would have bought iPhones or iPads is just ridiculous; they would have bought another Android product at the same price as they paid for the Samsung product.uchSo, jurors: did Samsung intentionally copy, or is Apple just trying to quash fair competition? On this hangs pretty much the whole case. This takes you to the last two questions (if you've done it our way, although they're 22 and 23 out of 33 on the list): how much money, if any, is Apple entitled to?The worst question of all? If the jury decides that Apple does deserve damages, then question 23 asks them to list precisely how much – for each of 28 smartphones and tablets.By now, after four weeks of argument and counter-argument, and who knows how much deliberation, they may just prefer to write a single number down.Correction:the phrase in the Samsung document was "heaven and earth", not "heaven and hell".
Of all interactive entertainment genres, the fighting game seems to provoke the strongest sense of community and identity from its fan base. While first-person shooters attract a larger competitive audience, the likes of Street Fighter, Tekken and Virtua Fighter seem to inspire something more, something akin to a true subculture, with its own language, meeting places and sense of visual style.Publishers like Namco and Capcom are experts at capitalising on this, hence the "We Are Tekken" Instagram competition, which is running throughout August. UK gamers are being encouraged to send in snapshots of what Tekken means to them. The best images are then to be displayed at Shoreditch's Protein gallery from 13-16 September.The photos are pretty interesting, ranging from little pieces of Tekken art to photos of people playing the game. The image above, submitted by cy4n1de, shows a doodle drawn by his girlfriend while he and a friend played Tekken 6.You can find out more information about the competition and the exhibitionhere, and you can check the #wearetekken Instagram galleryhere.
Here comes Thursday - what are you up to?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC's Chou tells workers 'kill bureaucracy,' email shows &gt;&gt; Bloomberg[Chief executive Peter] Chou, 55, said the company needs to build on its culture, "committed" employees and customer relationships."Don't let the processes, rules and norms to impact our important goals," he wrote. "Of course we have to follow certain rules and criteria but don't let small things kill the major goals.""The industry's best rating" for HTC's One X handset is evidence the company has the best products, Chou wrote. There are also strong products in the pipeline for this year and early next year, Chou wrote without naming them.Tablet PCs expected to surpass notebook sales in 3Q12 &gt;&gt; DigitimesTablet PCs are expected to surpass notebook sales in the third quarter as new models are about to hit the market, according to industry sources. Sources said the tablets have price advantages over notebooks, especially white-box ones, making them popular choices for consumers.It is estimated that as many as 20-30 million low-end tablets will be sold in the third quarter alone, which will influence ultrabook sales, said the sources.With notebooks making about half of the 90m PCs shipped every quarter, that's a lot of tablets.Google updates struggling Chrome OS &gt;&gt; PC ProGoogle has added the ability to save files directly to Drive, rather than saving them locally and uploading them, making it much easier to work on files between devices. Saving a file opens a dialog window with a choice of tabs; choose Google Drive and it gives a neatly ordered folder and file tree that's arguably cleaner than the Drive web interface.The article also mentions that Chitika estimates Chrome's share at around 0.0119%. That's somewhere around 100,000 devices.Archos Gen10: tablet productivity done wrong (review) &gt;&gt; MashableI'm trrrying to writne this review onthe very Archos Gen10 XS tABLET this review is supposed tyo be about, and it's tough (as u can see). I have to admire Archos for trying something diffrrent with the Gen10, which comes with a "lid" for the tablet that doubel;s as a keyboard (much like the Microsoft Surface), buyt in practice, I have to say Im not afan.Next!RIM set to lose stranglehold on government mobile market &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyA government document seen by Computer Weekly stressed the importance of using appropriate commercial products to enable remote working in government at T1. This could include a greater use of consumer devices such as the iPhone and Samsung and HTC handsets.China Telecom profit beats estimates as IPhone lures users &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"It looks like the negative impact of iPhone subsidies was not as strong as people expected in the quarter, and average revenue per user was higher than we expected," said Marvin Lo, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities. "The rising iPhone and smartphone penetration helped increase" average revenue per user, he said.Why social media can't win swing votes &gt;&gt; MashableA recent poll shows that 90% of the public already knows everything they need to about President Obama, and 69% feel that way about Romney.But that remaining 10% -- which could swing the election -- is pivotal. And they need something dramatic to move them. Facebook's shrimpy real estate isn't conducive to operatic marketing in the way that traditional television is. An emotional TV commercial -- like Reagan's classic "Morning in America," which was brilliantly dissected in Drew Westen's book "The Political Brain" for its ability to tap into deep neural associations and metaphors -- packs a permanent punch and creates an affinity that a superficial "like" can't equal.Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 review: an embarrassing, lazy, arrogant money grab &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe Galaxy Note 10.1 is actually trying to make tablets useful, productive tools. They've added split screen and floating apps. I've actually got my email and a web browser open side by side right now, and it's like a dream come true.If that isn't enough for you, this thing also has pen input. A pressure-sensitive pen stows away in the bottom-left corner of the tablet. You can take notes, and select an area of the screen to capture and draw on it.On paper, it all sounds very good. Reality, however, is an entirely different story. It's not enough to just have a good idea, you have to actually make it real, you need to build it.I'm sad to report that Samsung failed at execution on all fronts.Wow. He's reallyveryunimpressed.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
When an answer shows a figure for the number of options, that indicates that multiple entitles – Samsung Korea, Samsung Electronics US, and Samsung Telecommunications US – may have been deemed to infringe. Not all sold the allegedly infringing phones. But each option has to be answered in each question for the verdict to be final.1. For a list of 21 smartphones and tablets, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the '381 patent (covering "bounce-back" when scrolling to the end of a list)? (34 options)2. For a list of 24 smartphones/tablets, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the '915 patent (covering detection of "pinch and zoom v scrolling")? (45 options)3. For a list of 24 smartphones/tablets, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the '163 patent (covering "double-tap to zoom")? (45 options)4. For a list of 21 smartphones/tablets, has Apple shown that Samsung took action it knew or should have known would mean its US subsidiaries would infringe the 381, 915 or 163 patents? (60 options)5. For each of a list of 13 smartphones, has Apple shown that Samsung Korea or US has infringed the D'677 patent (trade dress registration of the front of the iPhoen)? (23 options)6. For each of eight smartphones, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the D'087 patent (trade dress registration of the back of the iPhone)? (14 options)7. For each of 13 smartphones, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the D'305 patent (trade dress registration of the iPhone's home screen)? (25 options)8. For each of two tablets, has Apple shown that Samsung infringed the D'889 patent (trade dress registration of the iPad's appearance)? (five options)If none of those was "yes", ignore 9 and 10.9. Has Apple shown that Samsung Korea knew or should have known it was inducing Samsung US subsidiaries to infringe the D'677, D'087, D'305, and/or D'889 patents? (30 options)10. If any of 1-9 was "yes", has Apple proven that Samsung's infringement was wilful? (seven patents, 18 options)11. Has Samsung proven that Apple's asserted utility and/or design patents are invalid? (seven patents, Y/N)Trade dress12. Has Samsung proven that Apple's registered iPhone trade dress patent '983 is not protectable? (Y/N)13. Has Apple proven that Apple's unregistered trade dresses are protectable? (iPhone 3G, iPhone, iPad; three options, Y/N)14. Has Apple proven that its trade dresses are famous? Y/N (four options)15. If the registered iPhone trade dress is famous, has any of a list of 17 Samsung phones diluted it? (32 options)16. If the unregistered iPhone trade dress is protectable and famous, has any of a list of 17 Samsung phones diluted it? (32 options)17. Same as 15 for "combination iPhone trade dress" (31 options)18. Same as 16, for iPad, against two models of Samsung Galaxy Tab (four options)19. If any of 15-18 was "yes", was the dilution by Samsung wilful?20. If the unregistered iPad/iPad 2 trade dress is protectable, did Samsung infringe it with two of its Galaxy Tabs? (four options)21. If you've said "yes" on any of Q20, was the infringement wilful? (three options – Samsung Korea, America, US)22. If you've said "yes" to any of the above, how much money is Apple entitled to receive in damages?23. Please break it down by amount for each of 28 smartphones and tablets.Samsung's claims24. Has Samsung proven that Apple has infringed its utility patents '516 and '941 (3G standard); '711 (multitasking on a mobile device); '893 (bookmarking a photo on a camera-equipped phone); '460 (use of email in a camera-equipped phone)? (24 options)25. If yes, was Apple's infringement wilful? (Y/N, seven possible infringements)26. Has Apple shown that Samsung's asserted utility patent claims are invalid? (Y/N, 7 options)27. If Apple infringed the '516 and '941 patents, how much is Samsung entitled to?28. If Apple infringed the '711, 893 and/or '460 patents, how much is Samsung entitled to?29. Please break it down by amount for each of five smartphones and tablets.30. Has Apple shown that Samsung breached its obligations to license or disclose its 3G patents on FRAND terms? Y/N31. Has Apple shown that Samsung has broken the Sherman Antitrust Act by monopolising one or more technology markets relating to the 3G standard? Y/N32. If 30 or 31 is Y, how much is Apple entitled to receive in damages?33. Has Apple proven that Samsung is barred by patent exhaustion from enforcing the '516 and/or '941 patents? Y/N (two options)
What are the claims in the case?Apple accuses Samsung of:• Stealing design ideas, features of iPad and iPhone.• Copying designs because it could not compete, rather than innovating new ones, "Samsung was the iPhone's biggest fan. They knew a good thing when they saw it. They tried to compete with it, and when they couldn't, they copied it."• Suffering a "crisis in design" that led to plagiarism.• Selling more than $7.5bn worth of technology that infringe Apple patents, seek $2.75bn in damages from lost profits.• Failing to redesign its products even after being briefed by Google in February 2010 that they were "too similar" to Apple products, but ignored those warnings.• Abusing its monopoly power and demanded an unreasonable royalty for use of patented wireless technology, hold up tactic that allowed Samsung's competing products to enter the market.• Producing an internal document that researched/reviewed iPhone, acknowledged revolutionary design and thus plunged into its own "crisis of design".• Having executives at the top of Samsung who "were bound and determined to cash in on the iPhone's success": that the chronology shows design copying and resultant success.• Not bringing any company executives or witnesses of documents to the trial, "instead of witnesses, they brought you lawyers".• Not taking any action to prevent copying as proved by the testimony of designer Jin Soo Kim who was unaware of Google's concerns as he wasn't told what happened in the meeting by colleagues.• Design infringement: "the test is overall visual appearance, not these minor differences." Samsung lawyers had argued that certain design differences meant there were no violations. Apple pointed to similarity between icons on the home screen: "Samsung's defence is a word game". Apple's lawyer showed a Best Buy survey that shows Galaxy Tabs were returned by owners because they thought they were iPads.Specifically, Apple says Samsung infringed the following "design" patents (where the number refers to the final three figures of the US Patent and Trademark Office-granted patent):• '667 - covering the front of the iPhone, with its system for displaying text and icons• '087 - back of the iPhone• '889 - design of iPad• '305 - iPhone graphical user interfaceIn "utility" patents:• '381 - "bounce-back" or "rubber band" functionality when the user tries to  scroll past the end of a page or list• '163 - 'tap-to-zoom' feature on photos, articles, etc.• '915 - detecting whether the user is scrolling or making the "pinch to expand" and other gesture motionsSamsung accuses Apple of:• Failing to license 3G patents: one expert witness claimed three violations by Apple.• Stifling competition, limiting consumer choice, "Think about Silicon Valley, the way it used to be, back in the day ... now there's tens of thousands of tech jobs." That's because of free competition. "Consumers deserve a choice."• Overstating the volume of sales generated by supposedly patent violating products• Making accusations of patent violations that don't hold water; they were due to design changes because of general technological shifts rather than purely copying, "Just think about walking into a Best Buy store. You go into the TV section. All of the TVs look the same. They're all boxes. They're all flat screens. They're all minimalist designs," said Samsung's lawyer, citing changes in telephones, all coming out with QWERTY keyboards.• Thinking that it's "entitled to have a monopoly on a rounded rectangle with a touchscreen": "Is anyone really deceived by Samsung's devices that they were buying Apple devices?"• Not meeting the "burden of proof" requirement; Apple's chosen expert Peter Bressler and his testimony were picked out.• Making false claims about violations of the D'667 ("front of the iPhone") and D'087 ("back of the iPhone") patents: the corners on Samsung products don't have the same radius and the front and back aren't flat. "What does the evidence show? On the accused phones they are not demonstrably flat across the front surface." "You can see that they're not flat... Details matter when you're talking about design."Specifically, Samsung says Apple infringed:• '941 and '515 - essential for implementing 3G mobile communications• '460 - covers the use of email in a camera-equipped phone• '892 - bookmarking a photo in the image gallery of a camera-equipped phone• '711 - multitasking on a mobile device and allowing users to listen to music in the backgroundWhat's at stake?Apple is claiming $2.5bn in damages from lost sales and profits gained by Samsung if all its claims of infringement are proved.Samsung is claiming $519m from Apple if all the claims of infringement are proved.More than that, though, if Apple prevails, especially over its "utility" patents, that will give it extra ammunition for tackling other Android handset makers. Apple hasn't gone after Google, which writes the Android software, because you can only sue over the actual embodiment of (allegedly) infringing products – not just the pure software, which Google writes.However, legal opinion is that whoever wins, the loser will appeal and the whole procedure will move up to the court of appeal. That, however, will mean the cases will be heard in front of a judge – who may display more nous about the finer technical points than a jury. One judge, Richard Posner, has previously dismissed a case in which Apple and Motorola were suing each other, ruling that neither could prove any damage.
At an event arranged by the Guardian and Disney on Tuesday night, legendary game designer Warren Spector gave a fascinating talk on his latest title, the action adventure sequel Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two.Talking in the cinema at Disney's London HQ, Spector spoke about the origins of the Epic Mickey series, as well as revealing some new features for the latest instalment, which will hit Xbox, PS3 and Wii in November. A 3DS version, with a whole different story and gameplay mechanic is also due.The game returns Mickey to the Cartoon Wasteland, a forgotten area of the Disney universe where lost and cancelled characters roam. This time Mickey must team up with his forbear, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, to rid the land of a dangerous new oppressor.During his discussion on the development process, he assured the audience that the troublesome and erratic camera system from the first title had been fixed. "If you played Epic Mickey you almost certainly told us personally that you wished the camera was better, I have a lot of email about that," he joked."There has been a dedicated camera team working on that since the day we finished the last game. We've done a lot of work on that."Epic Mickey 2 is also set to feature character dialogue for the first time, and even includes a series of fully orchestrated songs. Mickey will retain his ability to paint in new scenic features and to erase items from the world, but in this game, everything he does is permanent, so players create their own unique world as they go.Spector also talked about his ongoing philosophy of game design. "Every title I've worked on has been about this idea that I now describe as 'play style matters'. It's a goofy way of saying you should be able to decide how you play the game yourself, and how you play should change the experience. It's not about how clever a puzzle I can create, it's about you seeing a problem and deciding how to act."The game will also feature a new selection of characters. Walt Disney's first major creation, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, becomes a playable co-op character, offering a new selection of skills, including using his ears as helicopter blades to reach new areas."Walt Disney worked with his animator, Ub Iwerks, to create Oswald in 1927," explained Spector. "For 18 months he was the most popular and successful cartoon star in the world, but as the result of a contract, Disney lost the rights to the character. That is the only reason Mickey Mouse exists. If it wasn't for clause 15 in that contract, Oswald would have been the first talking cartoon star, and we'd all have him on our T-shirts and watches."That sounded like the foundation of an amazing story to me – older brother rejected by his dad in favour of younger brother who stole the life that should have been his. It's almost biblical!"Oswald also gets a love interest, Ortensia, an amalgam of all the female characters from the original 1920s animations. A couple of mischievous imps named The Gremlins, also feature heavily."Walt Disney and Roald Dahl created these characters in 1943 for a film that never got made," said Spector. "We're giving those guys a voice for the first time, and they're awesome".Spector also discussed the access he was given to the vast Disney archives. Not only did he discover that fateful early contract with Universal Pictures, he also found an Oswald the Rabbit chocolate bar wrapper – the first example of cartoon licensing.The story this time has been written by Marv Wolfman, a legendary Marvel writer who also wrote a series of Mickey Mouse adventure comics in the early nineties. The narrative takes place through a series of new and extended settings, all taken from classic Disney movies. One scene takes place in the classic Yen Sid's workshop from Fantasia, which was only viewed in a cut scene in the first game."Every one asked me if the 2D levels from the first game would be coming back," he continued. "Yes they are. They're bigger and better than ever. They were originally kind of a throwaway, we just wanted to try some new fun stuff. Now they're much bigger and more robust this time, and Oswald is in them too."After his talk, Spector took part in a Q&amp;A session, answering questions from myself as well as the audience, and we'll be running video highlights of that session soon.
British scientific research startupMendeleynow has 240 third-party apps tapping into its API, querying its database of research papers more than 100m times a month.The company – which wasjudged"most likely to change the world for the better" at the Guardian Activate Future Technologies pitching contest in 2010 – now has a database of 65m unique research papers uploaded by its 1.8m users."Our vision was always to share this information with the academic community to make science more transparent," says chief executive Dr Victor Henning. "There is a massive demand for this type of information, but it has been locked up behind paywalls."The established companies that Mendeley is aiming to disrupt are firms like Thomson Reuters and Elseviers, who command annual fees in the tens of thousands of dollars for access to their scientific research databases.Mendeley's business model is similar to consumer cloud service Evernote in some ways: its most basic package for individuals is free, providing 1GB of private storage. They pay for more storage, and there are also premium plans for academic and non-academic/commercial teams.The company opened its API in August 2010, inviting developers to start building applications that tapped into its data. The following year, it held a "Binary Battle" contest to foster app ideas, and has since see monthly API calls rise sharply – particularly in 2012, as many of those apps launched publicly.Examples cited by Henning includeOpenSNP, which helps customers of genotyping services like 23andMe and deCODEme to upload their raw test results to its own database, then find other users with similar genetic variations, and relevant research from Mendeley's database.Henning also says that apps drilling into Mendeley's anonymised data on who's reading each paper – academic status, field of research, location and so on – are also proving popular.In fact, the company has made one itself: a data dashboard calledMendeley Institutional Edition. It helps universities analyse research activity in real-time, providing an alternative – a complementary one – to the traditional "Impact Factor" system of academic citations.Are mobile and tablet apps a big factor in Mendeley's ecosystem? Henning says they're increasing in prominence, noting that it's now "possible to build a thin client on a mobile device to control heavy-duty genome sequencing and the like in the cloud from wherever you are".That's an ambitious one, though. More nuts'n'bolts mobile apps to access Mendeley's database of papers are more common, including apps for Android and Kindle."The main use case is people at a conference or meeting up with a colleague in a cafe or another office, thinking 'I read this paper the other day that would be perfect for this particular problem', and being able to call it up on the spot," says Henning.API calls to Mendeley's database have increased sharply in 2012So what now? Mendeley wants to make it easier for apps built using its API to talk to one another, and to deposit data back into the database. The company also has designs on creating what's effectively its own app store."We have an audience of nearly 2m researchers, and we want to promote the apps and help them find their audience," says Henning."So far, they've done all of their marketing and promotion themselves, which makes it even more astonishing that they're growing as fast as the API call figures show. We're working on a discovery mechanism for these apps to make them more visible on the site."There may be some partnerships ahead with the bigger database publishers that Mendeley has been trying to disrupt, too. Henning notes that Elsevier has already built an app to display Mendeley's real-time data alongside papers in its service, for example.He also hopes that opening up the world of scientific research papers will have other effects, such as surfacing relevant papers for non-scientists with particular medical conditions or research interests.There is also the chance to provide access to papers for researchers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the developing world: "people on the ground in Africa and south east Asia researching solutions to hunger crises, growing food and sustainability".
Rockstar would appear to be accelerating its pre-publicity drive for long awaited gangster sequel, Grand Theft Auto V.On Monday, the publisherreleasedthree new shots from the game on its own news site, showing different types of transport players will use in the adventure. Fans of previous instalments were excited to see that both the bicycle and jet fighter are returning.But that was only the beginning of a subtle and teasing campaign. On Wednesday, in a post headlined Leisure, the Rockstar site has unveiled three new screens.One shows characters dirt biking through a desert environment; another has a game of tennis in the grounds of a lavish mansion, and the best has one protagonist base jumping into a picturesque valley.The suggestion is that players will be able to indulge in various sports and pastimes in between bouts of anarchic gunplay. The debut trailer for the title, released last November, also included scenes of characters zooming around on jet skis and playing golf.This time the action is set in Los Santos, the GTA version of Los Angeles, and seems to take place amid movie industry movers and shakers, particularly based in the Vinewood sector – a clear reference to Hollywood, of course.Rockstar is yet to confirm a release date for the title, though many are expecting an announcement soon, for a 2013 launch. There are rumours however, that the game may be a launch title for the next generation of Sony and Microsoft consoles.For now, the games press is left to reflect and ruminate on the meaning of dirt biking and bike riding on the sun-baked streets of San Andreas.
The past 48 hours has seen a wave of redundancies in the video games industry, culminating this morning with the news that Sony Computer Entertainment is set to close its Liverpool development studio.Founded as Psygnosis in 1984 and bought out by Sony 10 years later, the developer was responsible for some of the most iconic brands of the early PlayStation era, including the futuristic racing game WipEout.There are suggestions that many staff will be relocated to other Sony studios in the country, but the Guardian is waiting for an official comment from the publisher.In a statement released on Wednesday morning, Sony said:It has been decided that Liverpool Studio should be closed. Liverpool Studio has been an important part of SCE Worldwide Studios since the outset of PlayStation, and have contributed greatly to PlayStation over the years. Everyone connected with Liverpool Studio, past and present, can be very proud of their achievements.However, it was felt that by focusing our investment plans on other studios that are currently working on exciting new projects, we would be in a stronger position to offer the best possible content for our consumers.The studio has most recently worked on a Vita version of WipEout, and carried out a lot of testing on the Vita hardware. Sony has also pointed out that only the development section of the Liverpool office is to close; its various localisation and financial departments will continue unaffected.The Sony statement follows news from casual games developer Popcap that it is to shed 50 jobs at its Seattle headquarters andmay well close its Ireland officewith the possible loss of almost 100 jobs.Ina blog post explaining the decision, the company's co-founder John Vechey wrote:In the past year, we've seen a dramatic change in the way people play and pay for games. Free-to-play, social and mobile games have exploded in popularity. That happened fast. Surprisingly so. The change in consumer tastes requires us to reorganize our business and invest in new types of games on new platforms. It's a completely different world from when we started.Elsewhere, Norwegian developer Funcom – responsible for massively multiplayer online games such as Age of Conan andSecret Worldhasconcededthat it will be laying off staff "temporarily" to reduce production costs.Furthermore, troubled publisher THQ hasreportedlymade 20 more marketing and production staff redundant.Aleaked emailapparently from the company's president, Jason Rubin, informs staff:As you know, it is my vision for THQ to enter into new markets though new distribution methodologies, and reaching those consumers in those markets will take a different approach to marketing. It is also vitally important that we improve our production methodologies and oversight so that we are shipping better titles, on budget and on time.Video game analysts are suggesting that major changes in the way games are made and distributed are forcing publishers to re-evaluate their business models – which, in turn, is leading to job losses.The rise of digital downloads and the growth of the free-to-play sector (where consumers download new titles for nothing but then buy in-game goods) require very different types of studio, staff and development schedules than the traditional console games business."There's a common theme here," says Michael French, editor-in-chief of industry publicationMCV. "The market has moved so quickly over the last few months that these companies probably haven't seen their own shortcomings."Funcom launched an MMO in a highly challenging space that has been eroded by free-to-play games, and Popcap has admitted that the free-to-play market has shot past their expectations versus their casual games business. And Sony as a business has been chopping off bits and pieces of its business as it prepares for this new era."French also suggests that redundancies tend to group together like this because of the way publishers divide their financial years. "A lot of companies see the start of September as a new quarter so these measures need to be put in place before 31 August. But there is a wider trend here and its affecting the whole industry."For game developers and publishers, the current spate of job losses and studio closers is indicative of a wider trend. "It's tragic, but it's reflective of today's market," says Andy Payne, founder of veteran UK publisher Mastertronic and chairman of trade body,UKIE."The reality is, it's getting harder to know the ways you can make money form games. There's an awful lot of exploration going on, and the business models are changing in front of our eyes. There are so many options for consumers now to get entertainment onto their connected devices, and that's causing pretty substantial disruption."We have our iOS gameFluid Footballin the charts at the moment, and if we can get it in front of enough people, if we can create a word-of-mouth buzz on social networks wemaymake some money from it. But it's so hard to predict: the technology is moving so fast, no one knows where their revenues are coming from."I mean, did the guys at [Oxford-based developer] NaturalMotion ever think they'd be grossing $12m a month on games like CSR Racing? We're in a digitally connected world economy that moves at the speed of light and it's very unpredictable. The awards for the winners are immense but the losses can be substantial."
Dell's shares slid by more than 4% on Tuesday night after the company announced second-quarter profits down 18% and revenues down 7.5%, and warned of a challenging second half to the year, for which it has slashed its earnings outlook.A slump in PC sales hurt profits, and only the servers and network division saw revenues rise. Now Dell is pinning its hopes in the PC market on its favoured position as a tablet supplier in the first wave of Windows 8 products to be released this October.Once the world's top PC maker and a pioneer in the tight running of its supply chain, Dell now is struggling to defend its market share against Asian rivals including Acer and Lenovo, and the fast-growing adoption of tablets like Apple's iPad.Founded by Michael Dell, its chief executive, it is trying to execute a turnaround, juggling acquisitions in the enterprise sector with the aim of bolstering growth with the need to fatten margins by trimming expenses even as global tech spending appears to be slipping. In May, it warned that global tech spending is weakening faster than anticipated.The US's second-biggest PC maker, Dell on Tuesday forecast revenue would slide 2% to 5% in the fiscal third quarter from the second, to $13.8bn (£83.5bn) to $14.2bn. That lagged Wall Street's target of $14.85bn.Lenovo particularly is now in Dell's rear-view mirror as it grows rapidly: last week it reported quarterly revenues of $8.01bn, up 35%, and net income of $141.4m. Its market share in PCs rose to 14.7%, almost level with the largest PC maker, HP, with 14.8%, according to Gartner.More seriously for Dell, Lenovo is thriving in the smartphone market, selling 7m units in China – a segment where Dell has tried and repeatedly failed to compete successfully.Now it is predicting earnings per share of "at least" $1.70 for fiscal 2013, compared with a previous forecast for more than $2.13."People had already expected them to take down numbers, but I think the level to which they are taking down numbers is pretty severe compared to expectations," said Cross Research analyst Shannon Cross.Pressure from Apple's iPad is telling on a number of PC makers, analysts said. "In PCs, price pressure continues, and the iPad isn't helping," said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee &amp; Leach in San Francisco. "An entry-level iPad is $399, and on many sites you can find it as low as $360. For a lot of people that's a viable alternative to the PC."Dell's consumer-PC segment, which has never been a strength, had its lowest revenue in five years at $2.6bn, on which it generated profits of just $14m. Its Global Large Enterprise division, its largest, saw revenue fall by 1% year-on-year and operating income by 3%.Dell's chief financial officer Brian Gladden said in an interview that the company tempered its outlook for the third quarter partly because it expects distributors to hold off on buying new computers before the late-October release of the latest version of Microsoft Corp's Windows operating system."The revenue deterioration we saw in the quarter was clearly above anything we expected," he told analysts.To shore up margins and generate revenue growth, Dell is trying to expand further into enterprise computing, where it then goes up against HP, which has an edge in services.On Tuesday, it announced that it had hired ex-HP networking chief Marius Haas to head up its enterprise solutions division and help hasten its push into global services.Enterprise solutions revenue fell 3% to $4.5bn, while server and networking revenue climbed 14%. In contrast, consumer revenue plummeted 22% to $2.6bn and operating profit by 83%, underscoring the plight of the broader PC market, where sales have been flat year-on-year, below broader economic growth trends.Haas, who joined private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts after departing HP, replaces Brad Anderson.Windows 8, to be launched at the end of October, is designed with touchscreen devices in mind. Analysts say it might give PC makers like Dell, HP and Lenovo a chance to win back the market share lost to the iPad.In June, Microsoft took the wraps off the Surface tablet computer, which some analysts see as an attempt to demonstrate the effectiveness of Windows as a mobile platform.But Michael Dell told analysts it could take a while for sales of the device to ramp up, saying that he has heard estimates from Microsoft that the new devices are likely to account for just 1% to 2% of total PC units shipped through the middle of next year. That would equate to about 4m to 8m over the course of the year.Cross said of Dell: "The jury is out as to whether they will be able to improve their growth rates until they get some Windows 8 tablets out."As part of a restructuring, Dell intends to slash more than $2bn in costs over the next three years, primarily from the supply chain and sales group, as it sharpens its focus on the technology needs of corporations.Shares of the company, which plans to pay its first dividend to shareholders this year, remain down 15% in 2012, suppressed by disappointing quarterly earnings and fears that mobile devices are eroding PC spending.
Is there something inherently progressive and liberal about online communication sites such as Twitter? Or does it just seem that way?On her Facebook page recently, Guardian columnist Suzanne Moore said she was tired of Twitter because people mostly just follow those they agree with. They're not interested in debate."You chose who to follow. There is a whole world of deep dark Twitter if you follow those who don't think like you. But people don't do that. I would not so much say it's leftwing as knee jerk. So outrage over a Daily Mail article happens every day, which is frankly daft. Sometimes it can be about a piece published ages ago but no one had noticed till Twitter went berserk."Generally though it is the province of the liberal left and for me it has become more and more unthinking and less and less interesting," Moore told Guardian Technology.Moore has a surprising ally. Peter Hitchens, columnist for the Mail on Sunday, hasreferred to Twitter as an electronic leftwing moband says that's why he too rarely goes there. "Not just Twitter, but the internet generally is in favour of sex and drugs and rock'n'roll and I'm not. And there is certainly something about the web for which the natural default is of the left. Morally, culturally and socially, it's definitely leftwing. Morally and socially conservative-minded people aren't on there anyway or may even be unaware of it."Hitchens knows he attracts a great deal of abuse on Twitter – even trending a few times, especially whenever he broadcasts his views on drugs. But this doesn't bother him. "I don't particularly want to be loved by complete strangers. Lots of people are afraid of being insulted and called rude names. I'm not particularly, but many don't like it and get upset."This is one of the reasons he thinks Twitter tends towards mob mentality. Fine if your tweets reflect the prevailing, and assumed, political stance. Scary if you don't. It's a brave soul who tweets against the tide. Could Twitter and other parts of the net actually shut down debate?For anecdotal evidence that Twitter tends to attract leftwingers, if you look beyond your timeline and read tweets on trending hashtags, it can give the impression of a leftwing consensus.For example, when Radio 4's PM presenter Eddie Mair first hosted Newsnight in July, he received warm praise on Twitter under the Newsnight hashtag. But one of his guests, Mark Littlewood, director general of the rightwing Institute of Economic Affairs, had so much abuse heaped on him that one tweeter said he was more unpopular than John Terry, the former England football captain who was accused of racial abuse. (Terry was acquitted.)Dr Rachel Gibson, professor of politics at Manchester University, has studied digital politics since 1999, with funding from the Economic and Social Research Council. She says there is evidence Twitter and other social networking sites tend towards the progressive."But this is because Twitter users are early adopters who have higher levels of education than the rest of the population, so tend to be more progressive and open. Also, Twitter is not a mass medium like television. It is still only used by a minority of the population."Most of Gibson's studies have been around political blogs which she says are now a bit passé with Twitter taking over as the medium of choice. "Blogging tended to be adversarial and go against the government in question. So there were lots of rightwing blogs during the Clinton years in the US and during the Labour government here."In fact, while there were left or left-leaning governments in the UK, US and Australia, there was a positive flourishing of rightwing blogs, with the left very slow to catch up. "It suits the right in some ways as the net is seen by them as the essence of the free market, uncontrolled by state. But it may also have just been because the left was in power."There is hardly any linkage between left and right online. Rightwing bloggers link to others of the same persuasion and the left do the same, Gibson's studies have shown. "People don't tend to link to those they disagree with. This has led academics such as Cass Sunstein, who wrote Nudge and The Republic 2.0, to talk about the 'balkanisation of the net', where you only see views you agree with and lose accidental exposure to other views such as those you'd get in a news programme."The net actually makes it easier to avoid people you don't agree with or who may challenge your view."However, all social networks tend to be homogenous. Why should the net be any different? "Some Twitter users do like to have adversarial friendships and enjoy debate. But it's far more usual to see groups forming with like-minded individuals. Much the same as happens offline," Gibson says.With a Tory-led government, Twitter is more likely to attract leftwingers or those who just oppose the government, says Gibson. And according toTweetminsterthere are slightly more Labour MPs on Twitter than Conservatives. It's a useful tool in opposition, andJohn Prescott, with more than 150,000 followers, is among senior Labour politicians who tweet a lot and use it to campaign.Newspaper readers have always gravitated towards newspapers that endorse rather than challenge their views. But what net users need to be aware of is that the web now actively screens out views we disagree with, says Eli Pariser, author ofThe Filter Bubble: What the Internet Is Hiding from You.In it he demonstrates how Google, Facebook, Yahoo and others use algorithms to personalise web searches and services. This is done for commercial reasons so that the experience you get matches your expressed (or inferred) interests more closely, which ought to make you stay with the service longer. It also means advertising can be better targeted.But it's not a win-win: it's insidious, he says, because the filtering out of things we don't express active interest in means we don't know it's happening outside the bubble created by those filters – and turns what should be global broadcasting into personal narrowcasting.Pariser, co-founder of Avaaz.org, has now set upUpworthywith the aim of offering a broader range of content.Another academic who studies online behaviour is Dr Matthew Goodwin, associate professor at the School of Politics and International Relations at the University of Nottingham."I suppose those who argue that Twitter is leftwing would make the point that it is mainly populated by higher-educated and more socially mobile professionals, who we know tend to endorse more post-material and progressive values," he says."Having said that, however, I would also point to the way in which social media tools like Twitter have been embraced by social groups further down the social and economic ladder. I would point to, for example, the way that rioters from more deprived communities utilised Twitter to organise their action and, within my area of research, the way that rightwing extremists have adopted Twitter to communicate directly to potential and current supporters."We know both of these groups tend to attract citizens with lower-than-average levels of education and social mobility, so the picture I think is far from clear and I've yet to see comprehensive and reliable research on the socio-demographics and ideological views that underpin Twitter."Clearly, more research is needed. As the net matures and attracts more users, academics and politicians will be keen to see how, if it all, it changes political discourse. Gibson's studies are ongoing as her department has had funding renewed to continue studying online behaviour. A paper summarising her recent research – Party Organisational Change and ICTs: The Growth of a Virtual Grassroots? – will appear next month inNew Media and Society.It's ironic, but if you genuinely want a broader discourse online than an echo chamber, you probably have to make more effort to use traditional media – which have always had an element of serendipity increasingly absent from everyday net use.
The nine-strong jury in the high-profile patent trial between Apple and Samsung faces the daunting task of ploughing through 109 pages of instructions on how to determine their verdict and a 20-page form in which to give it.Closing arguments were made on Tuesday in the trial, in which Apple is claiming $2.5bn (£1.6bn) damages from South Korea's Samsung, which it says has copied essential cosmetic elements – the "trade dress" – as well as some of the functionality of its iPhone and iPad.Samsung has hit back by alleging that Apple did not license key wireless technologies to which it owns the patents.The stakes in the trial, being played out in San Jose, California, just 10 miles from Apple's Cupertino headquarters, are colossal. For Apple, winning the case would vindicate its aggressive stance towards Samsung in particular and the makers of smartphones running Google's Android software in general – a track down which its deceased chief executive Steve Jobs took it in 2010 after threatening to go "thermonuclear" over what he saw as copying by Google.But if Apple loses, it would weaken its position substantially – and leave it open to a fresh attack from Google, whose Motorola Mobility subsidiary last Friday filed an aggressive lawsuit targeting nearly every Apple product, including the iPhone, iPad and its Macintosh computers, alleging that they infringe various functional patents.The Apple-Samsung case has so far lasted for four weeks, and the jurors are expected to deliberate for another week as they try to untangle the complex forms – in which they have to decide, among other things, whether any of 21 different Samsung tablets and smartphones infringed any of 10 different patents on functionality – such as the "rubber band" effect when trying to scroll past the top of a list – and whether the "trade dress" of Apple's products is sufficiently "famous" to merit protection.Apple has presented internal Samsung documents suggesting the company compared its own smartphones minutely against the iPhone in trying to design their own.Samsung, for its part, has wheeled out products and designs which it says show that the iPhone's functions, such as tapping to zoom a web page, should not have been patented because similar features already existed.Closing arguments from lawyers for the two sides finished on Tuesday, leaving the jury to consider their verdict. Legal sentiment has suggested that Apple has the home advantage – and that juries faced with the complexities of such patents vote for the side, or brand, that they most trust. That too could be an acid test for the two sides – although whoever loses is likely to appeal to a higher court.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSERP Crowding &amp; Shrinkage: It's Not Your Imagination &gt;&gt; SEOmozFor a significant number of searches, Google now only offers 7 results that aren't Google-related (eg YouTube, News). So what can you do about it? Let SEOMoz tell you:In a word: nothing. This isn't an SEO-related change, where an on-page or link-profile tweak might change your SERP back to 10 results. This is an algorithmic volume knob Google can turn and we can't, right or wrong. My best advice is to spot-check the SERPs for your main keywords. Don't just rely on rank-tracking tools - they may tell you that you're in the #8-#10 spot, but they won't tell you whether your SERP cut off after #7.The important point being that if you're not on the first page of results, then 89% of searchers (as of 2005; quite probably more now) won't see your link.Apple warns customers to be cautious of SMS after 'flaw' cited &gt;&gt; PCWorld"Apple takes security very seriously," the company says in its statement. "When using iMessage instead of SMS, addresses are verified which protects against these kinds of spoofing attacks.""One of the limitations of SMS is that it allows messages to be sent with spoofed addresses to any phone, so we urge customers to be extremely careful if they're directed to an unknown website or address over SMS," it adds.Pod2g explains that the SMS flaw allows the sender of the message to enter an address on its reply line that's different from the address that appears on its "from" line.Aren't there SMS gateways that allow such spoofing that have been around for ages?Supply volume of 7.85-inch iPad to reach 4m units starting in September &gt;&gt; DigitimesApply salt:Supply volume of Apple's 7.85in iPad is estimated to reach 4m units per month starting in September in order to prepare for demand from year-end holidays, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Rumors are circulating in the IT market that Apple will launch its 7.85in iPad in October with a thinner screen frame to allow the device to feature a bigger display area than other competing products and will also feature a resolution similar to that of iPad 2.It's like a Rolf Harris picture.How Hollywood Is encouraging online piracy &gt;&gt; Scientific AmericanDavid Pogue:if you don't make your product available legally, guess what? The people will get it illegally. Traffic to illegal download sites has more than sextupled since 2009, and file downloading is expected to grow about 23% annually until 2015. Why? Of the 10 most pirated movies of 2011, guess how many of them are available to rent online, as I write this in midsummer 2012? Zero. That's right: Hollywood is actually encouraging the very practice they claim to be fighting (with new laws, for example).But those films (Fast Five, Hangover 2, Thor...) are available on DVD, and have been for some time. Is there something magical about being able to stream a film that renders it immune from piracy? Or is piracy fuelled by people who want to watch a film as soon as - or even before - it's released, for the lowest price possible? After all, the list of pirate downloads doesn't include Disney classics like Snow White - yet they aren't on streaming services. So "not on streaming" isn't the whole story. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Why passwords have never been weaker--and crackers have never been stronger &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe average Web user maintains 25 separate accounts but uses just 6.5 passwords to protect them, according to alandmark study(PDF) from 2007. As the Gawker breach demonstrated, such password reuse, combined with the frequent use of e-mail addresses as user names, means that once hackers have plucked login credentials from one site, they often have the means to compromise dozens of other accounts, too.Newer hardware and modern techniques have also helped to contribute to the rise in password cracking. Now used increasingly for computing, graphics processors allow password-cracking programs to work thousands of times faster than they did just a decade ago on similarly priced PCs that used traditional CPUs alone. A PC running a single AMD Radeon HD7970 GPU, for instance, can try on average an astounding 8.2 billion password combinations each second, depending on the algorithm used to scramble them. Only a decade ago, such speeds were possible only when using pricey supercomputers.(Thanks @tehgreatgonzo for the link.)Why I'm uninstalling Windows 8 &gt;&gt; PCGamesNThis isn't an exhaustive list, but it is an exhausting list of reasons why I'll never touch Windows 8 again.He really, really doesn't like the desktop experience.Twitterrific: New Rules, Same Road &gt;&gt; IconfactoryTwitterrific was one of the first third-party apps for Twitter:For the past several months, we've been working on a major update to Twitterrific that we're very excited about. There were concerns that this new version might end up on the cutting room floor prior to Twitter's announcement, but after reviewing the new restrictions and speaking with the team at Twitter, we're pleased to report that our development plans remain unchanged.We're re-doubling our efforts to bring you an all-new version of Twitterrific: one that complies with Twitter's new guidelines and makes reading and posting to Twitter even easier and more fun.So who exactly is affected by this Twitter change?Windows 8 Pro to be priced at $199 following $69.99 promotional pricing &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft's Windows 8 Pro software will be priced at $199 after a promotional price of $69.99 expires on January 31st 2013, according to one source familiar with Microsoft's plans. The software maker will also offer a Windows 8 to Windows 8 Pro upgrade option at retail stores for $69.99 until January 31st when the price reverts to $99.99.It's a big upgrade, but in these days of apps that feels pricey.Three days after suing Apple, Google says patent wars hurt consumers &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaGoogle's director of public policy Pablo Chavez said "One thing that we are very seriously taking a look at is the question of software patents, and whether in fact the patent system as it currently exists is the right system to incent innovation and really promote consumer-friendly policies."We already know the answer to that in the US (Europe has a slightly different approach). The question is, what is Google actually doing about it, apart from setting Motorola on Microsoft and Apple - a tactic that has borne absolutely no fruit in the year or so it's been doing it? (Google assented to Motorola instigating a lawsuit against Apple before the takeover was complete.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Just back from presenting Disney's Epic Mickey 2 event in London, so putting Chatterbox up early for any talkative night owls...
Foxconn, Apple's top manufacturer, has improved safety conditions and cut working hours in an effort to resolve violations at its plants that triggered a global scandal for the iPad and iPhone maker.The Taiwanese company submitted to an audit by an independent group, the Fair Labor Association (FLA), after reports of suicides and abusive conditions at several of its factories in China.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, asked the FLA to investigate after a series of reports into working conditions at Apple's key supplier. In February and march the FLA found at least 50 violations of local regulations at Foxconn plants in Chengdu, Guanlan and Longhua.The FLA said Foxconn had made significant improvements such as introducing more breaks and better maintenance of safety equipment. The company more than doubled wages after protests from worker groups and is backing a local law adjustment that will extend unemployment insurance.Foxconn had completed all the 195 actions that were due at the time of the FLA's report and another 89 action items were completed ahead of their deadline, according to the FLA. Another 76 actions are due over the course of the next year.But the FLA said Foxconn faces more challenges in the coming months. Foxconn has reduced hours to under 60 per week including overtime and is aiming to reach full compliance with the Chinese legal limit of 40 hours per week plus an average of nine hours of overtime per week."The next phase of improvements will be challenging for Foxconn because they involve major changes in the working environment that will inevitably cause uncertainty and anxiety among workers. As Foxconn prepares to comply with the Chinese legal limits on work hours, consultation with workers on the changes and implications will be critical to a successful transition," said FLA president Auret van Heerden.Foxconn is the world's biggest electronics contract manufacturer. As well as being Apple's largest supplier Foxconn, which employs about a million people,  makes products for Sony, Hewlett-Packard, Cisco Systems and others.Criticism of the company has been mounting for years. In 2009 a 25-year-old worker committed suicide, reportedly after losing an iPhone prototype. After a spate of suicides Foxconn installed nets around the edges of some buildings to prevent people jumping off roofs.In January following a New York Times article that documented problems inside its supplier factories Cook emailed staff worldwide to say: "we care about every worker in our worldwide supply chain. Any accident is deeply troubling, and any issue with working conditions is cause for concern. Any suggestion that we don't care is patently false and offensive to us."
So Jeremy Hunt thinks Britain will have the fastest broadband in Europe by 2015 (Report, 21 August). He'll be lucky.Akamaiplaces Britain at 15th in Europe. Will Europe do nothing while Britain tries to catch up? Britain's telecom infrastructure is a mess. It was obvious in the mid-1980s, whenBTinvented and developed fibre-optic communications technology, that the UK should have a single nationwide fibre-optic telecoms network, with fibre to every home and business. But that did not suit the Thatcher government, with its desire to privatise BT and blind faith in markets. It shackled BT and gave us a mess of satellite and cable companies. Now, nearly 30 years later – with the shackles finally removed – we will soon have fibre to the roadside cabinet and copper cable for the last mile to the home – but not for everyone. Perhaps in another 30 years we will have the national telecoms infrastructure that the UK needs if it is to retain a place in the top 10 biggest economies of the world. But by then countries like Korea will have gigabit networks and we will still be struggling to keep up.George DonaldHook, Hampshire
Silicon Valley investor Peter Thiel, one of Facebook's earliest backers and a director of the company, has cashed in most of his remaining shares in the world's largest social network.Thiel sold 20m Facebook securities last week, according to a regulatoryfilingon Monday, bringing to $1bn (£630m) his total proceeds from the company's initial public offering and making him one of the biggest individual beneficiaries of the botched flotation.Known for his ability to pick some of the internet's biggest winners, among them YouTube, LinkedIn and PayPal, where he was chief executive until its acquisition by eBay, Thiel invested $500,000 in Facebook in 2004. It was a loan, but later converted into a 10% stake, implying a valuation at the time of $5m.He also participated in a 2006 funding round when the company was valued at $500m. Today, despite a near-halving of the share price since its debut on the Nasdaq stock exchange in May, Facebook is worth $42bn.Thiel retains around 5m shares, according to Bloomberg, worth $10m at the current $20 price. The Frankfurt-born entrepreneur and venture capitalist raised $640m in May by selling shares into the float.Shares owned by Thiel and other investors were subject to a "lock-up" agreement forbidding their sale immediately after the float, but that lock-in period – one of several that are keeping shares off the market – expired last Thursday, allowing Thiel to withdraw his capital.Facebook's share price, already weakened by revelations that many of its users are migrating from desktop computers to mobile phones while advertising revenue is struggling to keep up with the change, fell further last week as the first lock-up expired with 271m shares available for sale on the public market.Another investor, venture capital firm Accel Partners, disclosed on Monday that it had distributed 50m shares to its own investors. This could put further pressure on the price, as those individuals will now be free to trade them on the open market.The big challenge will come in November, when lock-ups expire on 1.44bn shares, many of them belonging to current and former Facebook employees.
This week we examine the culture secretary Jeremy Hunt's announcement this week that the UK will have the fastest broadband in Europe by 2015. Guardian technology editorCharles Arthuris joined by Guardian telecoms correspondentJuliette Garsideto discuss this and the latest in the patent wars between Apple and Samsung.He also talks to the "father of the web",Sir Tim Berners-Lee, about his starring role in the London 2012 Olympics opening ceremony.Also this week, Charles talks to the Guardian's games correspondent,Keith Stuart, about his trip to the Gamescom conference in Cologne. FinallyAleks Krotoskipresents the first of two audio essays extracted from her soon-to-be-published book Untangling the Web.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
For those unfamiliar with US corporate law, OnLive's announcement on Monday that it would be going through a process called the "assignment for the benefit of creditors (ABC)" would have been somewhat bewildering.ABC is a kind of mini-insolvency, a method of staying in business despite extreme financial difficulties. There is no direct UK equivalent, and even in the US it is much less common than the Chapter seven and Chapter 11 forms of bankruptcy. So what does it all mean?"It's a bit complicated," says Jas Purewal, an interactive entertainment lawyer at Osborne Clarke, "ABC is an alternative to formal insolvency proceedings under US law. It involves selling on the assets of a business to a third party, which takes those assets free of any other liabilities the company may have."OnLive can't pay out to creditors and so has decided to arrange for the valuable assets of the business to be sold, which in theory raises cash to pay the creditors, and at the same time means that a new phoenix can arise from the ashes of OnLive and carry out the business of the company."The immediate outcome is this: the OnLive assets and trademarks have been acquired by a newly-formed company – backed by investment firm Lauder Partners – which will continue to operate under the OnLive name.Although the details are ambiguous, it seems the company will be operated by the OnLive directors, including the company's CEO and founder, Steve Perlman.Under the terms of the ABC process, OnLive has been unable to transfer its shares or employees to the new entity, meaning that all of its staff were made redundant. However, according to an OnLive statement, almost half have been re-employed by the new company, and the others will be offered consulting roles."The difficulty that can arise from this sort of situation is that there's very often not enough money to pay the other creditors," says Purewal."In theory, transferring all the valuable assets in one go to one party raises the maximum amount of cash, but often there are still significant losses for those creditors".Indeed, the smartphone manufacturer HTC has written off its $40m (£25m) investment in the company andBT has also indicatedthat its 2.6% stake in the firm is likely to be lost.BT has not disclosed how much it paid for its stake, and HTC has not said how much of the company $40m bought.There has also been anger from employees, with one unnamed sourceclaiming to game site Joystiqthat Perlman showed no remorse when telling staff about the situation."OnLive stressed that nothing has changed, but then half the staff gets dismissed," says Alex Tutty of media law firm, Sheridans. "This is, I believe, symptomatic of US employment law not being the same as UK law, where we enjoy better employment protection."One question is whether it might have been simpler to merely seek an extra round of funding to keep the original company afloat. Apparently not."It is much more difficult to restructure a business when you have lot of competing interests and liabilities," says Tutty. "It can be easier to put everything in to a new company and go on from there. This is all about cutting away the deadweight but going about it in this manner is peculiar to US state law and would not be possible in the UK".OnLive has been keen to stress that its consumer service will remain unaffected. In a defiant opening paragraph, the company's statement read:The OnLive Game and Desktop Services, all OnLive Devices and Apps, as well as all OnLive partnerships, are expected to continue without interruption and all customer purchases will remain intact; users are not expected to notice any change whatsoever. OnLive's current initiatives will continue as well, with major announcements of new products and services planned in the coming weeks and months.So what went wrong for a company that has led and innovated in the burgeoning world of cloud-based gaming since its formation in 2003?OnLive's proposition – to provide Triple AAA games playable via a streaming internet service – has always been a compelling one, and content partnerships were formed with over 50 publishers and developers. There has certainly been plenty of hype around the whole idea of cloud gaming, culminating recently in Sony's $380m purchase of OnLive's close rival, Gaikai.One possibility is that the company has simply been too ambitious. OnLive is playable via Mac and PC, as well as multiple smartphone and tablet devices, but the company also produced and distributed its own console so customers could play via TV, too. That's a lot of bases to cover."It looks like there's value in the business going forward or the ABC would not have occurred," says Tutty. "However, they seem to have spent too much money trying to make [the technology] work on too many devices when they should have focused."They're essentially an early stage company but with the liabilities of having 200 employees and giving out huge amounts of free hardware to build an install base – at the Eurogamer event last year it was ridiculous, there were queues going round the block and yet it appears hardly anyone in the UK uses OnLive".Additionally, when you look at the games provided on the service, they're often older titles, with only a smattering of genuine Triple-A blockbusters. There's also no support from Activision or EA, the largest third-party publishers in the world."OnLive's problem was that it failed to find a unique hook that would make consumers go 'I have to own that service'", says industry analyst Nicholas Lovell, whopredicted the demise of OnLiveback in 2010. "They were pitching convenience: no more physical discs, no more downloads, just fast instant games, whenever you wanted them. The problem was that those fast instant games were games that you didn't want."They were going up against Sony, which had exclusive titles like Uncharted and Little Big Planet, and Microsoft, which had Halo and Gears of War,andNintendo, as well as PC gaming with titles like World of Warcraft. They were going up against those platforms with no exclusive content."Their marketing didn't appeal to the consumer's rebellious nature like PlayStation does. Instead, it was: spend a monthly fee to get a whole bunch of games, but not modern ones, and not the ones your mates are playing. A rational message appealing to the logical brain, but without follow through."In a sense, OnLive was having to appeal to classic early adopters, but unfortunately the restrictions of its streaming service – the odd bit of lag here and there, lower resolution visuals, plus older titles – were the very things that turned early adopters off.And while Netflix has survived as a mass market streaming content service with a catalogue of older content, it is now turning to the production of original programming such as House of Cards and Hemlock Grove to maintain its user-base. OnLive has no comparable offerings.In the Joystiq news story covering OnLive's restructure, one insider source allegedly told the site that the average peak amount of concurrent users on there service was just 1,800.And so OnLive is dead – long live OnLive? It seems there had always been a hope that a Sony-like giant, threatened by the possibilities of cloud gaming, would come in to buy OnLive and its technology-set.That didn't happen. Sony backed the other horse, and now OnLive has to rebuild faith in its vision with both investors and consumers.If the future of gaming really is in the clouds, it seems it's going to take one company a little while longer to reach them.
The hacking group Anonymous claims to have brought down British government websites in protest at the handling of Julian Assange's bid to avoid extradition to Sweden.The self-styled hacktivist group targeted the websites of No 10 and the Home Officeearly on Tuesdayunder what it called "Operation Free Assange".Hackers said they had also brought down websites belonging to the justice department and Department for Work and Pensions in the attack.Anonymousvowed to continuetargeting government websites as the diplomatic temperature around the WikiLeaks founder continued to rise.The onlineDDOS (distributed denial of service)attacks, which also hit sites in Sweden, came as the Ecuadorian president Rafael Correawarned Britain that attempting to enter his country's embassy in London would be an act of diplomatic suicide.Speaking on state television as the standoff continued, Correa said: "I think it would be suicidal for the United Kingdom. After that, the diplomatic premises of [the UK] in other territories could be violated all over the world."Downing Street has said it is committed to seeking a diplomatic solution with Ecuador over the standoff. William Hague, the foreign secretary, has made it clear Britain is obliged to extradite Assange to Sweden to face questioning over allegations of sexual misconduct, which he denies. Assange fears being transferred to the United States if he travels to contest the allegations.The WikiLeaks founder has been in the embassy in Knightsbridge since mid-June and on Sunday addressed crowds of supporters from the balcony. The speech, in which Assange took aim at the US and UK governments, has proved to be a rallying cry for Assange's online supporters.One Twitter account with 145,200 followers which is linked to the loose-knit group on Tuesdaytweeteda picture of a man wearing an Anonymous mask, holding aloft a "Free Assange" poster outside what appeared to be the Ecuadorian embassy in London. Another Anonymous Twitter account, which has 281,000 followers,tweetedduring the Free Assange attacks: "We're living in oppressive times. Sadly there's no other option than fighting even if that means being outlawed."Anonymous first came to prominence through its online attacks in support of Assange in December 2010, after WikiLeaks released part of a huge cache of diplomatic cables.The hacking collective subsequently targeted global finance websites including Visa and PayPal after those companies severed links with the whistleblowers' website.A Home Office spokeswoman said: "The Home Office website was not hacked. It was targeted by protesters on Monday night but only experienced very minor interruption to the service."We had measures in place to protect the site and no other Home Office systems were affected."
