Role overWe were very surprised that Alex Krotoski's article on female online game playing (Role-playing fits the bill, February 6) did not cite any academic research that has been done in this area.Our own research, using both primary and secondary data, indicates that females account for 15% to 19% of all online game players. While it is pleasing that a significant minority of gamers are female, it does not support Krotoski's claim that the industry has "cracked the question of how to attract pound-pushing females".Our research has shown that the social elements of online game playing are the most important features but there are no gender differences. Males who play games such as Everquest also rate the social aspects highly, too. Furthermore, Krotoski's claim that "female gamers have non-girly motivations for enjoying interactive entertainment" depends on which aspects of the game she means. For   instance, role-playing gender-swapping is higher among males who have different motivations in this respect.Professor Mark GriffithsDr Mark DaviesDarren ChappellPsychology divisionNottingham Trent UniversityDisney landThere aren't many who would deny Paul Schwartz's (Feedback, February 6) right to make a living from the music he produces. However, many people do take issue with the way the big corporations use and abuse the copyright, trademark and patent system for their own benefit and to maintain their monopoly of distribution.Disney lobbied for the changes in US copyright law that extend copyright protection to 99 years after the death of the producer. How does this benefit the producer of the original work?Increasingly, large corporations are using spurious patent claims as the means of fighting competition and restricting innovation.As with all such abuses, it is the consumer who suffers. Because the record companies have no clue how to take advantage of new technologies, they rely on laws they've crafted to fight any challenges to their pigopoly.Julian Rawcliffejulian.rawcliffe@ ntlworld.comLocust eatersAs a long-time member of the Locust service available to Orange mobile phone customers, I would like to bring to your attention the cynical way we have been treated by the France Telecom subsidiary.Just over a year ago, Orange decided to pull the plug on Locust by forcing the operator off his longstanding tariff. After a big song and dance, Orange capitulated, and brought the operation in house under Orangeimagineering, its R&amp;D arm. Since then, Orange has launched a similar, but inferior and dearer, product in Orange Chat.Those of us who thought our SMS community was saved have been betrayed, as it is now apparent it was merely a stay of execution so Orange could learn how the system worked and exploit the knowledge built up since 1996. Now they have sucked the knowledge from us, we are to be abandoned.Please take the time to look atwww.savelocust.orgto see the views of the 1,100 or so of us being abandoned.Robin Westonrobin@locust.co.ukPIN cushionVic Smith (Feedback, February 6) is quite right that PINs are not an absolute guarantee of safety for credit cards, but they most certainly are an   improvement on a simple signature. In France, at checkouts, the devices used to enter PINs typically have a raised metal surround to shield the keypad from prying eyes, or they are on longish leads so you can move them out of line of sight. People generally place themselves so that others in the queue can't see the keypad (not a difficult task). Moreover, doesn't Smith face this problem already when he uses a cash point?James Kitcatjkitcat@infovista.comAdding upVic Smith may be interested to hear that in banks and supermarkets in Holland, PINs are usually keyed into little desk-mounted devices. These are shaded on the sides and back, leaving only the front open for your hand to key in the number. The whole device measures only 15cm by 15cm, and the "walls" are only about 10cm high. Even looking over somebody's shoulders it would be pretty difficult to notice what number was being keyed in.It's always seemed foolproof to me and I never understood why the idea was, as far as I know, not taken up in other countries.Theo van de Bilttheo@vandebilt.co.ukCalls waitingLike Eric Lucey (Feedback, February 6), I would like to be   able to buy a simple mobile phone. Despite being 23 years old, I am one of those neanderthals who has never sent a text message and has no intention of doing so. However, my ideal phone would be even simpler thanLucey's. It would simply make and receive calls. I have no requirement for retrieval of unanswered calls.In my experience, what many people want is the equivalent of a public payphone that they can carry with them. Any manufacturer who realised this could be on to a winner.Bill Hodgsonwilliam.hodgson@vizzavi.net
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:With tanks surrounding Heathrow airport and and troops massing on the Iraqi border, Britain seems ready to do battle. But is the possiblity of war with Iraq distracting us from the more immediate worry of terrorism at home? What do you think?USABob:theyre just so dirtyLadeezMan:&amp; smellyHost_Chris2:let's return to the topic, people*Chris2 has left the NewsRoom*USABob:whenever I see them thronging around tourist sites it makes me sickBronco:they eat anythingUSABob:and they carry diseasesLadeezMan:cheese frogs snails*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:hi pashPashmina:TANKS AT HEATHROW!!! WHAT WE GONNA DO!!!USABob:I didn't know they ate frogs. How awfulLadeezMan:British tanksBronco:yes. &amp; they always lose every warPashmina:omg I nearly was sick!USABob:actually they were quite helpful in WWIBronco:is that the hitler oneUSABob:carrying messages across enemy lines etcPashmina:I thought al cadia was invadin or summatBronco:I thougt you hated themUSABob:I do but I think we have to recognise their contributionLadeezMan:BUT were they good in World War 2?!Bronco:is that the hitler oneUSABob:no, by then they were pretty well uselessLadeezMan:cowerdsPashmina:who are you talking abtBronco:the frenchUSABob:pigeonsLadeezMan:monkey-eating cheese losersUSABob:I really hate pigeonsBronco:when he sez pigeons does he mean the frenchLadeezMan:no french is frogsUSABob:it's more of a phobiaLadeezMan:USABob I thought u yanks all hated francePashmina:USABob is from surryBronco:is heUSABob:The USA stands for Universal Standard AssuranceLadeezMan:&amp; you don't hate the french?Pashmina:it where he worksUSABob:No, just pigeons*Chris2 has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:I don't hate anyoneHost_Chris2:sorry, I got disconnected from the server. Are we still discussing the possibility of a 2nd UN resolution?Pashmina:except that bitch catherine zita jonesUSABob:does anyone need any insurance, btw?connection to server has been terminated...Tim Dowling
Chuckle of the day came with thenewsin today's FT that Motorola "will today set the stage for a battle over the future of operating systems for mobile phones when it announces plans to launch the first handset built around Java technology and Linux software".The FT appears to think this might strike a blow at Symbian and Microsoft. Good grief. A combination of Motorola's user interface, Linux ease of use and Java's stability? They've just created the mobile phone from hell.
When the Fax YourMP.com website went down recently for "scheduled maintenance", it received a concerned email asking: "When are you back? Useful time now to try and prevent a war." It shows how much faith users have in a service that, earlier this month, celebrated sending its 50,000th fax to the UK's elected representatives.Symbolically, it hit this milestone just as the government was struggling with a new email filtering system which, among other innovations, censored all discussion of a bill with "sexual offences" in its title.Rather than baffling the House of Commons' honourable members with this new-fangled "email", Fax YourMP enables you to type in your postcode, find out who your MP is, and then send them a message, which the site delivers to the MP's office as a fax. It's an elegant solution to the task of putting constituents in touch with their MPs and, as you may have guessed, isn't part of any official e-government or tele-democracy initiative.Instead, it's run by about 10 volunteers, from their flats. And the scheduled maintenance actually meant a couple of the team physically moving the server out of a spare room into the home of someone who had ADSL and a spare phone line.The next period of down  time will probably see the system transferred from a secondhand Sun Sparc workstation to a &#163;300 Pentium PC. And, disappointing those who ask to borrow the code to set up similar gateways in other countries, the programmers shamefacedly admit that the internals are a "dog's   dinner", and that interested parties would probably be better off writing their own.Nevertheless, it works. As well as racking up the 50,000 fax total over the past two years, the site has published comprehensive performance tables, over a six-month period of last year, illustrating   the effectiveness of the faxes. Around 61% received a response within 14 days.The site was widely regarded as instrumental in substantially altering the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, against which it was originally set up to protest. And of the 600-plus MPs contactable by fax, only six - Henley's Boris Johnson, for instance - have asked not to receive communications in this way.The group behind FaxYour MP.com may be volunteers, but that doesn't make them amateurs. Describing themselves as "civic-minded volunteers with day jobs in the web industry", they're very conscious of data protection and privacy issues, and only look at people's messages when asked to, says Owen Blacker, a professional software developer.Bulk mailing and form letters are a concern, though using the old-fashioned medium of fax makes it easier to encourage users to only contact their own MPs - rather than, say, the spamming nightmare that would result from publishing publicly a list of email addresses for every constituency.Because the staff are unpaid, the basic costs of running the site - webhosting, bandwidth and phone charges - are low, especially by most IT project standards. Still, there are hints that some of the team secretly hope the civil service might one day step in and help them out - a bit like the stories you heard in the mid-'90s, when David Bowie or the Teletubbies would call up fan page webmasters and say: "Hey, your site's much better than my official one. Why don't you come and work for me?"But Blacker sums up the mood when he says that much as they would like someone to take on the job, it would be hard to trust the person to meet the high standards. Users appreciate the fact that the service is run by volunteers, which makes them less likely to try to abuse it.And, while FaxYourMP enthusiastically publishes its performance table of MPs' responsiveness, a more official system would probably tend to favour the interests of MPs. But as Blacker concludes - and the user feedback backs him up - "I think we do a good job of maintaining a balance between the two."
No longer need your broadband internet connection be limited to one computer, or even to one room in the house. One-box wireless networking is now being offered to the mass market - or at least, to people with ADSL connections.This week, BT announced the Voyager 2000 system, to take wireless Ethernet into spaces it has not penetrated before. Wireless networking has been around since the 1990s.The key change came with the founding of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance. WECA was dedicated to making sure that 802.11 wireless networks from different suppliers all worked together.It trademarked the Wi-Fi (Wireless Fidelity) name and provided a logo for products that met its standard, which was ratified in September 1999.  This set the scene for an avalanche of Wi-Fi products, and Apple led the way with the launch of its Airport hub.Today, Wi-Fi products are sold on the high street and through Amazon.co.uk and other online suppliers. Wi-Fi is not limited to broadband: you could easily use it with a dial-up modem.However, broadband is driving sales. Typically, someone gets a high-speed ADSL or    cable connection and finds it is "always on", but only one PC can use it. Wi-Fi makes sharing that connection simpler.You start with a wireless hub, and plug that into your ADSL modem. Other computers - Wintel PCs, Macs, PocketPCs, it doesn't matter - can be connected to the Wi-Fi system by plugging in a wireless Ethernet card.This could either be an expansion card that fits in a PCI slot on the computer's main board; a PC Card (formerly PCMCIA) that fits almost all notebook PCs; or a USB adaptor, which avoids opening a desktop PC's case.Symbol sells a CompactFlash-sized wireless card for PDAs. Mac users can choose to buy Apple's Airport hardware - a base station and a card that plugs into a dedicated slot on newer Macs, although a Mac with an Airport card can use any Wi-Fi network.The situation is trickier for people who don't have Ethernet ports in their broadband adaptor. If the internet connection is made via a USB modem (such as the Alcatel "frog"), there may not be a way to feed the Wi-Fi hub.In that case, one option is to fit a second Ethernet card to the PC, connect that to the Wi-Fi access point, and share the internet using Microsoft's ICS (Internet Connection Sharing).ICS is part of recent versions of Windows, and will automatically create floppy disks to set up other computers, including Macs. A better idea is to give the frog the boot.A new generation of combined Wi-Fi ADSL routers packs the Wi-Fi capability, an ADSL modem and a router or switch into one box. Examples include BT's Voyager 2000, Netgear's DG824M, the D-Link DSL604+ and the Vigor2600 ADSL Router.Buy a "bare wire" broadband connection, plug in a Wi-Fi ADSL router, and you can get online anywhere in the house. Most Wi-Fi products come with a CD that automates the set-up process.However, there is still an advantage to using Microsoft Windows XP or Mac OS X on PCs, because they were created with Wi-Fi networking in mind. When they work as advertised, they really do make things easy. Unfortunately, when they don't work, it can be almost impossible to find out why.Underneath the software there is a rat's nest of arcane configuration details for encapsulation, authentication, VCI and VPI, TCP/IP, NDIS, DNS, DHCP, gateway   addresses, SSIDs, and more.The SSID - short for Service Set Identifier - is what differentiates one wireless network from another, and all the devices that connect to your Wi-Fi system must use the same SSID.If you buy a system from a single supplier, you should find they all have the same default SSID. This simplifies the set-up and, unless you change it, also provides a gaping security hole.You also need to use Wireless Equivalent Privacy (WEP) encryption to keep eavesdroppers out; a more secure system called Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) is on the way. The Wi-Fi industry is continuing to develop rapidly, and new standards such as 802.11a and 802.11g are expected to replace today's 802.11b. Both 11a and 11g are much faster than 802.11b -nominally 54Mbits/sec compared with 11Mbits/sec.However, this is not a big deal for internet use: 802.11b is already 10 times faster than a 512K broadband connection, which could be shared by several machines. The 802.11b version of Wi-Fi is not going away, but we can look forward to a dual-mode or multi-mode future where products are compatible with both 802.11b and one of the faster alternatives, at no increase in price.
Covert StrikePC 	&#163;34.99 Codemasters/ Innerloop	***The stealth game genre was born out of the desire to see a more realistic, less gung-ho style of first person shooter, which would rely not only on weapons and body count, but also factor in lighting, sound and enemy AI.The original Project IGI, which focused on the stealthy operations of covert agent David Jones, staked its place in the stealth hall of fame by immersing the player in vast seamless environments, where they could run through rolling hills and over snow-covered mountains. Many of the features that made Project IGI a joy to play have been transferred to the sequel, along with much polish in the areas which let the original down, such as the lack of multi-player and the fact you couldn't save mid-mission.However, during the three years that have passed between the two titles, there have been several good stealth releases, including Metal Gear Solid 2, Splinter Cell and No One Lives Forever 2, which have helped fine-tune the stealth genre.  Unfortunately, IGI 2 seems to have been created within a development bubble. For example, the game doesn't allow you to do certain things like move bodies out of sight or climb through windows, actions that have become so fundamental that their absence is grating. So, while IGI 2 is still enjoyable to play, when compared with contemporaries, it is not nearly as fresh as it could have been. (RP)Mortal Kombat: Deadly AlliancePS2	&#163;39.99 Midway	**It is a shame that such games still get made. With the significant strides in sophistication recently - think Ico's spatial splendour or GTA 3's freeform madness - Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance feels retrograde. Not so much for the quality of the title, but for the straitjacket of its genre.This is a beat-'em-up game   that follows the rules. Ridiculous characters pitched into one-on-one battle? Check. Random button bashing as effective as trained dexterity? Check. Dull and pointless single player mode? Not quite.MK does have a one man Konquest option, although it doesn't compare to the old Dreamcast title Soul Calibur's detailed equivalent. This relatively uncomplicated feel is replicated throughout.Fatalities - the gory set-pieces - are back. When the original MK appeared, these extended death sequences caused controversy. Now, comedy is the overriding emotion, even if the head skewering makes the humour black. The slick visuals appeal, though, with well-animated combatants and backdrops.But, despite the polish, there is nothing original and little that will attract new players. Mortal Kombat is a pretty, but vacuous, button basher that will appeal to teenagers and post-pub pugilists. Add one star if you are one of those. (GH)Def Jam VendettaPS2, GameCube		&#163;39.99 EA Sports 	***Electronic Arts, the biggest and richest games publisher, would probably list collecting official sports licences as a hobby. But the one sport in   which it was beaten to the punch (by up-and-coming rival THQ) is wrestling. This must gall, as officially licensed wrestling games are blue-chip blockbusters.Def Jam Vendetta is an attempt to generate a wrestling franchise through a tie-up with hip-hop label Def Jam. This means a fine soundtrack and the chance to grapple with hip-hop heroes.But Def Jam Vendetta also impresses in pure gaming terms. Wrestling games are   usually ponderous and saddled with confusingly arcane control systems, but Def Jam Vendetta feels responsive, and the control system is logical.An excellent tutorial, chopped into bite-sized chunks, helps. Two status bars show Health and Momentum: build the latter up to full and you will be able to launch amusingly flashy special moves. A four-player Tag Team mode should prove popular, and the attitude-  filled cut-scenes leading up to bouts are surprisingly bearable, as they concentrate on street grittiness, rather than the camp glitz of the WWE. But while Def Jam Vendetta is at least as much fun to play as its officially licensed peers (once you have mastered the inevitable learning curve), observing Electronic Arts' attempt to get down with the kids is a bit like watching your granddad take to the dance floor. (SB)
Love linesTomorrow is St Valentine's Day, as the seduced and abandoned Ophelia so rudely sang to Hamlet. She was obviously too distraught to think of sending him a suitable text message or even a Vodafone ringtone. Or she could have had her txt msg displayed in lights for all to see. You might think this means "for all those in Piccadilly Circus, London, to see", but Vodafone has pointed a webcam at the Super Sign display, so it is viewable via a browser.http://luv-me.biz/love.aspwww.vodafone.co.uk/valentineswww.vodafone-piccadilly.co.ukNew romancerA new William Gibson novel is probably no longer a big event, but Pattern Recognition has a web-based theme. From early reviews, it seems that the heroine, a hopeless fashion victim, becomes obsessed with "the footage" -   images that appear at random on the net. Gibson is not only promoting the book from his site, he's blogging his book-signing tour. The site also hosts some public message boards. UK publication is scheduled for April 24.www.williamgibsonbooks.com/blog/blog.asp" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.williamgibsonbooks.com/blog/blog.asphttp://masl.to/?T2FE51C63LanaThe untimely death of actress Lana Clarkson, below, star of Deathstalker and Amazon Women on the Moon, has been recorded on her official site (which is actually at Livingdolls), and you can read an obituary in MSN's Slate magazine. The B-movie queen is also covered at Used Tissues, which describes itself as "a repository for disposable celebrities". There isn't a Yahoo page for "full news coverage" under her   name: it's filed under Phil Spector.www.lanaclarkson.comhttp://slate.msn.com/id/2078263www.used-tissues.com/lotion/clarksonlana.htmlGoogletownIt's now easier to find things in San Diego's records than it is to search any British city, or even the Guardian. All you have to do is go to the home page and type something in the search box. This may not sound very innovative, but San Diego has installed a Google Search Appliance athttp://google.sannet.gov. Google itself includes some pages from the city's sites, but its robots don't go deep enough to pick up the vast quantities of information of interest mainly to local citizens. According to Information Week magazine, the Googlebox only cost the city $23,000.www.sandiego.govwww.informationweek.com/story/IWK20030122S0010GrumbletextIf you feel like grumbling about poor service, you can now fire off a text message complaint to Grumbletext, which will post it on its website, perhaps with links to   appropriate sites. The hope is that adverse publicity will prompt companies to improve. Banks, supermarkets and politicians are obvious targets. The posting process is automated and takes about five minutes.www.grumbletext.co.ukHello ZoeIf you are stuck on AIM (AOL Instant Messenger) and none of your buddies is online, you can add Zoe - ZoeOnAOL - and chat to her. She is an AIML-based chatbot, who describes herself as "Eighteen in computer years" and "2 parts Marilyn Monroe, 1 part toaster oven", and can be asked for stock quotes. She, or at least the software, lives on a computer in Mountain View, California. Shasn't made it on to Botspot's comprehensive list, but she is on AdamKB's unofficial list of AIM chatbots.http://members.aol.com/adamkb/aol/imbots/www.botspot.com/search/s-chat.htmIce WarriorThe Ice Warrior website has been launched to support fireman Jim McNeill's attempt to become the first man to walk unaided to the Arctic Pole. In a second expedition, a team will attempt to   visit "the remaining three north poles - the Magnetic, the Geomagnetic and the Geographic Poles - in one expedition." This is a lot harder than travelling there in the Tardis, but more predictable.www.ice-warrior.nethttp://home.earthlink.net/~qstn mark/icewarrs/icewarrs.htmFlash toyKaleidoscopes are great fun but the results are random. You can be a bit more creative with a web-based Shockwave Flash version, adding a range of dots, lines, squares and simple shapes for effect. The kaleidoscope is the work of freelance artist Hosea "Ze" Frank, whose site offers lots of great things. Last year, he won a Webby Award for the best personal site, by popular vote.www.zefrank.com/byokal/byokal7.swfwww.zefrank.com/indexkal.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;Stop the war:www.stopwar.org.uk&#183;Replacing the twin towers:www.renewnyc.com&#183;The two sequels:http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com&#183;Millinery manipulation:www.trickswithhats.org&#183;Issue 9 is out now:www.cultivate-int.orgSix of the bestValentine's DayHow it workswww.howstuffworks.com/valentine.htmThe backgroundwww.historychannel.com/exhibits/valentine/history.htmlRomantic planshttp://holidays.lovingyou.com/valentineCute e-cardswww.mydearvalentine.comFor kidswww.billybear4kids.com/ holidays/valentin/fun.htmYahoo LinksMore Valentine's Day links
You might never have heard of it, but Microsoft's chief executive, Bill Gates, has called it "explosive". Technology commentator Nicholas Negroponte has said it will change "everything you assumed about telecommunications". It is a technology that could upset three years of planning by Britain's mobile phone giants, not to mention at least &#163;22.5bn of investment.The "it" in question is Wi-Fi - or Wireless LAN. And the technology behind the bland title is being touted as the innovation that could provide the beleaguered telecoms industry or, at least, parts of it, with its brightest hope this year.What is Wi-Fi? It is a way   to access a fast internet connection without using wires. Flip open your Wi-Fi-equipped laptop in a wireless "hotspot" - some coffee shop chains or airport departure lounges already have them - and you can surf the net or collect your emails without ever plugging a cable into your computer. Better still, it can all be done at broadband speed, and the technology that enables all this is cheap and easy to install.Although Wi-Fi is ready to become the hot thing of 2003, the technology behind Wi-Fi is nothing new. It has been around for several years in various guises, even pre-dating the internet boom years, and has solidified into an official standard called 802.11, which   should mean any one piece of Wi-Fi kit works with another piece. But the time is right only now for it to reach a mass market.The rise of the laptop as a viable alternative to desktop computers, increased demand for broadband on the move and the delays and uncertainty surrounding third generation mobile phones (or 3G) have all helped the Wi-Fi cause. The latest versions of Windows and Mac operating systems both have built-in Wi-Fi capabilities. And, last summer, the government approved the deregulation of the airwaves in which Wi-Fi operates. That meant, for the first time, network operators were allowed to charge to use Wi-Fi hotspots. Suddenly the technology was all set to break out of its hobbyist niche.Today, BT is leading the way in the race to roll out a network of hotspots. Last week, it announced a major extension of its Wi-Fi network, taking in dozens of hotel foyers, coffee shops and motorway service stations. Access costs from &#163;6 an hour for casual users to &#163;85 a month for unlimited use, with the company touting its service as half the price of 3G, and three times faster. BT Broadband also announced, on Monday, a &#163;200 Wi-Fi base station for its domestic customers, hailing the arrival of "armchair broadband" in the home.Meanwhile, rival operator T-Mobile has a handful of public hotspots in Starbucks coffee shops, free to use at the moment (in the US, a monthly subscription for unlimited use of T-Mobile hotspots nationwide costs around &#163;32). It is expected to announce an expansion of its UK network - and a charging structure - in March. Another company, Megabeam, also has a network of hotspots, including one at Paddington station in London.These companies have the head start, but are unlikely to have the market to themselves for long. Mobile phone operators are getting ready to move in. They see a threat to the &#163;22.5bn investment they made in 3G licences for the UK which allow them to provide much of what Wi-Fi is now able to deliver today, much more cheaply.Last week in Paris, France Telecom announced plans for a network of Orange-branded hotspots, a range of Wi-Fi home kits via its Wanadoo internet service provider, and other solutions for businesses keen to get in on wireless networking. Meanwhile, O2 has a network of hotspots running in Ireland, and a spokesperson says the company is exploring opportunities in the UK and Germany. The Hutchinson-backed mobile company, 3, which will launch the UK's first 3G service next month, also says it is monitoring the situation.The only established mobile operator not to have announced plans is Vodafone. Wi-Fi is "very complementary" to existing mobile data services, a spokesman says, but he adds: "We have no firm plans &#91;for Wi-Fi&#93; bar monitoring the situation." Despite the company's cool attitude to Wi-Fi in public, however, behind the scenes there is clear evidence of serious thought being devoted to it. At a packed telecoms industry event last week that focused on the rise of Wi-Fi, Vodafone sent no fewer than eight staff, including a Wireless LAN commercial developer.All those companies that have declared their hands prefer a future where customers own a 3G subscription and a Wi-Fi subscription from the same company. Dual-mode wireless cards in laptops, which already exist for the GPRS/Wi-Fi combination today, would provide a near-seamless mobile internet experience - at a price.Privately, they fear Wi-Fi, already faster than 3G will ever be, will gain critical mass before most 3G networks are even switched on. One of Wi-Fi's main benefits, say industry observers, is that it delivers the applications we are already using on our computers. Email, web browsing, instant communications and gaming work perfectly via Wi-Fi. Unlike 3G, there is no need to dream up new ways to use this technology, or squeeze content on to a small screen, or compensate for the   lack of a keyboard or poor battery life.Richard Dineen, a telecoms analyst at the Ovum consultancy, has been researching Wi-Fi for the past 18 months. He says mobile phone operators are "putting on a brave face" over the threat posed by the technology. "Wireless LAN is a threat," he says. "It is a high-performance, low-cost radio technology that has very low unit costs and comparatively low operating costs. It's really cheap stuff."From the cellular operators' point of view, there is nothing more nauseating: they spent countless billions to buy into the 3G mobile data future, and suddenly out of nowhere comes this upstart data networking technology that seems to be shaping up as direct competitor. And I think it will be in this crucial business user segment. It's going to hit them where it hurts."The mobile operators insist this is not the case: all say that Wi-Fi will be complementary to 3G services when they eventually launch. "People don't just want to be mobile in the pause, in a coffee shop or airport lounge," says Simon Gordon, of 02. "People want a dual mode card so they can connect out of the hotspot areas, on the move or out at clients. It is not going to replace GPRS or 3G."Dineen is also quick to add that Wi-Fi is not good for everything. "Not every application is going to be suitable for delivery over Wi-Fi," he   says. "There's the convenience factor, the immediate accessibility. My laptop takes 10 minutes to start up, and you've got to be sitting down to use it, and patient, probably indoors, in a secure environment." Some applications, like messaging, will work better on a 3G handset because it will always be on, and connected to the network.The range of Wi-Fi network coverage is likely to be a major issue. "It's of low utility if I can only use my Wi-Fi laptop in a certain number of locations," says Dineen. "It's not that useful to me unless you knit together much more extensive coverage to make the service useful."But some of Wi-Fi's limitations could be tackled head-on, if the promises being made by a San Francisco start-up become reality.Vivato says it has developed a Wi-Fi base station that sends out its signals in a radius of between two and seven kilometres, depending on conditions. This compares very favourably to the 200 yards of today's standard Wi-Fi kit. To prove the equipment's effectiveness, the company has a single Wi-Fi base station on its roof providing wireless broadband for downtown San Francisco.Hobbyists have long known that wireless communications could be teased out by beaming a concentrated signal. This new technology is the first to beam it out over a wider, long-distance radius. Vivato expects to start selling   its technology next month."The current Wi-Fi technology for access points is a very unfriendly use of spectrum," says Vivato's chief executive Ken Biba. "Smart antennas allow you to make far greater capacity in the spectrum, and allow more efficient use of the spectrum in a more friendly way to more people. We're the first to pioneer that."What we can do with smart antennas is take that Wi-Fi signal, which is really low power, and take its range out to several kilometres, as opposed to hundreds of metres. And because we can put multiple of these antenna patterns in different parts of the frequency, we can speak to multiple things at once, which allows us to scale capacity."The result is a transformation in the technology, from something that can provide isolated pockets of internet access to something that could serve hundreds of users over a much larger area - and at far higher speeds than 3G services are ever likely to manage."Frankly," says Biba, "3G is too slow. It is just not well architected for high-speed data. I suspect it will fail on its own merits."Biba might be confident, but analysts are cautious about the potential impact of Vivato's new technology until the company releases more information. Although it will work with any of today's computers kitted out with standard Wi-Fi technology, the   price of the new kit will be crucial. With domestic Wi-Fi access points costing as little as &#163;100, the low price remains one of Wi-Fi's biggest selling points."The last thing you want to do with this wonderfully cheap, disruptive technology is slap a load of extra equipment costs on top," says Ovum's Dineen. "It will have to meet some fairly rigorous cost criteria. A lot of players have had enough of investing to have the best possible quality network; they want something that's actually going to be a cost-effective proposition. That's the mood at the moment."But now the Wi-Fi genie is out of the bottle, developments are likely to continue thick and fast. Chipmakers Intel and AMD have both decided to start including the circuitry required for Wi-Fi   internet access on the motherboards of new laptops. With Intel due to launch its Centrino chips next month, Wi-Fi could soon be a standard feature on many business models by the summer. With 3G still refusing to leave the starting gates, 2003 could be the year the cheap upstart of Wi-Fi started to turn the mobile internet hype into reality.LinksBT Openzonewww.bt.com/openzoneBT's home Wi-Fiwww.bt.com/homenetworkingT-Mobile &amp; Starbuckswww.t-mobile.co.uk/Dispatcher?menuid= phones_wbFree community wirelesswww.consume.net&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Britain's first next-generation mobile phone network, 3, launches next month. So it seems like a good time to look at the lessons from the Japanese market, where 3G has been available for 18 months, and ask when we'll really be enjoying the benefits of 3G in the UK.At the end of last week, the two leading Japanese mobile operators announced their subscriber numbers to the end of last year. NTT DoCoMo, the market leader in providing advanced mobile services on a 2G network (today's technology), has a 58% market share in Japan. At the end of last year, it had 42.8m subscribers, of whom 36.2m use its iMode interactive services. But DoCoMo, a significant shareholder in 3, has managed to lure only 152,000 subscribers to its 3G service, called Foma, which launched in mid-2001.KDDI, the number two player, has a different story to tell. Despite launching six months after its bigger rival, KDDI had 4.76m subscribers - and at the end of January, it passed the 5m mark.Furthermore, KDDI was more successful in getting users to pay than DoCoMo. Average revenue per user per month (ARPU), the number that pretty much determines the profitability of a phone company, was 9,240 yen (around &#163;50) for KDDI and only 7,750 yen for DoCoMo.Additionally, ARPUs are dropping for both KDDI and DoCoMo. KDDI saw a 4% drop in the quarter to December, and DoCoMo experienced a 25% drop over the year.What lessons can we draw from Japan?For one thing, first movers don't always win. By winning market share quickly, you build incentives such as cheaper calls to other users of your network.This should have given DoCoMo the advantage. It launched its 3G network first and had a vast iMode customer base. It was far and away the world leader in advanced, interactive wireless phone services. So how did KDDI overcome DoCoMo's first-mover advantage?First, KDDI launched using a technology that worked with existing 2G masts and antennae. This meant that from day one, it provided almost nationwide coverage. Customers moving to KDDI's 3G service lost none of the benefits of 2.5G. DoCoMo eschewed backwards compatibility in favour of a new technology that had very limited coverage at launch. While this may have impressed the geeks, it won over few consumers who were more concerned with making calls.Second, DoCoMo's original marketing proposition was built on speed. Speed (bandwidth, in other words) is an elusive benefit to all but geeky early adopters.In practice, while DoCoMo's network was technically available first, KDDI's 3G service was beneficially available first. It provided all the "must-haves" people wanted from a phone service, such as 100% coverage.The four UK operators must focus on selling the benefits of 3G rather than the new technology. Introducing new services that happen to require a new handset (and coincidentally run on their new network) will focus their minds on selling the end user benefits rather than the gizmos in the network.The second lesson is that there is a novelty effect. The decline in ARPUs over time suggests that, after an initial burst of interest, users get bored with applications. This means operators will need to find compelling applications. To supply these new applications, the operators should turn to their users because, as the web has shown, nowhere is innovation richer than at the grassroots.The success of SMS should be a useful precedent. SMS messaging only took off when the operators grudgingly opened their networks a few years ago. Now the bulk of SMS revenues are based not on over-priced information services, but on user-generated content. The SMS boom has created addicted and spendthrift users creatively using a technology with the most meagre specification.The success of 3G will depend on usage. If the UK operators are to recoup the &#163;22.5bn they spent on licences (and a similar investment on their networks), they need to get customers to use the service. The key factor for success will be user-driven and group-driven applications.Enough of us need to use the system and this means the operators will strive for interoperability. As a customer, I will want to know that my 3D video mail can be received by my friends, and they can use their phones to vote on my new haircut.So while 3 launches on 03/03/03, I suspect we'll be waiting until 06/06/06 before we really feel we're part of something new.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The BBC is embracing moblogging (mobile weblogging), and making us all journalists in the process. From this week, anyone can use their picture phone or digital camera, and submit pictures to the BBC news site via multimedia messaging (MMS) or email. The best will be chosen each week and featured on the site, and pictures taken by bystanders for breaking news stories will be available to the news desk in the same way as pictures from conventional news agencies."We see this as a natural extension of user generated content," says the BBC's Nic Newman. "We've done it before (send us your pictures of the eclipse, etc) but the explosion in digital cameras and, now, phone-cams make this a far more practical proposition.It is perfectly possible that the first pictures of major news events will come from phone-cams from people involved."The photographer retains copyright, and the BBC does not demand exclusivity: rather, you "lend" them the picture. Although no one will get paid for their snaps, the BBC's move does suggest an interesting evolution in journalism. When thousands of people are able to take pictures and feed them directly to an international broadcaster, the potential for great event coverage is vastly increased.The BBC sees Saturday's anti-war demonstration in London as a perfect opportunity to try out the technology. "I'm sure that user-generated pictures from events like the anti-war demonstration will become an integral part of our site in the future," says Newman, adding that once the technology is available, the BBC will be accepting video as well as still pictures. To send pictures to the BBC, MMS them to 07970 885089, or email them to yourpics@bbc.co.uk. The pictures need to be as high resolution as possible.See:http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/talking_point/2732695.stm
On a large riverboat alongside the London Eye, the world's biggest maker of mobile phones is already unveiling its big Christmas push. It might only be February, but last week, Nokia invited 200 journalists to the banks of the Thames to launch its foray into the hyper-competitive games console market.It is called N-Gage: a fan-shaped, handheld games "deck" that will cost less than &#163;350. Several million will spill out of Nokia's factories in China and Hungary to be in shops in autumn. The device will feature the return of old favourites such as Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog and Lara Croft, as it attempts to break into a market dominated by Japan and the US. No other European company has attempted the release of its own games console.The pencil-thin device, roughly the size of a postcard, has a 10-digit keypad and a small colour screen. It runs the Symbian operating system you find on the latest colour phones. The N-Gage also sends text messages and hooks in to the net. Flip it on its side and you can make a voice call. N-Gage is really little more than a mobile phone."We have already sold over 250 million handsets together with the game Snake," says Ilkka Raiskinen, of Nokia. "Our research has shown that nearly everyone has played the game at some time in that product's life. Based on this, we started to develop a games device."Nokia says it is launching into a growing market. Games sold in record numbers in the UK last year, while a recent survey by Deutsche Bank reported that there are 100m handheld gamers in the world. "This is a new market    segment," explains Nokia's Kari Tuutti. "We are not looking to start a bloody fight." But N-Gage's most obvious rival is Nintendo's Game Boy, with 97% of the handheld market. It costs only &#163;70.Nokia says that people will be willing to pay what could be five times as much, because the N-Gage offers gamers the opportunity to play games as part of a group. Using Bluetooth (short wave radio) networks, up to four people can compete in a single game, within a radius of a few metres. Later, when faster wireless networks become available, Nokia says that players will be able to compete over vast distances.  No other handheld    machine allows for this wireless multiplayer experience.I was given a short glimpse of the N-Gage during a trip on the London Eye. The device is surprisingly light and thin. You hold it as you would a hand of cards, your thumbs doing the work. The screen, though small, is clear, and worked fine for three-dimensional games such as Tomb Raider but was much better in 2D. The multiplayer function worked with Bluetooth and presented no problems as long as I was facing my opponent.Nokia won't reveal exact figures but indicated that N-Gage games, to be sold in tiny MultiMedia Cards, would be priced similarly to other console games. They will be many times more expensive than the &#163;3 charged for the games currently sold on the latest range of Java-enabled colour phones, for example. But because the N-Gage is also a phone, games publishers and developers should be able to make extra money by charging for extra bits of the games, such as new levels or cheats - as they do on Java phones.If Nokia sells millions, its radical design will mark just how far the mobile phone has evolved. Although phones are much smaller than they were, their basic shape and function has changed little since the early prototypes emerged from the labs of Gowgen Manufacturing Corporation of Chicago (later Motorola) during the second world war. N-Gage bears little resemblance to those prototypes or the phone you have in your pocket today. It is a mobile phone whose voice call function is, essentially, an afterthought.
Good news at last for IT salesmen: an order worth at least £2.3bn is in the offing. The snag is that the      customer is the computer shopper from hell.The department of health team in charge of dragging the NHS into      the computer age last week formally launched the process of picking suppliers for a national IT programme in      England. Its vision, set out in Tony Blair's e-summit speech in November, is an NHS in which doctors will book      appointments from their computers, prescriptions will flow electronically from GP to pharmacy, and health      records will be available on screen.But realising this vision is a lot more difficult than simply loading new      software and upgrading some desktop kit. Hence the procurement launched last week. Three kinds of contracts      are on offer. Separate consortia will supply:&#183;National systems for appointment booking, electronic prescribing      and basic electronic records; and&#183;Electronic plumbing to underpin these systems and to allow multimedia      information to be zapped securely around the country. The first big job is upgrading the existing NHSnet      intranet, conceived in the early 1990s.Alongside these national projects is a major overhaul of frontline IT in      use in hospitals, GP surgeries and community health organisations. It is badly needed. After decades of      stop-start funding and policy U-turns, the quality of IT across the NHS varies from world-class to appalling.Many hospitals deal with dozens of suppliers, ranging in size from Microsoft to doctors who write programs as a      hobby. Hence the third type of contract announced last week. Each geographical NHS region will pick a single      contractor to take over all IT used by its member organisations.These "local service providers" will be      responsible for integrating or replacing dozens, sometimes hundreds, of systems to prepare for the national      applications. They will also create a "standard desktop front end", so that staff can sit down and log in wherever      they are.Nearly everyone agrees that this revolution is long overdue. With the prime minister's personal      backing, and £2.3bn guaranteed funding on top of existing IT budgets, what can possibly go wrong? Plenty.The      national programme has all the makings of a classic public sector IT disaster. It is big, its success depends on      changing the work practices of powerful professional groups such as doctors and nurses, and it involves      experimental technology.Most of all, it is being done in a rush: No1 on a list of 12 procurement principles      published last week is "rapidity". Because the risk of disaster is so obvious, the contracts will come with      interesting small print.For a start, only major companies will be invited to bid. Smaller firms, responsible for      most of the better systems in use today, will have to operate under their wing. The procurement principles spell      out that if projects fail, suppliers will suffer.They will be paid only when projects start delivering value.      Companies that fail will be stripped of contracts. In an even bigger break with tradition, the seventh principle      says that the NHS will "ensure applications and systems perform before we buy them". All components will be      tested in a "simulation of a live NHS environment", especially for compatability. "Providers of systems which      lead to information silos as a result of poor or non-existent data interfaces will have no future within the NHS."The final principle concerns probity. It requires "explicit disclosure" from individuals with commercial interests      who may be involved in projects (and requests the same from external commentators). Prospective suppliers      have a month to express interest in bidding.In the current state of the IT services market, these contracts      look like a godsend. Companies such as Fujitsu and IBM, which in the 1990s largely pulled out of the NHS, are      likely to bid, as are EDS, Schlumberger SEMA and consultancies such as KPMG. Despite the risk and the tough      conditions, the NHS is in a buyer's market.
What computers do you use?In 1983, I bought an Apple Lisa, Steve Jobs' first effort at a computer with a user friendly front end. It cost $10,000 and I've stayed loyal. I still own and publish MacUser, although it's getting too technical for me. I only buy a computer when it's two years old, after the glitches have been worked out. I'm probably the last living user of MacWrite Pro.How has the growth of computers affected magazine publishing?When we started Oz, we used typewriters, but it was impossible to get typesetters to work for the underground press. Then IBM brought out the Selectric, a primitive computer that justified copy and printed it so we could paste the pages. The Selectric made alternative magazines and newspapers possible! When we computerised Personal Computer World in 1985/6, it changed magazine publishing forever. The art room - the heart of a publishing company, where designers and editors worked together in a creative, happy go lucky process - was fragmented into separate units, each working alone.Is that when you started to lose enthusiasm for computers?Yes, I saw how destructive they could be. There are jobs, particularly database-oriented ones, for which computers are necessary, but for everyday office life, I question whether they have brought the productivity that their enormous cost, up to &#163;10,000 per person, demands. Nor do I believe they will. Computers are wasteful of paper and time. Once, we'd get documents with a few errors. Now, people make hundreds of copies until each sheet is flawless and memos are duplicated endlessly. Managers get swamped with emails.Are you a fan of the internet?Although we have many successful websites, I value the net primarily as a business tool. Maxim became a huge success in the US because we sold 600,000 subscriptions online, which cost us $2m instead of the $24m a junk mail campaign would have cost. We were the first company to insist that visitors to our website filled out a questionaire and the information we gathered was invaluable for us and advertisers.Does IT affect your daily life?I detest gadgets, especially mobile phones, and prefer face-to-face meetings, faxes or talking on the phone.Do you use IT for writing or performing your poetry?I use Google for research and a brilliant actor - Patrick Sont - devised an adaptation of PowerPoint that projects, with perfect timing, the words of my poems on to a screen for the audience to read as they are spoken. I also wrote a prayer for my MacIntosh that begins: Alert 01-01-01/ Praise the Creator/ The source of our data...Favourite sites?www.felixdennis.com; the Monty Python of food sites and humour -www.wecktumfire.com; and because I can't stand clocks to be wrong -www.whattimeisit.com&#183;Felix Dennis will be the subject of a Southbank show: February 16 on ITV
SpammedI am receiving 20 or more unwanted emails a day, many of them pornographic or obscene. How can I cut off the flow?Ivor LightmanJack Schofield replies:You cannot stop spam emails arriving but you can stop them at the mail server. There are now a number of good spam filters includingMailwasher,SpamBuster, and McAfee'sSpamKiller. You could also try using different mail software such asMailshell, which has spam-blocking and "allowed addresses" features. With Mailwasher - which is free - go to Tools|Options, set the Heuristics to Strong, and tick the box that says: Check the origin of the email against DNS spam Blacklist servers. (You can edit the list.) This enables Mailwasher to mark most spam automatically, saving a lot of effort. Other filters often have similar features.AOL spamI have my 12-year-old son's email set to "Kids" but he still keeps getting obscene emails. What can I do to stop them?Name withheldJS:AOL takes spam seriously, but it does not offer a standard (POP3) email service, so most anti-spam tools do not work. However, filters that can block AOL spam includeGarbageman,Spam InspectorandMailshell.AOL, Hello!AOL's tacky presentation of news items and other services seems to be compiled on the assumption that I am a keen reader of Hello! magazine and tabloids. I am not. Can you recommend an efficient provider that does not insult my intelligence and does not cost more than AOL?Marigold WaceJS:AOL started as a proprietary online service and added an internet gateway. However, you can now use it as a normal ISP, and not see any of its content except the start-up screen. But if you want to change, the problem is that there are about 700 ISPs in the UK, and no one has tried them all. Fortunately,ISP Reviewtracks the industry, publishes Top 10 listswww.ispreview.co.uk/top10.shtmland has reader reviews.People don't like changing their ISP because they have to change their email address. You can avoid this problem if you buy your own domain name with mail forwarding. Then, all you have to do is change the address to which mail is forwarded. I bought a .com domain with mail forwarding for about &#163;100 for 10 years fromEasily.co.uk, which accepts payment by cheque or credit card. A .uk name costs &#163;9.99 for two years. Many domain name sellers also sell email services. This means you can use their mail server instead of forwarding mail to your ISP's server.BufferedI have a 56K dial-up internet service. Sometimes, while listening to music, everything stops and a "buffering" message comes up. Can I do something to avoid this?Shakeel SulemanJS:The buffer acts as a temporary store to even out the flow of the audio stream, which may not arrive at a constant rate. There's a break when the buffer is empty, so you can try making the buffer bigger, if possible. However, unless audio data arrives at least as fast as it is played, music will never play without stopping. In that case, the only solutions are to change to a slower audio stream, if available, or download the whole file and play it separately. Usually, you cannot do this with streaming audio.In Windows Media Player, go to View|Options, select the Advanced tab, and click the   Change button for Streaming Media. This lets you set buffering to 30 seconds or longer. In RealPlayer, go to View|Preferences, select the Connection tab and click the button for Network Time Out Settings. Details may vary with different versions of each player.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jeremy Windust asked about writing the musical notation for flat and sharp in a Word document. Most readers who responded thought the standard # (hash) and b keys were good enough. Brian Runagle says he uses the symbols provided in the MS Reference 1 font set which "may have been installed with Encarta".John Wellspoints out that in Unicode-compliant versions of Word (from Word 97 on Windows 98 onwards), all Jeremy has to do is select Lucida Sans Unicode, do Insert|Symbol and scroll down to the bottom line to find flat, natural and sharp signs. These can be assigned to shortcut keys by pressing the Shortcut Key button. Professor Wells also recommends the article on using foreign characters atwww.phon.ucl.ac.uk/home/wells/Eureka.doc.To take this full circle, Jane Philips suggests using the standard # and b keys but raised and italicised. To do this, highlight the letter, change it to italics, go to the Format menu, select Font and tick Superscript. Although this is tedious, you can record a macro to do it (Tools| Macro| Record new macro), and assign that to a shortcut key.&#183;In response to a question about email stalking last week, I mentioned that the "sent items" mail folder often did not keep a record of any entries in the BCC: (blind carbon copy) field. Meredith Lawrence cleverly points out that, "in Outlook Express, you can see them by pressing Ctrl-F3."
I've always thought that having my own cult would be fantastic: all those beautiful women lining up to have my baby, because I'm the third son of Osiris. And if that's not enough, there's always the plump offshore bank account and the chauffeur-driven Rolls-Royce to consider.To create a cult is a cakewalk. What you have to do is cut random sentences out of books such as Erich von Daniken's Chariots of the Gods, the Bible, and The Tibetan book of the Dead; mix them up and paste them on to a piece of card.And there you have the central thesis for your new religion. The less sense it makes, the better. Like the Shopping Channel, cults work on the premise that there's one born every minute. All that's left to do is to put your kooky ideas on a website, and get yourself down to Leicester Square - or any other place where there is always a captive audience - for a bit of conversion. The only thing that prevents me from starting a cult is the end bit. The bit where I have to drink   cyanide-laced Kool Aid, or be burnt alive by an over-zealous Swat team. That doesn't appeal to me too much.The golden age of cults was in the late 60s and early 70s. Nearly every self-respecting hippie had dabbled with a bit of wicca or shared a bowl of mung bean stew with a Hare Krishna devotee. Remember the Divine Light Mission? Remember the Moonies? Recovering members can be seen licking their wounds atwww.ex-premie.organdwww.xmoonies.com, respectively.Nowadays, cults are more low key - you don't want to court publicity when you're making a batch of sarin in yourTokyo basement. It's easy to be fooled into thinking that cults had ceased to exist. Until a couple of weeks ago, that is, when Brigitte Boisselier, the chief executive of Clonaid, claimed that the company had cloned the first human.Clonaid was set up by Claude Vorilhon, founder of the Raelian cult. His mission came to him after he met a bearded alien on top of a mountain in France. He had    bunked off work. The alien told him _ well, I won't spoil it for you. Visitwww.rael.orgto get the full story. It must be noted that Monsieur Vorilhon, an ex-sports writer, had previously boasted about his ability to generate free publicity.The other great ex-sports journalist and master of publicity is our very own David Icke. Although Icke doesn't officially run a cult, he does have quite a band of followers who subscribe to his theory that the world is run by alien lizard people. At the beginning of this year, astronomers at Johns HopkinsUniversity in Marylandsaid that if all light could be viewed at once, it would look turquoise. Icke retorted that he knew this already: that's precisely why he's been wearing a turquoise shell-suit since 1991, because it brings him nearer to God. The former BBC presenter'shome pagequotes Alice in Wonderland: "Dear, dear! How queer everything is today!" For more queer ramblings, watch Icke's show Headf**k on theSci-Fi Channel.Another master publicist was L Ron Hubbard, founder of theChurch of Scientology. Scientology is meant to help clear people of unhappiness. "L" is long dead, but Scientology is very much alive. It's well known that Tom Cruise, John Travolta and Kirstie Alley have all become members, but did you know that Nancy Cartwright, the voice of Bart Simpson, is a Scientologist, too?While rifling through the Ross Institute'sdatabase of cults, I was surprised to note that many of the cults I thought had gone into liquidation or migrated to Mars were still thriving. Didn't the Heaven's Day cult members "shed their earthly containers to catch a ride on the Hale-Bopp Comet" in 1997?Apparently not. A couple of the surviving members have been busy digitising about 20 hours of video material, taken when the majority of the group were still in the here and now. The stragglers plan to join their mates in the Kingdom of Heaven. And if you, too, are interested in graduating from Human Evolutionary Level, you may want to order the free set of CD Roms fromwww.heavensgate.com.If you need a baloney antidote after all that, visitThe Skeptics Society, run by Dr Nick Gerlich.
There was a time when absent friends and lovers would put pen to paper to exchange news or express their feelings.New figures suggest Britain is now obsessed with the instant gratification - and bad punctuation - of text messaging. More than 16 billion text messages were sent last year, an average of more than 45 million a day, one for every mobile phone user in the country.The Department of Trade and Industry, which produced the figures, believes the so-called "textual revolution" will increase again this year to around 55 million messages.And the bad news does not stop there for romantic types. Text message traffic, the DTI said, was particularly high on Valentine's Day last year when 57 million messages were sent.The department expects no fewer that 70 million messages to be sent tomorrow, five times the number of Valentine's cards which will be received.Not surprisingly, the mobile phone companies are pleased by the figures. Bryony Clow, spokeswoman for Vodafone, said text messaging was becoming ever more popular not only with schoolchildren swapping gossip but with young adults setting up social gatherings, businessmen arranging meetings and parents and grandchildren wanting to find new ways of connecting with the younger generation.The government believes new developments such a picture messaging and third generation technology which allows customers to view video footage are also expected to increase the number of people using their phones, but not their voices, to communicate.
Music, like love, is best experienced in the flesh. Sometimes, alas, it's not so convenient - while driving, for instance - so we must search out the next best thing. For many, MP3s are the musical equivalent of a hairy kiss from a maiden aunt: it's music, yes, but it lacks a bit. So many fans have turned to swapping music in another file format: music recorded from concerts, with the permission of bands.The file format is called Shorten, and is a lossless compression format. So while the files are relatively small, they don't lose any musical fidelity. MP3s, on the other hand, use a "lossy" compression technique - they save on space by missing out some of the detail.It works like this: some bands - Phish and The Grateful Dead being two - allow concert goers to tape the show. Many even provide "taper tickets" with good acoustics for those with the recording gear (mostly professional quality DAT equipment). This recording is then encoded as a Shorten file.The bands give permission   for people to share these files, but only on a person-to-person basis. They can be placed on someone's own server and distributed via the file transfer protocol, or FTP. The shared files can be downloaded, and either listened to directly, using Shorten software, or converted to another format and burnt on to a CD.It's quietly popular. Sites such as Etree.org compile lists of FTP sites, and the Internet Archive provides hosting for bands willing to go further and ignore the person-to-person-only rule.Either way, the bands - and the fans - are eager to allow sharing without anyone making any money. The Grateful Dead says: "The Grateful Dead and our managing organizations have long encouraged the purely non-commercial exchange of music taped at our concerts and those of our individual members _ Our stipulations regarding digital distribution are merely extensions of those long-standing principles and they are as follows: No commercial gain may be sought by websites offering digital files of our music_"The sharing of live music is a relatively low-key affair -    needing people with the right equipment, and the skills and patience to do it. But soon, the world of live recordings may get rather more interesting. Last week, Clear Channel, the American radio and concert promotion giant, was reported to be preparing plans to offer live recordings of concerts on CD, at the   venue, five minutes after the curtain falls. According to a report in the Boston Globe, by recording directly off the sound mixing desk, and using a bank of cheap CD burners, they will be able to sell concert goers perfect recordings.The scheme is reportedly to be piloted in small venues in spring with, most likely, the first MP3s appearing on file-sharing networks around 30 minutes later.And there lies the rub. For bands whose main audience is the live one, allowing fans live   recordings of the previous night's show could be a winner. For the more possessive record labels, it's a potential nightmare. When stadia could shift 20,000 CDs in an evening and provide free advertising for the rest of the tour, it is so potentially lucrative, it might just be the one that forces labels to reconsider their policy towards file sharing.Linkswww.etree.orgwww.archive.org/audiohttp://http://masl.to/?W23E51C63
A Paris court yesterday cleared the internet giant Yahoo! and its former president of condoning war crimes and crimes against humanity when it allowed Nazi memorabilia to be sold on its auction sites.The decision brought to an end a two-stage legal battle that began in 2000, when French Jewish and anti-racist groups sued the California-based web portal for allowing items such as SS daggers, swastikas, propaganda films, photos of death camp victims and even replicas of Zyklon B poison gas canisters to be sold on its US auction pages.Yahoo! subsequently banned the sale of such hate-related items from all sites after a landmark ruling by a French court two years ago that French internet surfers should be denied access to the US pages hosting the auctions. French law bars the display or sale of racist material.Yahoo! said it did not want to profit from the sale of goods that "glorified or promoted hatred", but disputed the ruling saying that the offending sites were aimed primarily at the American market and were therefore protected by US freedom of speech laws. The company still allows Nazi-era items such as stamps and coins to be sold on its sites.The French legal decision sparked fears in the web community of an attempt to impose national views on the international, boundary-free internet, but a US federal judge ruled last year that Yahoo! was not bound to tailor its non-French sites to French laws.Then in a separate legal attack, three different French Jewish groups launched a second action, accusing Yahoo!'s former president Tim Koogle of "justifying war crimes and crimes against humanity".The court ruled yesterday that justifying war crimes meant "glorifying, praising, or at least presenting the crimes in question favourably", and that Yahoo! "manifestly did not fit that description".
Benjamin Curtis, the actor who plays Steven, the "Dell Dude" in Dell Computer's TV ads, has beenbusted"on suspicion of trying to buy marijuana," reports CNN. The ads have been hugely successful for Dell, and there's even a market for "Dell Dude" memorabilia. But somehow I don't think Dell is going to add bongs and roach clips to the range....
XDocs, a new application being developed by Microsoft, will apparently be called InfoPath, according toeWeek, though it is still not clear if it will be bundled with Office 11, which is now in beta. The problem with XDocs is that it is a hugely valuable application to the people who can use it, but it's far from clear that that includes the average Office user. So what is it? Basically it's a forms application, of the sort you'd create for an HR or healthcare or manufacturing application. However, it allows you to create forms that look and work more like documents. One of the major failings of forms, as opposed to documents, is that the spaces are either too long or too short for what you want to enter, and there's nowhere to add comments or whatever. With the XDocs implementation of a form, those problems are avoided because the user can manipulate the form like a document. However, it doesn't break the application because all the data still get validated according to the rules. The rules, obviously, are embodied in the XML schema, which is created by whoever develops the form. From that point of view, XDocs is a hybrid tool. But there's another way to think of it: as a structured authoring program for XML. And what that does is turn Office 11 into a pretty powerful application development platform.For a much longer account of XDocs/InfoPath, see the interview withJean Paoli, one of XML's creators and one of the designers of XDocs, on Microsoft's PressPass site or take your pickhere.
Internalmemos.com has publishedthe Sun memorecounting the facts on which some recent stories in The Inquirer have been based (below). One of the funniest bits is Sun staff complaining that, contrary to the hype, Java on Solaris isn't or wasn't actually portable in practice (the memo is strangely missing a date) because of its total dependence on the JRE (Java Runtime Environment).
Confession time. I wrotemy columnfor Guardian Unlimited yesterday on a minor creative high, after completing a movie on iMovie 3 over the weekend. The piece wasn't intended to be a comprehensive review of iMovie, let alone of the whole iLife package, more something praising the fact we can now do on our desktops what used to be something only the most skilled, or very rich, computer users could do. But my glitch-free experience led me to believe this was a fairly solid bit of software.Alas, the collective wail of the iMovie 3 userspace hit my in-box this morning: my experiences certainly didn't seem to be representative of many users'. The complaints collectedherevary in importance, to my mind: some are the simple UI issues that so many Mac users get their knickers in a twist over, while others are gripes about wishlist items that never appeared. But other glitches are more serious and (worse) vary between machines, which suggests Apple's testing was a little skimpy. When you own the operating system, the hardware and the software which runs on it, you really should get these things right first time.Now, I'm off home to see if I can reproduce some of these faults on my own Mac...
In 1996 I rode in a minicab up the M40 to Oxford to take part in one of the Oxford Union's famous debates. My debating partner was Jerry Yang, founder of Yahoo!I'd like to tell you that we've been firm friends ever since and that I regularly visit Jerry and his lovely family at his beach house in Santa Monica. Sadly, that was our one and only meeting. Still, we won the debate hands down - by a margin of nearly two to one,  if I remember correctly.The proposition we were defending - "the internet represents the end of the nation state" - obviously   caught the imagination of the students and press in the debating hall. There were audible woops of approval as the result was announced. People really seemed to take pleasure in the imminent collapse of something as big and ugly as the nation state.From the beginning, geeks liked to think about the net in spatial terms. While the pop media picked up the disappointingly linear idea of an "information superhighway" (something to do with Al Gore's dad), the early settlers fell in love with a much more potent image from a 1986 William Gibson book Neuromancer: cyberspace.Gibson called cyberspace a "consensual hallucination" - an impossibly vivid 3D visualisation of the networked world. One that many longed to inhabit.Millions moved in. While the geeks were building their castles in the air and pulling up the drawbridge behind them, governments and institutions drank the Kool-Aid too. The US government under Bill Clinton, for instance, foreswore sales taxes from ecommerce businesses, granting the net a kind of offshore status that still stands and irks real world merchants more than a little.It was Clinton too who set up ICANN (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers), a private corporation charged with administering a vital global resource - the international system of domain names - for the first time ever and with barely a whimper from any government anywhere.Nearly seven years later I visited the Oxford Union again last week for a conference called The Politics of Code. Dozens of speakers confirmed our worst fear. Not only is the old-fashioned nation state alive and well but the virtual nation we call the net is increasingly under attack from the real world.If the Internet was ever a nation unto itself, then the borders are being torn down now. The message from the conference was that, far from being an offshore utopia, floating off from the real world and not subject to its laws, the net is going to be subject to greater control and more stringent regulation than we ever imagined.The culprit is "code", the zeros and ones from which everything in the networked world is necessarily made. Code - the rules embodied in software - will provide governments and corporations with the tools they need to lock down the net, eliminating important real world concepts such as "fair use" of copyright material and imperilling the fragile public domain itself.The copyright wars between the media owners and the net will be the first skirmish in the ultimate reining in of the net's cherished freedoms. It turns out that the institutions of the old-fashioned nation state are more enduring than the internet pioneers hoped.The independent, self-governing republic of cyberspace never arrived. Its border posts were never built and its administration never sworn in. That we ever imagined that it could be now seems like a cruel delusion.The fantasy cyberspace - a state unto itself divorced from real world inconveniences like laws and taxes - may be dissolving into the air, but will anything distinctive survive?The answer, of course, is yes. The net has evolved, and will continue evolving, into a rich and complex social place: hundreds of millions of networked citizens (mostly firmly rooted to their chairs in various real nations) creating and communicating, building the next society, a "society of mind" (to borrow Marvin Minsky's phrase) composed entirely of their interactions.It's not a fantasy to imagine that as the uncompromised freedom of the first internet decade is eroded it might be replaced by a new freedom to build and augment communities, to produce new social forms and to enrich our lives in the real world as we do so.
Thousands of NTL subscribers to its high-speed internet access service have deluged the cable company with complaints after it imposed a limit on their use of its so-called "unlimited" service.Customers are up in arms after NTL changed the terms and conditions of its internet services to limit the amount of music, video and web pages that they can download per day. Since the weekend thousands have deluged internet message boards and NTL chief executive Barclay Knapp with complaints.The NTHellWorld website, a consumer site bought by NTL last year as part of a drive to improve customer service, has received more than 3,800 comments on the subject since Friday afternoon.And a dedicated complaints website, www.don't-pay-ntl.co.uk, has also been set up to encourage subscribers to the broadband service not to pay their next bill or switch provider."This is an absolute disgrace. What are they on? This will cripple NTL," says one. Another customer labels the move an "outrage" while another adds, "I can't believe what I have just read. I have just signed up to broadband and the fact they are limiting it is not right".According to those affected, the guidelines for the service were changed on Friday without their knowledge. Anyone downloading more than 1Gb of information per day for three days in the same fortnight will be blacklisted and risk having their connection terminated.One gigabyte, equivalent to 1,024 megabytes, is a lot of information - an entire computer CD-rom takes around 600 megabytes of information.NTL claimed it has taken the step to stop heavy users slowing down the network for everyone else, and argued that it was equivalent to downloading 20,000 web pages or 10,000 images a day."NTL's broadband and dial-up services are intended for normal recreational or educational use by individuals and families and our pricing and network architecture have been designed accordingly. Customers who use the services more heavily than a normal home user will reduce the performance of the network for other customers," it said in response to those who complained.But broadband users who use their connection to download games, music and video claim that they will reach the new limit in just two and a half hours and are threatening to cancel their subscription and move elsewhere.NTL has over 500,000 broadband subscribers to its 'Gold' service, which is 20 times faster than normal dial-up web access and its 'Silver' 512kb service, which is 10 times faster. They cost £35 per month and £25 per month respectively.The uprising will worry NTL executives planning to make broadband the cornerstone of its "triple play" telephone, television and high speed internet proposition, which they hope will tempt customers away from Sky.NTL chief executive Barclay Knapp said the move would not affect the vast majority of subscribers."We felt it was important to remind our customers of this policy as we were seeing a small but growing proportion of very heavy users sometimes degrading the service across the board for everyone - and some who abuse the service by, among  other things, hosting commercial web sites from their homes," said Mr Knapp, who has recently led the company through a financial restructuring to halve its £12bn debt."Broadband is still in its early days as a technology, and we are trying very hard to find the right balance between service and cost so that our service can be truly universal," he added in an email to customers."NTL broadband is a good service and we want to keep it that way for all of our customers. It will not affect 99% of our customers. People can still surf for 24hours a day if they want to," added an NTL spokesman, saying that it planned to set up a "heavy users" group with those that had complained to try to find a way around the problem.
Amid all the fuss about Apple's new web browser, Safari, launched at last month's MacExpo, not enough was made about the re-launching of the company's "digital hub" applications. iTunes, iMovie, iPhoto and iDVD, now known collectively as iLife, represent the most compelling reasons to use a Mac these days.The packages aim to make it easier to connect digital devices to your computer, and then do things with what they contain. iTunes manages MP3 music files, while iPhoto will download pictures from your digital camera, enhance and organise them. iMovie is my favourite of the quartet - a package that takes video from a camcorder and makes it easy to edit together films with titles, music and sound effects. It will then export to iDVD which, for those with a DVD-burner built in to their machines, lets you make a DVD that will play on most domestic players (although it has been pointed out to me that, contrary to what I stated here initially, iDVDdoes notwork with external DVD drives).Some components of iLife have been around for more than two years now, but the latest incarnation really brings them to a new level of maturity. It is a simple task to drop some of your favourite music from iTunes into your movie, or import a digital photograph from iPhoto and pan across it just like they do in documentaries on real TV. The new menu effects in iDVD are a huge improvement on previous incarnations, and can help give even the most hurried movies a professional-looking veneer.To understand what immense power has landed on our desktops, and what a liberation we have been delivered, allow me to reminisce about the first time I saw a digital editing suite. It was a little over a decade ago, when such a setup was considered quite exotic.It was a summer holiday project where a bunch of students, funded by - I suspect - one of those slightly mysterious pots of European money that knock around, got together to create a community TV station for a week, covering one of the Edinburgh festivals.The project was fraught with difficulty. A major problem was, of course, that few of us had any TV experience. The only student who looked like she knew what she was doing was a young Edith Bowman, now one of the two surviving presenters of RI:SE on Channel 4.The other difficulty was the technology. We had few cameras, huge analogue things, and most of the EU money had to be spent on wheeling in a digital video expert. The Avid editor  sat in front of a fantastically expensive top-of-the-range Mac, between vast arrays of hard disks, and edited together the scraps of usable material we brought back to base. (The "Avid" in his title referred to the software he used to edit the material, rather than his enthusiasm, which I recall waned as the week dragged on.)Back then, the editing process was slow and expensive - both in capital costs and in experts' time. That put creating credible TV, even watchable TV, out of the reach of most of us - even if we had the means to distribute it.Yet in the space of a decade, I now have that kind of computing power - much more, in fact - sitting on my desk.A digital video camera, bought a few years ago with no intention of connecting it to a computer, can plug directly into the back of my iMac, using the built-in FireWire (or iLink DV link, as it might be known) connection. Plugging it in causes the iMac to start up iMovie, the video editing package. And one mouse click later - on the "import" button - and iMovie has taken over control of the camera, and is uploading the raw video on the tape.The software automatically divides the footage into manageable clips, which you then drag and drop into a timeline. Edit the clips, drop in some sound effects or titles, and a dull hour of holiday footage can be boiled down to 5 minutes of entertainment.Click on another button and it all gets exported to iDVD where, if you have a Mac with a DVD-burning SuperDrive, you can create a DVD you can play in any standard player. Otherwise, you can create a QuickTime movie to store on your hard disk, or post on the web for all comers to watch whenever they want.It's amazing technology, at an amazing price. Ten years ago, if we had spent Mr Avid's fee for the week on today's computing hardware, we'd have had enough to buy a few video-editing computers outright, and some smart haircuts and smart clothes for the entire on-screen team. However, we wouldn't have had the pro's expertise in editing had we decided to do the whole thing ourselves.That festival TV project ended in some confusion when arrangements to get it broadcast collapsed. These days, we'd have looked to the internet to get the programmes aired - and might even have got a modest audience, as broadband take-up increases in Britain's cities.Instead of the freebee iMovie, professional video editors would probably prefer Apple's (much) more expensive Final Cut Pro software (£829) or, at least, the very full-featured but much cheaper Final Cut Express package (£248.99), also launched last month.But the quality of the software also suggests desktop video editing need not lead to the kind of aesthetic horrors that desktop publishing introduced us to 15 years ago.Want to work out how the pros do it? Here's a tip: watch one of those ubiquitous home improvement shows some time, with the volume off. You'll see an array of visual tricks that make things more interesting to watch - and most if not all are available to you through a package like Apple's iMovie. Mimic the pace of the cuts between scenes, the little  effects they throw in, and your holiday movies will never look the same again.Cheap, simple video editing software, and now a cheap, simple means of distribution: it all adds up to something that's well worth making a fuss about.
Music sales in the UK, which up until now have survived the global collapse in sales prompted by widespread internet piracy, slumped 3.7% during the last year.The figures come just weeks after the singer Robbie Williams declared piracy was "great" and there was "nothing anyone can do about it".Despite the death of Napster, millions of music fans have turned to "peer to peer" networks such as Kazaa and Gnutella to download free music. Because they connect together millions of computers across the globe rather than operating from a central server, they are virtually impossible to control.The widespread proliferation of CD-burning technology, which allows computer users to copy music from their hard drives to CDs, has also been blamed by record companies for declining sales.In 2001, the success of artists such as Coldplay, Robbie Williams and U2 helped the British industry counter the worldwide gloom, posting a 5.3% rise in sales, with the top seven best-selling albums by British acts.But this year, according to figures from trade body the British Phonographic Industry, sales had fallen to £1.19bn as music fans turned their back on singles and turned to the web instead.Last month culture minister Kim Howells accused Robbie Williams of assisting international vice gangs who use music piracy to launder profits by describing the copyright fraud industry as "great".Speaking during an online debate on MediaGuardian.co.uk, Mr Howells said he was "appalled" at Williams' statement.Mr Howells said music piracy amounted to "going into a record store and shoplifting the material on sale".However, the BPI said there were several other factors leading to the sales decline, with piracy not the only culprit."Factors adversely affecting the market included intense competition from other areas of the entertainment sector such as computer games and DVDs, increasing economic uncertainty which affected high street spending in the Christmas period, and the ongoing problem of illegal copying of recorded music," said a spokesman.Despite the huge sales generated by the likes of Will Young and Gareth Gates on the back of TV shows such as Pop Idol, single sales spiralled 11% lower to £97.2m or 52.5 million units in 2002, returning to levels last seen 10 years ago. Cassette sales also slumped, falling 67%, as the format becomes obsolete.Album sales fell only 0.1 percent but pressure on prices forced revenues down 3% to £1.09bn. CD sales, which make up the bulk of album sales, fell 2%.
Over two hundred delegates packed the debating chamber of the Oxford Union last week to hear internet luminaries Lawrence Lessig and Esther Dyson consider the future of the Internet and ways we can shape its future.Both were speaking at The Politics of Code, a conference jointly organised by the Oxford Internet Institute and the Programme in Comparative Media Law and Politics at Oxford University.Lessig, a Stanford Law professor, is famous for his claim that "code is law" and that we must understand how the programs that define the Internet also determine how we behave online. He arrived in Oxford exhausted and, it seemed, somewhat dispirited after failing in an attempt to persuade the US Supreme Court to overturn a law which extended copyright protection for twenty years.His argument against the law, commonly called the "Mickey Mouse Copyright Act" because its main effect was to keep Disney's famous creation out of the public domain for another two decades, failed to impress the judges.In his keynote speech Lessig was pessimistic about our chances of fighting back against the loss of what he calls the "creative commons". He believes that the large corporations who own most works are in a position to exert almost complete control over how we use music, movies, images and words, limiting the potential for innovation and seriously restricting our creative activity.Admitting that government action in the US seems unlikely - "where I come from the presumption is that what is good for AOL is good for America," he said - he was nonetheless unwilling to admit that all is lost. However, he pointed out that "as a lawyer I don't see the solution, I can just tell you what the problem is".Meanwhile Esther Dyson, formerly an advisor to US Vice-President Al Gore, delivered a remarkable talk about, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names. This is the body that manages domain names and hands out internet addresses, and Dyson - the body's founding chair - encouraged net users to get involved in ICANN policy-making through her At Large Advisory Committee.Her speech tried both to apologise for the past failings of the organisation and distance her from its failed policies. Claiming that she was only "peripherally involved" in setting up the body, despite being its first chair, she admitted that ICANN had lost public sympathy and failed to deliver on its promises.She went on to argue that the recently agreed changes to the structure of the board, and policies she is developing to promote public involvement, will change this for the better, and that ICANN has a future as an independent overseer of those aspects of Internet addressing which need to be dealt with on a global basis.Few of the delegates seemed convinced by her argument, and there was a heated discussion about the need for ICANN and whether the organisation should be wound up.The rest of the day was filled with debates about how the net is developing, especially because of the introduction of a new version of the key networking standard that ties it all together, Internet Protocol version 6. This promoted a discussion of online privacy and anonymity, and delegates emphasised the importance of thinking about these issues now before technology advances and the opportunity to influence them is gone.One or two of the sessions turned from lectures to arguments as speakers from the floor expressed their strong disagreement with the policies of companies like Intel, whose plans for providing hardware support for copyright control were said to be leading us into a "digital dark ages".And not a single positive word was said about the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the controversial US law that makes it illegal to break copy protection even if the purpose is to exert legal rights to use material, or for its European equivalent, the Copyright Directive.Over post-conference drinks in Oxford's Ashmolean Museum the atmosphere was significantly more optimistic than in the formal sessions, and the idea of bringing together well-known net figures, policy makers, academics and technical experts seemed to bear fruit as email addresses and website addresses were exchanged. Plans were made for further meetings, new initiatives and joint projects.It remains to be seen whether the copyright cartel - the companies that technology journalist Andrew Orlowski has called "the pigopolists" - can be defeated by this group of academics and network administrators. But as Lawrence Lessig said: "we have got to become political. Unfortunately we hate politics: in the US we watch TV."Perhaps it is time for the couch potatoes to rise up and seize the day.
Over two hundred delegates packed the debating chamber of the Oxford Union last week to hear internet luminaries Lawrence Lessig and Esther Dyson consider the future of the Internet and ways we can shape its future.Both were speaking at The Politics of Code, a conference jointly organised by the Oxford Internet Institute and the Programme in Comparative Media Law and Politics at Oxford University.Lessig, a Stanford Law professor, is famous for his claim that "code is law" and that we must understand how the programs that define the Internet also determine how we behave online. He arrived in Oxford exhausted and, it seemed, somewhat dispirited after failing in an attempt to persuade the US Supreme Court to overturn a law which extended copyright protection for twenty years.His argument against the law, commonly called the "Mickey Mouse Copyright Act" because its main effect was to keep Disney's famous creation out of the public domain for another two decades, failed to impress the judges.In his keynote speech Lessig was pessimistic about our chances of fighting back against the loss of what he calls the "creative commons". He believes that the large corporations who own most works are in a position to exert almost complete control over how we use music, movies, images and words, limiting the potential for innovation and seriously restricting our creative activity.Admitting that government action in the US seems unlikely - "where I come from the presumption is that what is good for AOL is good for America," he said - he was nonetheless unwilling to admit that all is lost. However, he pointed out that "as a lawyer I don't see the solution, I can just tell you what the problem is".Meanwhile Esther Dyson, formerly an advisor to US Vice-President Al Gore, delivered a remarkable talk about, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names. This is the body that manages domain names and hands out internet addresses, and Dyson - the body's founding chair - encouraged net users to get involved in ICANN policy-making through her At Large Advisory Committee.Her speech tried both to apologise for the past failings of the organisation and distance her from its failed policies. Claiming that she was only "peripherally involved" in setting up the body, despite being its first chair, she admitted that ICANN had lost public sympathy and failed to deliver on its promises.She went on to argue that the recently agreed changes to the structure of the board, and policies she is developing to promote public involvement, will change this for the better, and that ICANN has a future as an independent overseer of those aspects of Internet addressing which need to be dealt with on a global basis.Few of the delegates seemed convinced by her argument, and there was a heated discussion about the need for ICANN and whether the organisation should be wound up.The rest of the day was filled with debates about how the net is developing, especially because of the introduction of a new version of the key networking standard that ties it all together, Internet Protocol version 6. This promoted a discussion of online privacy and anonymity, and delegates emphasised the importance of thinking about these issues now before technology advances and the opportunity to influence them is gone.One or two of the sessions turned from lectures to arguments as speakers from the floor expressed their strong disagreement with the policies of companies like Intel, whose plans for providing hardware support for copyright control were said to be leading us into a "digital dark ages".And not a single positive word was said about the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the controversial US law that makes it illegal to break copy protection even if the purpose is to exert legal rights to use material, or for its European equivalent, the Copyright Directive.Over post-conference drinks in Oxford's Ashmolean Museum the atmosphere was significantly more optimistic than in the formal sessions, and the idea of bringing together well-known net figures, policy makers, academics and technical experts seemed to bear fruit as email addresses and website addresses were exchanged. Plans were made for further meetings, new initiatives and joint projects.It remains to be seen whether the copyright cartel - the companies that technology journalist Andrew Orlowski has called "the pigopolists" - can be defeated by this group of academics and network administrators. But as Lawrence Lessig said: "we have got to become political. Unfortunately we hate politics: in the US we watch TV."Perhaps it is time for the couch potatoes to rise up and seize the day.
"I know what your in-box looks like, and it isn't pretty," saysJames Gleickin a monster 4,500-word article on spam in theNew York Timesmagazine [free reg req'd]. If you don't make it to the end, he reckons two simple actions would stem the tide: "(1) Forging Internet headers should be made illegal. The system depends on accurate information about senders and servers and relays; no one needs a right to falsify this information. (2) Unsolicited bulk mail should carry a mandatory tag. That alone would put consumers back in control; all the complex technological challenge of identifying the spam would vanish."
"Pixar Animation Studios, which brought the world Monsters Inc and Toy Story, is switching from Sun Microsystems to Intel," reportsCNet. In hardware terms, to a blade system with 1,024 Intel 2.8GHz Xeon processors. In software terms, from Sun's Solaris version of Unix to the free GNU/Linux clone of Unix. Rivals such asIndustrial Light &amp; Magic(Star Wars) andDreamWorks(Shrek) were switching to Linux/Intel last year, so it is hard to know why Pixar was slow off the mark. Someone should ask Pixar's chief executive officer, Steve Jobs.
'I 'av to warn you zat ze pigeon is a little pink,' said Eric, the perfectly groomed manager of Le Manoir aux Quat' Saisons - Raymond Blanc's gastro paradise. In an evening of unfettered largess, Eric's comment was the only moment of understatement. The pigeon, the fifth dish in the seven-course, &#163;95 'menu gourmand', was actually so 'pink' that when I bit into its still-pulsing breast I was frightened to smile at Eric in case blood trickled from between my teeth. 'Mmmmm,'I murmured through tightly closed lips.You'd be right to point out that the only bleedin' pigeons which normally feature in motoring columns are the poor souls batted off windscreens by speeding drivers, but Monsieur Blanc's bird had a higher calling. Le Manoir, which is just south of Oxford and has recently been awarded two Michelin stars for the 19th consecutive year, was the final destination in what my wife and I had dubbed 'our great escape'. Over weeks of meticulous planning, we'd concocted a dream weekend. For her that meant - a night with the dashing M Blanc. She's been hankering after his award-winning food for longer than Tim Henman has been failing to win at Wimbledon. For me, it meant a blast in a Mercedes-Benz SL. I've been hankering after one of the Teutonic titans since Mercedes began its quest for glory in 1954 with its legendary 'gullwing' SL300.The SL500 - the fifth generation of the SL series - was delivered to our home on a rain-soaked January evening. Part of our master plan was to ensure our children played no part in the weekend, whatsoever. The fact that the SL500 - virtually bootless, two-seat joy wagon - has been designed for hedonists with no hangers-on made it an immediate hit with all fathers. But there was no way I was going to get away without giving the children a spin around the block. We put the roof back and everyone hopped in. My wife sat in the passenger seat    with our 18-month-old on her lap, while the older other two squeezed into a space they'd spotted between the front seats and the folded roof. A small oversight by Mercedes: if I'd been the designer there'd only have been room for a bottle of champagne in there. After the small matter of finding the handbrake (there isn't one) we shot off down the road - kids screaming to alert all passing pedestrians that despite our attempt to look as if this was  our car - it clearly wasn't.Needless to say, the car - a stunning cross between a Stealth Bomber and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang - attracts more than its share of attention. My six-year-old son waved at a passing Porsche driver only to have a V-sign flicked at him in return. 'Hey,' he said indignantly, 'that man showed me the F-word.'The &#163;67,790 Merc - an extreme   of precision engineering cloaked in every luxury available - is the perfect complement to Le Manoir. M Blanc's food is also precision engineered and cloaked in every edible luxury available. Flogging the metaphor still further, both marques specialise in indulgence. There is little the SL500 doesn't do for you. The lights are automatic, the air conditioning self-activates and the wipers have fun keeping up with the weather. It has a TV, satellite navigation, parking sensors and pedals that polish your shoes... actually, I made that one up, but you get the picture. Equally, Le Manoir aux Quat' Saisons is a haven for the indolent and slothful. Bags are carried, napkins arranged and egos massaged. The only activity encouraged is gluttony.As with all forms of perfectionism, the devil is in the detail. Eric told us that only 12 in every 20 of the minuscule amuse-gueules that left the kitchen made it to the diner's plate. What happens to the rest, we wondered? 'Ze bin,' he replied with satisfaction. When my wife bit into a tiny tomato confection and half-a-dozen seeds squirted on to the immaculate tablecloth, Eric clicked his fingers and a crash team of laundry experts went into a well-rehearsed clean-up operation. The incy-wincy portions throughout were so small and so perfectly formed we imagined they were made at full size before being zapped by some piece of kit pinched from the set of Honey, I Shrunk the Kids.Equally, Mercedes-Benz has taken its own search for the ultimate drive to new levels. The SL500 features state-of-the-art Sensotronic Brake Control, Active Body Control and an Electronic Stability Programme - all of which sound like makes of girdle. The V8, 5-litre engine propels the car from 0 to 100kmh in a blistering 6.3 seconds - though that soaks up 12.7 litres of petrol per 100km.With the dawn, we returned to reality, joining the commuters on the M40 as we chugged back into London. Our only disappointment being that after 37 years I'm still adjusting to my life on the hard shoulder, but a single weekend of opulence was all it took to get used to life in the fast lane.&#183;Le Manoir aux Quat' Saisons (01844 278 881).
Technology nerds are well served for news and discussion on the Web with great sites that encourage participation, like Slashdot and Kuro5hin. Business geeks have found it harder relying on mainstream media outlets, like C|Net and the Guardian's Online section.But now, those with a commercial and economic bent have their own forum to vent steam. The end of January saw the launch of the AlwaysOn-Network, a new website covering the emerging technology industries. Based in Silicon Valley, which is still reeling from the dotcom bubble and subsequent downturn in IT spending, it is a refreshing piece of entrepreneurial activity during a bleak period for the sector.The AlwaysOn-Network (AO Network) is a "super blog for business geeks" according to its founder and publisher Tony Perkins. The idea is the fill in a niche in the market: providing detailed comment, analysis and discussion on the technology. He calls this "opinion journalism" arguing "what passes for objective comment in ordinary media is purely opinion. Blogging is, at least, honest expression."The AO Network epitomises many of the core features of the new, lean Silicon Valley rather than the bloated, capital-intensive bubble Valley.1. It has bootstrap capital rather than venture capital. Perkins and his associates have put in their own money rather than take a business plan around to the venture capital community.2. Community rules: The AO Network is designed to be a two-way web site. Every article has user comments and ratings on it. Members contribute half of the writing and the editorial team can see which users have the most impact. Those super-users will be encouraged to become correspondents for the site working for love and recognition (but not money, at this stage).3. Open source: Perkins has joined the open source brigade. Eschewing traditional platforms from vendors like Microsoft and Sun, he is powering the site using Linux and associated tools. The software for this site cost $150. He reckons a non-open source route might have cost 1,000 times more.AO Network is Perkins' third start-up business. The first was Upside, a now defunct technology magazine. The second, the Red Herring, covered the entrepreneurial technology businesses and grew fat and profitable as money poured into the Valley between 1998 and 2000. Perkins became an international business celebrity speaking regularly on television and to governments around the world.Since the collapse in the tech sector in summer 2000, times have been tough for the Red Herring. Perkins oversaw four rounds of lay-offs and watched the magazine struggle for survival as 70% of its revenues-advertising from tech firms with rich marketing budgets-disappeared.Some of this was perhaps a little ironic. Perkins had been an uncannily early Cassandra about the tech boom with his 1999 book, The Internet Bubble. In it he predicted the boom would collapse imminently. It did, but the magnitude of the collapse exceeded his expectations."I projected a 33% meltdown. With the blue chips freezing their tech spending and then all these corporate scandals, we've seen a 75% meltdown. No one could have predicted that-and even if they did, no board of directors would have believed them."Perkins is optimistic about the prospects for Silicon Valley, pointing to the ongoing success of young companies like Google and Salesforce.com in reaching profitability. He gets additional reassurance from the continuing growth of the internet population: only 5m in 1995, more than 100 times that today.  And his attitude eponymises his new venture. He is always on: "What I have learned that business is just the game that grown-ups play and that it is really important to understand that there are cycles to life. The history of Silicon Valley is the story of one cycle after another. It is good to take history into consideration and ride the rollercoaster. Because that is what it's going to be."Useful links:&#183;Alwayson-network.com&#183;Slashdot&#183;Kuro5hin.org&#183;Azeem Azhar is athttp://azeem.azhar.co.uk
Here's the answer toNeil McIntosh's columnon Monday.iPassis a well-known system that lets you use the Internet in almost any country you are likely to visit on business, thanks to deals with overseas ISPs. (GRICoffers a rival "worldwide roaming" system.) So all someone has to do is sign up providers of W-Fi wireless hotspots on the same basis. iPass has been working on this idea, and asCNetreports, it is about to annouce a deal with StayOnline, which has more than 850 hotspots in the US.I've been using iPass for a couple of years (the Guardian has an account), and it would certainly be useful to be able to access any hotspot in the US or the UK without having to find a different way of paying for it. It would also be useful if organisations such as, say, the AA or RAC or the Institute of Directors or whatever, set up corporate schemes for their members. The Cix mail service, which I use, has a deal with GRIC.
Java is famous for bringing PCs to their knees, but it seems the problems are even worse at Sun Microsystems, which invented the Java language.The Inquirerreckons a Java bug was only just fixed before the release of Solaris 9 (Sun's Unix), and that "details of 'unfixable' bugs in Java [are] circulating within the company". On Tuesday, The Inquirer ran a story on theJava/Slowarisproblem quoting "an insider" saying: "It strikes me as hypocritical for Sun to blame Microsoft for any failure of the Java platform when Sun's own engineers find developing common software applications in Java impractical".
Gamers.comhas had a good look at Nokia's new gamephone. The review exposes some flaws, though the biggest problem is one that can't be decided at this point: does Nokia have a clue about how the games business works?
Kasparov drew yesterday's game, and the match against chess program Deep Junior, reportsReuters.The New York Times[free reg req'd] has an article about the whole match.
Palm is one of the most interesting computer companies around at the moment, and that is not just because of its user-friendly products.The company is a test case of the way in which the computer industry works. Whether it thrives or dies, it will continue to exist in thousands of business studies about what, or what not, to do.When Palm launched the Palm Pilot, it took exactly the approach that would be expected. As a new company creating a new market, it developed its own hardware, operating system and applications, wrote the manual and shipped products to dealers. It wanted buyers to be able to take the device out of the box and find it useful.In other words, it took responsibility for delivering the whole product (seeWhy VHS was better than Betamax).The Palm Pilot was, of course, a tremendous success. It made Palm the latest example of a vertically-integrated company like, for example, Wang (word processors), Tandem (fault-tolerant computers), Apollo (graphics workstations), Apple (personal computers), or Psion (personal organisers).The problem it faced was that hardly any vertically-integrated companies survive or keep their independence once a mass-market, horizontal, platform arrives.   Palm knew that, in the long run, competition would come not from a single supplier, such as Psion, but from a range of companies sharing a common platform.All these companies would compete with one another, driving prices down while creating a bigger market. None of them would get 100% of a proprietary pie, like Palm. However, they would, they hoped, get their rightful share of a much bigger communal pie.Palm was right to be worried, because Microsoft loomed on the horizon.   Microsoft learned all about how platforms work from the IBM PC and, since then, has put every effort into trying to repeat its success.As David Nagel, a former Apple executive who now runs PalmSource, told CNet last year: "Microsoft is the textbook example of how to run a platform business."It is not clear how much of this strategy Palm articulated at the time. However, Donna Dubinsky had also worked for Apple, and Apple alumni often have one idea in common: "We're not going to make Apple's mistake".Apple had been the market leader in personal computing before the launch of the IBM PC in 1981, and it launched the Macintosh in 1984. This graphical machine was, in many respects, superior to the IBM PC running Microsoft's character-based MS-DOS, but DOS still wiped the floor with the Mac.The original Mac had been designed as an appliance, like aMaytagwashing machine. As Apple's co-founder, Steve Jobs, said, there were no Maytag user groups. As an appliance, the Mac was a proprietary, sealed box. By contrast, IBM had opted to go with what, at the time, was considered to be an open system, more like the successful Apple II.The late Philip "Don" Estridge, president of IBM's Entry Systems Division, talked about the background to the PC in a special issue of Byte magazine in November 1983.By that time, it was clear that the PC had become the market standard. But when developing it, Mr Estridge explained, "we talked about IBM being in a special position to set standards, but decided we didn't want to do anything to introduce standards."We tried to do everything we could to understand the existing infrastructure across the board: in marketing, distribution techniques, pricing, customer alternatives, software suppliers, hardware add-on suppliers and peripheral manufacturers."We reached that conclusion because we thought that personal computer usage would go far beyond the bounds anyone could see back in 1980. Our judgement was that no single software supplier or single hardware add-on manufacturer could provide the totality of function that customers would want."Mr Estridge clearly understood the whole product concept, and what it took to establish a platform. For example, he rejected the use of new technology   3.5in drives to replace standard 5.25in floppies because, he said, "you don't need to take on the extra burden of a disruptive medium, no matter how good it is."That 724-page, ad-packed, issue of Byte, full of products supporting and enhancing the IBM PC, was a testament to the fact that he was right.The Macintosh was launched a few months later with a stunning "Big   Brother" advertisement, which was shown during the Superbowl football game. The ad, an attack on IBM, was wonderful, but sales were so far below projected figures that Apple had to close factories and lay off staff.According to Michael Malone's study, entitled Infinite Loop, MacWrite author Randy Wigginton collapsed, and spent most of a year in bed watching television. "Everyone who worked there identified totally with their work: we all believed we were on a mission from God," he said. When people didn't buy it, we were majorly depressed."Thousands of people told Apple exactly what to do to: it had to open up the Mac, license the operating system to rivals, and turn it into a platform that could compete with the IBM PC.In June 1985, the boss of one small software house, which was trying to become the biggest supplier of   Mac software, sent Apple's bosses a memo spelling it out. He even offered to introduce Apple to companies which could be interested in producing Mac-compatibles to compete with IBM-compatibles. But thememo, from Bill Gates, was ignored.Apple knew that, if it let go of its monopoly, it would not be able to get such high profit margins on its hardware. Anyway, why should other companies be allowed to profit from its ingenuity? It was a catastrophic mistake.After that, vertically-integrated companies with potentially winning products knew that they had a challenge. Just how did you turn from a vertical structure to a horizontal one enabling other companies to maximise the value of your invention? How did you establish a de facto standard platform when you did not have IBM's huge size and market power?One obvious answer was to sell out to someone who did have the power, such as IBM or Microsoft, and hope that your ideas did not disappear. Another was to offer to license everything to anyone, which is what Sun Microsystems did with its Sparc processor and SunOS operating system.However, the most attractive idea was usually to split up the company and bring your supporters on board. If they win, you win and everybody wins.It is a technique used by two small British companies to reach a global market with what, otherwise, might have remained local products. The first was Acorn, which developed the Acorn Risc Machine (ARM) microprocessor, used in the Acorn Archimedes personal computer. In 1990, the design was hived off into ARM (Advanced Risc Machines), a company co-owned by Acorn, Apple and ARM chip manufacturer VLSI Technology Inc.Apple used the ARM chip in Newton, its PDA, and now dominates the market for handheld computers and mobile phones. Intel acquired the StrongARM version from Digital Equipment and now has its own implementation, called XScale.Another British company that said it would not make Apple's mistake was   Psion, which pioneered electronic organisers in the 80s. It spun off its Epoc operating system into a new company, Symbian, with the backing of most of the world's giant phone companies. Symbian has not yet enjoyed ARM's success, but it could.Palm Inc is taking the same approach. It invited competition from cloners, signing up Handspring (a new company formed by Palm's founders), Sony and others to make Palm-compatibles. Palm also tried to avoid trampling on the software houses writing programs for Palm OS, and says it is doing everything it can to grow "the Palm economy".Finally, it has offloaded control of the operating system to a separate company, PalmSource, which is headed by Mr Nagel.When I went to see him debate the relative merits of Palm OS against representatives from Microsoft and Symbian at Comdex last November, he grinned wryly and summed up: "Well, we're all selling platforms."All three are trying to replicate the success of the IBM PC, and the Wintel (Microsoft Windows/Intel Pentium) platform that came out of it. That is still seen as the route to success: until, that is, someone finds a better way.When interviewed by CNet after his appointment, Mr Nagel said: "It is   straightforward how you do an integrated company like Apple. The software and hardware sides are technology and development plays, and the two of them work together to make great products. You can control everything, end to end. You also end up with 2.5% market share."I think the great concern, and certainly I shared it, having been in that play before, is that you can't make a better enough product to deal with the superior economics of a more open model. You just can't do it."It is now up to Mr Nagel to change the mantra from "avoiding Apple's mistake" to "emulating Palm's success".
Disbelief and anger greeted the news this week that sick-minded individuals had scooped up debris from the Shuttle Columbia and within hours were selling it at online auction house eBay. One item was allegedly fetching a price of $21m before the site pulled it.But the other side of the coin is that hundreds of similar individuals were bidding for these shuttle 'souvenirs'. Like it or not, the online auction - and eBay specifically - has emerged from the rubble of the dot.com boom as one of the big winners of the internet age. And like Google.com, its users, and they now number 62m across the globe, are evangelical about the service once they get hooked.A search for 'I-hate-eBay.com' or 'eBay-sucks.com' throws up curiously few results. Even the 'ebayersthatsuck.com' site says it just wants to name and shame fake or fraudulent bidders or sellers. And a fake ebayupdates.com site that conned some customers into handing over their bank details last year has done little to dent confidence in the operation.Around 1.5m people are joining eBay every month around the world. There are other internet auction houses, but eBay's market dominance is almost complete. In the UK there are 1.7m registered users and around &#163;150m worth of goods changed hands over eBay UK in the last three months of 2002 - and the figure is rising every quarter.In some ways the phenomenon is akin to the early dot.com boom, when first time investors started dabbling in share trading, with many accumulating huge paper fortunes. Now millions are trading in real goods over the net and because it requires almost no capital to set up, for many it is their first taste of running a business.A survey by eBay in mid-2001 found that around 10,000 individuals in the US had given up their day jobs to become full-time eBay traders. Now Doug McCallum, UK managing director of eBay, estimates that the figure could be as high as 40,000 across the globe.Angela Green, 42, used to attend traditional auctions with a friend, a serious antiques dealer. She began buying rather battered-looking Victorian oil lamps, later repairing and renovating them at her home in London's Docklands. Eventually her house became too cluttered, and a friend at work suggested she offload some of them on eBay.The response was phenomenal. Buyers in the USA were prepared to fork out many times the amounts she had paid. All she needed to do was pack the lamps and send them off - billing the buyer for postage and packing."I still primarily buy antiques I personally like, do them up, keep them for a while until I find something better, then sell them on. But I also now look out for collectables that I know sell well on eBay," says Ms Green"There is a very good weekly auction in south London I go to on Saturday mornings which is mainly house clearances so you never know what you're going to find, which is fun. I now seriously consider it as a kind of fun/money-making hobby for when I retire."Other recent joiners are considering giving up their principal jobs to take up full-time trading over eBay. British expat and gas engineer Jeff Crew lives in Thailand. A collector of inlaid- pearl decorative panels, a friend advised him to try selling one on eBay. He was stunned when he sold it for $200 compared with the $20 he paid. Now he has sourced a local producer of the pearl panels and ships several each week to eBay buyers in the US and UK.But internet auctions don't spell easy money for everyone. Already there is anecdotal evidence (see opposite page) that the supply of cheap, saleable stock that can be found at car boot sales or house clearances is drying up.So what works, and what doesn't, if you want to start selling over eBay? Firstly, it's not just about Victorian collectables or memorabilia; at any one time there are 10m items and 18,000 categories of goods for sale on the site."The things that work best are often brand new, where there is a scarcity value and normal retail channels can't supply enough. For example, there was huge demand for the Harry Potter Lego set," says Mr McCallum. "Other stuff that is popular includes items that have come to the end of a retail life and you can no longer go into a shop and find them."A glance through the top search terms entered into eBay UK reveals an obsession with top-end fashion items, with Burberry leading the   way, followed closely by Evisu and Gucci. Consumer electronics such as Playstation and XBox also feature highly, alongside DVDs and digital cameras.The biggest trend in collectables - which Mr McCallum says makes up around 5% of eBay's UK sales - is vintage clothing, especially from the 30s. "We've seen a very strong following build up over the past few months."Mr McCallum's top tip for sellers is to put up a picture of the item you want to auction. "The percentage of goods that sell is far, far higher if a picture of the item is attached."One aspect of eBay is that it relies on trust. Buyers send money to sellers they don't know with only a relatively small (&#163;120) fraud protection offered by the site."We've seen research about the level of trust within communities around the world, and how greater trust results in more commerce. Britain actually scores quite highly, the US is middling, while in Eastern Europe and Asia it is quite low," says Mr McCallum.The company believes that, despite its already phenomenal growth much lies ahead. In Germany, eBay is far bigger than in the UK, in part because of easier and cheaper broadband access.It has already snapped up PayPal, an online payments service, and may in future consider buying shipping/delivery services (look out FedEx) and offering its own import/export facilities.In the meantime, there is a global audience out there of 62m people mad enough to consider buying the junk in your attic and garage. Go sell.The buyerSites such as eBay have thrown a lifeline to collectors of the rare and obscure,  writes Rupert Jones . For example, Carl Allen collects anything relating to cult Australian bands the GoBetweens and the Triffids.Living in Manningtree, Essex he is several thousand miles away from the best shops and dealers specialising in these bands. But eBay has put him in touch with record and memorabilia sellers Down Under, enabling him to find items he has spent years scouring UK record shops for.Mr Allen, 33, first logged on to the auction site only about eight months ago and already he has bought at least 15 things. "I'd heard about it but never really thought I'd find much on there," says Mr Allen.Among the bits and pieces he snapped up was a silver commemorative GoBetweens promotional spoon. He also found four rare Australia-only seven-inch singles by the Triffids which he had spent 15 years searching for. He was prepared to pay &#163;25-plus for each of them but ended up getting them for under &#163;5 apiece.Items he has bought for his wife Hilary include an autographed photo of Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor.He has never had a problem with delivery of the purchased items. The longest he has had to wait for something was about a week.The sellerDave Allwright spent most weekends at car boot sales and antique fairs selling Victorian bric-a-brac and stamp collections. But, as his sales fell, he was on the point of abandoning his part-time hobby when a friend suggested he try internet auctions instead, writes Patrick Collinson.He was hesitant, not being a natural with technology or a fan of the internet. But he registered with eBay and put up for sale a stamp collection he'd been trying to offload for years. "I couldn't believe it. Within seven days I'd sold it for &#163;1,000," he says.Mr Allwright, from Plymouth, Devon, is now evangelical about internet auctions. His earnings from his part-time business have jumped from a low of &#163;1,500 a few years ago to nearly &#163;12,000 last year."It gives you an idea of what can be done. I'd been off work long-term through sickness, and if it hadn't been for the extra money I could have lost my house. And I no longer have to freeze standing around at a car boot sale."One drawback is that too many other people are getting the same idea as Mr Allwright. "The supply of stuff for me to sell is drying up. Suppliers are putting it on eBay themselves."His strategy for keeping on top is to specialise. As a fan of a spiced pat&#233; product, Gentlemen's Relish - marketed for more than a century in ceramic pots with pictoral lids - Mr Allwright sells it direct over eBay and trades in antique Relish pots and lids. One that he is currently offering on eBay has attracted a bid of &#163;51.His tips for selling over eBay are:Don't set a reserve price - it turns off buyers;Break up collections into individual pieces as these are more saleable; Cultivate regular customers who you can email before an auction to encourage them to bid or buy outright immediately.When the goods are the bad and the ugly1.Debris from the Columbia space shuttle crash. Within a few hours of the disaster, people in Texas and Louisiana were picking up the debris and had put it on eBay to sell, with starting prices of up to $10,000 (&#163;6,098). EBay cancelled all of these listings.2.Someone in Maryland offered their kidney in return for a $2.5m (&#163;1.52m) donation to charity. The auction was cancelled by eBay, but not before bids reached some $6m (&#163;3.7m).3.Francis D. Cornworth of Florida offered his virginity for a starting price of $10 (&#163;6.10). Bids reached $10m (&#163;6.1m) before eBay pulled the plug on the auction.4.In 2000, some half-eaten French toast plus the fork and plate used by Justin Timberlake was offered in aid of charity. Bids reached $3,154 (&#163;1,923).5.A New Yorker listed "drug-free urine" at $100 (&#163;60.98) - although he said it was "not for illegal purposes". eBay cancelled the sale.6.Another American tried to sell his sense of humour for   $9.99 (&#163;6.09) - there were no takers.7.Bridgeville, a run-down small California town, was snapped up for $1.78m (&#163;1.1m) in December. Closing bids aren't binding for real estate, however. The seller and the highest bidder must negotiate the deal offline.8.A private jet fetched $4.9m (&#163;3m) in 2001. The Gulfstream II was bought by a charter aircraft firm based in Africa.9.A joker recently listed Iraq for sale, advertising its convenient location on the Uzbekistan-Syrian super freeway, historical sites, hundreds of presidential palaces and "oil, oil, oil!" - all for a starting price of 99 cents (60p). Frenzied bidding had reached $99m (&#163;60m) when eBay deleted the auction last Friday.10.Among the things on eBay's list of banned items are: animals, used medical devices, fireworks, credit cards, human remains, Nazi memorabilia and the artwork and signatures of notorious murderers.
Anyone wanting to buy or sell on eBay, must first register at ebay.co.uk, which involves handing over bank details and so on. But eBay insists security is   ultra-tight and users are protected by numerous anti-fraud measures.Every user must think of a nickname for themselves, known as their eBay ID - which can be anything from a variation on their real name such as angiex2 to a jokey one like askyourdad or kingofthebids.Once registered, you can start bidding or listing items for sale straight away, although eBay offers useful virtual tours for beginners.Shopping on internet auctions can be very addictive - it is relatively easy to find bargains, although the excitement of the bidding process makes it easy to   pay over the odds. So be strict with yourself.Once you have found something you'd like, you must place a bid, specifying your maximum price. If no one else bids, you will win the item at the lowest price you gave.Only you -not even the seller- can see what your maximum bid amount is. The downside is that you never know how high other bidders are prepared to go, until one of you wins. If you are outbid, you will receive an email to inform you, with a link to click on if you want to bid again.Watch out for "sniping". This is when a buyer waits until the last few seconds of an auction then places a bid, snatching the item from under your nose.There are even automated ser vices to help people "snipe", such as auctionsniper.com, which charges a fee of around 1% of the item's final price if you win.After the auction, an email will confirm if you have won the item or not. The seller should also send you an email to confirm how they would like to be paid and the amount owed.To pay, you can send cash (not a good idea), a cheque or postal order or pay electronically, though a service like Paypal.It is especially useful to register with Paypal (paypal.com) if you intend to deal with eBayers outside the UK, as the currency exchange is done free of charge.One of the unique aspects of eBay is that the system runs on trust: buyers pay sellers for an item be fore they receive it. However, eBay offers free fraud protection, of up to &#163;120 (minus a &#163;15 processing fee) per item.Usually, though, the eBay feedback system can be relied upon to show if there is a problem with a particular user. Whenever you are involved in a transaction, whether as the buyer or seller, you can file feedback about them, and view their profile at any time.If you are going to sell on eBay, you will find it useful to own a digital camera. People like to see at least one photo of what they are buying, and it's far easier and quicker to send pictures to eBay in the form of digital images.When you list something on eBay, it's easier than you might expect: you simply fill in a form online, choosing the category in which it will appear, typing in the details of what you are selling, and deciding how long you want the auction to last - it can be three, five, seven or 10 days.EBay charges fees to sellers, which vary according to the value of what you are listing. If your starting price is &#163;4.99 or less, the initial fee will be 15p; the maximum fee is &#163;1.25, which is for items with a starting price of &#163;30 or more.There's another charge to pay at the end of your auction, which eBay calls the final value fee. If your item sells for &#163;15 or less, this fee will be 5.25% of its price. If it goes for &#163;15-&#163;600, it will be 2.75% and if it fetches more than &#163;600, it is 1.5%.
Ask a motorist to identify the most expensive factor in running their car and - unless they're 17 and paying cripplingly high insurance bills - they will more than likely think it's their annual fuel bill. However, unless they drive substantially more than 12,000 miles a year or their car is more than four years old, their biggest cost is almost certainly the difference between the price they paid for their car and the amount it's worth now - depreciation.Over the past five years new car prices have fallen continually. While that has been good news for buyers in the short term, it has resulted in a dramatic fall in used car prices. Every time a manufacturer lowers the prices of its new cars, offers cash-back or even 0% finance, it immediately hits the residual value of the same used models already struggling to find a buyer.Consider what's been happening over recent years. A Vauxhall Vectra 1.8LS that you'd have done well to buy for &#163;14,000 in 1998 is now probably worth around &#163;3,000 in immaculate condition with 60,000 miles on the clock. In four years it has lost &#163;11,000, which has to be serious money in anyone's book.A Toyota Avensis bought for around &#163;14,000 in 1999 is now only worth around &#163;5,000, assuming it has got 50,000 under its wheels. And the problem is no longer confined to cars built for the masses. Owners of Mercs, BMWs and Volvos are suffering along with the rest of us - in fact they're suffering more than most if you look at it purely in &#163;s rather than a percentage of the price new. Depreciation may be a fact of motoring life, but there are a few things you can do to help minimise the damage.Buying newThe first thing you've got to do is really ask yourself whether you want or need a new car. Before you buy, look at what the same money will get you in the one-year-old used market with a few thousand miles on the clock - you'll be buying a better car which will lose less during your ownership, and still have two years' warranty.If it's got to be new, there are a few rules to follow. The first is: pay the cheapest possible price for any new car - there's no point in buying from your local dealer if importers are selling the same car for &#163;1,000 less - you're immediately down before you even sit in it. Avoid models that are about to be replaced because as soon as the new car arrives, the value of yours will drop like a stone.According to Adrian Rushmore, managing editor at Glass's Guide -the price bible of the motor trade -the cars that hold their value best tend to be those in niche areas."The cars that suffer least from depreciation in percentage terms are the Porsche 911 and the Mercedes SL. As a general rule, coupes and convertibles do better than saloons. Estate cars always do better than their booted counterparts, and owners of small 4x4s (such as the Honda HRV) fare better than most," he says.In terms of manufacturers, he says it is all to do with snob value. "Kia, Daewoo, Proton and Hyundai all suffer high depreciation, not because their products aren't any good, but because they are per ceived as having a lower value brand."Interestingly he says that until now diesel cars and family MPVs, such as the Citroen Picasso, have held their value better than most, but huge sales in both sectors are set to take their toll and buyers of those cars will be in for a shock in three years' time. He says the current star of gravity-defying depreciation is the BMW Mini."It's a great car that has really grabbed the public - everyone wants one and that's why they're holding their value very well," he says.ExtrasOne thing that will make a big difference to the car's value in later life is the equipment specified. Basic models lose money more quickly than a car with the right extras. For example, some executive cars need an auto gearbox, selling a BMW without air conditioning or a sunroof is difficult, and factory fitted alloys will really help at resale time. Colour is a key factor - silver is the hot   colour at the moment, as is grey or navy blue. Ones to avoid include white, bright colours such as banana yellow or purple, light green - and never buy a brown car. Think about reselling when you order.Buying usedThe best way to reduce your depreciation bill is to buy a used car. One man's depreciation nightmare is a dream for whoever buys it.The Toyota is good for three more years' fairly trouble-free motoring with good maintenance - keep it for five and you'll be losing just &#163;800 a year. Young former company cars with high motorway mileages make excellent purchases as they are often well maintained and have lost 70% of their value. When selling, try and sell either side of the 100,000 mile mark. Dealers will not want anything over 100,000 so either sell around 86,000 or, if you go over the 100,000, keep it as long as you can as it will probably be worth the same at 130,000.Classic carsThis is perhaps the only way to avoid depreciation altogether. A professionally restored Morris Minor will cost less to buy than a small hatchback, has the benefit of super cheap insurance, and it incurs no road tax if it is pre-1973. Look after it and it will lose nothing in depreciation. The same goes for old Mercs, rare Beetles and even modern classics such as the Mazda MX5 sports car.Maintenance bills will often be higher but if you're saving &#163;3,000 a year in depreciation, you're almost certain to be ahead.Beaming after losing the BeamerOne man who is doing everything right in depreciation terms is Adam Crew-Gee. He bought a 10-year-old Porsche 911 after deciding to opt out of his company car scheme."My BMW was a costing me a fortune each month in tax so I looked at the alternatives," says the Bristol-based salesman in the telecoms industry. Coming close to his fortieth birthday he decided he wanted to buy a car that was fun and reliable, but also one which would save him money. He spent a long time looking for the right car and eventually paid &#163;14,500 for the 911, which at the time had 86,000 miles on the clock. He has since covered 12,000 trouble-free miles.Mr Crew-Gee uses a specialist garage which has so far done two services (&#163;150 and &#163;380), and he gets around 25mpg. His insurance is &#163;700 a year but, most significantly, he says he could sell the car tomorrow for the same price he paid for it."Every time I start the car a smile breaks out across my face, and even going to Reading has become a pleasure. If I look after it, the car will go on forever - it's been the best motoring decision I've ever made. The only downside is I used to have a clean licence. Since I got it I've managed to pick up a couple of speeding tickets ..."
Microsoft estimates that at least 30 million PowerPoint presentations are delivered every day around the world.The vast majority, perhaps 29,999,999,999 of them, are of mind-numbing inconsequence; reports on sales projections in the Reigate area and the like.Much beloved of businessmen and schoolchildren alike, PowerPoint's fades, animated bullets and amusing ways of spelling out headlines have been responsible for inducing stupor and boredom in Travelodges the length of the country.It has become, without doubt, the most pervasive and ubiquitous business tool invented. But until the US secretary of state, Colin Powell opened his presentation at the United Nations security council earlier this week, never has this piece of nearly 20-year-old software been, indirectly, a casus belli. Was this PowerPoint's finest, or most ignominious, hour?As Mr Powell's presentation unfolded with its layers of allegations and counter-allegations, its satellite photography and banal conversations between apparatchiks of Saddam's oppressive security apparatus, his chosen vehicle to deliver what was supposed to be convince the waverers and doubters on the security council was none other than PowerPoint.Originally called Presenter, PowerPoint was snapped up by Microsoft for $14m (£8.5m) in early 1987, considered at the time a steep price, but now something of a bargain.PowerPoint is conservatively estimated to have captured something like 95% of the presentation software market. Ironically, when PowerPoint 1.0 was launched, in April 1987, it was only ran on the Mac, and then only in black and white.Little could Bob Gaskins and Whitfield Diffle have known, when they sat down to write a piece of code that could display images inside a black border, and then be used to generate neat and tidy looking overhead transparencies, that one day the fate of a nation would hang on their software.But aside from its annoying "special effects",  there is a serious downside to PowerPoint. Technology commentator Michael Bywater described PowerPoint as "the most loathsome, vicious and immoral piece of software ever produced".The reason for his invective is that, as many other users have found, PowerPoint edits ideas. It is, almost surreptitiously, a business manual as well as a business suit, with an opinion - an oddly pedantic, prescriptive opinion - about the way we should think.It helps you make a case, but it also makes its own case: about how to organise information, how much information to organise, how to look at the world.One feature of this is the AutoContent Wizard, which supplies templates - "Managing Organizational(sic) Change" or "Communicating Bad News", that are so close to finished presentations you barely need to do more then add your company logo, or in Mr Powell's case, the Seal of the President of The United States of America.Hidden inside PowerPoint is an outliner, and there the trouble starts. We just don't think in outlines.What's worse, outliners force us into a way of thinking that is actively inimical to creativity. They corral us down a linear pathway. They make us focus on what we just thought, rather than freeing us for what to think next. They are entirely left-brain tools and, while they may offer an illusion of rationality and control, what they largely do is prevent us thinking.None of this really matters if your stock in trade is the projections for 2003 Q2 sales for confectionary bars in north-west England. But when the future of peace in the Middle East, and perhaps even the world, depends on a 45-slide presentation, one of 30 million that day, for all our sakes we had better hope it was not the "communicating bad news" wizard that is driving US policy in the Gulf.
BT's retail chief Pierre Danon has admitted for the first time the company got its initial approach to broadband "all wrong"."As you know, we started completely wrong. It was all wrong and we had to change," said Mr Danon."We had to start again," he said, adding that since last year's appointment of chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, broadband had been at the heart of the company's strategy.It is the first time a senior BT executive has admitted publicly that the company misjudged its approach to the technology, which allows subscribers to surf the web and download video and music at 10 times the normal speed.Before Mr Verwaayen's arrival in December 2001, BT was criticised heavily by rivals and the government for failing to stimulate broadband take-up.High prices, combined with delays in opening up its exchanges to rivals, meant the UK lagged far behind the rest of the world.However, Mr Danon said that as a result of slashing wholesale prices and a huge marketing blitz last February BT was confident of passing its target of 1 million customers by this summer.BT now has 500,000 broadband subscribers and 100,000 signed up in January alone, he added."At the moment we're moving the relatively easy people across to broadband and the real challenge will be to reach 5 million, 6 million and 7 million," he told an audience of executives at a breakfast seminar organised by consultants Edengene.To attract consumers who are not heavy internet users, BT must push broadband's other benefits, including music and video downloads, education, home security and shopping, he said.Mr Danon said he would "ramp up" BT's home computing scheme, in which BT has joined forces with a number of companies to sell computers directly to customers.The initiative will have 15,000 customers by the end of March and Mr Danon is planning a marketing campaign to expand the service.By April BT customers will be able to pay for online purchases and content via their BT bill through the "Click and Buy" scheme, he said.BT also plans to launch a range of mix-and-match extras, including a home security system with alerts via email or SMS and a "wi-fi" service that allows users to connect several computers in the same house without wires.Mr Danon also pledged to increase the number of wi-fi "hotspots" in airports, cafes and railway stations to 400 by July and 4,000 within two years.At present there are just 80 transmitters - which allow laptop users to surf the web without the need for wires - in Starbucks coffee shops and other public areas.Mr Danon ruled out BT taking on BSkyB and the cable companies as a rival broadcaster, saying that instead it would aim to become the "home hub" that would connect entertainment devices and appliances around the home."We will not provide broadcast, that's for sure. I'm not sure that ADSL &#91;broadband&#93; is the right technology to do so. What we want is to enable content providers to provide new and exciting services and work with companies such as Sky," he said.
Kasparov can win, lose or draw the match against the Deep Junior chess program this afternoon in New York, butWiredreckons he is exhausted. The computer isn't. Kasparov may also be at a psychological disadvantage following DJ's stunning performance in game five. There's a link if you want to follow the moves live (viewers need Flash 6).ESPN2will be showing the game live.
Intel will release its Tablet PC-oriented Banias low-power microprocessor and Centrino set of chips (including Wi-Fi) on March 12, according toCNet. Speeds are only 900MHz and 1GHz, says the report. It remains to be seen whether Banias chips are actually faster than their MHz suggests -- which Intel reckons is the case -- and whether consumers will trade speed for longer battery life. Intel launches are usually accompanied by new PCs, so it shouldn't take long to find out.
Nintendo has slashed the price of its bundled offering of the "GameCube, Super Mario Sunshine and an external memory card to $159.95 from $189.95. Purchased individually, the three components of the pack would cost almost $215", reportsReuters. "We believe the weakness of the GameCube (relative to PS2 and Xbox) is indicative of specific problems with GameCube sell-through rather than an indication of weakness in the industry overall," said an analyst.
Two men have been arrested -- a 19-year-old electrician in Darlington, and a 21-year-old in Durham -- "on suspicion of being part of an international group that police blamed for damaging computer systems worldwide through a virus-like Internet worm," reportsAP. "Authorities say the two men are part of an international gang of Internet hackers who call themselves the THr34t-Krew." The FBI was involved.
StalkerI have been plagued by an email stalker, who has been "blind copying" his messages to my friends and colleagues. How can I uncover the blind copy list?Name withheldJack Schofield replies:When email addresses are put in the "blind carbon copy" or BCC: field, they are not sent with the mail and therefore cannot be recovered. In fact, even if the mail is held in the Sent Items folder on the sender's computer, the BCC: entries will not usually be preserved, though there are ways companies can retain this information. Either way, stalking is a criminal offence under    the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, and you should consider reporting it to the police. An article in G2 provides an account of one such case:www.guardian.co.uk/online/story. Also, see the Malicious Communications page atwww.harassment-law.co.uk/comm.htmfor information about the Malicious Communications Act 1998 and the law on cyberstalking.Only protectIs it possible, using Windows 98SE, to password protect either a folder or the entire contents of a floppy disk? Failing that, is there a download that may be used to secure a floppy disk?Karen RobertsJS:There is no good way to secure a floppy, and anyway, that's not necessary. The simplest approach is to compress the files you want to protect with a program such as WinZip, WinACE, WinRAR or similar zip-compatible software. You may already have something suitable, but if not, seehttp://download.com.com/3150-2250-0.html?tag=dir.Most of these programs give you the option to add password protection. The password must not be a short word, and not one found in dictionaries. However, if you use a long password (preferably 12-16 characters) that includes both letters and numbers, you can consider    your files secure for normal purposes. An amusing extra might be to camouflage the resulting files as something else, such as Word documents, usingCamouflage.If you need something tougher, you could use an encryption program such as Bestcrypt or ABI-Coder. Seehttp://download.com.comfor a selection. If you are keeping the files on your PC, you could also considerMagic Foldersor Encrypted Magic Folders  and similar programs.AccessibilityLast week in Web watch, you noted that this year has been designated by the European Union as the year for people with disabilities. Why is the online version of Ask Jack not accessible to people with disabilities? Or, why is none of the Guardian website accessible?Martin RuddockJS:When the Guardian first appeared online - starting with Online's own website in 1996 - the web was not a mass medium and accessibility was rarely a consideration. Emily Bell, the editor of Guardian Unlimited, says: "Although we do put alt tags on images, and try and make sure we have standard text on our pages, we have not made the leap to full accessibility,    which is something of a source of shame. But as soon as we can, we will."Page mailerIs there a web application that can email me the homepage of a dynamic website on regular basis?Daryl PereiraJS:Web2Mailoffers this as a free service. There's a list of this and other web-by-mail options atwww.oscar.org.uk/webmail.htmBattery saverWhat is the best way to charge lithium-ion notebook batteries to maximise life?Gwyn BassettJS:Although Li-ion batteries are said not to suffer from the memory effects that plague Nicads, I charge mine fully, then try to run them flat before recharging. The aim is to prolong the life of the battery by minimising the number of charge/discharge cycles. When my notebook is plugged into the mains, I remove the battery once it has charged: some batteries can be harmed by overcharging. For further information, seewww.battery-direct.com/faq.htm.Look, SharpI know you said that last week's was the last word,    but please reconsider. I wanted to write the musical notation for "flat" and "sharp" in a Word document, but could not find font symbols to do it.Jeremy WindustJS:I'm not an expert on notation, but online, these characters are usually spelled out: Trio in F Sharp Minor; B flat Clarinet, etc. However, you could use the Bach Font for Musicologists from Dr Yo Tomita, in the school of music, Queen's University of Belfast. This shareware font offers a huge set of musical symbols for Microsoft Windows and Apple Macs "but retains the normal English character set in a standard Roman typeface". Go towww.music.qub.ac.uk/~tomita/bach-mf.html. The Unicode system, used in Windows NT/XP since 1992 and in Mac OS X, also supports music symbols. Go towww.alanwood.net/unicodeand scroll down for details.Backchat&#183;Last week, Annette Ray asked about a spam email that told her to phone a certain number. Simon Smith says that often "the scam is to make you call the number - it is a drop charge call. Every time your phone connects, you are charged a sum to your phone bill." Phone drop charges of up to &#163;1 can be used to pay for products from vending machines, for example. Oftel says these are now    classed as premium-rate numbers beginning 090.&#183;Don Smith asked about software for encrypting and protecting email. One of last week's suggestions was PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), which is included in Demon's Turnpike mail software. However, Brian Stedeford reports that Turnpike 6 "did dreadful things to my new XP machine. It locked up so that as soon as XP was loaded, both keyboard and mouse were unusable. Demon told me (afterwards!) that PGP does not work with XP." Demon's site now says: "There is not yet a released version of PGP that supportsWindows XP". Chris Pogson has suggested Bytefusion's SecExMail, which will automatically encrypt mail to other SecExMail users. It can be downloaded fromwww.bytefusion.com/download.
The interactive industry's money people have cracked it. They've fallen on the answer to the question that has dogged generations of computer game marketing professionals: how to attract the heavyweights in the lucre arena, the pound-pushing females.If anyone had been paying attention, they would have realised that contrary to the Mars-Venus school of inter-gender confusion, female gamers have non-girly motivations for enjoying interactive entertainment that mirror those of men.To get the attention of both Louis Vuitton pocketbooks and Lara Croft-fanciers, developers need to create a world that reflects ours, with social dynamics, interpersonal relationships and a marketplace. Barbie Fashion Designer doesn't do it.One genre does fit the bill: the massively multiplayer online role playing game. MMRPGs are pervasive virtual environments populated by human-controlled digital people from around the globe.Players develop characters, work towards goals, solve puzzles and engage in social fluttery. They're the visual marriage of    text-based adventures and chat rooms, and women are flocking. "The key to the diversity of the MMRPG audience is the opportunity to play the game as you want to play it," explains the co-chair of the Women in Games Development committee, Sheri Graner Ray."MMRPGs can be 'hack and slash', they can be about optimisation of characters, they can be about socialisation and status. They are what you want them to be within the confines of the specific worlds."So, finally, women no longer have to squeeze into an unflattering mould. Instead, they can create their own spaces to fit their needs, which in turn welcome other female gamers. This personalisation, obvious in female-friendly marketing techniques, evaded the gun-totin', race car drivin' titles that bleeped in male-dominated arcades of yore. Sadly, that set the standard the industry is now fighting against. Some women start gaming as a way to patch things up in a flailing relationship."I got into gaming because it was the only way I could get my husband to spend time with me," offers Kim Gonzales, the founder of Asheron's Call's    all-female guild. However, dynamics soon change after the first steps at the side of a more confident male partner. Now it is the female players who hold positions of authority in online communities.  This doesn't surprise researchers, who have found that women are unlikely to get involved in something that doesn't have a real-life appli  cation."Women don't see the computer as an entertainment media... they see it as a productivity tool," explains Ray. Gina Stephen, level designer on Codemasters' forthcoming MMRPG Dragon Empires and EverQuest addict, expands: "Spending time in a position of authority in my in-game guild helped in my previous occupation as a teacher, and    added to my self-confidence."The social interaction of MMRPGs is the major draw for women, particularly those over 25. Peter Tyson, community liaison manager of Dragon Empires, was shocked to discover the massive gender shift of those who'd signed up for early beta testing. Women verily dominate the post-pubescent stats."A fair number in the 25+ age group have young children," he says. "MMRPGs can give good social interaction and help alleviate feelings of being cut off from the world."This kind of faceless knitting circle concept creates social relationships based upon common interests, but MMRPGs add a vital adhesive: due to their team-based nature, the friendships endure virtual hardships, challenges and successes that bind the players together.Savvy companies are starting to build their online worlds without orcs and   enchanted daggers to attract a larger clientele. The leader is industry veteran Maxis, the company that shook the male world of PC gaming with the female-friendly Sim City in 1989.Its latest, The Sims Online, is an internet version of its best-selling soap opera simulation, The Sims. According to EA &amp; Maxis, more than 10 million play the offline version of The Sims, of which 50% are female, while more than 500,000 are registered with Sony's EverQuest, of which 16% are female, according to independent research conducted in 2001.Roger Bennett, the director general of the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association, says this is indicative of the growing female gamer trend within the industry, adding that the figure should increase over the next five years.Taking a leaf out of web-suburbia is There.com, promoted as a corporate tool, but with overt designs on the entirety of the digital universe. They are the first to significantly exploit the economic crossover potential by offering virtual Nikes and Levis to clothe your avatar, for a real life price. The more women play, the more likely it is they will make their voices heard as games developers. And speaking for the legions of misunderstood, maligned and marginalised grrl gamers, it's about time.&#183;Sims Online is released on March 28.
Millions of consumers now carry products that use removable memory cards. They are a staple in palmtop computers, digital cameras, MP3 players, mobile phones and similar devices. But pick a dozen examples at random and you could well find they use six incompatible types of card, and that's not counting multiple versions - such as different types of Memory Stick and CompactFlash - or obscure formats such as Iomega's PocketZip.The world may need more than one type of removable storage, but it doesn't need 10. Grab a selection of handheld computers and the storage options include PC Cards (formerly known as PCMCIA cards), CompactFlash Type 1 and Type II, Secure Digital (SD), Sony Memory Sticks and cards for the Springboard slot only used in Handspring's Palm-compatibles.Collect the same number of cameras and, as well as those already mentioned, you can add the SmartMedia and MultiMedia Memory Card formats plus xD (Extreme Digital) Picture cards. MP3 players, mobile phones, pagers, photo printers and microwave ovens tend to use the same cards. If they have their own variants, I'd rather not know about them. It was the xD Picture card, launched last summer by Olympus and Fujifilm, that pushed me over the edge.Like many users, I'd resorted to buying a six-in-one multi-format card reader, which plugs into a personal computer's USB port. Result: happiness, at least for a few weeks. But some of the next tranche of cameras came with xD cards that didn't fit any of the slots. Brian O'Rourke, a senior analyst with the In-Stat/MDR market research company in the USA, says: "The proliferation of memory cards is extremely confusing to the typical consumer, who just wants a card that will work with his PDA and cellphone.It would be a benefit to all consumers if there were consolidation in this market." That is, alas, unlikely to happen. It takes old formats a long time to die out, and manufacturers have lots of reasons to invent new ones. These could include not paying licensing fees and trying to avoid competition. However, consumers could shape the future by voting for    the more useful formats with their wallets and purses, if only we knew what they were.CompactFlash(CF) cards were launched by SanDisk in 1994, and are not very compact: they got their name from being much smaller than PC cards used in notebook PCs. CF cards tend to hold more memory, and tend to be cheap. Sizes commonly range from 32MB (&#163;15) to 1GB (&#163;450). You can also buy tiny hard disks - IBM Microdrives - modems, Ethernet network and Wi-Fi wireless cards, GPS satellite and Bluetooth cards in this format. Capacity, versatility and price suggest CompactFlash cards are going to be around for a while, though there's a strong trend towards smaller cards.SmartMedia Cards(SMC) are the thinnest of the thin, at 45.0mm x 37.0mm x 0.76mm. Developed by Toshiba, the cards were used in most early digital cameras and still have 40% of the market. They are fast, and nowadays come in three main sizes: 32MB    (&#163;14), 64MB (&#163;22) and 128MB (&#163;40). They are cheap partly because they are dumb: they have no controller, so that has to be built into the device. They are also plastic and easy to destroy, if you bend them too far. Finally, the current maximum capacity of 128MB makes them less attractive for some uses. All this suggests a format on the way out, albeit slowly.MultiMedia Cards(MMC) are very small and robust, and have been used in handheld computers, MP3 players and mobile phones. Sizes typically range from 32MB (&#163;18) to 64MB (&#163;49). The MMC format is rapidly being upstaged by the SD card, another SanDisk design that uses a thicker version of the same slot. However, in November, the MultiMediaCard Association approved a new standard for Reduced Size MultiMediaCards (RS-MMC), which, at 24mm x 18mm x 1.4mm, are almost half the size. These are aimed at the mobile phone market, but will also be a threat to xD cards. MMC is promoted as an    open standard and the cards should survive. You can use your old MMC cards in your new SD device, but not vice versa, and RS-MMC cards will fit MMC and SD slots via a mechanical expander.Secure Digital(SD) cards look like MultiMedia cards but they are slightly thicker. They hold more memory - from 32MB (&#163;18) to 512MB (&#163;290) - and eventually they should hold at least 8GB. Users can write-protect their SD cards and, as the name implies, they also offer a feature that is very attractive to the entertainment businesses: copyright protection via encryption. SD cards are becoming increasingly popular in digital cameras, camcorders, MP3 players and PDAs, and there's even an SD slot in one microwave oven. They are also going beyond memory, to replace CompactFlash cards. Palm is now pushing the SDIO (Secure Digital Input/Output) format and produced the first SDIO product, a Bluetooth card. With SD slots now common in both Palm and PocketPC handhelds, and with the backing of more than 500 companies, SD looks the best bet for the future.Memory Stickis Sony's proprietary format and comes in two versions. The white one, MagicGate, has copyright protection. The Memory Stick is not particularly small, is not competitive in capacity, and is not cheap. Sizes range from 32MB (&#163;23) to 128MB (&#163;56), though another    version with more storage is on the way. It is hard to see a reason for the Memory Stick's continued existence. However, Sony has propagated it by using it in a wide variety of Sony products, and there are enough Sony groupies around to ensure its survival.xDis the newest format and looks like SD, only smaller and, at 2g, lighter. In fact, at 20mm x 25mm x 1.7mm, they are the smallest memory cards on the market. At first glance they may seem pointless, but stifle that scream. They are fast, use very little power, already offer capacities from 32MB (&#163;17) to 128MB (&#163;42), and could become very cheap. (Like the SmartMedia cards they are designed to replace, they don't have their own controller.) So far, only two companies are using xD Picture Cards - Fujifilm and Olympus - with Toshiba as the manufacturer. They have enough market share to establish xD in the digital camera market, and the format's capacity to handle up to 8GB should ensure they last for a while. Whether they can break out of that niche remains to be seen. However, they could be used for new electronic devices that are so small you will wear them pinned to your clothes, like jewellery.&#183;For consistency, all prices have been quoted from the Flash Card Store website and include VAT.www.flash-card-store.co.uk/store_cards.htm
Mobile phones are evolving with bewildering haste. After years of getting smaller, expect your mobile to get a lot bigger with the addition of features such as cameras and colour touch-screens.It is only a year since Sony Ericsson launched the T68, the first phone with a colour screen, outside south-east Asia. Now, it launches the delayed P800, a phone-cum-personal digital assistant that features a large colour touch-screen and integrated camera.  It is perhaps the most advanced mobile phone around.Although bulky, it is handsome, with a detachable half clamshell keypad. It is fairly light, intuitive and requires few visits to the manual. It has an MP3 player but precious little memory to    make this a realistic feature. Expect an expanded version later this year, says Sony Ericsson.It can also stream video but can be temperamental, especially when its memory is full. The camera takes good pictures but, unlike Nokia's 7650, it is poor at night.  The P800 has decent handwriting recognition by means of a clip-on stylus (although not as good as, say, Motorola's Accompli). You can also view Microsoft Office and Adobe Acrobat attachments, and there is a decent calendar that can sync with your PC.One of the nicest and most novel features is the ability to select photographic icons for your nine favourite numbers. Simply touch the icon to call the person. When that person calls you, his picture pops up.  The phone's main weakness, ironically, is making voice calls. The microphone is too far from the face and your voice constantly goes weak. I'm not fond of hands-free kits and have had to cradle the half-clamshell keypad with my little finger. Also, your cheek has a habit of triggering the touch screen,    terminating a callSiemens, which is now in second place in the UK market behind Nokia, has come to the picture phone market late with the S55, the first picture phone to come with a flash. And it needs it. The S55 is poor at taking pictures in the dark. You also have to take pictures through a viewfinder that aligns the pictures incorrectly. You end up guessing what picture you are taking. Thankfully, the pictures are far better when viewed on a PC, but they are lousy on screen.It is small and light, a mere 97g and has 400k memory. It is also Siemens' first phone with a colour screen, but it only has 256 colours. The industry standard is 16 times that. The P800 has 4,096.
