Mail outFor security reasons my university has stopped access to Hotmail, and told us that all email should come     via the university's email system. But I have been using my Hotmail accounts for my job applications. I know it is     possible to forward POP3 accounts to Hotmail, but I want to do the reverse.Tony Alaotony.alao@ftnetwork.comJack Schofield replies:You can probably still get into Hotmail via an encrypting proxy such asSafewebwithout the university knowing. Otherwise your best bet is to switch toYahoo mailas soon as possible. Sign up for an account, go to the inbox, click Options, and, in the Mail    Management column, click POP Access &amp;amp;amp; Forwarding. This will enable you to forward mail to the account of your     choice. Yahoo mail offers three times as much storage space (6 megabytes) as Hotmail, and does not attract as     much spam. Also, Yahoo has not suffered from the sort of hideous redesign that has ruined Hotmail's user     interface and is blighting Microsoft's main websites.IE logoHow can I remove the BT Internet logo and restore     Internet Explorer's animated logo?Yousaf Saniyousaf_sani@hotmail.comJS:Microsoft provides an IEAK (Internet     Explorer Administration Kit) to make it easy for suppliers to customise IE. Plutosoft provides a free program, IE     Fixer, to restore the defaults in IE and Outlook Express. It runs under Windows 9x/Me. You can download it fromwww.simtel.net/pub/pd/54775.html. If you want to restore the logo manually, you can do it by editing the     system registry. Go to Start|Run, type regedit in the box and click OK. Go to the registry settings HKEY_     CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\ Toolbar and delete the strings that read BrandBitmap and     SmBrandBitmap. Finally, close the editor and restart your PC. This works with Windows 9x/Me and Windows 2000.     The registry is a critical part of Windows and it will not work without it. Before editing it, it is a good idea to     back it up. Microsoft provides instructions for doing this with Windows 98 athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q256/4/19.ASPFile huntI am sure the old Windows File Manager     used to display all the folder sizes next to the folder names, just like Explorer displays file sizes next to the     names. I want this feature to help clearing the hard drive of large, redundant folders.Phil Kempfil@blueyonder.co.ukJS:If you select a folder, right-click on it and select Properties, Windows Explorer will tell     you how much space it is using. However, this is not as useful as a program that shows coloured pie charts of     your hard drives and folders, so you can see which ones are taking up too much space. My favourite program for     this was Sveiner Rasmussen's DiskState v1.14. This $10 utility has been replaced by the much more powerful but     more expensive (£39.95) clean-up utility,DiskState version 2.6.One alternative is East     Tec's $19.95DiskSpace Explorer 3 Home Edition. But start with the simplest, and     freiske option,Silurian's DSpaceChart.Logo timeHow easy is it to put a     company logo on to emails?Morgan Hamiltonmorgan_1954@yahoo.co.ukJS:This is not something I would ever do.     Plain text email is quick to download and can be read in any email program. Graphics and logos have to be sent as     attachments, which take up far more space and take longer to download. However, it is straightforward if your     email package supports stationery. Outlook Express includes a "stationery wizard" to help. (Look up "stationery     wizard" in the OE help index.) If you create a new message in Rich Text (HTML) format, you can select from a     range of stationery by going to the Format menu and choosing Apply Stationery. Preconstructed templates can     make it easy to create stationery.One example isMicrosoft's High Impact eMail package, designed for Outlook and Outlook Express. A web search for email     stationery templates will find lots of examples.First pageHow do I create my own web page using Windows 98?Alan Riggalan.rigg@virgin.netJS:There are dozens of ways to create web pages, but in essence, you have to     create a document where the layout instructions are specified in HTML (Hypertext Mark-up Language). This     becomes a web page when it is stored on a web server where browsers such as Internet Explorer can read it. For     a good account of the process, seeHow Web Pages WorkMost of the     sites that offer free space to host web pages also provide templates that make it very easy to create them.Yahoo's GeoCitiesis a good place to start. The drawback is that pages made with     templates tend to look the same, though you can find different ones (egwww.elated.com/pagekits.ZyWebis capable of producing good quality sites. You can also create pages in Microsoft Word and     similar package that can save files in HTML format.However, then you have to upload them to the server. If you     intend to build a proper web site, you should learn how to use an HTML authoring package. You can download a     free one fromwww.thefreesite.com/Free_Software/HTML_freeware(SiteAid is very good for more experienced     users).You should also be able to download a free copy of Microsoft's FrontPage Express 2.0 from the Internet     Authoring section of theWindows Update site. Commercial packages     range from cheap and cheerful to very complicated and expensive. Microsoft FrontPage and Macromedia     Dreamweaver are examples. If you get stuck,Webmonkeyis useful.
The EU is threatening to step up its antitrust campaign against Microsoft by imposing a large fine on the software giant for misleading investigators, according to a leaked document.At a time when Microsoft's antitrust battle in the US appears to be winding down, the company is facing an increasingly aggressive investigation by antitrust authorities in Europe.The European Commission broadened its case against Microsoft six weeks ago and the latest threats indicate that the pace is being stepped up.But the European competition commissioner, Mario Monti, said it was premature to talk of a fine."I could not stress enough that the case is still at a preliminary stage," he said."I highly regret what appears to be a leak of the statement of objections sent by the commission at the end of August."To speak of a fine when Microsoft has not yet disputed the commission's preliminary findings both in fact and law is premature."But, he added: "A fine is, of course, always a possibility."According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, the European Commission may impose a "massive" fine on Microsoft and demand that it drop some features from its Windows software.Citing a commission document, the Journal said European antitrust officials also alleged that Microsoft misled investigators and sought to obstruct the case.Any fine would be higher than it would have been if Microsoft had cooperated, the paper said.Microsoft has said that it had not violated European antitrust law, and would address these allegations in a formal response to the panel due next month.The commission has the authority to impose a fine of up to $2.5bn, or 10% of revenue.Such a fine would be a painful blow even for a company as powerful as Microsoft.European investigators have accused Microsoft of illegally using its dominant Windows and Office software to break into the fast-growing market for corporate and internet computer software, where it faces competition from Sun Microsystems, International Business Machines and others.The commission has also alleged that Microsoft illegally sought to dominate music and video software for the internet.The commission says Microsoft deliberately designed its Windows 2000 desktop software and companion products so that they would incompatible with rivals' software.European investigators are moving their campaign against Microsoft up a notch just as the US is seeking to wrap up a long antitrust battle that began under the Clinton administration.The Journal reports that the commission has accused Microsoft of obstructing its investigation and falsely presenting 34 letters purporting to support the company's case.The commission said many of the letters had been written by Microsoft itself.Microsoft was dealt a setback yesterday, when the US supreme court rejected Microsoft's request to overturn a ruling that the company is a monopoly using illegal tactics to protects its dominant position.The antitrust case is now in the hands of Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who has given a November deadline to Microsoft and the justice department to try and resolve their differences.
A British communications firm has been helping the FBI to decode messages on the web which may be linked to Osama bin Laden.It emerged today that the Glasgow-based technology firm Iomart has been working with US authorities since the terror attacks on September 11.Bin Laden is suspected of using a process known as steganography to hide encrypted messages in normal internet images and music files, which can be uncovered by breaking down the images to their constituent parts.In the month since the attacks took place, Iomart has discovered hundreds of such files, many containing Arabic dates and names, which could be linked to the attacks. All such files are being passed over to US authorities for further investigation.Many of the coded messages are hidden in pornographic images or MP3 music files and would remain undetected if not subjected to Iomart's database of information."It is an ongoing process and we are still helping track messages which may have links to al-Qaida. It is well known that the internet is a means of communication for terrorist networks," said Iomart spokesman Phil Worms."Our sophisticated system does not just look at the image but it looks at what makes up the image to uncover the steganography," he added.The database was developed by Actis Technologies, which was acquired by Iomart three years ago.Actis founder Stephen Whitelaw is recognised as an expert in the field and has often been called upon to trace hidden information on the web.
Middle East news websites are experiencing a huge surge in popularity in this country as readers search for an alternative angle on the terrorist crisis.Sites giving an Afghan, Pakistani and Arab perspective have experienced a huge rise in traffic since September 11, according to the online measurement company Hitwise.The company provides a list of the most popular news and media sites. This is normally dominated by western news sites and agencies, but last month it included a far greater spread of worldwide sites.The most dramatic hike was achieved by Afghanistan Online, at www.afghan-web.com, which offers a mix of news and other content concerning the region. It leapt 11,266 places in Hitwise's rankings in September.Islamic Gateway, which features links to Islamic news and resources on the web, rose 129 places during September while Dawn.com, the website of Pakistan's most widely circulated newspaper, rose 52 places in the overall list of news and media sites.Other sites to benefit from the surge in interest in the region include ExpressIndia.com, HindustanTimes.com and Haaretz.co.il, the online edition of one of Israel's leading newspapers.According to Abul Taher, the editor of Asian newspaper Eastern Eye, people are also turning to www.aljazeera.net, the website of the Middle East TV channel that has had exclusive access to footage of the Taliban and Osama Bin Laden.It remains one of the few independent news sources in the Middle East and its extensive Arabic language website has enjoyed a significant rise in UK visitor numbers as its reputation and importance to the conflict."The web is making it easier to get an alternative view on events. We're no longer so much at the mercy of government controlled media," added Mr Taher.Other sites offering an alternative perspective on the crisis have also recently experienced surges in traffic from the UK, as the initial thirst for hard news has died down and people look for analysis and explanation.Sites that made it into Hitwise's rankings for the first time in September include Amnesty International, Antiwar.com and 9-11peace.org.
NTL yesterday gave the government's plans for 'Broadband Britain' a much-needed boost with the announcement of fast internet access at the same price as most British web surfers are paying for unmetered internet access using a traditional dial-up modem.NTL is offering cable customers access to the internet at more than twice the speed of current modems for &#163;14.99 a month - the same price as AOL's unmetered dial-up service. NTL's package is not strictly a broadband product. Broadband technology such as ADSL allows access to the internet at nearly 10 times the speed of current modems. Instead industry experts yesterday branded the NTL service as "broaderband access".NTL's director of internet, Bill Goodland, said the service was designed as a staging post to broadband services, but consumers would still notice the difference compared with dial-up internet access. "The objective is very much to put in place an easy step towards broadband for customers who are already familiar with dial-up services."The service will also help the heavily indebted company ex ceed its target of 100,000 high-speed internet access customers by the end of this year, a rise of about 30,000.NTL's announcement was welcomed by the government which is pushing hard for more people to get online. Douglas Alexander, the e-commerce minister, said: "We are committed to ensuring that more UK consumers should have the opportunity to benefit from fast, always-on internet access and this is another step towards that goal."The news will put pressure on BT to produce a similar product for use by other internet service providers.
Microsoft today lost an appeal requesting the US supreme court to overturn a verdict describing the software giant as a monopoly that resorted to illegal tactics.In the latest stage in a long-running anti-trust battle between the US government and Microsoft, the high court declined without any comment or dissent to review the June 28 ruling by a US appeals court. Microsoft argued before the supreme court that the original ruling in the case, handed down last year by judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, was tainted because of his alleged misconduct after the trial.Before issuing a devastating verdict against Microsoft, judge Jackson pilloried the software giant in secret press interviews by comparing Microsoft executives to common street criminals. An appeals court sharply rebuked judge Jackson in its June ruling and reversed his order that Microsoft be split in two. But the appeals judges unanimously upheld judge Jackson's verdict on Microsoft's monopoly status in the PC operating systems and its illegal tactics to maintain that dominance.The two sides are currently locked in settlement talks at the order of judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, a new judge assigned to wrap up a case that began under the Clinton administration. If the two sides are unable to settle, judge Kollar-Kotelly is scheduled to hold hearings in March to determine what sanctions should be imposed on Microsoft to prevent future anti-trust violations.Giving both sides until November 2 to reach a deal, she said last month: "If everyone is reasonable and acts in good faith, there's no reason this case can't be settled."In a written order she put the case into the context of the terrorist attacks on the US and said it would be better for the nation if they could come to an agreement."In light of the recent tragic events affecting our nation, this court regards the benefit which will be derived from a quick resolution of these cases as increasingly significant," she said. "The court cannot  emphasise too strongly the importance of making these efforts to settle the cases and resolve the parties' differences in this time of rapid national change."The Bush administration, considered to be more friendly to Bill Gates's behemoth than the White House under Clinton, has ruled out a break-up of Microsoft, and has opted instead for lesser sanctions that include restrictions on Microsoft's business practices.
The price of online goods has risen by an average 5.3% in the past year, double the annual rate of inflation, according a to a new survey.The latest figures from the e-tail Price Index, issued monthly by credit card company Goldfish, show that the most significant rises have been in some of the most popular online sectors including food, leisure services  - which includes holidays - and clothing.Prices in the food sector have risen by 10% while the cost of leisure services has risen by 6% and food prices by just over 5%. Leisure goods, including books, CDs, videos and DVDs, have increased in price by an average 2% over the last year.The prices of alcohol and catering were both up by around 4.5% since the same time last year while the cost of motoring expenditure was up nearly 3%According to Goldfish clothing prices have experienced a particularly significant rise, as until July this year clothing e-tailers had been bucking the overall trend by cutting prices. However, since then online clothing prices have taken a sharp turn upwards with a 3.5% rise in August followed by a 7% rise in September."We are seeing prices rising dramatically online as e-tailers focus on customer experience and fulfilment," said David Cooper, business development director at Goldfish. "During the e-tail boom of the mid-to late 2000, e-tailers sought to attract customers by undercutting the high street."E-tailers realised this was an unsustainable strategy and that concerns over service had to be addressed in the longer term. The rising costs at the online checkout are a likely result of this."
High street veteran John Lewis today made a belated drive to expand its e-commerce offerings, launching a web site that sells 5,000 products - ranging from duvets to toasters - as part of a major home-shopping drive.Developed over the last eight months,johnlewis.comis meant to expand the reach of the store beyond its 26 high street stores and will be followed by home and giftware catalogues in the approach to Christmas. About 1,000 products have been available from the company's web site for the last year.The 100-year-old partnership will spend £30m over the next four years on the site and may also start shopping service via mobile phones or digital television. A new division, John Lewis Direct, has been set up to oversee the expansion of a business that the group hopes will generate £100m in sales in three to four years' time.The division's managing director, Murray Hennessy, said John Lewis Direct was a "huge opportunity" for the partnership."John Lewis has 26 stores today and believes there is only room for 29 stores in the UK of the type we build. There are many people who know John Lewis and have a high regard for us, but cannot get to a John Lewis store. We can now service everywhere," he said.Mr Hennessy said johnlewis.com would offer next working day delivery to any part of the UK for a delivery charge of £4.95. Customers would also be able to name a delivery day, have their products gift-wrapped and return goods for free.     Orders will be fulfilled from a distribution centre in Birmingham by logistics company iForce. A call centre in Exeter will handle customer queries and take catalogue orders in coming weeks.In February, John Lewis bought office equipment and software internet retailer buy.com to build up its own e-commerce operation. Waitrose, its supermarket chain, already sells parts of its own product range such as wines and organic food over the internet.
Suddenly, everything is black and white. As the Prime Minister auditions for his Churchill-Lite role and Jack Straw struts his impersonation of a lobotomised Castlereagh, it has become bad form to discuss issues that before 11 September rendered many of us less than ecstatic about a world order based on the economic power of American corporations.The attacks on the World Trade Centre have unleashed an emotional tyranny under which anything less than unqualified admiration for US institutions is interpreted as callous indifference to the sufferings of the victims.This is ludicrous: the 'values' for which Winston Blair is going to war include the divergences of opinion that characterise an open society. The fact that the US has suffered a terrible trauma, or that it is itself an open society, should not blind it to the deficiencies of its institutions. Chief among these is Congress, a legislative body which, if not exactly ridden with stupidity or corruption, often behaves as if it were.Regular readers of this column will be wearily familiar with how US legislators have enacted every whim of the recording and movie industries in recent years - in everything from ludicrous extensions of the copyright period to accommodate Disney, to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which not only criminalises the circumvention of copy-protection schemes on multimedia products, but also outlaws scientific research into copy-protection technology.The DMCA is a pestilential statute that embalms in law the business plans of brain-dead corporations and preserves technological innovation in the aspic of legislators' ignorance. Given the sweeping scope of the DMCA, you might have thought that the multimedia industries would have counted their   blessings. But no. The Disneys, Warner Brothers and Universals of this world will not rest until they have nailed down every aspect of digital technology.What's bothering them now is the fact that the personal computer is a general-purpose machine controlled entirely by software. This enables the laptop on which I am writing this to compress tracks on a music CD and 'burn' them onto a blank CD.The problem, as they see it is that software is ultimately, uncontrollable because it is 'thought-stuff'. Hardware is more easily controlled. The manufacturer sets its operating parameters and after that there's little the consumer can do. Well, then, mused the strategists of the US recording industry, why don't we do the same with PCs - ie make it illegal to manufacture computers that are not crippled by the kind of hardwired restrictions that prevent DVD players from playing disks from different regions of the world?It sounds like a crazy megalomaniacal idea - but guess what? While bin Laden and his boys were making their last-minute preparations, aides of Senator Fritz Hollings, the powerful chairman of the Senate Commerce committee, were putting the finishing touches to the Security Systems Standards and Certification Act - a Bill to embed copy-protection controls in nearly all consumer electronic devices and PCs.If the World Trade Centre attacks hadn't happened, this Bill would already be wending its way onto the US statute book - and into European law (as the DMCA already has) - and anyone wanting to buy a general purpose PC would one day have to get a licence from the Government. Now there's a security measure after Jack 'Castlereagh' Straw's heart.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk,www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Ouch. Just as the remaining dotcom firms thought they had weathered the storm, consumer confidence takes a battering. And suddenly even the long-term future of the biggest name in the dotcom world - Amazon - looks a little shaky.The tragic events of 11 September have hit the dotcom world just as the online firms were preparing for the run-up to Christmas - traditionally their busiest time of the year. For many cash-strapped firms, failure to hit third- and fourth-quarter sales targets will mark the end of the road.Recently pundits had suggested valuations in the dotcom sector, especially amongst those that use a so-called 'business-to-consumer' model, were starting to level out. But now waning consumer confidence has forced them to re-evaluate their predictions. The US National Retail Federation says it now expects fourth-quarter sales to rise by 2.2 per cent, compared with the 4 per cent it was predicting earlier in the year.A report by influential internet analyst Forrester Research, published last summer, revealed that a plunge in consumer confidence was by far the number one fear among online retailers, which have seen sales triple over the last 12 months.Sustaining such growth was vital for the dotcom firms' funding plans. After interviewing 50 online firms for its report, Forrester concluded the average dotcom firm would need to increase its order book by a terrifying 54 per cent per week if they are to show a profit by next year.But, one by one, online firms have lined up to admit they have been affected by the terrorist attacks and that as a result they are axing staff. Cynics suggest some firms are using the atrocities as an excuse for what was inevitable. While this may have some truth, it is clear that the attacks have had repercussions.Unsurprisingly, online travel firms have been hit hard as nervous consumers scared of flying opt to stay put. Last week ebookers, Europe's number one online travel agency, announced it was to axe up to 20 per cent of its staff following the events of 11 September. 'We are taking decisive measures to ensure that we have the cost structure suitable for slower growth of demand,' said CEO Dinesh Dhamija.Meanwhile rival Priceline.com had earlier in the month warned that the   attacks had dealt a severe blow to its revenues.Mounting job losses have also had a dramatic effect on the online recruitment sector. Last week, StepStone, listed on the London and Norwegian stock exchanges, announced it had appointed financial advisers to weigh up its funding options. The company is running out of cash and a sale looks like its only chance of survival. Rival Monster.com is said to be ready to swing the axe.With consumer confidence - hitherto the last line of defence against a full blown global recession - falling, advertisers have started to rein in their budgets, a move that has had a predictably dire effect on the online zines, which rely on selling space on their sites to pay the rent. The events of 11 September have massively exacerbated the trend.In the week after the attacks the number of new online ads bought by firms worldwide fell by almost 25 per cent, according to research firm Jupiter Media Metrix. In the UK the overall market dropped by 10 per cent. Worst hit was the travel and tourism sector, where ad placings fell by 72 per cent in the 12 days following the attacks, according to monitoring agency LemonAd.As such, firms have been forced to stand their business models on their heads. San Francisco webzine Salon.com, one of the strongest and most respected brands on the web, last week announced it was to introduce a   subscription service for political and news stories as a way of countering slipping ad revenues.In a letter to the site's subscribers, Salon editor and chairman David Talbot, said: 'We cannot operate on advertising revenue alone, which, during the current ad slump, pays for less than half of our budget.'Financial site SmartMoney.com, part-owned by Dow Jones &amp; Co, is also introducing subscription services. 'Quality, unbiased information and cutting-edge financial tools are ... difficult to come by, not to mention ... expensive to produce,' said SmartMoney's chief technical officer, Marc Frons.With money drying up across the sector it was only a matter of time before one of the big internet access providers was forced to pull the plug. Search engine and portal Excite@Home filed for bankruptcy last weekend with debts of more than $2 billion. The company, which was valued at $6.7bn in January 1999 following the merger of Excite with broadband internet provider @Home, is to sell its telecom network assets to AT&amp;T for $370 million. It is not clear what will happen to the remaining assets. Excite's share price, which touched almost $100 in April 1999, was suspended earlier this month at 13 cents.In addition, former website hosting giant Exodus, once valued at $25bn, last week filed for bankruptcy - its market capitalisation having fallen to just $94m.Those firms that remain know that profitability is now the only benchmark   that interests the financial markets. The days of the land grab, when dotcom firms rushed to increase the number of visitors to their sites, are over.As a result e-inflation seems to have kicked in this year as online firms start to raise prices in an attempt to move from the red to the black. According to a new report to be published tomorrow by credit card firm Goldfish, in order to survive, e-tailers are increasing their online prices at twice the rate of the high street.The report states that: 'In the year to September 2001, prices of all online goods rose by 4.2 per cent. In August alone, prices rose by 0.6 per cent. This continued a trend that has been emerging since early 2001. Since then, prices have risen by an average of 0.5 per cent every month.'The report suggests that for many e-tailers the price rises represent 'a last-gasp effort at profitability. These are e-tailers trying to stave off bankruptcy, to survive long enough for a softening of the market and another round of funding'.Profitability is now Amazon's holy grail. The online store, which sells everything from books to barbecues, has seen its share price collapse as investors fear it is about to hit a credit crisis with nervous suppliers tightening their terms. The concerns have rocked Amazon's share price. Last November it stood at $41. Today, the company, which admits it is a 'controversial' investment, has a share price of just under $7.To reassure the markets, Amazon has put its future on the line by pledging to make a fourth-quarter operating profit this year. So far the company has declined to discuss whether the events of 11 September have had an impact on its business, although it may provide some clues later this month when it unveils third-quarter results.But even its strongest supporters believe the terrorist attacks will have had a material effect on earnings. Analyst Henry Blodget, once Wall Street's Amazon cheerleader, has now lowered his fourth-quarter revenue estimates for the firm from $1.1bn to $1.02bn.While Blodget said the company could still post a small operating profit, he conceded this could just as easily end up as a small loss. And this, of course, is still just an operating profit, one that strips out the whopping interest charges Amazon is having to pay to service its $2bn debt pile. Full profitability is much further away, while some online firms doubt whether it will ever be achievable. Tesco.com, for example, recently argued Amazon's business strategy was ultimately unsustainable.Few internet torch-bearers can find reasons to be optimistic at the moment. As Geoffrey Chamberlain, chairman of internet investment house Durlacher conceded last week: 'We have been surprised by the severity, longevity and speed of change in market sentiment. It is unprecedented in all my own years in the City.' But, then, these are unprecedented times.
Free mobile phones are an attractive idea, but as we know companies don't make money from giving phones away.Singlepoint is not alone in offering free phones. Like its rivals, the company offers the phones to woo customers and in exchange wants a signature on a 12-month contract.You might think 12 months was quite enough commitment from a customer in exchange for a phone. But the providers look at the world differently. Phones that are given away cost anything between &#163;100 and &#163;200. The majority are at the upper end of the scale, experts say.   Then there are the commissions to be paid to retailers and dealers that recommend Singlepoint and the phone line space that must be bought from one of the big four - Vodafone, Orange, One 2 One or Cellnet.In Singlepoint's case the sole provider is Vodafone. Even when you take the payback of monthly rental income into account, it takes at least 18 months to recover their outlay.From this perspective, the persistent sales tactics employed by some companies to keep a customer for a second year - when their custom will be profitable for the first time - are understandable if not forgivable.Many of the complaints against Singlepoint are from customers who have cancelled their contract after a year. In every case call centre staff will have been under intense pressure to keep the customer. Most providers will make offers such as several months "free" rental in the second year to convince the customer they should hang on to their phone.Where Singlepoint has proved to be in a league of its own is the use of penalties and threats from "customer care" staff to make customers sign a second contract.
Durlacher, the fringe stockbroker that became an internet investment star, admitted yesterday that it would return to its share dealing roots after recording a &#163;45m full-year loss in the wake of the dot.com sector's collapse.After a slump in revenues, a rise in losses and a 99% fall in its share price, Durlacher said it would focus on the revenue generating activities such as share dealing commissions and corporate finance work, rather than pursuing further investments in speculative technology ventures.However, it warned that between July and September brokerage volumes remained "abnormally depressed", and fixed assets had to be sold to turn a profit.The strategy shift was detailed in a lengthy statement by chairman Geoffrey Chamberlain which gave an insight into how firms that placed big financial bets on the power of the internet have had to retrench, given that investors are no longer prepared to back them.From being a &#163;2.2bn "internet investment bank" Durlacher is now a penny stock in search of revenues and deals.Mr Chamberlain, the architect of Durlacher's internet adventure and a wealthy man after cashing in several million pounds worth of shares in the group, will relinquish his position as chief executive but remain non-executive chairman.In the statement he said the sharp reversal in fortunes of hi-tech stocks had had a domino effect on Durlacher's business, progressively knocking back its internet incubation, research, corporate finance and traditional stockbroking divisions.In the year to June 30, turnover slumped from &#163;26.1m to &#163;12.7m as the shaky stock markets and subsequent fall-off in the number of   flotations hit revenues at the stockbroking and corporate finance divisions.In recent years, Durlacher has made money by trading investments in companies it helped create, such as Autonomy and 365 Corporation.Last year a decline in the valuation of internet and particularly e-commerce companies forced Durlacher to close or write off an assortment of previously highly regarded start-ups offering services ranging from wedding supplies to comparison shopping."Like many others, we have been surprised by the severity, longevity and speed of the change in the market sentiment," Mr Chamberlain said. "It is unprecedented in all my own years in the City."The cost of the provisions and write-offs for the company has been increased from &#163;8.5m to &#163;34.6m."This is more in recognition of the dire state of the secondary funding market for early stage technology companies at present rather than a reflection of any lack of progress achieved by a number of our investee companies in strengthening their business proposition," Mr Chamberlain added.Durlacher's determination to salvage the position of many of its start-ups compounded its problems, with many of its key dealmakers and analysts having to spend their time on no-fee work.Following the write-offs, losses for the year hit &#163;44.8m. In 2000, Durlacher made a profit of &#163;12.2m. The net book value of its portfolio companies is now &#163;10.6m.Durlacher was left with &#163;12m cash in the bank at the year's end, data that should end rumours that it is close to going bust. Shares rallied 0.75p to 3.5p.Mr Chamberlain will step down as chief executive early next year. Andy Bottomley, the director of research, has already left the company.
The online travel company ebookers.com, purveyors of discounted air fares and hotel rooms, said today that it would cut between 70 and 140 jobs in the wake of last month's US attacks.Up to half the cuts are likely to come in Britain and Ireland, where half of the company's 700 staff work.The company said that the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon had caused a "substantial drop" in business after a promising start to September."September 10 was our busiest day ever," a spokesman said.He added that the company was expected to report a lower loss for the third quarter of the year than that seen in the second quarter.In July, the company reported half-year losses of £17.2m but said it expected to generate a positive cash-flow later this year or early in 2002.The chief executive, Dinesh Dhamija, today said that the company was taking "decisive measures" to cope with the fall in demand following the hijackings in the United States.
Another fearsome salvo in the battle for control of the pocket computer market will be unleashed this afternoon when Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Toshiba and others yet unnamed unveil a raft of new products aimed at toppling Palm from its dominance of the handheld market which, according to research company IDC, could be worth $26 billion by 2004.Bill Gates is driving the mutation of handhelds from being a yuppy lifestyle accessory to a business tool. In business, Microsoft's operating system software, office applications and program ming tools give it a strong competitive advantage.That sea-change is already under way. Microsoft's David Rasmussen, in charge of enterprise mobile solutions for the company's PocketPC platform, describes its recent success as "one of the most dramatic shifts in market share in recent times".Palm still has more than 60% of the market, but it is not getting the same share of revenues. Gartner Dataquest researchers predict that sales of Compaq's PocketPC, the iPaq, will have overtaken Palm sales this summer, not in terms of the number of units sold but by value, because they are   more expensive.Microsoft's move couldn't have come at a worse time for Palm. It is still reeling from the huge losses it made in the first half of the year when it announced a new product that it couldn't deliver.Palm has also been caught on the hop technologically. It is planning to change its palmtops to use faster chips designed by the UK company ARM, which are already used in Compaq's iPaq. But new Palms with StrongARM chips and an upgraded operating system aren't due until late next year - leaving PocketPC suppliers with the advantage in the meantime.The companies that can't lose would seem to be ARM and Intel, which manufactures the StrongARM version of the processor.Microsoft's offensive begins this afternoon on stage at Saddler's Wells, where the new PocketPC 2002 operating system will be shown on new handhelds from Toshiba, HP and others.The new software, codenamed Merlin, is evolutionary rather than revolutionary, according to Joel Dehlin, the group program manager based in Seattle. He says Microsoft talked to users and implemented "the 30 most important customer requests". These included making it "wireless ready" to handle Wi-Fi (802.11b standard) local area networks and Bluetooth personal area networks, and also adding Microsoft Terminal Services. This lets you log on to a Windows NT/2000 server, see the familiar desktop, and run applications remotely.Terminal Services was the top request from large corporations. That and similar additions, including support for VPN (virtual private networks), show a growing focus on business applications. "We wanted to make it the choice for the enterprise," says Dehlin.The fact that PocketPC (actually, Windows CE) applications can be written by the same in-house programmers using the same development system they use for Windows-based computers is another important part of the system's business appeal.For consumers, the pickings are thin. The PocketPC user interface is smoother and slicker, and can now use decorative backgrounds and "skins". Windows Media Player 8 has been improved and now works extremely well as a movie player. The Transcriber handwriting recognition software works better. But there is nothing   that will drive current Pocket-PC owners to spend &#163;400 or more on a new machine.Nor, of course, should they have to. To test the new system, I have been using a current Compaq iPaq with Merlin downloaded from a server, and Compaq is offering a CD to users who want to upgrade. This is possible because the iPaq stores its operating system in Flash memory. Microsoft has now made Flash a requirement for the next generation of PocketPCs, which should simplify future upgrades and enable corporations to add their own applications.But consumers could also be tempted by new hardware, and signing up Toshiba is a coup for the PocketPC camp. Toshiba's first offering, the e570, looks particularly attractive compared to sometimes bulky rivals. It is just 17.5mm thick and weighs 180g, including battery. It is also the first PocketPC to include an SD (Secure Digital) slot for expansion cards, as well as a CF-II Compact Flash slot.Hewlett-Packard is launching two new PocketPCs in a sleeker format, the Jornada 560 and 568. These 170g handhelds have a thinner CF-I expansion slot and either 32 or 64 megabytes of memory, plus an extra 8MB of Flash for applications or vital data.Both the HP and Toshiba machines use fast 206MHz StrongARM processors, like current Compaq iPaqs and   Psions. This reinforces the idea that the handheld market is converging on the ARM chip developed originally as the Acorn Risc Machine.Of course, thePocketPC was designed to run on different processor families, and Compaq, HP and Casio chose different ones. This made the software market confusing for non-geeks, and more expensive for developers. But the iPaq's popularity has made   this the first choice for software publishers, and it makes sense for rivals to make their handhelds compatible with it.Palm has also chosen the ARM to replace the cheap but underpowered Motorola Dragonball processor, which is based on the 68000 family used by computers such as the Apple Macintosh, Atari ST and Commodore Amiga in the 1980s. The ARM will help Palm compete with PocketPC handhelds, but existing users will   not be forgotten. Alan Kessler, boss of Palm's platform division, says the new machines will run existing programs using a software emulator that will be included in version 5 of the Palm OS operating system. He thinks most will run faster under emulation than they do today: "We think a lot of them will scream," he says.Even faster chips are on the way. Peter Green, general manager of Intel's handheld computer division, says processor speeds will increase from 206MHz to "up to 400MHz", when Intel's XScale version comes into use.To upgrade its operating system to compete with the PocketPC, Palm has bought technology and hired engineers from Be Inc. (Bill Mackay, general manager of Palm's UK &amp; Eire division, is keen to stress that they have not bought the company.) Five years ago, Apple nearly bought BeOS to replace Mac OS, and its multimedia performance is very impressive.Palm has also, at long last, separated its hardware and software operations, though it has not gone as far as Psion did in splitting off Symbian. Palm has put its operating system developers into a separate division run by David Nagel, a Palm board member who has worked for Apple and AT&amp;T.Palm licences its operating system to a variety of companies such as Handspring and Sony, and then competes with   them in the marketplace. An independent software operation is thought more likely to treat hardware competitors equally.Palm is clearly sincere about trying to grow what its staff call "the Palm economy", in the attempt to avoid becoming isolated, like Apple. But this creates problems, too. For example, complain to Mackay about all the things Palm handhelds should do out of the box but don't and usually he points to a third party. Can't read Microsoft Word and Excel files? Our friends at DataViz have what you need: Documents To Go.By contrast, Microsoft just shovels in a suite of Pocket applications, a browser and mail software, a media player, an electronic book reader, networking software and so on, as well as the usual PIM (personal information manager) programs. This saves users the effort of downloading and installing extra software. And putting it in Flash memory with the operating system means it survives system resets and dead batteries.Ken Dulaney, research director for Gartner Group's Mobile Business Strategies programme, says Palm "needs to offer a credible high-end device with features that compare to those offered by Compaq's iPaq".Palm is trying to do that, but it means putting its original strategy into reverse. The company's founders, who left to start Handspring, say its early success was based on simplicity and elegance. Unlike earlier handhelds such as Apple's Newton, the Palm Pilot did not try to do too much. As Donna Dubinsky, co-founder of Palm and Handspring, told me: "We assumed you already had a PC." If you wanted to enter 5,000 contacts, you did it there and piped them over.And for those who want a simple, mono-screen handheld for personal information, Palm's low-end handhelds are still unbeatable. But when it comes to high-spec, expandable, colour models that work with corporate IT systems, Palm's offerings look underpowered and overpriced. Since big companies are now buying, or at least paying for, many handhelds, this is making life harder for Palm. They want iPaqs, not Palm's Claudia Schiffer edition.According to Forrester Research analyst Caroline Sceats, 91% of British firms are "planning to support Pocket PC-compatible handhelds by 2003 and only 38% to support Palm, Microsoft is on the way to handheld OS dominance."More specifically, Forrester contacted 60 FTSE 500 companies, and found that 60% supported the iPaq, 50% the Palm, and 25% the HP Jornada. By 2003, 63% said they planned to support the iPaq, 38% the Palm,   and 28% the HP Jornada.)Palm spokesman Lorraine Legros, who is based in Paris, says Palm has simplified its product lines, which had become confusing: now it is concentrating on the m100 range for consumers and the m500 range for professonal mobile users. She also says that 75-80% of Palm sales already "come from the enterprise", though only 5-10% are bought by company IT departments. Unfortunately, if handheld sales are going to take off, the driver will be IT departments deploying them by the thousand - and that is precisely the market Microsoft is targeting.Either way, the pain has shown up in Palm's financial results. Its revenues halved to $165m in the quarter to June, and after write-offs, it lost $392m. After abandoning construction of a new corporate headquarters, and shedding a fifth of its staff, Palm did better in the quarter to August. Again, however, revenues almost halved to $214m, and it made a loss of $32.4m. Last month, Palm also cancelled the launch of a new wireless system, the i705, which drove its share price to an all time low.Palm's mistakes - such as misreading the market and botching its product transitions - would have been bad enough. Its misfortune was to face fast-growing competition from Microsoft and Compaq's iPaq, and a US economy heading for recession at the same time.But the battle is far from over. Palm still has by far the biggest number of users, the most applications, and the best ease of use. The "Palm economy" also has companies such as Handspring, with its expandable Visor range, and Sony, with its consumer-friendly Clies, to cover areas that Palm may have missed.And if most business and professional people are one day going to pack an all-purpose palmtop, as vendors hope, they haven't bought one yet. It's still all to play for.The "much less nickable" Psion NetpadPsion fans who saw the company's wooden mock-up of a keyboardless, handheld computer two and a half years ago must have given up hope of it appearing. But it was launched last week in a surprising format by Teklogix, the Canadian company that Psion bought a year ago.From a computer point of view, the Netpad is what you would expect. It has Symbian's Epoc operating system running on a 206MHz Intel StrongARM processor, and you can connect it to a PC using PsiWin software, just like a Revo or Series 5. Physically, however, it is   something else. Teklogix has packaged the device as a narrow 215mm by 85mm tablet for the industrial and field service markets. You can drop it five feet on to a concrete floor. And it is immersible: if it gets dirty on a building site, you can rinse it under the tap.Ian McElroy, Psion Teklogix's president and chief executive officer, says the Netpad fills a gap between electronic organisers and heavy-duty industrial computers. Applications include meter reading, municipal asset tracking and ware-   housing and distribution. "It is not intended to compete with PDAs, or we would have made it cheaper," he says. The US price is $1,895, including docking station.Teklogix has built a good business, particularly in connecting mobile workers in wireless Lans (local area networks). McElroy says the company's success is based on its ability to integrate technologies rather than develop them. He is "radio   agnostic" - Teklogix will work with any wireless technology - and not bothered about operating systems.And while the Netpad is not as chic as a Palm or Compaq iPaq, a Teklogix salesman said this was an advantage. "No one's going to show this off down the pub, and it is much less nickable."&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
WEEE! No, Small Business Solutions hasn't gone completely juvenile, it's just that new legislation will shortly be upon us. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive. It aims to increase the recycling and recovery of waste equipment, and is expected to become European law next year.Meanwhile, a working paper called the Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which has yet to be adopted by the EU, will aim to push manufacturers into designing systems so that they can be managed in an environmentally sensitive manner throughout their life.All of which sounds laudable, but, for most of us, the issue of whether we then examine our own technology for compliance with any IT issues remains unaddressed. Steve Manners, who heads the UK Professionals forum on CompuServe, confirms this. "I am not aware of even thinking about what I would consider green issues," he says, and he buys computers often. "I worry about speed, RAM, hard disk space, graphics and so on."Others bear this out. Brian Higton, director of home worker association the TCA, supplies IT kit to other small businesses. "Environmental considerations are not at the top of the list of equipment selection criteria," he says.There are, however, various bits and pieces you can check in the design of IT systems to make sure they are not wildly damaging to our planet. First, if the system is relatively new, the manufacturer will already be building green elements in. Several manufacturers pride themselves on making casings that snap into place rather than using rivets, and almost all will use as much recycled material as is feasible. Power consumption is low on most IT systems and has been so for many years.As long as a company still owns a computer, assuming it does sensible things, like turning it off when it's not in use and using power saving options when the system is idle, the chances are that its environmental credentials will be pretty reasonable. Unfortunately, some of the uses to which systems are put are less than helpful - how many times, for example, has an employee in a given company printed off an email or web page they could already see so that they could carry it around with them? "Computers have actually created more paperwork," comments Jon Newlyn, sales director of Attachmate. "More trees are being felled to cater for them."Newlyn suggests that some of the computers being bought are unnecessary. 'You could ask yourself whether some people, particularly on the road, could work instead with a PDA &#91;personal digital assistant - essentially a glorified organiser, but more advanced models now have spreadsheets, word processing and other functions&#93;" PDAs are rarely considered as alternatives to desktop computers, but as their capability increases there are fewer logical reasons why not.The real damage a computer can do to the environment starts at the end of its useful life. "Few purchasers seem to consider how their obsolete equipment should be properly disposed of," says Higton. "This is despite the fact that there are some good companies that will take away redundant equipment for refurbishment and resale or environmentally acceptable disposal."It is in order to combat this level of environmental damage that the European Commission has implemented WEEE and EEE. Claire Snow, director of the Industry Council for Electronic Equipment Recycling (ICER), stresses that this will put the onus on the designer and builder of the system rather than the buyer. That is easy enough if the system builder is a large company, but here the smaller manufacturer will need to start addressing the issues sooner rather than later:  "It will mean a lot of research and auditing of suppliers," says Snow, "and smaller businesses won't have the resources." Presumably starting early will help.Once that legislation comes into effect, the customer will not have to concern themselves with the disposal of their system when it is no longer any use as it will be the manufacturer's responsibility.In the meantime, there are ways of reducing the environmental impact of a dead system, many of which involve extending its life by opting to buy something that can be expanded rather than replaced.This means checking for expansion slots for extra hard disk space and for extra memory as the demand increases, and for the most up-to-date connections so that you'll be able to add the latest scanners, printers and other gadgets as and when you need to. It probably means spending more money than you'd hoped; basic systems, although fine for today's tasks, are likely to show their limitations more quickly than their costlier counterparts.The other thing that can be done is simply to find a second user for old systems. Charities regularly appeal for redundant computers and employees will often happily buy them, at reduced prices, for their own home use. The thing to watch out for when arranging this is the software. Normally the licence will have been assigned to the original buyer and will not be transferable. As long as it's made clear that the new owner will have to supply all their own software, they should be happy enough - until they find that some new systems with the software preloaded are cheaper than the purchase price of the individual programs. If  someone is planning to do something about this,  it's a well-kept secret so far.
The official Afghan government's website has been brought down by hackers mistaking it for the work of the ruling Taliban militia, it emerged today.Afghangovernment.org belongs to the post-Soviet Islamic government who were deposed by the Taliban in 1996 but are still recognised by the United Nations as the country's legitimate rulers.A message on a temporary holding page attacks the "evil triangle of Taliban, Osama and Pakistani Intelligence service."Jalaluddin Rabbani, the site's director, blamed users too keen to associate it with Osama bin Laden and the Taliban."We have been receiving ignorant and disturbing emails from visitors who can't distinguish a difference between the Taliban with the government of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, who has been fighting against them for the last six years," he said."Due to that reason we were hacked and were down since last week."A succession of user's emails follows on the site's single page. Many are from contrite previous visitors apologising for their actions."Sorry we misidentified you in our earlier email," says one. "Please work all you can with the rest of the world, especially the US, in destroying evil ones like Bin Laden, the Taliban, and their kind, as soon as possible."Another reads: "Dear Sir, I may have been one of the many angry Americans who sent you an email last week. If so, I am truly sorry. America has never had war on its soil until last week. Rage is one thing we all share in common in a moment like that."
Computing is excellent for business. It saves time and therefore money, and should make people more productive and, in turn, lead to an increased income. Network your systems together and it gets even better; put in a fast internet connection, plus a few redundant systems (so that you still have your data when the first systems fall over), and you should be doing very nicely.Except, of course, you've got to be able to afford all this in the first place. Not every small business has a great deal of up-front cash to throw at technology beyond the basics you put into the business plan to start you off. The good news is that there is help available. It's worth getting two things straight, though: first, if your need is for basic computing equipment, it's not going to be expensive; second, if your business doesn't make enough money to cover the costs of such equipment, there may be a problem with the business itself rather than with cash flow.So, you're sure you don't have a business problem but you want to explore the different options for buying technology. The rst is simple - go and buy what you need if you have enough cash. If you have nearly enough cash but want to save money for next year or the year after as a contingency plan, read the box on tax breaks opposite; you might nd the tax relief you get on the equipment you need will actually bring the price you actually pay down to an acceptable level, particularly when you take off the   VAT you'll almost certainly be getting back at the end of the quarter.Buying outright is only one option; leasing and renting are the others. Neither has a long history of take-up from the small business sector. Dan Homolka, business solutions director of Hamilton Rentals, says: 'They've tended to say things like 'great but it's not for us'." Part of the reason for this is undoubtedly the rigour   with which leasing and rental companies check the financial credentials of those to whom they will be renting their equipment. Start-up companies in particular won't have a trading record with which they can impress.The other reason can be cost. "I often get people saying, hang on, if I pay rent for this, I end up paying more than if I bought it outright," says Homolka. "I say yes, why is that a surprise?"The fact is that renting is never a cheap option in any field outside the property market. If you hired a car on a permanent basis you'd expect to pay a lot more than if you were buying. This doesn't mean renting is a waste of time, but it means it's better suited to people with short-term computing requirements, or people who want their maintenance and upgrades handled by someone else. Both would be included in a rental agreement and the flexibility is as complete as it gets.The leasing option is often seen as a fair compromise between the two. The disadvantages are simple: you pay money over a period of time which will add up to either as much as or more than the computer is worth. At the end of the period the computer isn't yours. On the other hand, given the speed at which IT depreciates, it is probably worth very little to the leasing company either. Like rentals, it attracts 100% tax allowances, so the money actually going out of the business is less than might be imagined at first.The real advantage, once again, is in the services that get provided with the lease. "The last thing most small businesses want is the distraction of having to manage their network or other equipment," says George Acris, marketing manager of Micro Lease. "By leasing equipment someone gets the benefit of having it without having to worry about maintenance."This sort of advantage has started to multiply recently with the introduction of ASPs (application service providers), which effectively rent software to customers, who dial in through a basic computer to a host system on the ASP's site. The advantage to the ASP is that it does not have its equipment in a client's building, so there is no    risk of losing it, and the client needs only the simplest of computers to get going. What the client doesn't need is any    technical skill to speak of. Sara Gemmell, director of business marketing at service provider Nextra, says: "The thing about a managed service is that people get to outsource their entire IT infrastructure." This gives   flexibility and eliminates the need for a dedicated IT person, which most smaller traders won't have anyway.Ultimately, if someone tells you they're going to give you a technical infrastructure for your business for nothing,   they're probably lying or at least deeply eccentric. But there are ways of structuring the finance and bringing the costs down, so that the money that leaves a business needn't be as frightening as it first appeared.Until the last couple of budgets there was a lot to be said in favour of leasing or renting as opposed to buying computer equipment outright. The reason was that a lease or rental would attract a 100% tax allowance whereas the tax relief on IT equipment had to be spread over three years. Given the speed at which equipment goes out of date, this was never a realistic approach.The position has now altered so that buyers get all the tax relief in the first year. Regardless of the claims of the rental and leasing companies, there isn't, therefore, much difference between any of the options purely from the tax point of view. The exception is in cases   where the payments might be irregular, for example if a leasing company asked for a large payment or several first and allowed smaller payments later. In this instance you would still get tax relief as if it were being paid steadily in identical amounts.Your dreams of how your business could improve with better use of IT will remain dreams unless you nd some more money. If a sudden increase in sales doesn't seem imminent, there are ways of bringing in some more cash.
The Italian JobPlayStation	&#163;29.99  Pixelogic/SCI	**It is nice to see a publisher come to its senses. SCI was a quality outfit before getting derailed by the decidedly dodgy Carmageddon franchise. Now they have tried their hand at something with a little more oomph.Based on the classic 60s Brit-flick starring Michael Caine, The Italian Job is a racing game unashamedly built up around some of the best car chases ever caught on film. Unfortunately in the movie, the planning was handled by Noel Coward: here it seems to have gone to Benny Hill.First, let us look at three basic design flaws. For a game that involves driving around   at high speed, it is an amazing omission not to have an on-screen map.Playing IJ involves memorising both the cities (London and Turin) and even then you will find it hard to reach your target location other than by blindly following an on-screen arrow."Check the maps in the manual" you are told: unfortunately, these look like they were scribbled on a fag-packet in prison.Problem number two. Without a map, it is also impossible to tell where the police or Mafia are, and without a rear-view mirror, you end up racing round like mad only to discover you lost your tail five minutes ago. Fortunately, tight deadlines ensure very few missions last longer than three anyway.Problem number three. The graphics are pixelly at best, with only one viewing perspective. Compared to other race games, this one is eating dust.All of which is very annoying given the potential. With 14 cars, 16 missions and Phil (Stella Street) Cornwall providing his classic Caine impression, SCI has produced a lacklustre Driver clone with none of the playability.And although the game does offer other player modes, these feel like an afterthought once the designers realised what a mess they had made of the main caper. Sadly, a case of all mouth and no trousers. (MA)Who Wants to be a Millionaire: Second EditionPlayStation	&#163;19.99  Eidos	**The Weakest LinkPlayStation	&#163;24.99  Activision	***The Christmas rush has started. Two of the big name TV tie-ins - Weakest Link and Who Wants to be a Millionaire 2 - will appeal to everyone except, perhaps, regular gamers. And while the Christmas number one game may not be as highly   publicised as the music equivalent, there are similarities between the two - such as the novelty factor. Seasonal shoppers often push undeserving titles to the higher reaches of the charts, with the phenomenally successful original version of WWTBAM a clear case in point.But undeniably slick presentation was let down by the number of questions. With only 1,000, it didn't take long before they were repeated, making the whole experience a short-lived challenge.Unfortunately, while the latest version has improved the game interface and graphics - the studio audience is now included - there are still only 1,000 questions. That is exactly a hundred times less than the Weakest Link and is a crucial problem for a game seeking longevity   at the tills and in the living rooms.The Weakest Link also offers a competitive multiplayer experience, with the voting-off element a welcome change from the relentless trivia assault.Both packages are polished, with video clips and authentic sounds, but only the Weakest Link graphically depicts the contestants (there are 24 to choose from).Ultimately, Millionaire is only interesting until the million is won, while Weakest Link and its competitive action will keep families playing longer. So, in this battle, Millionaire is the weaker link, although both titles will offer entertainment after the Christmas pudding. Just don't expect to be playing either come the New Year.  (GH)
How would you define cybernetics?Cybernetics is about humans and technology operating together. A good example is the Cyborg, a cybernetic organism, and a creature that is part human, part machine. As a kid I was always into robots and the possibilities of "upgrading" humans with technology. I also enjoyed Michael Crichton's bookThe Terminal Manwhile I was working in telecoms and computers for BT. When this position came up in 1988 it seemed to neatly pool everything I was interested in into one job.What led you to have your implant?A few scientists were talking about the possibility. At Reading University (seewww2.cyber.rdg.ac.uk/cyber/default.aspwe had the technology and I wanted to find out what it was like. The first implant merely identified me to the computer in my building, which opened doors and switched on lights when it knew I was nearby. The second implant links my nervous system, by radio, to the computer. So we are looking at remote control movements, extra sensory input, counteracting pain and new communication.How important is nanotechnology?That and sub-nano are the direction it is all going. Nano should allow us to do things particularly as far as the human body is concerned to connect technology with biology and open up more possibilities in the medical world.Is convergence the "grail" of technology?EvenStephen Hawkinghas come on board to the idea of the importance of convergence. It is just a matter of getting over some of the attitudes we have had. People with pacemakers and cochlea implants are getting a benefit from technology. What is wrong with adding something that gives you extra capabilities?Is a sentient machine an imminent possibility?As I understand it, sentient means perceiving by one's senses. Many robots, with computers as their brain, do this already - particularly present-day robots that exhibit learning. As for perceiving in a human-like way, I don't know that would ever happen. Robots and computers would perceive in their way, dependent on their brain structure and senses, surely in a different way to humans.Anyone whose work you admire?Philip Kennedyat Emory University in Atlanta is coming more from the medical side of implants but he is doing fantastic work.How do you feel about the perception of your work in some media?Other thanThe Register, where they enjoy giving an alternative view of my work, and a couple of digs in the Guardian, most of the media is fine at reporting what is actually happening. Putting myself out on a limb probably makes a few people jealous more than anything else. If our work can help someone who is blind have some extra sense and increased ability to move around then what the hell about some media people!Visit:www.kevinwarwick.com
The threat of a hyper-virulent computer worm infecting every vulnerable computer in the world within minutes has sent a chill through the global security community.So far, the damage caused by worms such as Nimda and Code Red has been relatively light, despite the hysteria and noise. Nimda's payload was not severe, and Code Red packed a pretty small punch that was easily sidestepped. Both exploited known weaknesses in Microsoft software.What troubled virus experts was the speed at which these mail worms propagated themselves. At the height of the Code Red infection, more than 2,000 computers a minute fell prey to the virus. In only 14 hours the worm had spread from a few dozen sites to nearly 360,000. It is estimated that more than one million machines were infected.Experts argue about the actual monetary damage the worm did. What is certain is the panic that was caused. There have even been suggestions that worms could be linked to terrorist activity (the so called Digital Pearl Harbour). Although there is no doubt terrorist organisations would like to cause the damage and hysteria a serious virus outbreak causes, most computer experts point the finger of blame inside the US, not at foreign terrorists.However a new hyper- virulent active worm has been suggested that would make Nimda look like nothing worse than a touch of the sniffles. A so-called Warhol worm could infect hundreds of thousands of computers within 15 minutes of being released. Were this hyper-fast worm to be coupled to a malicious payload the damage would be incalculable.Most previous worms used email to spread themselves. Typically these "mail worms" scour a host's computer looking for an email address book. When it finds one, it may email copies of itself to every address in the book. The problem for mail worms is that they usually require a user to activate the worm - normally by double-clicking an attachment.By contrast, Warhol worms are completely autonomous. Once set free they spread   insiduously from machine to machine, constantly probing and seeking out new machines to infect.Once a vulnerable machine is found, perhaps one with poor security, the worm probes the computer to see if it can infect it. If it can, the worm sends a perfect copy of itself to the new machine. The newly infected machine immediately starts to spread the infection.If a worm gets inside a company network it will reproduce relentlessly until it has taken over every vulnerable machine. That is what makes worms so dangerous."Worms can proliferate extremely fast through a network," said Ken Dunham, senior analyst for the security site SecurityPortal.There is a titanic struggle between worms and the anti-virus software to defeat them. In the past, worms, even ones as virulent as Code Red, have   required several hours to spread. This has given virus busters sufficient time to recognise the threat and issue patches.But a chilling paper from the University of California paints a nightmare scenario. Nicolas Weaver suggests that virus writers constructing some future worm add a list of 10,000 to 50,000 "well connected" internet servers to the worm. By means of this seemingly simple action, even if only 10 to 20 % of the servers are vulnerable, that would still be an enormous jump start on all previous outbreaks. He estimates his worm could infect most of the susceptible hosts within 15 minutes (hence the name Warhol worm).The maths are not complicated. There are 4 billion internet addresses, and let us assume that a mere one million machines are vulnerable   to a particular attack. If the targeted computers have good network connections then an active worm could infect say 10 machines per second. Furthermore, assume it takes a second to transfer over the worm to a new host.The worm starts out on a single machine with its list of 50,000 targets. The worm goes through the list in order, probing and infecting as it goes. When it successfully takes over another machine, its progeny takes half of the list to the newly infected machine. By this mechanism, the outbreak will infect every vulnerable machine on the list in under a minute.At the end of the first minute, with roughly 12,000 machines infected, the second stage begins. The worm first attempts to infect all the hosts on its subnet, before beginning to choose new targets in the general   internet. But instead of just picking random machines the worm is smarter than that.Each worm infected during the first phase starts at its address looking for new hosts to infect. Each worm infected during the second phase starts probing random locations. If it finds another copy of itself running, it picks a new, random address and starts from there. With the 1.2 million scans per second the initial worms send out, roughly 300 will reveal new targets. By the second minute after release, the worm will have infected a total of 30,000 machines. After the third minute, there will be more than 70,000 infected machines. An epidemic will be achieved in 15 minutes.Should anyone doubt the virulence of existing worms, a project run in America provided startling evidence. The Honeynet project set up eight seemingly virgin systems on the internet (the "honeypots"). They didn't advertise them or register them with search engines. They merely plugged them in and waited to see what happened. They did not wait long.One of the eight was a perfectly ordinary Windows98 desktop - the same as would be found in many homes. In less than 24 hours, a worm had located the computer, probed its defences and then infected it. In the following three days the machine was successfully attacked four   more times.Not everyone is convinced. Andre Post, a senior researcher for Symantec, doubted that such a worm could be written. "With the current state of technology, it is unlikely to happen." The problem, says Post, is creating the list. "You would need to do it without crashing the systems and without alerting users you were scanning. That would take some really good programming."Epidemiologists have also criticised the assumptions of the model. Weaver assumes a completely connected network, where every computer could infect every other computer. This is known to population biologists as homogenous mixing. According to Jeffrey O. Kephart, of IBM's High Integrity Computing Laboratory, this has been "favoured by theorists for many decades - mainly for reasons of analysability rather than realism". The real world is not like that. The random method of computers connected to others would seriously alter the dynamics of population growth.However, the growing threat of the worm is not in dispute. Almost all of the top 10 most dangerous viruses are worms, and they are increasingly sophisticated. Code Red and Nimda proved the concept in a relatively benign way. Maybe next time we won't be so lucky.A Worst Case Warhol Worm&#149;  Can achieve complete infection in under an hour, and could begin doing damage immediately on infecting a machine, so human responses offer almost no hope of stopping it.&#149;  Would ideally use an unknown exploit but one that is generally unpatched. The ideal case for maximising damage would be a multimode worm that infects Microsoft web and email servers. The malicious payload is activated as soon as a machine is infected. This payload is highly devastating but constructed not to slow the worm's spread. If possible, it immediately installs hooks so that it will start again if the machine is reset. It could overwrite random pieces of non-system files: slower than simply deleting them but harder to recover. At the same time, it changes modification times to mask which files are corrupted. As long as it continues running, it keeps adding corruptions.&#149;  But adding a couple of extra twists to the worm would dramatically improve its lethaliity. The worm could also act like a low volume mail worm - an additional attempt to breach corporate firewalls during the initial minutes of infection.If an email server is infected, it places a copy of the malicious payload in all the mailboxes and tells them they have new mail. With luck, during the first few minutes of infection, some users will open and run the attachment.&#149;  Another optimisation would be for the worm to start behaving as a much more active mail worm after a couple of hours. Although mail worms are less effective, and produce greater system load, email does provide a good mechanism to reach more users.&#149;  A couple hours after initial infection, the worms can then begin attacking major sites with Denial of Service attacks. Windows update sites and other patch sources are excellent targets, as are the antivirus vendors.&#149;  As a last optimisation, any one worm would be aware of the location of two other worms: the worm it came from, and the worm it spawned. If these are recorded, when a new code module is introduced, it can be quickly spread from worm to worm, to be transmitted through the entire worm network in a matter of moments.History of the Worm&#149;  One infamous example caused a password-collection program to become the Cornell Internet Worm, which spread to between 3,000 and 4,000 servers (5%of the internet) in November 1988. Created by then-graduate student Robert T. Morris, the worm exploited flaws in two well-known internet services and attempted to masquerade as a legitimate user by trying passwords stolen from other systems.&#149;  Lured by the efficiency of self-propagating worms' ability to spread code widely, online vandals have begun using such worms. Starting with the Linux Ramen worm in January, a steady stream of such programs has exploited widespread flaws in computer systems to spread across the internet.The difference between a worm and a virus&#149;  According to the anti-virus company Symantec: "A worm is a program that makes copies of itself, for example from one disk drive to another, or by copying itself using email or some other transport mechanism." A virus, on the other hand, is "a program or code that replicates, that infects another program, boot sector, partition sector or document... by inserting itself or attaching itself to that medium."&#149;  The definition is beginning to break down as most worms contain viral elements, and an increasing number of viruses are displaying worm-like behaviour.
The headlines say it all. This time last year, typical Nua.com headlines about online advertising included: Ad revenues up for 18th quarter running". In the past month, advertising headlines were more along the lines of: UK advertisers wary of spending online.The laws of gravity are exerting a heavy toll in the world of online advertising. Online ad revenues are down. Banner ad click-through rates are down. Internet-related advertising jobs are being cut.So what went wrong? The slump in the technology sector has been the main cause of sliding revenues. Most major advertisers have found their   budgets cut, and some high ad spenders of recent years have gone out of business.Furthermore, advertisers have grown weary of the perceived lack of transparency and accountability associated with online advertising. A recent survey by Media Audits found that two thirds of UK advertisers rely on unaudited figures provided by publishers. Even those that do use third party advertising analysis have no way of knowing how many people see their online ads and react positively, but do not buy until weeks or months later.The same could be said for billboards or TV advertising, but these formats, and the techniques for measuring their effectiveness, have evolved over decades. Advertisers are more accepting of what the New York Times calls "squishy" metrics when it comes to established ad formats. Internet advertising promised so much more in terms of user tracking and measuring effectiveness, but it has largely failed to deliver, leaving advertisers peeved.Peeving them even more is the emergence of software such as WebWasher and AdSubstract, which strips webpages of all advertising. At least six million US inter net users have downloaded one of these two programs.Other applications such as KaZaA and Gator are part of what Salon.com terms the "parasite economy". While they ostensibly exist to allow internet users to swap files, or store passwords in one place, they come with software that either inserts ads into the text of websites by highlighting keywords and turning them into hyperlinks, or covers up the original banners on sites with banners of their own.This practice irritates content publishers and advertisers alike. The publishers are finding their content hijacked by ads they don't get paid for, while advertisers find the value of their ads diluted.Arguing about banners, however, may be somewhat immaterial. Anyone who has had internet access for more than five minutes cocks a snook at banners. Banners are there to be ignored.   Online advertisers see they must go beyond the banner.They are realising that effective advertising on the net has to be targeted and interactive. New technologies allow for effective tracking and targeting of internet users. Although revenues from targeted ads are smaller because fewer users see them, campaigns are more effective because those who see them are more likely to act.This granularity, or separating internet users into small, well-defined groups, is heaven-sent for advertisers, but raises thorny privacy issues. Online privacy advocates and online advertisers are set to clash, as each group tries to protect its own interests. Many advertisers may find it more politic to focus on interactive ads instead.The newest interactive ads are floating ads, as offered by United Virtualities and Eyeblaster. A prime example was a recent Reebok ad that followed up on the company's "Lose the beer belly" TV campaign. It consisted of an animated pink belly that hovered over the text on a webpage. If you clicked on it, you were taken to the Reebok site. If you didn't, it just wandered about the page for a few seconds and then vanished. It was   eye-catching, funny and, most importantly, not annoying.Maybe floating ads are not annoying because they are different. Maybe we will be sick of them in six months, but I think they have a fighting chance. The principles of traditional advertising hold true online. The most effective advertisements are the most creative. They don't need to be complicated, just catch our attention.Will online advertising survive? Yes, because we need it to. All popular media exist because advertising pays the bills. More importantly, it will survive because it is now big business. As Business Week recently pointed out, US advertisers spent $8.2 billion online last year, in comparison with $1.8bn on outdoor advertising, and $11.2 bn on cable TV advertising.There is plenty of room for it to get bigger. After all, only 1% of advertising budgets in the US and UK go online. If online publishers and ad agencies can persuade advertisers to spend just another little bit of their budgets on the likes of little floating bellies, online advertising might just ride out the storm.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
MyBusiness, the company that claims to have everything a business needs to run its back office functions in one easy-to-use program, will release version 2 of its product this month. This includes automatic chasing of invoices with pre-written follow-up letters and prompts as to when to send them. It will also track costs associated with an invoice and tell a business owner how much profit has been made on every individual sale.The company is also releasing its payroll product, which takes an employee's details and stores them, then logs onto a site on the internet that updates it with any tax legislation that may have changed since the last payroll run before issuing payments. The idea is to make payroll easy and mistake-proof.Alcatel is looking to move into the small business market for the first time with its OmniPCX Office product. This is a voice, data and e-communications system in the one box. It is basically a pre-configured server that has telephony, controllable internet access, email server and network security services as well as a local area network switch all in the one system.The company denied that having so many key functions in a single device was a risk, adding that its reliability was more like that of a telephone than that of a computer so it shouldn't go wrong.Small businesses don't like web designers handling their electronic business, according to a new survey by Dragnet E-Business. The company, which charts small and medium enterprises' take-up of technology, found that 71% of managers wanted to maintain their web presence in-house rather than use consultants and designers, who the managers considered too costly.On average, the 127 small businesses approached for the service believed that taking their websites inhouse would save them &#163;25,000 a year.Small business isn't buying enough messaging software,   believes unied messaging software company Tobit. So it's asking its dealers to attach messaging software to every sale they make to a small or medium enterprise, whether the purchase is of accounting systems, contact management or networking infrastructure.The company says it believes messaging delivers serious benets to business and that smaller traders are missing out by not using it. No doubt the fact that it will be increasing its own sales too is a coincidence.Hungry? Then look out for the prize promotion lastminute.com will be pushing throughout October. The company wants to encourage ofce workers to order their sandwiches online through its site and will be giving away 1 million sandwich bags through the City and West End, and you'll be able to win &#163;2,500 worth of food. Happily you don't have to eat it all at once, as the prize will be spread over a year's worth of free food delivery to the workplace of your choice.If you hadn't heard already, next week is e-business week and the Government has a lot of events planned to help companies considering making better use of the technology. The DTI's website (www.ukonlineforbusiness.co.uk/ebw) details local events and promotions, highlighting seminars to attend and adding basic explanations of some of the technology being promoted.The online home of the Small Firms Enterprise Development Initiative, (www.sfedi.co.uk) offers online advice and help including ideas for start-ups, existing businesses, business support and pre-incorporation help.Alodis (www.alodis.co.uk) is an organisation for self-employed people which offers a magazine and plans a number of services. So far they include a discount on bills and a virtual PA for people who work in isolation, but the plan is to grow these and also to act as a pressure group for better treatment of the sole trader.www.better-business.co.ukis the site for a magazine on business practice for the    smaller trader. The website has a cut-down sample issue for which you'll need Adobe    Acrobat reader - go towww.adobe.comand you can download it for free.An excellent site for downloading software iswww.tucows.com. If you need a utility or program but aren't sure it exists, it's well worth checking here rst; everything is virus checked before being dispatched.www.businesslink.orgis a government-backed site for business advice. Well worth a look and worth comparing with the SFEDI site as the Government's take on a given subject contrasted with that of a private organisation.
Many lessons have been learned since the rise and fall of "pure play" dotcoms - those internet companies that eschewed a presence outside of the web.Arguably the most valuable one has been that it is just as ludicrous for a bricks-and mortar retailer to expect to grow without a web presence as it is for an internet start-up to forsake the high street.Online contact lens retailer Postoptics embodies this lesson. Set up as a mail-order business by York-based optician Trevor Rowley in 1996, it has since made that all-important transition into a business with multiple sales channels, with e-commerce at its heart.So successful was the launch ofwww.postoptics.co.uka year later, that Postoptics now turns over around &#163;4 million annually and is   responsible for the business's 50 per cent year-on-year growth, with projected turnover for this nancial year in excess of &#163;6m.Rowley claims over 75,000 active customers across all channels (phone, fax, email and post), up from around 45,000 six months ago. But growth is undoubtedly due to the e-commerce element, which now accounts for up to 65 per cent of sales, up from one-third a year ago. However, on principle, he insists Postoptics does not single out the number of e-commerce customers from other kinds, singularly driving another nail in the pure play cofn."While the website is the driver of the business, you can't pigeonhole people. There are a hell of a lot of customers for whom we don't know which is which. Some contact us over the web but then insist on a hard-copy   brochure being sent out in the post, which they then use to order over the phone," he says.Rowley set up Viewpoint, a high street practice selling contact lenses and eye care solutions and prescription glasses, after qualifying as an optician in the 1980s.But by the mid-1990s, an opportunity to break into mail order arose from the increasing commodication of contact lenses, as mass-produced disposable models came on the market."I noticed they were all going to be packed in identical boxes, whether they were sold in London or York, like peas in a pod," Rowley recalls. "I also saw no reason why we couldn't divorce the expensive healthcare element from the basic product, which had already begun in the US. So we looked towards mail order."Postoptics began as a two-man show above Rowley's optician's practice, after he took the unusual step of hiring a business manager to free himself up from a lot of the administrative aspects of the start-up. With an additional phone line, they began by taking orders down by hand, by phone and fax.Then in 1997, rather than following the voguish route of seeking vast sums of venture capital to fund postoptics.co.uk, the web business was started by riding piggyback on the mail order operation's resources - staff, computers and telephones - and allocated a &#163;10,000 a month burn rate, which it never reached.Four years later, Postoptics has split from Viewpoint into a limited company with 27 of its own staff, including 11 call centre operators, and its own warehouse and fullment centre in York.Although claiming to undercut the high street by at least one-third, Rowley insists his core customers buy for convenience, rather than lower prices. It offers 48-hour delivery through Parcelforce and Royal Mail.Postoptics has also faced a set of problems unique to the optical world, in particular restrictions laid down by the General Optical Council - the regulatory body for the optometric profession.Deemed "an optical device", the contact lens is covered by the Optician Act, which states that an optical device must be sold "under the supervision of a qualied optician", which was difcult to ascertain in the mail order environment and over the web. "The problem lay in dening what constituted a qualied optician and whether you can supervise the sale," says Rowley.He took legal advice and looked for precedents in the pharmaceutical industry. Postoptics is now strictly a contact lens retting business working to two main guidelines: it will only sell lenses to customers with a valid optician's prescription, which expires after a year and which the company will verify from the customer's own optician before dispatch; and it only sells the exact model currently sported by the customer. "We've got to be seen to be whiter than white," says Rowley.This is an important point, when one notes that mail order rival Vision Direct was successfully prosecuted by the General Optical Council rules and ordered to pay &#163;50,000 for breaking its rules.However, the downside to such rigid rules are the large overheads associated with rejected orders, when customers give wrong expiry dates for their prescriptions, try to purchase lenses for the rst time or order the wrong   lenses. Time and money is then wasted contacting the customers, their opticians or both for the correct information.Rowley says he has reduced rejections from 70% to around 30% of all orders over   four years, by educating customers about what can go wrong, subtly informing them in frequently asked questions on the website, for example.Postoptics now owns 90% of the mail order market in the UK for contact lenses. "In two    years, 10% of the UK contact lens market will be mail order, which puts that side of the business at &#163;30 million," says Rowley. But Postoptics will have its work cut out over the next 12 months, as "dozens" of competitors enter the fray.   Rowley estimates year-on-year growth will be lower next year, at between 25% and 30%. "Right now we have the market to ourselves, but we will see a well-funded competitor come in sooner or later," he predicts.
If you're launching a small company and you want to get yourself noticed, what can you do? Muffin makers The Fabulous Bakin' Boys, based in Witney near Oxford, decided to try their hand at email marketing - and it appears to be working.It started off with the company creating a database of jokes, which could be freely emailed from their website. Now the company, which is growing by 30%-40% a year, has introduced fun online games, such as Cake Invaders, and marketing executives regularly email out cheeky ads with links back to their site (www.bakinboys.co.uk).The company's key advertising slogan is "Live fast - play hard - eat muffins" and general manager Tom Russell believes the ability of the internet to send out promotional material cheaply in   real time has made a big contribution to the success of the snack business."We're in a very competitive environment," he says, "where we are up against huge companies like Mr Kipling and McVities. If we were going to advertise conventionally our share of voice would be tiny. For us the internet has become a very strong marketing tool."Russell says the deliberately irreverent image has given the company greater freedom with its email messages. "We can get away with doing things a big company cannot because we are not answerable to shareholders. We are only accountable to ourselves. Email has brought us new customers but more importantly it has done the awareness thing for us. If people do not think you exist, they are not going to buy your product."What appeals to Russell   about email marketing is the fact that for the price of a phone call you can create a campaign that is passed on freely by other people. "Everyone else pays for my advertising campaign. It should be considered by every business. Even if you're a two-man operation, because it's so cheap. The difculty, though, comes in trying to break through the noise."But can email marketing work as well for products and services that have a dowdy, less engaging image? Colin Lloyd, president of the Direct Marketing Association (DMA), believes it can: "There is nothing more boring than a trade association and we have used effective email marketing to drive business into our events programmes."Lloyd is passionate about the potential of email marketing. "For small businesses it is the killer marketing application. They can compete on an equal footing with the biggest companies in the land."However, when small companies buy lists of email addresses, Lloyd points out, they must check that they are legitimate and have been collected in compliance with   the Data Protection Act. This legislation requires that an individual is informed of what happens to their data and that includes giving permission for it to be sold to a third party.Email marketing experts say it is important that basic marketing principles are not ignored when small companies use email. "If you cannot get their attention in the header or the rst section of an email, you have lost them completely," warns Lloyd. "Those rst few seconds are vital. Good copy and good propositions are essential. And the most effective campaigns are those that give some added-value incentive."Jeff Barnes, European vice-president of e2 communications, which runs email marketing campaigns for large and small companies, believes that email can be used to build customer loyalty. He recommends growing in-house email lists as a priority rather than buying ones in - where the people have never come into contact with the company before.Barnes says customer email addresses should be collected all the time. "Get email addresses any time you speak to a customer. When people come into shop and any time you talk to them. There is no time when you cannot capture someone's email address successfully."To maximise the positive results of email marketing, emails should be linked to websites, says Barnes. "If you have a website, try to use emails to get people to go to the site." And like the DMA, he believes in the power of sticking to simple messages: "Don't send an email that has got everything in there that you do. Keep it to a single screen. The attention span for people reading emails is very small. Keep it short."Barnes feels it is a mistake for small companies to expect email marketing to be the answer to all their problems. Essentially, he says, it is just a quick delivery mechanism -which can easily back re. It   might be a killer application but, used wrongly, he warns it could kill your business. "If you do bad marketing and if you have not thought out your message, all email marketing will do is deliver that bad message more quickly."Unwanted email (or spam) is a curse of the internet age and there is a debate raging in Europe at the moment over whether consumers should only receive emails if they have given their prior consent to the company sending them.The DMA (www.dma.org.uk) is lobbying European Union ofcials to keep an opt-out policy so that basically companies are free to carry on emailing whom they like and   it is left to the recipient to delete or read the message. The DMA is arguing that a mandatory permission-led email marketing policy would discriminate against small businesses, which, they say, need to be free to send out emails to raise awareness of their services and to grow their customer database. Legal experts say it could be a while before the EU comes to a nal position.But, with some uncertainty in the air, it's probably advisable that small companies begin making the most of email marketing now in case Brussels legislators move to regulate exactly how business advertise via email.
Small companies up and down the land will be tempted to reduce their spending on information technology for the foreseeable future - for two seductive reasons.First, the pricking of the dot.com bubble has taken a lot of the rationale away from embracing online technologies. Two years ago companies were being warned that if they didn't adopt the internet then, new web-only companies would snatch their businesses away from them. Now, two years later, the traditional companies are still here, while many of the web start-ups have evaporated into cyberspace.The second - and more important - reason for postponing spending is the growing evidence of a serious recession not just in the United States but in the UK as well. Britain has probably already entered a recession (defined as two successive quarters of negative growth) already. But we can't be certain yet because figures for the growth of gross domestic product (GDP) are published months in arrears - and no one knows the full effects of the events of September 11.So what is the point, many small companies will be asking themselves, of spending more money to expand online activities when there the market won't be there at the end of it and online activities have lost their shine?Or have they? The dot.com collapse must be put into the right context. Never forget the normal attrition rate of small companies. According to Dun and Bradsteet statistics, 50% of all new companies die after four years.What was new this time was not that the statistics changed but that the normal birth and death rituals of small companies was, for the first time, played out in the national media instead of privately with no publicity.What is happening now is that bad companies have gone under, though they will survive in some form even if it is only their assets being taken over at a knock-down price. Meanwhile, the successful ones carry on. The normal rhythms of capitalism rule, OK?Andrew Graham, master of Balliol College, Oxford, writing in the Oxford Review of Economic Policy, says the internet has been moving through phases that "bear a resemblance to those of earlier technological revolutions, like electricity".The first stage is pure research, often in universities; the second is when experiments are made because no one really knows how to use the new discoveries. This is the phase we have been through, which is particularly suited to small firms and venture capitalists. It is the time when many firms are born and many die.The third stage (now underway?) is when the market consolidates and large firms with superior marketing facilities take the lion's share.The unanswered question, which small companies must address, is whether the nature of the internet - which can bring the whole world to your website - will change how the end game is played out this time.Recession or no recession, the application of the web and new technologies to business will go on. Small companies can't afford to ignore it, otherwise they will lose competitiveness to those that   do not. Staying competitive involves many things, including making sure that your company has a website that is strong on speed (ie with a broadband connection), that scores highly on usability (being simple, uncongested and quick to download) and is appropriate to the kind of company you are running. Recent research by the Department of Trade and Industry suggests 49% of customers will give up on websites that take more than 15 seconds to download. Do you know how long it takes your own site to download?Not everyone can be like EasyJet with the majority of its bookings coming online. At the very least your website should be a shop window for your products, with links to sales and marketing. At best it will have up to date facilities, including a secure payments system, to enable potential customers to have their orders processed automatically even when the office is closed.One of the key problems is simply getting your website known to potential customers. This is not easy and one of the lessons of the first few years is that big spending on television or poster sites to tell people your site exists is much less   cost-effective than exploring techniques that have sprung out of the special nature of the internet. These include viral and affiliate marketing, in which your site establishes cheap or free links with other similar sites to mutual advantage. And, of course, email.Justin Hunt's article on The Fabulous Bakin' Boys in this issue  is a good example of using web techniques as a marketing tool, while Wal&eacute; Azeez explains the symbiotic relationship between web businesses and traditional bricks-and-mortar companies.The firms that should be most worried are those that still think they can survive without email let alone expertise in computers and the web. A recent Dun &amp; Bradstreet survey found 80% of small companies had at least one computer on site and that two-thirds had internet access (half of which also had a website). That sounds fine.But it also means that up to 20% of small companies don't even have a computer and a third don't have web access - and presumably no email facility either. One thing is certain, there's still a lot to play for.
The European Parliament recently produced a draft report into Echelon, a powerful spy network primarily operated by the US. It did not confirm suspicions that the system has been used to bug commercial messages, but it recommended you scramble your emails just in case.Even if you don't lose sleep over the CIA reading your invoices, you might prefer that your sensitive data remains private. Sending an email is not a secure mechanism; it's been compared to a postcard sent in the post, readable while in transit by anyone in the right place.Encryption - technology to scramble digital information - is easy and cheap to use. Services encrypting your email generally allow you to do two useful things: to scramble emails and to check that similarly scrambled messages come from whom they purport to be from. Given that it is technically simple to make an email appear to come from any address, this 'digital signature' capability can be very useful, and is set to become more so - the government is making such signatures the legal equivalents of a pen and ink scrawl.You can sample encryption    and digital signatures for free, atwww.hushmail.com. This is a web-based email service equivalent to Hotmail, except it uses strong encryption. It allows recipients to check an email comes from the Hushmail address it claims to be from through the website, even if the recipient does not have an account.Hushmails are only unscrambled on your computer, using software that runs within a web browser. Full scrambling is only provided to two account users mailing each other. The basic service is free, although this is not intended for commercial use, and Irish firm Hush Communications points out it can take no liability for problems such as unavailability. It offers a commercial version with liability, more storage space and support for $60 (&#163;43) a year.A word of explanation about encryption strength. Hushmail uses 128-bit encryption to send material across the web. This is the standard level used for scrambling credit card data. It's been speculated that the US authorities can crack 56-bit, as for several years they restricted export of software providing anything stronger. But this is a logarithmic measure, with each additional    bit doubling the computing time needed to break the code. So an organisation that could crack 56-bit encryption in a single second would take 147 million million years to crack 128-bit. Realistically, any currently available level of encryption is likely to be adequate protection, although 128-bit is desirable for   financial information.It's worth knowing that the UK government has recently given its security agencies legal powers to seize the keys used for such encryption. These powers are, however, reserved for use only in the most serious cases.If you want to stick with email software such as MS Outlook Express, you can easily incorporate security. A digital ID, which the software will use automatically, is available from vendors including BT's Ignite division (www.ignite.com/trust). It costs &#163;7.50 a year from BT.If you use your digital ID to sign emails, anyone can check that the email really came from you through using the "certificate management" option on the above website.The level of encryption will be that supported by your software - probably 40-bit. If you upgrade this aspect of your email software - usually for free through the software vendor's website - you will get a bank-strength 128-bit digital ID for the same price.One area where small businesses should use encryption is in taking credit or debit card details online. Card numbers should never be sent unprotected across the internet, either through email or from a web page. Plenty of firms will provide such encryption as part of a online shop - try your internet service provider, WorldPay (www.worldpay.com), BT Ignite (www.ignite.com) or Virginbiz.net.A cheaper, though less convenient, option is to ask your customer to use a web payment system such as US firm PayPal (www.paypal.com) or sterling-based rival NoChex.com. This involves customers transferring money to an account with one of these firms, then sending it encrypted to you.
If someone were to ask you how much your computers and printers cost, there's a good chance you'd get the answer wrong. Not because you couldn't produce receipts, don't keep track of depreciation or keep your accountant posted, but because many small businesses mistake the cost of acquiring equipment for the TCO, or total cost of ownership in English.This is the formula for the true cost of buying and running pieces of equipment. It means you don't just factor in the purchase of a printer but also the cost of maintenance, staff training, consumables and anything else that might add to the money you'll have to hand over during the lifetime of the equipment.The figures can be frightening. The running costs of a printer, for example, can easily amount to three times the purchase price of the kit itselfAttitudes are changing but the "buy cheap stuff and worry about it later" approach is still endemic. Daryl Wilcox, owner-manager of Daryl Wilcox Publishing, says this worked when he and a friend were running the business from a spare bedroom, but a few years later the position had changed."I know that when I am working well and I have few distractions I can make a very signicant contribution to the growth of my company, through ideas, good people management and just plain old marketing and selling," he says. "But when I'm crawling around on the floor trying to get a PC working again the company is missing out."And given that the majority of smaller traders can't afford to employ a full-time IT manager, crawling around on the floor is exactly what up do when things go wrong. Wilcox had five PCs go wrong in the   space of a fortnight as well as a problem with a server, and it was at this stage that he discovered the real price of buying cheap systems. The components were of a poor quality and since upgrading everyone with a new, higher-spec computer, the money lost through downtime has shrunk dramatically.You could argue that any system can go wrong, so there's bound to be some cost involved in time and maintenance. There are also costs that will accrue when something is in perfect working order, and these too are often overlooked. Paul Williams, partner in technical risk at Andersen, has spent time consulting with small businesses and agrees that the true costs aren't always understood."Small and medium-sized enterprises generally don't have anyone in house who can offer them a detailed explanation of all of the issues," he says. "It's often the vendor who ends up explaining, so they don't get a balance."Issues the vendor might be less inclined to explain in depth include elements such as the cost of toner for printers. It is well known that laser printing is more expensive than inkjet or bubblejet, if you read only the purchase price. However, once you've factored   in the cost of replacement toner cartridges, the picture starts to alter substantially; inkjet cartridges will be cheaper of course, but they will require replacement more often. And in some of the cheaper colour printers, you'll have to replace all of the ink when only the black has run out. The cost of acquiring the printer in the first place can be only a small part of the total price after three years owning the thing.The position becomes more acute for buyers of single-cartridge printers, which have a combined toner/drum cartridge system. The replacement costs for these are considerable. "The average customer will not realise that   they will need to buy at least ve replacement single cartridges &#91;over two years, assuming 12,000 pages printed&#93; at a minimum total cost of &#163;200," says Chris Hinds, Brother UK's printer product manager.Of course, printers are only one part of a system and you'd expect them to be using toner and paper. Other components of a system will also attract costs as they are used. Andersen's Williams points to up-grades as a potential problem area. "If you have a system for three to ve years, you'll want to improve it," he says."So you do need to ask your supplier about the costs involved - whether it's possible to cap the price of an upgrade when you want more   memory or more storage, or whether you're actually going to be completely at the mercy of the vendor." These are questions he believes are asked only infrequently by the smaller trader.Software licences, too, are not always understood. Many systems aimed at small businesses and consumers arrive with software already installed, which is fine - until a new version is released. There is never any obligation to buy upgrades to working software, but should you decide to do so, you'll need to   pay an extra fee for every user. If you want to add software that wasn't already installed, once again you'll need to pay extra for each user.All of this needs to be in the budget, as does any training for a new software system - and that cost needs to include the staff's time as well as paying a trainer.Overall, small businesses remain reluctant to examine the total costs in any depth and they can't be blamed. They haven't the time to do the analysis, and frankly even if a &#163;2,000+ printer or well-managed network is going to cost less over five years than a two-tin-cans-and-some-string system that initially costs peanuts, they may not have the larger sum to spend in any case. In business you have to recognise that, further down the line, that nifty machine you picked up could dog you with hidden costs. By asking the right questions you should be able to save some money.
Bag itWouldn't you like to buy a famous handbag? Women's portal Handbag.com and eBay have combined to raise money for the Breast Cancer Care charity. A number of   celebrities have designed bags for the auction including Zoe Ball, Cherie Booth, and Gail Porter. The auction starts today and will run for a week. Last year's sale, which included a bag designed by Margaret Thatcher, raised &#163;100,000.www.handbag.comwww.breastcancercare.org.ukDigital rightsLast week, Need To Know reported that the new Michael Jackson CD single is the first audio CD that won't play in PC CD-Rom drives. Wacko's single uses Macro  vision's SafeAudio, which doesn't bother standalone audio CD players, but forces your PC to come up with error messages. The whole idea is to stop users ripping their CDs and converting them into MP3s. A UK day of action opposing copy protection such as this is being held by the Campaign for Digital Rights this Saturday.www.ntk.nethttp://uazu.net/cdRhyme onlineToday is National Poetry Day, and events are taking place across the country and on the web. The sonnet - the 14-line verse form favoured by poets down the ages - is the focus of Radio Three's web-based celebrations. Visitors to its site have been writing collaborative sonnets, one line per person, started by famous poets. The results will be broadcast today. Schools have their own projects throughout the day, thanks to PoetryClass.net. Comprehensive listings can be found on the Poetry Society's site.www.poetrysoc.com/npd/npdindex.htmwww.poetryclass.netwww.bbc.co.uk/radiothreewww.guardian.co.uk/booksWeb trumpsThose old enough to remember Top Trumps will be delighted with this site from web designers Pixelflo. It not only puts an old school card game online, but updates it for the web. Out go the fast cars and speedboats; in come a number of "web celebrities". Each has been given marks out a hundred for various attributes, in this case design, usability, wealth and innovation. The celebs include Bill Gates (wealth: 100, usability 4), Steve Jobs (usability 59, design 21) and Jakob Nielson (usability 100, design 1). You may not agree, but it is fun.www.pixelflo.com/008Learn directSince it opened in March this year, the Eden Project in Cornwall has proved to be one of the most popular millennium projects. Eden houses thousands of the world's plants under special domes, and has already attracted more than a million visitors. The project's official website looks and reads like a corporate offering, but Learn.co.uk, the Guardian's sister site, has produced an educational micro-site for the project aimed at both children and teachers. There are pre-visit activities and an excellent follow up section, plus material for people who cannot go.www.learn.co.uk/edenprojectwww.edenproject.comwww.eden-foundation.org/projectLondon linkCharles Booth, the Victorian philanthropist, now has a site dedicated to his life and work. The Charles Booth Online Archive uses the libraries of the London School of Economics and University of London. The archive contains the original records from Booth's survey into life and labour in London, dating from 1886-1903. It is incredibly detailed and should appeal to anyone interested in the history of the capital and Victorian England.http://booth.lse.ac.ukAttachmentsDespite its name, Platonica is a new flirting website for people who want a bit more than friendship. The site works like this: you meet somebody you like and get their email address. You then go to the site, put in some details about both yourself and the object of your desire, and the site lets them know someone fancies them... but not who. The hope is that they will work it out and send you a flirt back.www.platonica.co.ukNews reviewHow did online news fare on September 11? Some say it was new media's finest hour, others say it would have been if the sites had stayed up (so well done Guardian.co.uk and CNN.com). What is not in doubt is that news websites produced some of their most memorable front pages, but you can see for yourself. Meanwhile, an online appeal to help refugees fleeing Afghanistan has begun at JustGiving.com - this charity website is now taking donations for UNHCR, Medecins Sans Frontieres, Ockenden International and Medair.www.interactivepublishing.net/september/scroll.phpwww.justgiving.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  Irrefutable evidence (honest) that the moon landing was faked can be found athttp://brainsluice.tripod.com/moonlanding.html&#149;www.wiredforbooks.orghas a delightful RealAudio version of Alice in Wonderland.&#149;  Raise money for farmers in crisis atwww.pigbrother.co.uk&#149;  Women like sex too. So says the new sex siteCliterati.co.uk&#149;  The capital's contemporary dance scene now has its own site.www.londondance.com&#149;  Look after yourself atwww.thehealthyforum.comSix of the bestCalculatorsYour tax billwww.moneyextra.com/taxcalc2000Flight planswww.awc-kc.noaa.govCurrency converterwww.xe.com/uccBeats per minutehttp://legalize.org.il/ asp/bpm.htmCounting sheepwww.dodds1.com/Java/Jj.html13,745 otherswww-sci.lib.uci.edu/HSG/RefCalculators.html
'Today, humankind has the science and technology to destroy itself or to provide prosperity to all," Tony Blair told his party conference in Brighton on Tuesday. That conference saw Labour struggling to decide whether IT is about providing wealth and freedom, a tool for preventing destruction - or part of the threat.Earlier, the home office minister, Jeff Rooker, had reassured a Charter 88 fringe meeting that there was no pre-existing plan to implement identity cards. He added that cards would be a medium-term project if they happened. But he then said that biometric techniques such as iris scanners would be the technology to use."If you can't link the card to the person, it would be wide open to mass forgery," he argued. "If you don't have a biometric connection, it wouldn't work."Lord Rooker emphasised plans were at an early stage, but he dismissed using DNA samples to confirm identity. He added that he would like to carry a card: "I want the right to assert my identity. I don't give a bugger who asks me."Last year, Labour was inspired by IT's possibilities - and not primarily for surveillance. Then, Tony Blair announced cheap computers for the poor and "e-minister" Patricia Hewitt appeared at numerous fringe meetings, evangelising for e-government. IBM and Vodafone took stands in the exhibition and software firm Oracle advertised on the bridge connecting the two main conference sites.Not this year. Hewitt, now promoted to DTI Minister, used her speech to concentrate on manufacturing and the minimum wage. Her few mentions of IT included a software firm the government helped save, and high-tech manufacturers, such as Motorola, that it didn't. Her successor as e-commerce minister,   Douglas Alexander, took a lower profile.In the wake of September 11, some suggest that under-controlled online encryption provides secure communications for terrorists. Finance minister Lord Sainsbury had limited reassurance."We didn't introduce the rather draconian views which were first put forward," he told Tuesday's parliamentary IT committee fringe meeting, referring to early Conservative drafted versions of the Regulations of Investigatory Powers Act, the law controlling encryption use. He added: "Clearly it is a subject that will be looked at again. But we're very conscious that you must do things that won't damage the IT industry." In an echo of last year's optimism, he called on tech firms to maintain spending on research. This year, it is so the UK can do well when the economic downturn ends.The Hansard Society presented a Mori survey of 2,000 people on how politicians should respond to the web. The most popular suggestions were online MPs' surgeries (39%), and MPs with email addresses (32%). This appetite was higher among the under-25s, who were also keen on voting on line.Dr Stephen Coleman, the society's director of E-Democracy, described the web as "the dominant communication channel for the people who didn't vote in the last election. There's a high level of interest from the public for interactivity", urging Labour to use the web for encouraging this feedback. "Otherwise it becomes an impoverished version of broadcasting."In his speech, Blair said the internet and information technology were examples of globalisation, to be harnessed for the good of society. As with globalisation, some will worry about authoritarian overtones in Labour's approach to IT.
Last week the web agency Deepend closed as its parent Deepgroup, which housed six other satellite businesses, went into liquidation with 180 job losses.One might be tempted to ask "So what?". It is a blow for those who have lost their jobs but there is no shortage of problem companies in the internet industry, and the web agency market in particular has been under siege. Prominent industry names such as Head New Media and Blueberry.net have disappeared, while Razorfish has closed its London office, joining the likes of Wheel, Grey Interactive and Agency.com, which have cut jobs.For many in the industry, Deepend's fall represents more than just an addition to a long line of cutbacks. The agency was revered for the quality of its creative work.Deepend was started in 1994 by the design graduates Simon Waterfall, Gary Lockton and David Streek, taking its name from a sign at Richmond swimming pool, where the trio went to work on their first brief. Deepend's work - which also took in gaming, 3D, interactive TV and broadcast - was regarded as a beacon of excellence. And it had an array of industry awards to prove it.Advertising Age named it "No 1 creative interactive agency" in 2000 while Campaign ranked it as 1999's leading creative agency. This year it added Bentley, Conran shops and French Connection to a client list that included Cartoon Network, the BBC, Volkswagen, and ntl.Even rivals are unstinting in their praise. Richard Davies, managing director of the Good Technology web agency, says: "They were a fantastic brand. Sometimes they beat us and on others we beat them."It had also grown ambitiously, with spin-off businesses including the PR agency Relish, online ad agency Gluemedia, the consultancy Airtight, IT division Backend, web production business Poolside and digital TV ad specialist Sleeper. It had offices in Rome, New York, San Francisco, Sydney,   Toronto and Bangalore, and a sprawling base in Shoreditch.So what went wrong? Did Deepend's hubris encourage it to grow too fast? How significant is its failure for the web agency market?Davies points to Deepend's ambitious growth and diversification, along with a failure to see and deal with looming problems, as key factors. "Any expansion of that kind is going to cause problems and it appears to have got the better of them.You've got to focus on the bottom line as much as on the work you do."In addition, Deepend was vulnerable because clients were buying services that cut costs or brought a direct commercial return, rather than the high-end creative work it has been associated with, says Syzygy's chief executive Chris Robson. "Clients are buying services that contribute bottom line value _ Deepend   was a brilliant brand but it's difficult to put a value on the work they're doing and that's why they've suffered."However, Deepgroup contends it was not ill-prepared. Its chief executive, Gary Lockton, says: "We were aware we had challenges. The dot.coms' failure last year had an impact on our client base &#91;because&#93; confidence in digital media did drop away. Second, we were a private company - we didn't have a war chest. Third, there was a lot of aggressive undercutting and loss-leading by the publicly funded agencies. That put the icing on the cake."Deepgroup had refrained from making large-scale redundancies because such a move would have destroyed   its unique culture, says Lockton. Instead, the focus had been on securing investment. A deal with two US groups had been under negotiation, but fell through last week.However, there are concerns that Deepend's failure could damage the industry. Davies says: "I don't think it's good. I think competition is healthy. One of my worries is that there will be people saying that if Deepend can't do it no one can, but I don't think that's the case. You can make a business in this market - we see ourselves as a full-service agency and we make it pay."And it's not all doom and gloom at Deepgroup. Relish will stay in business under the wing of partner Whiteoaks, and Lockton believes that negotiations with liquidators could provide a future for other Deepgroup businesses.Lockton himself is moving on. He has secured a job as chief executive of North Creative, a Soho-based multimedia agency, and is taking 11 staff with him.
What would make you buy an internet-capable mobile phone? The wireless telecommunications industry would like to know. Most of us are happy with something small and cute that can handle text messages and perhaps download hilarious novelty ring tones. But that is not enough to keep driving revenue, and it is very worrying to the UK network operators who forked out &#163;22.5bn in total for 3G licenses and now aren't sure that anyone actually wants superfast internet access. Plus, there are other technologies on the way before 3G: General Packet Radio Service, J2ME, not to mention mobiles with colour screens and powerful processors. People need to buy into this stuff or the industry is going to be in big trouble.Many see mobile games as the answer. It was gaming that prompted the rapid growth of the PC industry, with Intel and AMD able to launch increasingly powerful processors seemingly every month by promising each new generation it would make Quake 3 run faster. Motorola, Siemens, Ericsson and Nokia are taking games so seriously they recently formed the Mobile Gaming Interoperability Forum to help simplify the process of developing and getting revenue from cross-platform wireless games.So the search for a "killer app" has begun, and the smart money is on multiplayer gaming. It is a unique selling point - GameBoy Advance cannot do it. It is also about social interaction - what most people buy their phones for. There are several so-called "massively multiplayer" titles on the way.   Eidos has Gangsters, where players set up gangs and then battle each other for control of Chicago. More ambitious, though, is Star Trek: Prime Directive in development at the mobile content provider Digital Bridges. This space exploration game is set in a persistent online galaxy where players can interact with thousands of other mobile users.Gangsters and Prime Directive work over the current Wap network, but they also support the forthcoming GPRS (2.5G) service which offers always-on functionality (users' phones are effectively always online), much faster data transfer rates and clearer billing structures. This is where the industry is really looking to rake in the gaming cash. Network providers will charge, not for the length of the phone call (offputting to consumers) but for the amount of data downloaded. Technology analyst Durlacher expects that 1 MB could "cost anywhere between 20p and &#163;5 in Europe" depending on the network, and as current games fit into 60K this seems quite a bargain. But - as we have already seen with SMS - when people get addicted, those pennies really start adding up.Also due this year are the first Java handsets. Java, a powerful platform independent programming language, allows developers to write downloadable mobile games with real-time interactivity. The Manchester-based developer iFone has already created Java versions of Atari classics Asteroids, Pong and Breakout, and has its own Java football game, iSoccer.The company's marketing manager Enda Carey sees the implementation of well-known licenses as a Trojan horse-style tactic. "We need   users to accept gaming on mobile devices as a viable option, and to get them used to downloading at a value for money price. Existing game brands will leverage us into the market and encourage gamers to play wireless games". Again, it will be possible to download Java games via Wap, but GPRS will make the whole process quicker and easier, enticing phone owners to upgrade.Next year we will see handsets with GPRS and Java compatibility as well as colour screens. The huge success of the i-Mode mobile internet service in Japan, where 64% of use is for entertainment, shows what can be achieved here. The main challenge, however, will be to attract mobile users uninterested in conventional games.One answer might be "location-based" products which use the positional-capabilities of mobile handsets. The Swedish company It's Alive has just released the first example, Bot Fighters. Here users go on to the game's website and locate another player in their area. They then send an SMS (or use a Wap phone) to check their target's physical location. If the target is within range, the player can shoot by sending a "fire" SMS. It is like paintballing, but with mobiles.This is still pretty geeky, but Rick Owen, marketing manager at the UK developer nGame, believes there are socially acceptable possibilities. "Location-based games address a market which to date wouldn't have been interested in computer gaming. They get you out of the house and into the fresh air, and they encourage sociability. There are ideas for dating games where you are matched with someone in your vicinity and directed to them: instant blind dates!"So, a genre that would let teenagers play videogames AND get a date? This is surely the dictionary definition of "killer app"_Useful sitesThe Global Mobile Suppliers AssociationIncludes glossary of wireless terms.www.gsacom.comThe Mobile Gaming Interoperability Forumwww.mgif.orgInformation on GPRSwww.gsmworld.com
Recent images of missing-persons posters near the World Trade Centre will have put us all in mind of friends and     relatives with whom we have lost touch. Winter is a time for getting together, and this winter more than most."I     should be drinking a toast to absent friends, instead of these comedians," Elvis Costello sang: but maybe we should     be doing our best to toast our friends in person. They might be absent now, but the web can help bring them back.The now famouswww.friendsreunited.co.ukallows you to get in touch with old school-friends, fast: perhaps too fast,     in fact, for your better sense to remind you why you have not been in touch since. As long as your old classmates     have registered - and in some cases a good proportion have - you can send emails, look at the homepages of old     friends, read notes from the adults they have become, and marvel at how much you have both changed.Since the     success of Friends Reunited, a number of other sites have sprung up, so if you want to track down the school bully,     trywww.lostschoolfriends.co.ukorwww.yourschoolreunion.co.ukfor a re-match. Friends Reunited is the most     popular of these services, and so usually the most useful.But there are other directories that cater for more     specific searches. If you were once part of a particular organisation, such as the armed forces, or from a particular     area, your search can be narrowed down accordingly:www.britishlegion.org.ukfor the British Legion,www.royalwings.co.ukfor the RAF and other services.www.missing-you.net/linkshas a list of such specific people     search engines. Sometimes the urge to find people is less about hope, and more about regret.After registering atwww.schoolfriends.co.uk, you can accesswww.lostloves.ws.There are only a few hundred non-searchable entries,     but the site is transfixing none the less: a stroll through a wistful graveyard, where messages of longing are etched     on stones of sweetheart-pink. Some of these are sad ("You went to France ... and then?"), some unsavoury     ("Remember the rat-shed"), some oddly specific ("We were quite close in Shrewsbury"), and some are a wondrous mix     of all of the above: "Bendy Wendy, where did all the years go?" - along with a hundred "I still love you" heartbreakers.What is particularly poignant about this site is the hopelessness of the service: what are the chances of finding     "Sally? - Margate, July 1960"? It is uplifting, though: a reminder of the human heart's irrepressible capacity to yearn.     And maybe the messages are not entirely in vain: there is a similar bulletin board for lost relatives, atwww.cyberpages.com/lostprsn.htm, and this one has a section showing its successes. If you are serious about     tracking down your lost love or missing uncle, and you know roughly where they are in the UK, you might do better to     try Directory Enquiries.BT now allows online queries to Directory Enquiries for free: atwww.bt.com/directory-enquiries/dq_home.jspyou can search for up to 10 free numbers a day. A number of email     search engines claim to be able to locate addresses.Lycos's WhoWheresearches for     email addresses, phone numbers or personal web pages, although it seems to give only results back from the USA.Many of these directories are intermittent at best.Yahoo! People Searchfound a Tim     Guest in Houston and in Hounslow, but none in Kings Cross, where he ought to be. There are some handy directories     to save you searching all over the place.LookUpis a resource centre for locating people in the     UK. It gives useful access to a commercial directory enquiries sitewww.192.comwithout having to register - as     well as others, including email and postal address searches, genealogy directories, and information and legal     guidelines for birth parents and adoptees. 192 also offer an electoral roll searchwww.192.com/electoralroll.cfm.You need to register, but the service gives perhaps the most comprehensive results of all, assuming the person you     are looking for is registered to vote, and you know at least their town or city of residence. Finally, the direct     approach can sometimes be best. Try typing the person's full name into a search engine such asGoogle- for UK searches useGoogle UK.Google has recently added support for     phrase searching, so type your friend's name inside quotation marks, and you will quickly see how much of an impact     they have made on the online world. This can also be an interesting - if web-biased - way to find out more about the     people you meet. Once you have found who you are looking for, whether you get in contact is another matter. At     least with these sites, along withMultimap, you will know which direction to tilt your glass.
No amateursUpgrade your CV by learning Web design was the enticing intro to last week's Working the Web piece, but     in reality the article is about learning to author HTML, not about design for the web. Despite Online's laudable     promotion of usability over the years, the article doesn't mention the concept.The notions of the user, client or     design problem are also completely absent. Being able to author HTML doesn't make you a designer, just as being able     to use a word processor doesn't make you a journalist. This misconception is responsible for 99% of the badly     designed sites on the web, the other 1% being the "over-designed" Flash-based sites bemoaned by Jack Schofield.Nico     Macdonaldnico@spy.co.ukNot so fastThe article by Paul Trueman on multi-skilling is not only misinformed but     propagates the belief that internet-related skills can be picked up in a day. It is about time someone with inside     knowledge of the industry set the record straight.As a technical director, and having looked at more than 2,000 CVs     in the past four years, I can tell you without a shadow of a doubt that the average person would be better off     learning embroidery rather than trying their hand at web development and design. In my book, Elizabeth Castro     wouldn't even get to the interview stage. No one person can write, design and develop.The days of the "completely     skilled" web professional are gone, dead and buried and in my view, thankfully so. Unfortunately, articles such as this     try to return us to those horrendous days where techies tried to design, designers tried to write and writers thought     they were strategists. Even HTML, the most fundamental of web skills, is something that very few people know well.     Unfortunately a whole new generation of wannabes after reading this article are going to be sending their CVs to     companies demanding £35K a year.Andrew Fisherdrewfisher@hotmail.comMore savingsHaving been a student for     three years, I completely agree that dividing household bills between flatmates is a nightmare (Doing the splits on     your student flat bills, September 26). Creating a spreadsheet may well help organise household finances but couldn't     Online have gone one step further to advise on ways to save as much money as possible on bills and living costs?There are some great web sites around that can save consumers a fortune on bills:www.uswitch.com, for example,     is an online home services comparison web site. Based on factors such as postcode and usage, students can find the     best deal on a range of services, including digital TV providers, gas, electricity and mobile phone companies.They can     then sign up to a supplier on the spot. Another way to save cash is by booking all travel/rail tickets via the internet.     Theatre and cinema tickets can also be picked up slightly cheaper if you buy them online. There are also good     old-fashioned ways to save money such as scouting round second-hand shops and going food shopping after 7pm when     everything is reduced! Instead of just splitting household bills up fairly, students need to think about how to keep     those inescapable costs as low as possible.Sarah Mooresem2000_uk@yahoo.co.ukEnough LinuxSurprise, surprise.     As soon as anyone praises anything Microsoft does, the reflex holier-than-thous crawl out of the woodwork telling us     all how wonderful Linux is. Yes, we get the message, it is brilliant. However, the simple fact is 90% of PC users use     Windows, and that is not likely to change for a while.The piece was obviously intended to be an introduc tion to XP     for existing Windows users who have neither the impulse or expertise to use Linux... so can the Linux advocates     please just give it a rest? You are not telling anyone who cares anything they don't already know, and it is not big or     clever.So knock it off. And to Steve Hibbert: basically, you are just wrong. You have missed Jack Schofield's point     when he talks about the removal of DOS by a country mile. The DOS interface still exists within WinXP - you can load     up command prompt and get a perfectly functioning "DOS" window. (Well, actually, it's better than the ones in any     other MS OS so far, since it has extended shell features.) What XP will do is migrate most Windows users to an OS     which isn't still based on original DOS code - which is now almost a decade old and entirely unable to cope with the     demands of modern computing.All your command prompt automations will work just as well under XP as they do under     W2K, ME, or 98: the difference is your OS won't be running 2001 programs on 1991 code and won't be falling over     half as often. And if the computing industry ran on the "If it ain't broke, don't fix it" maxim we'd all still be running     our programs through punch-card readers. Adam Williamson adam.williamson1@ btinternet.com
NimdaA very infectious parasite called Nimda (admin backwards) has run rampant since my last column. For details of how it works, and links to anti-virus websites, see the Computer Emergency Response Team's page atwww.cert.org/advisories/CA-2001-26.html.Nimda or W32.Nimda. A@MM usually arrives in a blank email message as an attachment called readme. exe, though you may be invited to download it as an Outlook Express mail (.eml) file from an infected website. Obviously you should not run the file, but it may be executed if you simply show the message in the preview pane. (If it invites you to run it, hit Cancel until it stops.)The patch for this vulnerability was published six months ago: seewww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/MS01-020.aspfor details.Several companies provide free programs to remove the virus, including F-Secure (ftp://ftp.f-secure.com/anti-virus/tools/fsnimda1.exe),McAfeeandSophos. Nimda activity may also be the cause of increased port scanning that readers with firewalls have noticed recently.What file?I receive attachments with a .pps suffix. When I try to open them, I get a message to say there is no association for this file. I do not know what I should associate this suffix with!Dawn Lewisdclewis@dialstart.netJack Schofield replies:There are so many file extensions that no one knows what most of them mean. There is a web site athttp://filext.comwhere you can look them up. In this case, it suggests that .pps is a Microsoft PowerPoint Slideshow file.Flash GetWhen downloading large files from the net, some time-out part way through. How can I deal with this? (Real Download has fixed   this for some sites, but some of them reject it.)David J Leighd.j.leigh@staffs.ac.ukJS:You need more download managers, and luckily there are at least 50 for Windows. My favourite isReGet, butDAPandGetRightsometimes work when that fails to start, and vice versa. GetRight has a great browser tool.FlashGet,Net Vampireand others also have their fans. Most downloaders are free in advertising supported versions, or cost &#163;10-30 without the ads. Mac download managers includeDownload Deputy,Monica, andViaHTTP.Get FlashWhen I visit some websites, a box appears asking if I want to run Flash 5.0 distributed by Macromedia, Inc. Playing safe, I click No, but the box keeps re-appearing. How can I get rid of it?Geoff Fimistergfimister@blueyonder.co.ukJS:Flash used to be a program that let you flood another Unix user's terminal with garbage. Now it is a vector-based graphics animation system (it was originally called FutureSplash) that lets web designers flood your screen with garbage. Sadly, the best   way to get rid of the box is to download and install the Flash module, then look for a "skip intro" button when you see an unwanted Flash download starting. There is no escape. Flash is so entrenched that Microsoft is including it with Windows XP.To be fair, Flash is a good way of creating compact audiovisual files in very little time. See Jason Alan Basham's movie athttp://totalescape.com/usa/imagine.htmlAddress saverI run Internet Explorer and Outlook Express. How do I back up the address book?Kevin Gillespiekandagill@btinternet.comJS:Outlook Express uses the Windows Address Book so the data is held in a .wab file. You can find this by searching your C: drive for *.wab and back it up by copying it to another disk. You can also take a back up by exporting your addresses. Click the Addresses icon in Outlook Express to load the address book, then select File|Export| Address Book (WAB) and enter a name.Unfortunately, in both cases the backup is not human-readable. A third option is therefore to select File|Export and choose Other Address Book, then Text File (Comma Separated Values). I do all three. It would be even better if someone provided a wizard to export a whole address book in standard vCard text format, but I don't    know anyone who does. For information on vCards (virtual business cards), seewww.imc.org/pdi/vcardoverview.htmlMail killerI received an email from info@hignfy.com about Have I Got News For You's new series. When I try to read it, a message comes up saying an error has occurred, and I can click Ignore or Close. The box is headed MSIMN. If I click Ignore or try to delete the email, I am told I have Committed an Illegal Operation etc. Any suggestions?Brian ConlinBrian@conlin31.freeserve.co.ukJS: Look through the list of MSIMN errors atwww.generation.net/~hleboeuf/ermsimn.htmand see if you can find one that applies. You may be able to delete the message by going to View|Layout in Outlook Express and turning off (unticking) Preview Pane. Another useful trick is to go to Edit|Find|Message to pop up a search box. Enter a search term that will find the message, and it will appear in a panel under the search box. There you can right-click it and delete it.Write back&#183;Jack Gordon was looking for a better FTP (file transfer protocol) program for his Mac. Eight readers sent in suggestions; 75% recommended Transmit,    whichRon Burnsdescribed as "the current Mac FTP application of choice". It costs $25 to register and can be downloaded fromwww.panic.com/transmit&#183;Tony Mitchell, editor ofSkin Two, responded to Jason Hawkes' problem with transferring large picture files. What I did not mention, he says, "was how much time can be saved by first using the right file compression. Most people know that the standard JPEG file format is not suitable for quality repro of images above postcard size, and tend to assume TIFFs are the required standard. However, if you save your image file as an EPS in Photoshop, there is an Encoding sub-menu which allows you to save with varying degrees of JPEG compression. If you select "high quality" JPEG compression, you can reduce the EPS file to around a tenth of its original size with no perceivable loss of quality. That means A4 full-colour scans are compressed to around 3-4 megabytes with none of the limitations of a regular JPEG. We regularly send and receive files of this size as email attachments. We only need to bother with FTP for large multiple downloads."
The world's first third-generation cellular phone service was finally introduced yesterday by Japan's biggest mobile phone operator, NTT DoCoMo, after months of delays and technical glitches.A low-key start belied the high stakes involved. The technology could break the company or make it into a leader in a market that the world's telecoms companies are spending more than $100bn (&#163;70bn) to create.The awkwardly named Foma - Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access - offers a connection speed that is 40 times faster than existing mobile phones, allowing users to surf the internet and engage in videoconferences.From next spring, DoCoMo says it will also be possible to download audio files and video clips of sports highlights, music concerts and films. Only a handful of customers queued in the rain to be among the first to get their hands on the new phones, however, which went on sale at about 200 DoCoMo outlets in Tokyo yesterday morning.They paid handsomely for the privilege. Handsets range in price from &#165;66,500 (&#163;375) for a basic web surfing model to &#165;95,700 for top-of-the-range colour screen devices capable of video conferencing.Although suppliers will heavily discount the hardware, consumers have to pay about &#163;57 a month in subscription fees, some 20% more than the existing i-mode internet compatible service.Initial impressions, however, were positive. "This is fabulous," said a young woman who bought a phone at a store in Tokyo's Shinjuku district. "It's really cool to be able to see the person that I'm talking to.""It will be a great way of keeping our eye on the kids," said a mother at a nursery school fitted with cameras linked to Foma. "My husband will be able to check on the children from work."The 3G service, which was supposed to have been introduced in May, will initially be restricted to a 30 km radius in the Tokyo metropolitan area, but DoCoMo says it will rapidly expand coverage to include Osaka, Kyoto and Nagoya by the end of the year and the rest of the country by next spring.The company has earmarked &#163;17bn to expand the service within the country over the next three years. Aiming initially at business customers who are more likely to pay the extra costs of the service, it hopes to sell 150,000 handsets by March, and then expand to a broader market by 2004, when it expects to produce a profit with more than 6m subscribers.DoCoMo plans to capitalise on its lead by launching services in Europe early next year   in conjunction with firms such as Hutchison 3G UK and KPM Mobile of the Netherlands.Acknowledging the high stakes, Keiji Tachikawa, chief executive of DoCoMo, said: "The migration from second-generation to third will revolutionise telecommunications, so the first company to launch the new technology will face the highest risks."Expected retail price&#165;95,700 (&#163;540)Dimensions104mm x 56mm x 35mmWeight150gBattery life100 minutes for voice, 70 minutes for video (continuous use)Standby battery life55hrsPacket-transmission rateDownstream 384 kilobytes per second (kbps); upstream 64kbpsCircuit-switched transmission rate64 kbpsFeaturesColour screen, i-mode, TV conference calling, internet e-mail, short messaging. No protuding antenna
Excite@Home, one of the best-known names online, filed for bankruptcy at the weekend. The company said it had reached agreement to sell its broadband internet access business to US telecoms company AT&amp;T for $307m in cash. The future for its loss-making content businesses, including search engine and internet portalExcite, remains uncertain.At the height of the dot.com boom the company was one of   the highest-profile US internet firms and a pioneer of high-speed internet access to the home. Excite and AtHome merged in a $6.7bn deal to ally content and access. It has about 3.2m customers taking its @Home service and 12,000 businesses subscribing to@Work. But the slump in internet advertising and mounting losses in its content division have increased debts to more than $1.1bn. Last quarter Excite lost $346.3m.Patti Hart, Excite@Home   chairman, said the company had filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors to ensure it would have the cash to keep the high-speed internet division running until the sale was completed.The Excite internet portal has 110m registered users worldwide. Shares in the company, which once changed hands at $55, closed at 15 cents on Friday before the bankruptcy was announced. AT&amp;T is the company's largest shareholder.The agreement to sell the broadband business still depends upon approval of the bankruptcy court. A higher offer might yet emerge.&#149; London Clubs, the gaming group, has placed its troubled Las Vegas casino venture, Aladdin, into Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Discussions are ongoing with the banking consortium for Aladdin which has agreed to put additional cash into the complex. Some of the &#163;500m in debt may also be converted into equity.
Internet hustlers are trying to con people into buying fake US degrees.According to the British Council's office in Washington, which has been tracking these and similar scams, developing countries are a particular target.Advertisements to "buy your way to a better job" make tempting offers. All applicants have to do is call an American telephone number and send a cheque.However, according to the council, for $500 to $1,000 all you get in return is an embossed piece of paper purporting to be a degree, but which will not carry much weight with a serious personnel department.And that is only if the purchaser is lucky. Many people pay money and never receive anything, according to the council's director of education, Jenny Scott.The offer is more tempting to those in developing countries because few can afford the money to study in America, and a foreign education can be a passport to a different career.The council also warned of advertisements purporting to offer tutelage in a person's home country that will result in an American degree.It has been contacted by distraught individuals who have paid huge sums compared to their means, and never heard from the 'university' again.Where a person or group claims to be a real institution, for example, the Harvard Diploma Programme, the British council and other organisations try to get them shut down. But where someone is offering just a degree there is very little anyone can do. Often it will simply be one person with their computer who could relocate any time."I hope that people would just know it isn't worth getting these degrees. If you had this kind of degree, you would always know it was paid for," Ms Scott said.
What can you say? That's the question I've been asking myself most often since September 11. Like no other time I've felt that I've wanted to talk with complete strangers about what's going on in the world, maybe even strike up a conversation on the bus.But I haven't, for fear that any debate about military action, or the Diana-like grief that swept the world might see me branded a terrorist sympathiser, callous middle class dissenter, or worse. It's been a time where people have been watching their mouths, which made me all the more pleased to read the Onion.Perhaps because the world's top satirical publication never has to sit on the number 24, their latest issue - which appeared on the web yesterday - has said what I believe many of us have only been able to think. Under a special Onion report entitled Holy Fucking Shit - Attack on America, the paper's anonymous writers discuss the issues of the past two weeks with characteristic sharpness.Every angle of the crisis is covered. In the middle of the page headlines like: US vows to defeat whoever it is we're at war with, and Bush Sr apologises to son for funding Bin Laden in the 80s.  "We called them 'freedom fighters' back then," old George tells the younger. "You sort of had to be there."On the left hand side, usually reserved for lampooning editorials and features, are lines such as: Hugging up 76,000%, and Rest of Country Temporarily Feels Deep Affection for New York. In the point/counterpoint section the issue of a suitable military response is broached (just like it might be on public transport across the world). "We must retaliate with blind rage," reasons Kent Doane, while Larry Tempel responds: "We must retaliate with measured, focused rage."And there's more, lots more, where that came from in what must be one of the best issues of the Onion I've read. Thousands of Britons already turn to this former student rag from Wisconsin to have their prejudices popped, and their idols toppled, but this week it seems to be performing a vital public service.It satirises not only the governments and their rhetoric, but also the responses of the people they govern, which is something lacking in, say, Private Eye's coverage of the crisis. And it is also interesting to note that while many liberals have chosen to berate American imperialism in the past days, that the Onion's biting critique comes from within their own borders. It is, as they say, a funny old world.
Paris Dakar RallyPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99  Acclaim	***Another week, another mediocre racing game for the PS2, but at least this offering has a unique setting. Based on the arduous desert rally, Paris Dakar replaces neon and tarmac with sand and bushes. The 6,500-mile, 17-day race is squeezed into the PlayStation 2, with 10 stages set in a variety of inhospitable environments ranging from muddy   tracks to volcano jungles. Instead of sports cars, the player has to choose from a combination of 4x4s, quads, bikes and buggies. Not the most glamorous of vehicles, perhaps, but more useful than the latest Ferrari.Each vehicle reacts differently, with the buggies and 4x4s faster, but harder to manoeuvre. All the vehicles suffer from a floaty sensation that gives a feeling of hovering above, rather than driving on, the ground. The controls are overly twitchy, with only the merest movement on the joypad usually enough to up-end your vehicle. And, con sidering the speed slowdown caused by going off-road, there will be much frustration for beginners aiming to keep on the course.Graphically this is disappointing, with bland landscapes that are a bit too realistic in depicting a desert environment.Despite these flaws there is some enjoyable racing here. The setting means the main opponent is the harsh terrain rather than the infrequently seen competitors. And there is something satisfying about battling through the conditions on the gruelling later stages. Nevertheless, Paris Dakar is strictly average. (GH)Baldur's Gate II: Throne of BhaalPC	&#163;19.99  BioWare Studios/ Interplay	***The add-on to the sequel to the best role-playing game of all time and, since the cancellation of BG3, the last in the series.But staunch your tears, young nerd. Interplay is already planning new titles using the same engine. And anyway, this latest release is stretching the point a little. In Baldur's Gate, you could take your mage, fighter or thief to a measly level seven, fighting goblins and bandits, and were chuffed to find items with minor magical enchantments. Now you can get up to level 40, do battle with demogorgons, and lay waste to the landscape with weapons and spells of mass   destruction. If Baldur's Gate III had continued the trend it would have had to become the Dungeons &amp; Dragons equivalent of the Death Star.Still, it does more than your average add-on: as well as raising the experience limit of your adventuring character, Throne of Bhaal offers a new plotline, more spells, a new character concept in high-level abilities (thieves can gain the ability to make potions, for example), new areas to explore, new   enemies, new spells, new companions, and a new character class (the wild mage). There's some new atmospheric music, some amusing new dialogue, and even new developments in the romance between you and your party members.All of which adds up to several dozen hours of add-itional gameplay, and gives you another excuse to play all the way through the BG series again. As if you needed one.  (AB)
As the new academic year approaches, many will move into a shared home. A place of camaraderie, of shared chocolate biscuits... of sordid week-old stacks of soiled dishes. Yet sanitation-related distress is nothing compared to the nightmare of dividing up the bills with your flatmates.Unless you use a spreadsheet. This kind of software provided one of the first boosts for personal computer sales, when executives bought Apple IIs running a spreadsheet called VisiCalc so they could easily play with their budgets. Some old hands half-joke that spreadsheets allowed the frenzied waves of take-overs that have crashed through business ever since.If you have Microsoft Office (the suite including Word), you already own the spreadsheet Microsoft Excel, for which these instructions are designed. However, other spreadsheets are similar: the main instructions in steps 3 to 5 also work for Psion's Epoc Sheet, for example. Using such a system on a portable also allows you to divvy up the bills when you go on holiday with your friends - if you are still talking after those arguments over who didn't do the washing-up.Step by step1.Click Start (bottom left), choose Programs then Microsoft Excel. A blank grid appears.2.All the numbers here will be financial. To format this, select everything (control and   A - the grid will change colour) then choose Cells from the Format menu. On the Number options , click on Currency, the third option in the Category list on the left side of the box, and choose &#163; from the list on the right. Click OK, and the page is formatted.3.You will need to change the size of some of the columns to fit in descriptions. Move the cursor to the line between A and B in the row of lettered boxes near the top of the screen: the cursor should change to a vertical line with arrows pointing left and right. Click, hold, then move the mouse right, roughly doubling the width of the column. Then do the same to column C.Steps 2 and 3 do not affect the mathematics of the spreadsheet, and you can change the width of columns or the format and font of boxes (or cell in spreadsheet parlance) whenever you wish without altering the data.4.To enter something in a box, first click on it: a thicker border shows it is live. Create your bill-squarer by typing the following things into the cells stated. You can use your own words (and names, of course), but type the formula for B1 exactly as shown.Cell: What to typeA1: Emma owes Steve:B1: =(SUM(B4:B100)-SUM(D4:D100))/2C1: (minus means Steve owes Emma)A3: Steve pays (details)B3: (amount)C3: Emma pays (details)D3: (amount)Screen-shot 3 shows what should result. Everything   should fit if you are using Excel's preset font and size: if anything doesn't, stretch the columns as in step 3.5.Now you type in expenses under the headings in row 3. Say Steve pays the first month's rent of &#163;400, while Emma pays &#163;6.99 for washing-up kit and 99p for a packet of choccy biccies. You would enter the following:A4: October rentB4: 400C4: KitchenwareD4: 6.99C5: BiscuitsD5: 0.99The spreadsheet calculates that so far Emma owes Steve &#163;196.01. You can type in more entries, revise amounts or delete entries: the software instantly recalculates how much is owed, with a negative in cell B1 meaning Steve owes Emma. You can save the spreadsheet through Save on the File menu, as in Microsoft Word.The formula you typed into cell B1 does what you would do when totting up the expenses. It adds up everything Steve has spent: the total value of cells B4 to B100, hence SUM(B4:B100) - subtracts everything Emma has spent in the same way, then splits the difference ('/2' in the formula).Excel can add, subtract, multiply (using *, the asterisk symbol - use shift and 8) and divide: to enter a calculation, always start with =. Along with the SUM technique demonstrated here, you could keep control of your finances, or plot your purchase and carve-up of Microsoft.
As US forces converge on Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden's satellite phone has not been cut off. But calls to the terrorist leader's laptop-size satphone - relayed via an Inmarsat satellite 40,000 km over the Indian Ocean - are going unanswered.His number - 00873 682505331 - was disclosed earlier this year in the New York trial of his associates for bombing the US embassy in Kenya. Callers now hear a message stating he is "not logged on or not in the dialled ocean region".His satphone was used frequently during the 90s. Bin Laden was heard advising Taliban leaders to promote heroin exports to the west. National Security Agency (NSA) officials even played recordings of him talking to his mother to security-cleared visitors to their headquarters, as a trophy of their prowess. After failing to warn of the attack, the agency has fallen silent.According to US intelligence, the satellite phone has not been switched on all year. Experts do not believe he was unaware of the US eavesdropping, which is simple to do. Even amateurs can   tap Inmarsat using an antenna made of DIY parts and a scanner bought for &#163;150 in the high street. Bin Laden may, however, have been unaware that NSA "sigint" satellites, listening from space, could pinpoint his location. The satellites are controlled from ground stations near Denver, Munich, and at Menwith Hill in Yorkshire. But they could only locate him when he was logged on.Using this method, US intelligence believed in 1998 that they had found him. In August 1998, President Clinton authorised a cruise missile attack on a training camp at Khost, Afghanistan. By the time the missiles landed, Bin Laden had gone.Having failed to forestall the worst attack of all, many Americans have taken to blaming new technology.Congress will shortly debate a new Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which will further loosen controls on electronic surveillance. The NSA already operates a global communications surveillance system in conjunction with Britain's GCHQ. One of the proposed provisions would allow GCHQ to conduct random surveillance of American citizens' communications and send them on. This would breach the US bill of rights. (Non US citizens have no protection.)The potential use by terrorists of the net and encryption have for years been a major target of intelligence agencies and politicians. They have demanded curbs on privacy and the banning of encryption. Throughout the 90s, the IT community was continually focused on whether or not security software that used encryption should also use "escrow". Escrow requires keys allowing private messages to be decoded to be given to the government.In December 1999, the US government abandoned controls on the use of "strong encryption". It was also forced, on commercial grounds, to follow European countries and abandon the demand that encryption be illegal unless escrowed.In the US and in Britain, some advocates of escrow had seemed almost eager to see a major terrorist disaster using internet encryption, to prove them right. Privacy campaigners countered that banning strong encryption would never prevent terrorism but would damage e-commerce.Within hours of the carnage in America, these arguments were back in the   headlines. A day after the attack, it was asserted that the net and encryption was undoubtedly to blame, and must have been used to coordinate the attacks.Seven months earlier, a widely quoted newspaper report had claimed that bin Laden's followers were operating a communications network based on encrypted messages concealed inside pornographic pictures. This technique, steganography, hides a coded message inside a picture or music file by making numerous small changes to data. The changes are invisible to ordinary viewers or listeners, but can be read by special software.The February report luridly alleged that his group had relayed the "encrypted blueprints of the next terrorist attack against the United States", including maps of targets, inside "X-rated pictures on several pornographic web sites" (seewww.usatoday.com/life/cyber/tech/2001-02-05-binladen.htm) .This month's attacks have provided the first, tragic, test of who was right about the net, encryption and terrorism. The answers, so far as they are known, were given last Tuesday by the FBI at a Washington briefing. FBI assistant director Ron Dick,   head of the US National Infrastructure Protection Centre, told reporters that the hijackers had used the net, and "used it well".FBI investigators had been able to locate hundreds of email communications, sent 30 to 45 days before the attack. Records had been obtained from internet service providers and from public libraries. The messages, in both English and Arabic, were sent within the US and internationally. They had been sent from personal computers or from public sites such as libraries. They used a variety of ISPs, including accounts on Hotmail.According to the FBI, the conspirators had not used encryption or concealment methods. Once found, the emails could be openly read.The allegation that plans have been hidden inside internet porn has, so far, proven unsupported. A few days before the attack, a team from the University of Michigan reported they had searched for images that might contain terror plans, using a network of computers to look for the "signature" of steganography. According to researchers at the Centre for Information Technology Integration, they "analysed two million images_ but have not    been able to find a single hidden message" (seewww.citi.umich.edu/techreports/reports/citi-tr-01-11.pdf).The FBI said this week they had nothing further to add. US and British communications intelligence agencies are also examining past internet intercepts. Information will be incorporated into a secret report to the US Congress, but will not be made publicly available. One US senator has claimed that soon after the attack, NSA received a call from a US cell phone to a "suspected bin Laden operative in Europe" announcing: "We hit the targets."Despite the forthright position taken by the FBI, some US newspapers have continued to report technological myths in circulation before the attack. Last Friday, the Washington Post claimed the inventor of the widely used PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) encryption system, Phil Zimmermann, had been "crying every day... overwhelmed with feelings of guilt". Although the FBI had already said they had found no evidence of these terrorists using encryption, Post readers were told that Zimmermann "has trouble dealing with the reality that his software was likely used for evil". (seewww.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A1234-2001Sep20.html)In a public statement this week, Zimmermann accused the Post of serious misrepresentation in publishing things he never said. "Read my lips," he said, "I have no regrets about developing PGP." His grief had been for the victims, not for culpability about his invention.The Washington Post and other US newspapers have also reported that bin Laden has access to satellites more powerful than the NSA's, and uses a communications company controlled by a relative to overcome US monitoring. Neither the satellites nor the company exist.Dr Brian Gladman, formerly responsible for electronic security at the Ministry of Defence and Nato, believes that the reason that the terrorists didn't use encrypted email is that it would have "stood out like a sore thumb" to NSA's surveillance network, enabling them to focus on who they were. There is also evidence that, when communicating, the terrorists used simple open codes to conceal who and what they were talking about. This low-tech method works. Unless given leads about who to watch, even the vast Echelon network run by NSA and GCHQ cannot   separate such messages from innocuous traffic.NSA's problem, says Gladman, is that "the volume of communications is killing them. They just can't keep up. It's not about encryption."NSA has been attempting to keep up with the internet by building huge online storage systems to hold and sift email. The first such system, designed in 1996 and delivered last year, is known as Sombrero VI. It holds a petabyte of information. A petabyte is a million gigabytes, and is roughly equivalent to eight times the information in the Library of Congress. NSA is now implementing a Petaplex system, at least 20 times larger. It is designed to hold internet records for up to 90 days.Dr Gladman and other experts believe that, unless primed by intelligence from traditional agents, these massive spy libraries are doomed to fail. The problem with NSA's purely technological approach is that it cannot know what it is looking for. While computers can search for patterns, the problem of correlating different pieces of information rises exponentially as ever more communications are intercepted. In short, NSA's mighty technology apparatus can easily be   rendered blind, as happened here, if it has nothing to start from.The new legal plans may therefore do more harm than good. According to Cambridge computer security specialist Dr Ian Miller, bringing back escrow "will damage our security in other ways, and divert an enormous amount of effort that would far better be spent elsewhere. It won't inconvenience competent terrorists in the least."PGP inventor Phil Zimmermann thinks the penalty of politicians misunderstanding technology will be even more costly. "If we install blanket surveillance systems, it will mean the terrorists have won. The terrorists will have cost us our freedom."&#149; Duncan Campbell is a freelance investigative journalist.&#149; Comments to online.feedback @guardian.co.uk
If a picture is worth a thousand words, then why not use pictures to communicate with mobile users? In Sweden, the mobile operator Europolitan Vodafone is planning to do just that. It has tested technology from the Nasdaq-listed Comverse and plans to introduce it next month.Customers will be able to send richer and, of course, more expensive messages. Instead of sending the text message: "U mst mt my new b-friend, Sven," the lovestruck teenager will be able to attach a photo of Sven using a phone with built-in camera. Holidaymakers will be able to send the view from the beach, with a message   such as: "Come on in, the water's lovely."Nokia, the mobile handset maker, also wants to jazz up messaging. Its Multimedia Terminal Gateway, out later this year, will enable mobile operators to deliver multi-media messages to existing phones, in the form of text messages saying there's a photo waiting on the web.UK mobile operators including Vodafone, which owns 71% of Europolitan Holdings, have multimedia in mind, too. Orange will be selling a compact colour phone-cum-personal organiser with a plug-in digital camera and keyboard for SMS for &#163;150 from June. Called the Hiptop, the device is made by Danger, a Californian start-up in   which Orange has invested.But multimedia messaging is not just about text and photos. Europolitan's customers will be able to attach a pre-recorded voice message to a photo or cartoon. Cartoons depicting moods were one of   the most wanted features during the company's trial.Staff wanted to be able to send a picture of a happy or sad face in reply to such questions as: "How's your day going?" Or of a glass of beer to indicate: "Let's meet for a drink after work."Comverse commissioned a graphic designer to draw up a library of images available for the trial via Wap (Wireless application protocol). It is also possible, but tricky, on some of the newer personal organisers and handsets to annotate photos by writing on them as one can a postcard.Though coy about how much users will pay for multimedia messaging, Europolitan's head of mobile internet Mikael Kluge, says: "It will cost about the same as a postcard and stamp.""We're on the brink of becoming a picture society. Pictures can already be sent over i-mode &#91;the Japanese mobile system&#93;, but what we have is more integrated with other kinds of messaging, such as SMS and email."Lars Vestergaard, wireless manager at the market   researchers IDC, is predicting 200,000 users of multimedia messaging in western Europe by the end of this year, rising to 27m in 2005.Initially, 160 Europolitan customers, including a group of teenagers in the same class at school, and a local football team ,will be able to send multimedia messages. Most will be using GPRS, a higher speed mobile standard. But the technology will enable a message to get through to whatever handset or mobile service the recipient is using.For example, if someone sends a cartoon from a Compaq iPaq colour personal organiser equipped for mobile to another with a monochrome screen, the colour will be stripped out.If a photo is sent to a standard handset that can't display photos, the recipient will get a message saying there's an illustration waiting on the web. And, in theory, even richer mobile messaging with a lot of streaming video and music should be possible when third generation (3G) services arrive - although that may be years away.
Anna Arthur woke up one morning and her website had disappeared. Her host, Easynet, had lost it. Melanie Henwood was even more upset when her MSN mail service vanished for a weekend, but mail problems are not unusual. Although service providers boast about their advanced technologies, the internet is in fact less reliable than electricity or gas, or even the normal telephone service. So what are you going to do about it?If you are a home or occasional user, the glitches are not worth losing sleep over. If you are a big company, your technical staff should have made sure your systems are resilient enough to keep going in adverse circumstances. But if you run a small business, minor problems could have catastrophic effects.Bridget Daley runs a guest house in the Alps, and much of her business comes from the UK via her website atwww.lesalpes.co.uk. The site was still there when the host, Entweb, ran into problems, but both the booking form and her email stopped working. No bookings, no business.No one had warned her that, to provide a back up, forms should be sent to two different addresses.Another Entweb user, Mike Holland of Smye   Holland Associates, also had website problems. "When it stopped working," he says, "we couldn't communicate with anyone at Entweb, nor could we reclaim our domain name and move it somewhere else." The site did reappear eventually, but from an out-of-date back-up copy. "There we were in June, with a website that said Merry Christmas. It was extremely embarrassing because the web has become such a l arge part of our business," says Holland.What customers did not know at the time was that Entweb was being taken over. There was a period of chaos, but when Holland established contact with the new management he found them responsive and he is still using their service. "But it has made us focus on how vulner able we are, and we now have a back-up strategy," he says.Unfortunately, Anna Arthur, who runs an arts and media PR company, didn't. She says she contacted Easynet when her company's website disappeared only to be told they couldn't find it. "They said: 'We have the details here but it doesn't look as though you've uploaded anything.'" The site had been uploaded by an outside designer, who had just gone to Singapore.Paul Ockenden, technical director of CST Group, a combined marketing and IT services company in Brighton, says: "It's quite common for hosts not to have back-ups. If you are designing sites and uploading them, they assume you will have a copy - and you should have. That's especially important if you have used an outside agency to do the design work."Those not involved in the business may assume that using a professional designer   and a professional hosting company is enough. It isn't.However, Melanie Henwood, a health and social care analyst, was just one of thousands who suffered while MSN switched users from a standard POP3 email server to a web-based Hotmail system.An MSN spokesman admitted there had been problems migrating customers from what had been a paid-for service to a free one. Microsoft had fixed up an MSN webmail system so customers could keep the same email address and continue to use Outlook Express to collect their mail, if they wanted. So far, so good. Unfortunately, it forgot to tell them they had to log on via the web first, to accept the new terms and conditions, before collecting their email in the usual way. They could not do that from Outlook Express.A second problem was that users had to know their password to log on via the web. Thousands didn't have a clue what their password was, because Outlook Express had remembered it for them."We had to do a lot of password resets," says MSN, "which sounds simple but is an involved process." The help lines were swamped. And although MSN says "no email has been lost" and that things have quietened down now, it is too late for Heywood. She has switched to Tiscali.Almost all email services have had problems, so everyone should use at least two. It may be worth buying a domain name - a unique internet address. The company that hosts the domain name can be asked to point mail to any server so you can still use a commercial mail service.However, if you want to change your supplier, you can have your email redirected without changing your email   address. The problem is that you may need to learn more about the net than you really want to know.Partly it's a historical problem. Most individuals and small businesses didn't want to invest a lot of money when they first ventured on to the net: they wanted to find out if it was worthwhile. As a result, they experimented with cheap or free services, or tried package deals offering everything for a small monthly fee. And if their chosen company ran into technical or financial problems, they suffered."Never put all your eggs in one basket," says Andrew Baker, technical director of Teledesign Solutions in Welwyn Garden City. "You should have a Plan B installed, tested and working." In his case, that means a high-speed digital line from BT as well as cable internet from NTL.With so many "virtual" providers around, make sure that the alternative really is different. For example, a company that sells an "alternative" service to BT could be re-selling a service operated by BT using the same exchanges, the same lines, and the same servers. If one goes down, they both go down.Ockenden says that when it comes to hosting websites, "If people can afford it, they're going to be safer using their own server in a rack, rather than renting disk space. But then you're talking low thousands rather than hundreds of pounds a year."Alas, that still isn't foolproof. Baker remembers setting up one client's system, which included a virtual private network, where they put their own equipment in a (non-BT) telephone exchange. What they hadn't anticipated was one of the telephone company's contractors simply unplugging it.
In Bournemouth for their annual conference this week, Liberal Democrats rubbished suggestions that new legislation on encryption is required in the wake of the attacks on America.Richard Allan, the party's IT spokesman, said there were already restrictions on use of the technology, and that to come back with more legislation now would just be PR."Terrorism was the whole point of the Regulation of   Investigatory Powers Act," he said. The act was passed last year and gives UK authorities some of the toughest powers in the world to bug email and web use, including the right to demand keys for encrypted files - failure to comply could result in a prison sentence.Allan, MP for Sheffield Hallam, should know his stuff. In his mid-thirties, dressed in dark shirt and tie and carrying a pager on his belt, he looks like the sort of   chap sent round to fix your computer. Indeed, before becoming an MP, he developed computer systems for the NHS."All the &#91;IT&#93; issues have a strong liberal streak to them," he told Monday's parliamen tary IT committee fringe meeting. "The Regulation of Investigatory Powers debate is about the right to security against the right to privacy." It had become an argument between two groups of right-wingers, he said, adding that the LibDems could provide balance.Allan said that the web's openness should be used to boost democracy. "There's a liberal model about bringing people into the democratic debate," he said. He argued that working towards online voting is essential, otherwise private polls run by companies and pressure groups will start undermining state-run elections.Such work is underway: Liberal Democrats Online, a group offering IT support to local parties, is holding its executive elections entirely online. Alan Window, a   member of the group, said running a minor election online provides experience of potential problems."We're beginning to play with these things," he said, name-dropping terms such as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy, a widely used encryption method). The group's executive even holds its meetings in a secure chat-room: "Anyone with a computer can join in."That is hardly democratic for those not online, so Liverpool, a LibDem-controlled city, is heavily involved in tackling the digital divide.Richard Kemp, the city's executive member for housing, said the council will be the telecoms provider for new and renovated council housing in the city: "We can provide telephone and computer services very cheaply."The council is also involved in a government project to provide cheap and free computers to the poorest citizens, and is working with BT on an analysis system that   will predict which neighbourhoods will decline. "We might be aware of the trend emerging before the people who live in those streets," said Kemp.LibDems reckon they have much in common with techies - not least a love of open standards and discussion. Staff on the Liberal Democrats Online stand laughed at the idea of Labour's centralised weekly email to its supporters, compared with the many open email lists they run, edited only for libel.And they love the web. More than one in eight people joining the party this year have done so online and local parties are encouraged to use email as their main method for rallying activists, as nearly all have web access.Of course, also in common with techies, the LibDems usually offer advice, rather than hold power.&#149; Visit the LibDem party website atwww.libdems.org.uk
Britain has appealed to China to lift its ban on internet access to the BBC website, but the rules under which Beijing blocks a number of foreign media sites remain as obscure as ever.Access towww.bbc.co.uk, blocked for several years, was lifted for a day last week and then re-blocked. At least four previously unviewable US media sites were "liberated" at the same time.Denis McShane, the Foreign Office's parliamentary under-secretary responsible for Asian affairs, who was visiting Beijing at the time, has appealed to China to end the BBC ban.He raised the problem while discussing the international crisis with vice foreign minister Wang Guangya. "I logged on to AOL," he told Wang, "to send a birthday greeting to my daughter, and then tried to call up the BBC site. I was very surprised to find it blocked - although I had no difficulty accessing the New York Times."Wang said he would look into it - the standard reply given to British protests.The ban on the New York   Times was lifted last month, after the issue had been raised in July by the paper's editors during an interview with President Jiang Zemin. President Jiang also professed ignorance and said he would look into the matter.China's Ministry of Public Security, responsible for internet control, has never commented on why it blocks foreign websites.Some observers have suggested that the ministry enforces the ban partly to embarrass the more outgoing Ministry of Foreign Affairs.Another theory is that a token selection of foreign media are blocked to satisfy old-guard Communist Party leaders who have no idea of the potential number.Proxy servers are widely used in China but the more popular ones are also liable to become blocked.A more practical reason for blocking the BBC site is that it allows access to both text and audio versions of its Chinese-language service. Other sites appear to be blocked because   they are well known and carry a larger volume of China-related material.The four US sites unblocked on or around September 19 - at the same time the BBC became temporarily accessible - included the Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, the San Francisco Chronicle and the Boston Globe.A week later, the Washington Post and the Los Angeles Times could not be accessed, but the other two papers remained free.Last week's temporary lifting, one diplomat suggested, could be a trial run for a more general easing next month when a big Asia-Pacific conference is held in Shanghai - with President Bush   scheduled to attend.There have been similar variations previously in the list of blocked foreign media, particularly during 1998 when Bill Clinton visited China.The high-profile Voice of America, CNN and Time magazine and most human rights organisations including Amnesty International stay permanently in the Chinese webdog-house.In another example of haphazard Chinese blocking, the banned Falun Gong religious sect cannot be searched for either under this name or under the related name of Falun Dafa. However, the name of its controversial founder, Li Hongzhi, for whom China has unsuccessfully sought an Interpol warrant, is unblocked. Articles on the Falun Gong can be located easily on the official People's Daily and other Chinese media websites.And what about other British media websites? One must hope it is not tempting fate to draw attention to their accessibility now.
Top spotLike other media, the web has been dominated by coverage of the September 11 terrorist attacks. The most-searched-for terms on Yahoo   last week included World Trade Centre and American Flag. It was noted that Osama bin Laden made Yahoo's Buzz chart at number 4, while Pamela Anderson languished at 47. However, Nostradamus made the top spot, following hoax "predictions" circulated by email. A more interesting coincidence was "the devil's face" in the smoke. Also, at one of the many tribute sites, you can light a virtual candle for the victims.http://buzz.yahoo.com/weeklyhttp://63.208.24.134Terrorism/kenny6.htmwww.eyenapsworld.org/candleSnapshotOn the web, news is a transitory thing and very few organisations try to keep much of a record of what was on their site a few weeks or months ago, let alone years before. Most of what has been online has already vanished forever. However, two web archivists are working with Internet Archive and the Library of Congress to try to preserve a record of the coverage of September 11. Volunteers are invited to submit sites they think should be preserved, and may also comment on them. The archivists   say: "We are also especially interested in finding non-American sites." For the background, see The Chronicle of Higher Education. Meanwhile the Poynter Institute of Media Studies in Florida has already collected an archive of 400 newspaper front pages.http://webarchivist.orghttp://chronicle.com/free/2001/09/2001091801t.htmwww.poynter.orgGood hitViv&iacute;simo is my favourite new search engine of the month. This one makes a noble attempt to categorise its hits   into a series of folders, which is useful. Open up one of the categories on the left, click on a link and it will show that site in the Viv&iacute;simo page. Wisenut is another new search engine worth a look. It is not as good at grouping hits into categories, but it lets you "sneak a peek" at what it has found. Wisenut also has links to a Korean version, still in test mode, and a Japanese demo version.http://vivisimo.comwww.wisenut.comPSI eyeGo to PSIgate because the truth is in there, probably. Actually, the abbreviation stands for the Physical Sciences Information Gateway, and this new site provides access to data across the UK's Resource Discovery Network. The main topics include astronomy, physics, chemistry and earth sciences.www.psigate.ac.uk/homenew.htmFile swapNapster replacements are ten a penny, but Morpheus is picking up the kind of speed that marks it as a contender. The file-sharing program has metamorphosed out of KaZaA, and the association with The Matrix will do it no harm at all. Morpheus can be downloaded from CNet but start at Music City.Yahoo has also extended its reach by adding peer-to-peer file sharing to its Messenger software. However, this feature is only available in the latest US version.www.musiccity.comhttp://messenger.yahoo.comComic cutsIf you are trying to complete a collection of Whizzer &amp; Chips or Tammy, or just be reminded of your lost youth, try 26pigs. It is a new site for buyers and sellers of British and American comics and annuals, and other collectables. Unusually it is being produced from Nagpur, India, by Gaz Green, the man behindHousingnet.co.uk: he upped sticks because, he says,   web programming is cheaper out there.www.26pigs.comKids' stuffChildren who like to write can find an audience via a new website, YoungABCtales, hosted by author Terry Deary. The opening page includes a new poem and a new story every day. The site has been launched by John Bird, co-founder of the Big Issue, and others to follow up the success of the grown-up version, ABCtales.www.youngABCtales.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  Crack the code:www.enigma-themovie.com&#149;  The &#163;100,000 challenge:www.oceanrace.co.uk&#149;  Official Anna:www.kournikova.com&#149; Europe's top 100 eLearning awards:www.eun.org/eun.org2/eun/en/awards_eschola/sub_area.cfm?sa=553&#149;  What websites find out when you visit:http://privacy.net/analyzeSix of the bestWTCThe memorialwww.thewtcmemorial.comUS responsehttp://usinfo.state.gov/topical/pol/terrorSharing griefhttp://thankyou.fast-networks.netHunting OBLwww.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/binladenFull coveragehttp://dailynews.yahoo.com/fc/US/TerrorismBackground linkswww.ire.org/related/weblinksubject.html
Farewell then, Beenz. And Cybergold, Flooz and so on. I know it is fashionable to knock all dot.com enterprises as
   transparently, ludicrously and fatally flawed, but I admire those guys for taking a shot at something that our banking
   system has, for now, turned its back on: cash on the internet. Beenz, for example, was responding to a genuine
   market opportunity.As its ex-chief executive Charles Cohen put it, an internet currency is "not only possible, but
   inevitable". Yet Beenz never did make the transition from "turbo Green Shield stamps" to a universal virtual
   currency. The system simply wasn't flexible enough. You could only use your Beenz at merchants: you couldn't pay
   another person with them. You couldn't buy them in a "foreign exchange" market.There was a limited number of
   online merchants you could redeem them with and, despite the tie-up with MasterCard, they didn't go far enough to
   span the physical and virtual worlds. The dynamics of Beenz were also hindered by the cumbersome technology used
   to implement them: in essence, the current web structure with access granted through user names and passwords.They were too vulnerable to allow person-to- person payments without the extensive registration process used by,
   for example, Paypal. People soon ran out of things to do with their Beenz.This led to a predictable cycle: a fast
   uptake, as technologically adventurous people such as myself created Beenz accounts (in fact, several accounts,
   since I kept forgetting my user name and password), followed by stagnation (because we could not use the Beenz for
   much), followed by indifference.The same lack of a security infrastructure led to the demise of Flooz, the
   web-based gift certificate outfit. Credit card thieves in Russia and the Philippines reportedly used card numbers to
   buy Flooz certificates, which they then redeemed at about 30 websites, including J. Crew, Barnes &amp; Noble and Tower
   Records. This led to a situation in which customers were redeeming thousands of dollars worth of Flooz daily at the
   web sites, yet Flooz was not getting the cash.Does this mean that Flooz was just another dot.com failure? Not at all.
   Flooz may have had its shortcomings, but not working wasn't one of them. It was gaining ground with merchants and
   making headway in the corporate gift market.It just ran out of time. Russ Eisenman, the marketing director for
   TowerRecords.com, said Flooz was particularly useful in attracting new shoppers to the online site. On certain days,
   she said, gift recipients redeeming Flooz made up half the site's business.In the UK, as in most countries, we are
   extremely conservative about the technology of money. This means that technology enthusiasts like me tend to
   overestimate the short-term impact of new technologies relating to the means of exchange.At the same time, we
   tend to underestimate the long-term impact, simply because we have not considered all the social and political
   issues. The fact is that it takes time to change the way we handle money, no matter how unsatisfactory current
   arrangements are. At the end of the 17th century, there was a crisis in the mechanism for payment in the UK.
   Because of illegal coin "clipping", people stopped accepting silver coins as legal tender. No less a brain than Isaac
   Newton quickly came up with a solution.First, he suggested that machines should make coins, rather than human
   beings. This would introduce consistency to the coinage (and also, by the way, reduce the cost of production).Second, he suggested that the machines mill the edge of the coins to prevent further clipping. King William III himself
   agreed to these changes and on December 19, 1695, issued a proclamation referring to "...the great mischiefs which
   this our kingdom lies under, by reason that the coin, which passes in Payment, is generally clipped...".Nevertheless, it
   still took a generation or so to replace all the old, hand-made coins with shiny new, uniform ones. The lesson is that
   when it comes to money transactions, even when the case for change is overwhelming, it still takes time.
   E-commerce today is hampered by the lack of new payment technologies just as physical commerce was debased by
   silver coinage three centuries ago.Just as the machine-made, uniform, mechanised coinage of Isaac Newton was
   better suited to the commerce of the industrial revolution, so digital money will one day improve commerce in the
   information age. There will be a digital money revolution during this generation, even without Beenz.&#149;  The 2nd annual
   Consult Hyperion digital identity forum takes place in London on November 7-8. Seewww.digitalidforum.com
Both my father and my grand-father managed to spend their entire working lives employed by the same company. I, on the other hand, have worked for three employers in only the first four years of my "career", and it looks as though I'm already obsolete. It's tough out there at the moment for an internet journo - in fact, it's tough out there for an internet anyone. Multi-tasking seems to be the thing nowadays; also known as paying one person to do two people's job.Having recently learned that it's no longer enough to be just a writer and still expect employment in today's shark-infested online waters, I have decided to upgrade myself, and begin work on Paul Trueman v2.0, pronto.To start with I'm getting to grips with HTML, the common language of the internet, and rather than pay huge sums for someone to teach me, thought I'd see what I could pick up on the internet.I soon found that to create a website, it's perfectly possible to avoid HTML and get by using software that takes care of all those pesky tags for you. However, if you want to understand the nuts and bolts of a website, it's best to try to get your head round those four pesky letters.Webmonkey is an absolute godsend to the wannabe designerhttp://hotwired.lycos.com/webmonkey), offering online tutorials in basic web design, graphics, multimedia - you name it, it seems Webmonkey can teach it. Part of the former Wired online empire, Webmonkey is now owned by Lycos, and to its credit, Lycos seems to have left it well enough alone. The site is easy to navigate, and incredibly helpful, full of tips, articles, and more importantly, a sense of humour. It's also one of the best sites around because it's so simple to find what you're looking for - and it focuses purely on trying to teach web technologies, without losing sight of the little guy (ie me) who is still trying to get to grips with the basics, eg putting brackets around everything. So as well as sections for know-alls dealing with terrifying-looking subjects such as Perl and PHP, there are also HTML tag cheat sheets to make the beginner's life easier, especially designed to be bookmarked and used as a reference guide.The same "fun" attitude is absent from the otherwise excellent technical site atwww.learnthat.com/courses/computer/developer.shtml, but it's still well worth a visit. Aside from some useful HTML tutorials, there are   also helpful online tutorials for web design packages such as MS Front Page and Macromedia's Dreamweaver, as well as lessons in How to find Online Advertisers, Flash 4.0, and Cascading Style Sheets.Alternatively, try the excellent About.com website, a must for anyone wanting to know anything about anything. Calling itself "the human internet", this site uses human guides to give you personal, expert advice on practically any subject you can think of, including an excellent section on learning internet skills   (http://webdesign.about.com/compute/webdesign). About.com should be familiar to any veteran surfer in its previous incarnation as the Mining Company, and if I sound like a fan, that's because I am. There is also a handy link through to a download page of free internet software that can get you started gratis.I haven't just relied on the internet, of course. Having pondered on which of the millions of HTML books are available, I ended up plumping for Elizabeth Castro's catchily-titled HTML 4 for the World Wide Web: Visual QuickStart Guide, a handy primer to getting a leg-up onto the congested information superhighway. Castro practises what she preaches, and has her very own website    (seewww.cookwood.com) with lots of handy add-ons to help readers. So there are live examples of the animated gifs Castro explains in the book, for example, as well as links to sites that let you register your domain name. With the book alongside your PC, it can really help when trying to come to grips with the trickier parts of learning how to build a website.If you want to be able to get a job on the strength of your new skills, then you're going to need something more than a rudimentary knowledge of HTML. You can pay Macromedia to join their online university, for example (http://macromedia.elementk.com), and they will teach you how to use their products. The old-fashioned grumbler inside me feels that this should really be the province of the user manual, but at $99, an annual subscription to a basic course should see you proficient in everything from Fireworks (professional graphics) to Dreamweaver (high-end web design package).You don't have to pay, of course:www.bfree.on.ca/HTMLis a free, non-profit website that offers excellent advice to those just starting out. There are 21 lessons available on the site that take you from know-nothing to a first dalliance with Javascript.And if you needed any proof that there's more to a good website than knowing HTML, check out the eyesore design of this site. Those that can't do, teach, and those who can't teach real people, give online tutorials. And I for one am very grateful.
How did you start using computers to make music?When I was in a studio called Lilley Yard I was involved in setting up a Fairlight CMI (seewww.ghservices.com/gregh/fairligh), which seemed like a manipulation tool that was really complicated! I think that's all the computer is, a way of manipulating information. I moved through programming synthesizers until I found the Atari 1040 ST (seewww.aceadvanced.org/computers/atari/1040st.htm), running Notator, and that is where I have been ever since.Is streaming the future for music delivery?When I was DJ-ing forU2's Pop Toura lot of the sets were broadcast live on the web. They would give you some crazy numbers of how many hits there were but what does that actually mean? Does it mean they have scrolled through it or logged on for a second then logged off again? It doesn't mean anything and doesn't let you know if people enjoyed it or not. It is definitely not the future at all because then you would be giving yourself up to the streamer and I am not letting a computer boffin choose what sort of music they are going to offer me.Favourite gadgets?I use aniBookat home and aNokia Communicatorwhen I am abroad for Wap etc. I had the new Siemens SL45 mobile with MP3, but it was crap. The buttons kept locking so I gave it away! My favourite is still my Ericsson T20s (seewww.ericsson.com/t20). The EFX500 delay box fromPioneeris an absolute beauty.How important has the net become as a publicity tool?It might be a lot of people tap-dancing or it might not! We still don't know what is triggering people on to a product. Is it random surfing of the web or is it going to their favourite site or is it a poster in the street? I think there are a lot of people spending a lot of money and not knowing what the actual return is. That is why with our label site atPussyfoot) we wanted to go for a good idea rather than something technically amazing. We wanted to make it interesting to people but without throwing a lot of money at it.Favourite Sites?I am quite into looking up historical figures and finding out about their lives. I like going to theDVLA site, A HREF="http://www.channel4.com/highlights" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Channel 4's TV listings) and the microfilm page at theBritish Library.Any major disasters?I once lost two days' work on the Atari simply because instead of saving a track, I loaded up another one. I was also in the studio once working on a fully computer automated desk and a technician came in to line up the only analogue machine we had running and he tripped the whole studio! One minute everything was fine: the next we were in complete darkness!Visit:www.howiebfolk.com
Xceptional?Jack Schofield (A hard sell for cuddly new XP, Online, September 20) celebrates Windows XP as an     operating system that allows people to "log on separately and &#91;keep&#93; their stuff separate".As if that weren't     amazing enough, the new operating system allows users to "leave programs running while switching quickly between     different identities".We Linux users have been doing all that for 10 years. Schofield also hails XP as the bringer of a     "brave new world where PCs... almost never crash". Big deal! Linux has been offering PC users a stable and crash-free     operating system for many years.Why do you think so many companies prefer Linux in mission-critical applications?     And in the week that brought us the Nimda worm, which exploits the security flaws of Microsoft Outlook and     Microsoft Internet Information Server, it is odd that Schofield neglected to mention the single biggest concern that     most computer professionals have with Microsoft operating systems.Dr David Harper adh@sanger.ac.uk I was really     spitting feathers when I read your XP article.The death of DOS? The death of XP, hopefully! MS is giving us another     interface. Microsoft seems to have the marketing department leading them around by the Prince Albert.Non-savvy     users never need know DOS is there, and indeed are often mystified by the black box's occasional appearance. So why     remove it? To remove user control perhaps? I use DOS to automate many functions in my company's systems, and     this means that effectively XP won't be able to run any legacy software.How glad will the bosses be when they have     to shell out to re-write bits and bobs that glue so many disparate legacy systems together? And a new mandatory     interface? With, of all things, SKINS! Well that is just super! Have you ever tried guiding a user through a process     over the phone?"Click on the OK button, please." "I haven't got an OK button. But I do have a dog's head that I click     occasionally that woofs! Isn't it great."Try and support a system like that. I may just give up and go back to my first     love, trench digging. You know where you are with a trench. In a trench. Not content with poking an animated paper     clip at you every time you try to do some actual work, they are going to do more F*U*N stuff! With the CPU and     memory that I spent shed loads on!Look, I bought a fast machine to make it do stuff FAST. I want the whole     processor beetling away on my problems, not lapdancing for me to make my mouse do somersaults. If you want fun,     buy a Play- Station (they are quite good).Businesses equate a more powerful CPU with greater task turnaround     times. If XP is installed, and things suddenly start taking a lot longer on a higher CPU machine, people are going to     ask questions In the real world, it is, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."However, Microsoft seems to be drifting into la-la     land, a land of bells and whistles and precious little else. Good riddance to them, the abuse of monopoly has brought     down similar companies in the past, and I will dance on marketing teams' redundancy notices when the whole thing     goes pear. I hope you will only be left with this market of idiots, and all the wise old goats will be off to Red Hat to     get their free, robust, open, stable, pinko-commie operating system.I am off to buy a fluffy penguin and big fat RTF     Manual, just like the 70s. Let's hope XP becomes known as Microsoft's last operating system, eXceptionally Poor.Steve Hibberthiblet@yahoo.comIn your article on Windows XP, you claim that its "Noddy" has no alternative.     Actually, if you go to Control Panel, System, Advanced, Performance, and select, "Adjust for best performance",     Windows reverts to something almost indistinguishable from the Windows 98/2000 desktop. To "fix" the Start Menu,     right click on it, select properties and select Classic Start menu.Now you have all the functionality of XP with the     interface you already know, and there is no argument for not upgrading to an OS that is 1,000 times more stable     than the old 95 kernel.Mike Graymikegray@btinternet.comWeb watchersI too used the web to find out about what     was going on in America last week. Some organisations did well: Reuters, Reuters via Yahoo news, BBC news,     Telegraph, Ananova. They had the story, even though the BBC and Reuters reported that "six people" were thought     dead. These organisations did less well: CNN was unavailable. New York Times on the web took most of the day to     mention the story.The Guardian initially thought it could make do with a hyperlink rather than remaking its front     page. Moreover.com, NewsNow, NewsBlip and the other "news aggregators" were simply too slow. No wonder Online     columnist Nick Denton turned to TV. The real answer proved to be net radio, which your reports didn't mention. Not     all the news/talk stations listed in RealPlayer's radio tuner were accessible or reliable. But using local stations all     over the States, you could hear every scrap of raw, unmediated rumour, gossip and official advice. The weblogs and     boards are interesting, but local radio provides more sense of what the offline masses are hearing, thinking and     feeling.John Morrishmorrish@ntlworld.com
