Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The annualTED(Technology, Entertainment, Design) conference videos are up, and this year visionary game designer Dave Perry - who most recently has been breaking new ground with an innovative approach to Massively Multiplayer Online Game development - joins the likes ofWill Wright, Wii hackerJohnny Lee, and, well,Al Goreas an invited speaker.Here's what the TED website says about his talk:Game designer David Perry says tomorrow's videogames will be more than mere fun to the next generation of gamers. They'll be lush, complex, emotional experiences -- more involving and meaningful to some than real life.As the audience is invested in yet not particularly au fait with games and game culture, Dave's talk is quite high level. However, as is TED's wont, it is inspirational and future-thinking.Watch and learn(you'll have to click through 'cause I can't embed the video because of new system...)
I wanted to share something with you today that I think you can probably help me out with. It's about Phorm, thecontroversial behavioural ad companythat's partnered with British ISPs, including BT. We've written about themquite a bitin recentmonths.Anyway, last week I got an email from one of BT's PR guys. As you can expect, we've had some fairly robust discussions with them recently. This time he was pointing out somecomments from the Guardian's director of digital strategy, Simon Waldman, who said recently that industry needed "intelligent discussion" about the issue of behavioural ads and that "scaremongering" was no good.BT's point, I suppose, was to suggest that we were stirring up exactly that sort of trouble and being hypocritical to boot.Fortunately, I have no problem with making trouble if it's required. I don't feel an overwhelming need to be neutral about things that are opposed to our civil rights. But I can try to be fair.So, in that spirit of fairness, I responded by sending back an email laying out an argument showing why I think Phorm is problematic, and why BT should spend more time worrying about why it's doing this than it does badgering its critics. I didn't get a response back from them, but I've included the text below because, to my mind, it articulates the problem pretty clearly.However: I want it to be better, because I think this is very important issue. And that's where you can help. I've tried to explain why people have a problem with Phorm and what the controversy is really about. But have I got it right? Do you disagree? Is there a way we can make this argument clearer, or more accurate?Read on for the relevant part of the email, and then leave suggestions, disputes or advice in the comments.Here's my problem with Phorm, in a nutshell, which might explain why I don't think we're going to stop writing about it any time soon:If you monitored the phone calls I made - not necessarily what was said in them, but who they were made to and when - and then sold my number on to cold callers for a commission, I'd get pretty pissed off. And most people, I'm sure, would feel pretty similar.Not just because cold calls are annoying - they are - but because it's an abuse of your privileged position as service provider.BT is not running a website that users choose to visit. It's not running a service that users can switch away from easily.You're the gatekeeper. It's your job to protect your customers, not use what you know about them for commercial advantage. And it helps to be straight with them too, rather than this feeling that you're trying to get everything past them when they're not looking.It might not be against the law, but that doesn't mean it's not against the spirit of doing right by your customers.Your help appreciated.
I have a 1.6 GHz PowerMac G5 running Mac OS X 10.3.9 (Panther). Earlier this year, the Safari browser was not supported as 10.3.9 is "old". I have recently bought 2GB of RAM, so the total is now 2.25GB, but this has done nothing to improve the operation or speed, as I thought it would. If I bought Leopard, would that improve things? I hope to keep my Mac for a few more years.Peter MedhurstThe PowerMac G5 was an advanced and relatively powerful 64-bit tower system when it was unveiled in August 2003 at £1,549, but it is coming towards the end of its life. Apple has stopped supporting "Mac Classic" (OS 9) and will stop supporting machines with PowerPC chips, like yours, having moved to Intel. Upgrading to Leopard would provide some useful extra features, and should help prolong its useful life. Leopard has had five upgrades in less than a year -- it's already up to 10.5.5 -- so most early problems should have been fixed. However, I'm very surprised that adding 2GB of memory did not give a noticeable performance boost (did you check the RAM was recognised?), and I would expect to see performance reduced with Leopard. One solution would be to partition your hard drive and have a different operating system (Panther and Leopard) on each partition. You could do this with software such as iPartition or DriveGenius.You can, of course, continue to use Mac OS X 10.3 (Panther) until the hardware breaks down, as long as your existing applications continue to do what you need. However, you may not be able to get some new functions that you would like.Backchat: Karl Smith says: "If [Peter] can get hold of a copy, Tiger (10.4) may well be a better bet." He also reckons installing a faster hard drive would help. Rhodri Jones says: "I have the same model of G5 with 2GB of RAM. I upgraded to Leopard and noticed a very good increase in speed with the apps I use. No problem running Safari -- or Firefox, my preferred browser." For other old Mac owners: Leopard does not support PowerPC G3 processors, or G4 processors with clock speeds below 867MHz.
I have a Sony Vaio PCG-FX101 running Windows Me. It will not boot in any of the startup options, and I get "Windows protection error. System halted". I want to transfer my files and documents to a new laptop.Adam BellYou should be able to transfer all your files from backup CDs. The main options are to get the Vaio going again, or to remove the hard drive and access it from another PC. Unfortunately, "System halted" is one of the more useless Windows error messages, and gives us no idea what's wrong. It could be one of a dozen problems including a bad driver, a corrupted registry, failing memory or a motherboard problem. Microsoft has a support document,How to Troubleshoot Windows Protection Error Messages.Usually you can start a Windows Me machine from a DOS floppy disk, but the FX101 doesn't have a floppy drive. However, you could set the Bios to boot from CD and try to run a Live CD of Linux. TheKnoppixversion has been a popular choice for rescuing files from Windows PCs.Since you want to transfer the files to another PC, it's probably simpler to remove the hard drive from the Sony, install it in an external hard drive enclosure and plug it in to your new machine via a USB port. You probably need a case for a10GB 2.5in IDE hard drive, but check first.Finally, you could try blowing the dust out of the Sony, making sure all the chips and cables are fully seated and putting the hard drive back: it could work.
I have a Virgin Media V+ box (similar to Sky+, although I've never used that). I'd like to copy one or two programmes so that I can watch them on any television. According to the V+ manual, you must use the Scart socket to do this. Can I hook this Scart socket to my laptop to make the copy there?Michael SmithNot as far as I know, and if you could, you'd need to capture the video signal in real time. The V+ system appears to work with DVD recorders, so you should be able to use the "Copy to VCR/DVD" option to save your programmes. (I don't have a V+ to try.) If you really wanted to keep a copy on your PC, you would have to rip this DVD in the way you usually would.Backchat: David Wharton says he has done it, "but it's not straightforward. If you have a DV camcorder with a video in AV socket and a FireWire out, you can connect the camera (set to video through) to the V+ box using a Scart-to-AV converter plug. With the camera connected to the computer via FireWire, you can capture the video from the V+ box using any video capture software, even the Movie Maker program bundled with Windows. For less technically adventurous types, a few manufacturers sell dedicated USB2 and FireWire devices for this sort of purpose. Most of them seem to retail at around £150-200."
I can use Live.com to tag my IE Favorites online, but I'd like to know if I can use folders to arrange them on my PC and then upload the folders to my IE.Manish MohanYou can always manipulate your Favorites bookmarks in Windows Explorer. Go to Documents and Settings, then to your user name and open the folder called Favorites. Each of your links is a separate shortcut file, and most of them should be stored in folders. You can drag and drop the files however you like. To create a new bookmark, right click in a folder, select New and then Shortcut.Nowadays, many people use online bookmark managers such as Live (favorites.live.com) for IE and Foxmarks (foxmarks.com) for Firefox because these are accessible from more than one computer. Delicious (del.icio.us) is popular as a social bookmarking site. I've usedLinkagogofor many years, but rarely access it unless I'm overseas. I'm currently tryingSync2itbecause it works with multiple browsers. There's a good selection of alternatives atFileheap, or search atDownload.com.
In last week's response to a query from Martin James regarding backups, you suggested using CD-R regularly. I'm surprised that you didn't suggest DVDs, or even a backup to an external (or internal) hard drive.Pete EdwardsA CD-R holds 700MB and not many people accumulate data so rapidly that they need the higher capacity of DVD. It works well for documents, which are usually small, and for photos, which don't benefit from compression. (I tend to chuck my mail folders into a WinRAR file.) Also, a write once CD-R rarely goes wrong, in my experience, so it provides an archive that should last for many years. External hard drives are great for continuous backups until you run out of space, but any hard drive can fail.
Batman is the latest big franchise to receive the Lego game treatment.But while it lacks the film spoof appeal of the Star Wars and Indiana Jones versions - Lego Batman is loosely based on the TV shows - there are plenty of humorous moments, usually involving the hapless Robin.And like the previous games, there is enough crossover appeal to attract both kids and parents. Playing as the villains - available later in the game - is a treat, with each having their own amusing power. The main issues are those that have always bedevilled the Lego games: poor non-player AI and illogical puzzles.The former feels more pronounced here, with your computer-controlled partner often displaying infuriatingly unhelpful tendencies. It's better played with a friend, although multiplayer is offline only. However, this retains the charm of the previous games.
There's a magpie-like quality to Dead Space, which one feels obliged to describe as a third-person action-adventure survival-horror game set in space. At first, it's a bit overwhelming, as it misappropriates a welter of ideas from other games: the gravity gun from Half-Life, the (occasional) ability to walk on walls and ceilings from Prey, and the ability to slow down time from Max Payne. Against the odds, though, everything eventually slips into place and what you're presented with is compelling, original gameplay. As Isaac Clarke, you're dispatched to the mining ship USG Ishimura; your brief to get its communications back online. But the crew have mutated into scary alien beasts which you can only kill by shooting their limbs off. Luckily, your weapons and spacesuit bring special abilities: aim at objects and freeze them temporarily using an ability called Stasis, and fly from surface to surface in zero-gravity areas, plus upgrade your favourite abilities by collecting Power Nodes. A great storyline unfolds as you go, and on top of the inventive puzzle-solving and fierce boss-battles, truly scary atmospherics round off a fine game.
American investigators have shut down an international criminal network they claim is responsible for up to a third of all spam emails on the internet.After a long investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and police in other countries, courts in Chicago and New Zealand ordered the assets of Australia-based New Zealander Lance Atkinson and Texas-based Jody Smith to be frozen. They are accused of making millions of dollars by bombarding people with emails offering non-regulated drugs and fake medical remedies.The duo are believed to be part of a group called the HerbalKing gang, who have sent enormous numbers of spam messages over the past three years."The defendants recruited spammers around the world to send billions of spam messages," the FTC said in a statement. "Their enterprise included participants in Australia, New Zealand, China, Russia, Canada and the United States."According to FTC officials, the duo used spam emails to promote drugs for sexual dysfunction, penis enlargement and weight loss - which were sold without a licence or did not live up to their claims.Atkinson and Smith are believed to have used a string of up to 35,000 hacked computers - known as a "botnet" - around the world to send as many as 10bn spam messages a day. Three million complaints have been made about their messages.Documents filed in the legal case name the pair, as well as four companies they control. A sequence of injunctions and restraining orders prevents them from continuing to do business while legal proceedings are under way.According to the campaigning organisation Spamhaus, HerbalKing has been operating since at least 2005 and was ranked as the most prolific spam gang last year.Atkinson and his brother Shane have been involved previously in cases brought under America's Can-Spam Act, which makes it illegal to send large amounts of unsolicited email. Three years ago Lance Atkinson was fined $2.2m after being found guilty of running a similar business marketing herbal products over email.The new proceedings against him are the latest in a string of cases brought by US investigators against spam marketers.Earlier this year Robert Soloway, from Seattle, was sentenced to 47 months in prison and ordered to repay $700,000. In May, a US court ordered Sanford "Spamford" Wallace to pay a record $230m for attacking MySpace users and using the social networking site to send porn spam to millions of users.
Japan is no longer the force it once was in the global videogame industry - and a lot of its executives are asking themselves why. In May, Metal Gear Solid creator Hideo Kojima admitted that Japanese development had fallen a few paces behind the west. And just last week, Yoichi Wada, president of Square Enix, the publisher of the Final Fantasy series, also noted that Japan is no longer the market leader. What could explain such a fall from grace?It's all about the PC. In Japan, there's really no mass consumer market for home computers - people are more likely to check email or surf the web on their phones, and will play games on consoles or handhelds. But the easy availability of cheap PCs, together with a strongly collaborative online community, has revolutionised game development in the west. This began in the mid 1990s, when the creators of first-person shooters like Doom, Unreal and Half-Life made their development tools available to fans. Quickly, bedroom coders started designing their own levels, swapping ideas via the internet and forming mini-development studios to build ever more elaborate content. Game developers were thrilled - the community input gave their games longevity. None of this could have happened in a culture where home coding on a cheap PC was not particularly common.We're seeing a new phase of the home coding revolution. On the indie scene, small groups of home developers create simple downloadable or browser-based games and then distribute them via websites like Kongregate and Newgrounds. These games spread virally across the web, but they're also being picked up by the big console manufacturers. Two of this year's best Xbox Live games - platformer Braid and RPG action title Castle Crashers - come from the indie community; the next biggie will be daft scrolling fighter, Dishwasher: Dead Samurai by lone coder James Silva, who blogs about development atskasoftware.wordpress.com. Meanwhile, just released on WiiWare in the US, World of Goo is a bizarre structure-modelling sim, originally conceived for the Experimental Gameplay Project.Japanese publishers do have a history of supporting important offbeat projects - LocoRoco, Katamari Damacy and Lumines spring to mind. However, these tend to be the work of well-positioned creative directors, working within "legitimate" internal studios. At the same time, Japan does have an indie games scene - the "doujin shmup" is a style of fast-paced scrolling shooter, created by small teams and distributed online - the best-known examples are the truly hypnotic Warning Forever and anything by Kenta Cho (bit.ly/gblog5).The orthodox industry seems to be showing little interest in these upstarts - perhaps because of the lack of a PC culture. But if the two sectors can meet, form a community and start sharing ideas, Japan can rise again.
Most people, if they bother to think about it at all, probably view the internet as an agent of profound change. In the 15 years since Tim Berners-Lee invented the world wide web, the life of almost everyone in the industrialised world has been touched by it. But just as many of us are getting to grips with its second stage, the mobile internet, very few are prepared - perhaps even  aware - of the third and potentially most revolutionary phase of all: the internet of things.Sometime between now and 2010, the internet is poised to reach beyond virtual space and take root in the physical world. According to many futurist thinkers, almost every object you can see around you carries the possibility of being connected to the internet. This means that your domestic appliances, your clothes, the books on your shelves and your car in the driveway may one day soon be assigned a unique IP address, just as both computers and web pages are assigned them today, to enable them to talk to each other.'We can IP-enable it'In the past month, a coalition of big technology companies, Cisco, Ericsson and Sun Microsystems among them, have formed the Ipso (IP for Smart Objects) Alliance with the aim of shaping a set of standards for the coming internet of things. "We could incorporate internet protocol (IP) into nearly everything," enthuses Geoff Mulligan, chair of the Ipso Alliance. "There's no reason why the internet shouldn't be in every single appliance."And he should know. Mulligan is one of the original architects of Arpanet, the proto-network built by the Pentagon that led directly to the wider internet we all use today. He believes that the connection of physical objects to the internet is the logical next step in its progression. "The whole thing about IP is that it can run on almost any type of physical media," he explains. "It doesn't care if it's Ethernet, power-line control or Bluetooth. Whatever it happens to be, we can IP-enable it."Now, the days of the internet as we know it are numbered, because the present IP address space - version 4 (usually called IPv4) - is going to hit its limit, even as early as 2010. It will be replaced by IPv6, which has addresses enough for about 3.4...1038 addresses, or 5x1028 for each of the 6.8 billion of us on earth. In other words, every human on the planet could have a personal network the size of the today's internet.One of the reasons that the internet needs so much address space (apart from the obvious reason that it doesn't want to run out again) is to create enough room for the internet of things. Already in Japan cows grazing in the fields of Hida Takayama have their own IPv6 addresses embedded on wireless RFID chips beneath their skin. Farmers can now track their livestock through the growth and distribution process.Back home, the first new IPv6 applications are likely to be in the control and sensor networks of expensive industrial machines, and then by business applications, probably in energy management. Mulligan cites the example of IP-enabled lights that can switch on an off as someone walks along a corridor, or rooms that are heated only when someone is present.After that, the internet of things is likely to extend into the home, with a range of IP-enabled appliances: smoke detectors, fridges, microwaves, water boilers - almost anything that is at present connected to the power grid is expected to get an IP address sometime in the future. "Wouldn't it be cool if your smoke detector goes off and it told all of your gas appliances to turn off?" suggests Mulligan.The trouble is that this vision of the smart home has been a staple of futurologist forecasts for decades and yet failed to become part of daily life. But what's different this time is the adoption of IP to standardise, and by extension popularise, a network of "intelligent" devices. Until recently the thinking has been that the adopters of such technology would be those keen to geekily control every aspect of their domesticity. But Tony Lucido, vice-president of marketing at Jennic, the Sheffield-based manufacturer of semiconductors and microchips (and a founding member of the Ipso Alliance) says utility companies - not individuals - could well drive the early adoption of the internet of things. "Energy management is becoming a hot topic," he explains. "Everyone is talking about conservation and using our energy more efficiently."Smoothing the peaksLucido uses the example of how people are using wireless electricity meters, such as the Owl, that allow them to record their energy usage, in pence or Co2 per hour. "The first phase is just displaying the energy usage within the home," he says. "The next stage is remote energy management so that utility companies can find way to do load-shedding, [which helps] smooth off the peaks you get in energy usages. The way to do that it get access to people's appliances, let's say the washing machine, and at 5pm when energy usage is peaking. They will offer consumer discounts if they are allowed to control a few appliances in the home and shut them down for a few minutes during peak energy usage."That electricity usage should be the first major domestic application for the internet of things is something of a poetic beginning. For it was the late Mark Weiser, the former chief scientist at Xerox Parc, who first articulated the idea that ordinary household appliances could become embedded with information technology with his vision of ubiquitous computing. For Weiser, information technology was nothing more than a commodity, like electricity, that would become part of the fabric of everyday life."What a lot of people are doing these days is networking up their electricity meters in order to display their current energy consumption," says Usman Haque, a London-based architect and designer who believes the internet of things is already here. Last year, he launched a web service calledpachube.com, which enables people to connect their devices and share real-time sensor data with each other. "I compare it to YouTube, but rather than sharing videos you are sharing your sensor data," he says. "The point really is to facilitate interaction between these devices. To open up the protocol, if you like, so the machines can communicate with each other." Since then everything from iceberg weather stations to river height sensing equipment to general building management systems have been connected to the network by a set of enthusiasts eager to experiment.Coding the infrastructureBut, warns Haque, there could be disadvantages too. "It depends whether we end up treating the internet of things as a system where we become enslaved to our devices, or whether we treat it as a truly open framework in which we are putting our devices and machines on to this system in order to facilitate our existence," he says. "It could go either way."Few of the experts doubt that the internet of things will have a profound effect on the world, but what is apparent that there is no single authority designing it. Talk to any of the designers and coders building the infrastructure and each will tell you that they have private fears about a world where, as Wired magazine founder Kevin Kelly recently described it, "the environment is the web". Furthermore, the internet of things would have no on/off switch. It will arrive incrementally, one IP-enabled light switch at a time.In doing so, the internet of things promises to reshape our lives as fundamentally as the introduction of the railway, but with less public consent or even debate about its arrival. Before it does arrive, perhaps we could spare a moment to think what it might mean. As one day in the future you might even get assigned your own unique IP number. By then, of course, it will be too late to complain.
Many years ago, I had the privilege of arguing with Tim Berners-Lee about censoring the internet. The context was an old system called PICS - "Platform for Internet Content Selection", derided as the "Platform for Internet Censorship System" (http://bit.ly/seth16). As the New York Times reported in 1998, "in an increasingly vigorous debate, civil liberties groups are condemning the PICS technology as a mechanism for censorship, while Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web and director of the consortium that approved the standard, is defending it as a force for social good". I thought he was wrong, and told him so.The architectures supposedly had some general applications, but were designed and optimised for content suppression. So as not to rehash complex technical and political debates of years past, suffice it to say that the proposed method of censorship eventually lost out to the simpler censorware implementation of secret blacklists (If you block online porn, you'll surely block dissent in China, April 17).But there are some broad lessons from that experience that I hope Berners-Lee takes to heart for the future - especially since he seems to be rehashing the PICS idea, only updated, as a BBC interview about his new "World Wide Web Foundation" shows (http://bit.ly/seth15). Perhaps someone of his prominence can advance the public understanding of this topic. Just as it's said that there are only a handful of basic plots in literature, the "internet and truth" topic seems to have only a very few things that are commonly written about it: first, there's a huge amount of material available; second, there's no good way to sort the true from the false; third, it would be great if there were some easy means to find reliable information.Entire papers, conferences, consultancies and even startup businesses, can be spun out of those shibboleths. And similarly, some bad ideas are continually being reinvented and touted anew. One common problematic path is to think only in technological terms. It's beyond argument that the cost of copying content has dropped dramatically over the years. But this hasn't taken place in a social vacuum. There's been an extensive and widespread attack on non-market civic institutions, from universities to trade unions to government. While this may seem unrelated, when more and more media power is concentrated in advertising-driven sites and political demagogues, that creates pressures which work to diminish the overall influence of voices which might be more concerned with getting things right rather than monetising an audience.Basically, there's an elaborate working through of the computer programmer's phrase "garbage in, garbage out". If almost nobody is supported in doing anything other than chasing eyeballs for advertisers or propagandists, all the content labelling and rules processing in the world won't be able to refine diamonds from a pile of mud.Note the fantasy of net evangelism is exactly to create something which can find and publicise the few rare gems, inspired by the example that it's very possible to build a profitable system which data-mines popular items. Google is a spectacularly successful case. Unfortunately, there's an unwillingness to engage intellectually with virtually anything except algorithms. However, Google was an obscure company until it managed to put its algorithmic expertise to the service of selling ads.But I don't mean to imply these topics are unknown. The BBC interview also noted: "The foundation will also look at concerns that the web has become less democratic, and its use influenced too much by large corporations and vested interests".None of what I've outlined is a revelation. But how we will know if Berners-Lee and the Web Foundation have succeeded even slightly is if we can extensively discuss ways in which large corporations have used the internet to make social problems worse, and if advocated solutions discomfit those vested interests.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Amid all the fallout from the financial turmoil, one group has yet to feel the accusing finger of blame: the analysts who built the computer software that drove the derivatives markets that, in turn, drove the financial collapse. Since the Big Bang of the 1980s, large amounts of stocks and shares - and derivatives of them - have been traded automatically by computers rather than by humans. These so-called "algotrades" accounted for as much as 40% of all trades on the London Stock Exchange in 2006; on some American equity markets the figure can be as high as 80%.The people who write the algorithms that drive the software are called quantitative analysts, often referred to simply as "quants". They are generally physics and mathematics graduates working in risk management - calculating whether a given deal is a good idea - and derivatives pricing, which entails putting a figure on trades that in effect bet on other trades. It's enormously complex, which is why only the quants could understand it - if, that is, they did. History now suggests they didn't.The rise of the quants has mirrored the automation of the financial markets; and as many of the newer markets, such as swaps (a sort of insurance) and derivatives, have been unregulated, the quants who have been responsible for developing the hugely complicated systems that in the end brought many of the western world's banks to their knees. As Richard Dooling wrote in the New York Times: "Somehow the genius quants - the best and brightest geeks Wall Street firms could buy - fed $1 trillion in subprime mortgage debt into their supercomputers, added some derivatives, massaged the arrangements with computer algorithms and - poof! - created $62 trillion in imaginary wealth."Those algorithms were based on risk assessments that were seriously flawed, based only on the risk to the market at that moment, rather on cold, hard empirical data about a person's ability to pay and what would happen if a lot, rather than a few of them, stopped. As George Dyson (son of the quantum physicist Freeman) wrote in Edge last week: "The problem starts, as the current crisis demonstrates, when unregulated replication is applied to money itself. Highly complex computer-generated financial instruments (known as derivatives) are being produced, not from natural factors of production or other goods, but purely from other financial instruments." What is also becoming clear is that the financial markets are far more automated than ever before. There is a growing sense that much of this was made by machines, with the quants feeding the beast ever more intricate lines of code. Dooling has a growing conviction that we are now at the mercy of a financial system based on "arrangements so complex only machines can make". It seems we are at the mercy of the machine.&#183;This article was amended on Monday October 20 2008. People who write algorithms for software that enables stocks and shares to be traded automatically are called quantitative analysts, not quantities analysts. This has been corrected.
Fancy a free ultraportable? The Dell Inspiron Mini 9, the PC giant's entry into the market, has a design feature that Vodafone is exploiting to increase its market share of the mobile broadband network: an onboard sim card holder.This means that you can get online anywhere you can get a mobile signal - no need to rely on Wi-Fi hotspots. Sign up with Vodafone for either the two-year &pound;25 a month package, which gives you 1GB of downloads, or the &pound;30/3GB per month deal, and the laptop comes free.It's worth having if you want a small, light notebook to put in a briefcase or backpack. Vodafone's offering has an 8GB solid state hard drive, 1GB of Ram and the unloveable Windows XP. It's light at just 1.035kg, though chunky: it's not a device you could slip in a pocket.I wouldn't want to run XP on a machine with any lesser specification, but it doesn't feel sluggish. The keyboard is inevitably cramped - I found it difficult to touch-type accurately. The screen, at 8.9in, is nice and bright, with a widescreen resolution of 1024x600.Getting online is straightforward: Vodafone's Connect software is preinstalled, and a couple of clicks will connect you to the 3G network (when available), with speeds of up to 7.2 megabits per second (Mbps) - allegedly. At home in west London the best I got was a rather more modest 682kbps. At about 10 times faster than dialup, but about a quarter as fast as typical fixed-line broadband (and remember this was in the middle of the capital, where the network should shine), that's fine for browsing and emailing, but you'll tear your hair out if you want to download a file of any size.The onboard sim means the Dell has a nifty trick: you can send and receive text messages from it via the Vodafone software. Hardly earth-shattering, but it saves you digging out your phone.One niggle is that, like most Windows machines, it doesn't like being put to sleep; shut it down properly each time rather than just close the lid. And it's slow to boot, as all sorts of software including the McAfee suite and various Dell programs insist on joining in at startup. On the plus side, battery life is good, even running XP: Dell says it's four hours, reviewers agree on "three-plus".Buying direct from Dell, you can get an 8GB version running Linux Ubuntu for &pound;269; the 16GB version with XP costs &pound;299. But do the sums if you're thinking of getting this from Vodafone: on the &pound;25 contract, you'll be paying &pound;600 for a portable with a very average spec; at &pound;30 per month, it's &pound;720. Of course, you're getting the convenience of broadband(ish) speeds pretty much anywhere for that.There's no optical drive, so factor in the cost of an external one if you want to install software from a disk or use it to watch DVDs - though the titchy hard drive doesn't leave much room for more applications, as XP eats up half of the 8GB. When you start looking at it in those terms, the value for money becomes questionable.It depends what you want it for, of course: as a business tool, it's great. I wouldn't choose it as my only PC, though.Pros: Get online anywhere there's a mobile signal, smallCons: Keyboard, value for money, no optical drivevodafone.co.uk/netbooks
Unwelcome guest• It will be interesting to see how many of these "satisfied customers" (if they're not all a figment of [Platte UK managing director Ashley] Bateup's imagination) will still be satisfied if Platte goes under for VAT evasion (Will Platte be beached by VAT?, October 9).mbsvictims.org.uk• After several hours trying to remove Platte's software with no luck (it kept coming back), my dad contacted the phone number, quoting the customer reference on the popup. A very nice lady offered to help if he paid the &pound;29.99. Dad refused. However, she talked him into giving her his address to send a free uninstall CD to him. We are currently seeking legal advice from the Citizens Advice Bureau. How can people get away with this?"Nicola"michaelpollitt.comKorea's gag isn't funny• I'm not trying to be alarmist here, but only say that we must care about where our data goes. The game here is becoming more interesting, because the nature of the internet and even free speech is at stake (South Korea wants to gag the noisy internet rabble, October 9). Yesterday, the Guardian wrote that the South Korea, a democracy, would like to more heavily police the internet and essentially terminate its anonymity. Steps away from anonymous data are harmful ones.jboriss.wordpress.com• So what happens when the internet and sites like cVillain become legit and accountable? Would there rise another villainous site to support the prior cVillains who hide in fear from the local Charlottesville Police Internet Netiquette Task Force (CPINTF, pronounced cuh-phin-tiff)?cvillain.com• *Snort* this falls into the "good luck with that!" territory.technocrat.net• The other problem is, the Korean government would also have to block all sites based overseas because it couldn't make them card Koreans at their virtual doors.netfamilynews.org• Professor Zittrain brings up the obvious question when dealing with the internet: how will the Korean government respond when users decide to start using websites based outside Korea?futurizekorea.com• It's been a bad week for free speech.broadband-guide.blogspot.com•The first part is a bit comical - South Korea intends to rule that all speech on the network should be verifiable with a real name - given that about half of the Korean population is called Kim, Lee or Park. But second, it is also interesting that a country with such a strong online play culture would adopt this law. Without wishing to sound like the chaos researcher in Jurassic Park ("nature find a way"), it feels like pretty soon people will move their uncomfortable opinions to online worlds in order to be able to maintain their anonymity.perikores.blogspot.comGolden oldies• Victor Keegan has had the same problems with the registration process of the Finerday web site (Connecting older people to the world, October 9). If anybody from Finerday is reading this blog please, please drop this over-complicated procedure. It looks clever but it is not suitable for the target market.20plus30.com/blog• From the cover of my book (March 2005): "It will be the Baby Boomers who will be the first to pick and choose, to ignore and be seduced by leading-edge technology marketing. There's a simple reason for this. We have the money to buy this stuff. Experts say we will continue to have the money for at least the next 20 years. Write us off at your peril."advertisingtobabyboomers.blogspot.com•  Read all this week's letters in full atguardian.co.uk/technology/blog
What would you do if you received an email that was apparently fromHM Revenue and Customs saying you were owed a tax refund and mentioned a specific amount? For several people who read such an email this summer, following a link and entering their bank card details seemed the right thing to do. But rather than getting a refund, they ended up being telephoned by The Guardian instead.The names came via Prevx, an internet security company, which was offered and bought a set of details online from an unwary criminal based in Romania. We asked the victims: why were you taken in? The dozen we spoke to said they were expecting a tax refund, so gave away their details (name, date of birth, address, card number, expiry date, and three-digit security code) without much thought. Their reaction to our calls: suspicion, astonishment, and, lastly, embarrassment.Phishing isn't new. Criminals, mostly in Eastern Europe, send out convincing emails linking to bogus websites which closely match genuine organisations. Any personal details obtained are sold to other criminals who then defraud the victims' bank accounts or credit cards.But the example shows that opportunism - and luck - lies behind successful phishing attacks. The Guardian established that the personal data in these cases were linked to this HMRC phishing email. If people are expecting a new PIN from their bank, or new passcode, they will be vulnerable to phishing like this. Lots are: phishers sell thousands of stolen bank and credit card details every month.Jacques Erasmus of Prevx says the deals are done in secret forums and chatrooms; the going rate is 10 euros per debit or credit card details. An online bank account login "costs"10% of the account balance.We passed the victims' details to Apacs, the UK payments association, which quickly alerted several banks to prevent any losses. The first half of 2008 saw more than 20,000 reported phishing incidents - 180% higher than the same period last year. What's being done to curb this? Financial institutions simply refund consumer losses (in 2007, total online banking fraud fell to &pound;22.6 million) while protection mainly relies on education. The Apacs advice website -banksafeonline.org.uk- includes examples of phishing emails.The Serious Organised Crime Agency has a "dedicated e-crime unit", and said it is working on phishing attacks, but refused to elaborate. Does it buy stolen UK card details to trace phishers through money transfers? What technical expertise has it got available? We don't know. Meanwhile, the phishers will reel in even more victims.
Ubisoft has a stack of Imagine titles on the way. Champion Rider is about horses, and despite somewhat overstating its case ("feel a unique sensation of liberty!") it does a pretty good job. Part virtual pet, part gentle sports sim, after choosing the look and personality of your horse, it's about training it for the tournaments ahead. It's colourful, easy for younger players to follow and if you don't feel like competing you can simply groom and ride to your heart's content. Perhaps a little pricey, but it'll fit better in a Christmas stocking than My Little Pony.
The lights, crowds and attention-grabbing whizzes and bangs of the Tokyo Game Show, held last week in the Japanese capital, should scream migraine central to sensitive non-gamers. But to the faithful, it is the most exciting event in the calendar, offering a glimpse into the future of entertainment.Yet beneath the glitz and the glamour of this year's event, cracks were palpable, exposing the instability of the world's biggest gaming market.Japan has always been a prolific yet insular development space with a profound impact on the global industry. A walk through Akihabara, the capital's heaving technology district, demonstrates that while very few of the western heavy hitters are represented in any way, legions of unknown intellectual property line the streets. "The number one thing I've come away with this year is the same thing I came away with 10 years ago: the massive gulf between eastern games and everything else," describes veteran British game designer Peter Molyneux.Fable's feeble showingMolyneux came to Tokyo to peddle his new roleplaying game, Fable II, a popular western title in a genre that dominates the eastern market. However, its platform, the Xbox 360, has the lowest distribution of any console in the country and is published by Microsoft, which has less than 1% of market share. "We may think we are making games for the whole world, but it's not true," says Molyneux. "The whole ethos, the whole makeup, the whole mechanics of the games - the way they're played is completely different; it's a shock that we still are unable to make a piece of entertainment that works over here."Historically, the reverse has been equally true. Both eastern and western analysts describe Japanese games as unsophisticated and mediocre compared with their non-Japanese counterparts, due in large part to the demands put upon developers by publishers at the mercy of their shareholders. The results are franchises based on manga and anime characters, which don't translate to the big-money audiences overseas. "I'm intrigued and incredibly curious, but I recognise that many of the games I see on the show floor will never be translated into English, and so I have no idea what they're going to be like," explains Molyneux."There's a game down there called Monster Hunter," he continues, "and the queues are incredible; there are people virtually passing out because they've been in the queues so long," he says. In fact, the Monster Hunter series has sold more than 4m units since it was released for the PlayStation Portable (PSP) last year. Yet it is virtually unknown elsewhere. Yoshiki Okamoto, the creator of Monster Hunter creator and president of developer Game Republic, had expected the game to be successful in western markets because it was set in Ireland, but the game never took off because it was "too Japanese", he says. It explains why the Japanese market has bottomed out, he told UK companies at the show.Backwards glanceMicrosoft held a low-key press conference on the floor with a dearth of any revolutionary information. John Schappert, corporate vice-president of Live, Software and Services for the Interactive Entertainment Business, focused much of his presentation on Resident Evil 5 and Tekken 6 - surefire, successful franchises in Japan - before mooting Xbox Experience, an avatar-driven hub which "aims to take our machine, initially released as a games machine, into an entertainment hub". He also backhandedly announced Halo 3: Recon, an expansion pack for the monumentally successful Halo series - an IP which has sold 22.8m units in the west, but only 170,000 in Japan.Nintendo was a no-show, choosing to host a press conference a week before. But in its absence, third-party publishers and developers reflected the dominance of the platform in Japan; most stands were crammed with Wiis and Nintendo DSs.The Sony PSP was equally pervasive as developers scrambled to create software for a recently installed consumer base of 2.8m. Western palates were better catered for on the PlayStation stand, with new releases of music-led puzzler Loco Roco 2 and platformer Ratchet and Clank PSP.In all, the show felt like a backward glance into a forward market. There were few new games for European consumers, and no big announcements. However, the floods of consumers who flocked to the conference centre reiterated how central gaming is across all segments of this market. We'll have to wait until next year to see if the doom and gloom propositions of the business meetings will have an effect next year on the streets of Tokyo.
I've tried everything I can think of to help the ailing economy. I've been to the shops a few times and I've regularly logged on to my building society's website just to reassure it that I still care. I have even looked in the sofa to see if there was any small change I could use to buy out an investment bank or two.Disappointingly, though, my "think global, act local" approach doesn't seem to have had much effect on Wall Street so far. My strenuous efforts have also been wasted on the people of my new home, San Francisco. It's a city where they've only just cottoned on to what the rest of the world has been watching for months. For many of the entrepreneurs I've been talking to in recent weeks, the stock market meltdown seemed to drop on them like an asteroid falling from space.Now the meteor has hit, some are trying to brave it out by suggesting that things haven't changed a bit. Only last week Mark Zuckerberg told a German newspaper that he didn't think Facebook would have a proper business model for three years. Google, it seems, is responsible for a generation of cargo cultists.For those dotcom entrepreneurs who are less brash than Zuckerberg, however, economic epiphanies are flowing thick and fast. Sequoia Capital's Mike Moritz, the king of Silicon Valley's venture capitalists, led the way by putting the willies up his portfolio companies (the advice, paraphrased, was: "stop spending so much money and start making more"). Suddenly everyone's talking about business models that involve making profit, not just selling to some cash-rich conglomerate.Shocking stuff, I know. These sudden revelations come years after the start of the latest round of bubblish behaviour; months after the banking system began wobbling; weeks after the credit crunch started looking awfully like a crisis.The truth is, this part of California has always been insulated from what goes on in the rest of the world. European explorers didn't even know this area of America existed until the 1700s; they'd never realised that the heavy fog banks that shroud the Golden Gate obscured the entrance to a land of plenty.The Bay Area not only boasts some of the most liberal politics in the US, but it's also one of the richest parts of America.This peculiar combination explains why it has taken so long to feel the pinch. The real victims of the mortgage crisis - poor families unwisely encouraged to pile on debt - are a long way removed from the slick super-rich technocrats and trust fund hipster kids who make up the spine of the community.But the dotcom world has actually been engaging in its own facsimile of the real world monetary crisis.The Web 2.0 boom has largely been funded with cheap money, hopeful investments and sour credit. Every player in the game has conspired to make this happen: the founders who tell everyone their idea is better than it really is, the buyers who believe it's so, and the investors who hope that nobody notices the difference until after they've sold. Sound familiar?You'd be forgiven for thinking that a city with such a tempestuous relationship with the San Andreas Fault would have an aversion to shaky foundations. Not so. In fact, it only helps reinforce the belief that regular turmoil is just a force of nature.Applying that kind of laid-back, West Coast philosophy to business requires a special kind of zen (the sort that's a lot easier if you're a Californian tech billionaire). Still, it's probably less stressful to take the long view. And that's why I'm taking a leaf out of the big boys' book and continuing my campaign to resurrect the financial system one small action at a time. After all, over here we know that whenever the ground shakes, things fall down. There's nothing you can do about it. Life goes on.bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.ukVictor Keegan is away
Industry giants such as Apple, Dell and HP can turn a notebook launch into a global event, but that's not the sort of thing a Taiwanese company would normally attempt. Taiwan does cheap, not chic. But having what looked like a hot product in the S101 netbook, Asus decided to have a go, and paid to take the world's tech press to a fashion show in Taipei.The event was somewhat short of chic. And as you'd expect from a first attempt, Asus had a lot to learn about herding recalcitrant journalists.The potential benefits to Asus of pulling off this kind of event are enormous. It is turning itself from a motherboard supplier and contract manufacturer - making portable PCs for other companies - into a tier-one supplier with a global brand name. If it can do that, customers will pay more for its products.Fashion show functionThe S101 is a case in point. Asus is becoming known to European consumers following the success of its netbooks, starting with the little Eee PC700 - but what caught the eye was its &pound;200 price. With the &pound;449 Eee S101, what catches the eye is that it's really thin and, as another journalist said, "gorgeous". It could have been made by, or for, Apple or Sony. It didn't look out of place in a fashion show. Functionally, the S101 is just an Eee PC 1000 at a higher price. But you might be willing pay extra for something you'd be proud to carry.That message was spelled out by Stan Shih, the founder of Acer and father of the Taiwanese computer industry. At a business seminar in Taipei, reported by Elizabeth Tchii in the Taipei Times, he said the future was in branding, no matter how difficult it was to achieve. "The days of doing OEM and ODM" - making boxes and designs for others to put their own brand name on - "are numbered," he said. "In order to elevate Taiwan to the global business scene with added value, we have to invest in branding right now. This is our social responsibility."It's a path Acer has taken, under the Italian management of Gianfranco Lanci, partly by buying known US brands such as Gateway and Packard Bell. It's a path China's Legend, now called Lenovo, has taken by buying IBM's PC division. But Asus is trying to do it by transforming the company.Jonney Shih, who started Asus in 1989 after a dozen years at Acer, says Asus was intended to be "a small but beautiful company" based on its engineering prowess. It became known for technical innovation in motherboards, but he says the company also tried to make them look beautiful. In 1997, the company went from motherboards into notebooks as an OEM and ODM supplier, then launched products under its own brand name.According to Jonney, the company was named Asus after an engineer suggested Pegasus. He truncated it because he wanted a name that started with an A. They've now spun off the OEM and ODM businesses into a separate company called Pegatron, thus using the spare half of the flying horse's name. Pegatron's offices are visible from Asus's doorstep, but the split means Asus isn't competing directly against its own customers.Again, Asus is following Acer, which split off its OEM business into Wistron on the way to becoming a global brand name. By contrast, the two giants of Taiwan's OEM business, Quanta and Compal, who manufacture notebooks for Apple, Dell, HP and Lenovo, remain almost unknown. But the fear in Taiwan is that OEM contracts could be moved to companies in China, Vietnam and emerging countries which, according to HTC's founder Peter Chou, are catching up fast.Of course, brand building doesn't mean much unless you also have distinctive products, and this isn't easy in the PC business. Asus is therefore trying to innovate. It is, for example, making power-saving "green" motherboards with low emissions and fewer hazardous chemicals than regulations require. It is trying to outperform the competition with its own Super Hybrid Engine and power-saving technologies. It is experimenting with new designs such as the Eee PC and the tiny Eee Box, a desktop PC that will soon have a battery-powered version.In software, Asus provides the Eee Box and S101 with a Linux-based pre-boot system that enables users to get online and do email without waiting for Windows. With Microsoft, it has taken part in the Vista Velocity and Hero PC programmes, and is optimising XP for the fastest possible startup times. Henry Yeh, general manager of Asus's notebook business unit, says the company doesn't slow its machines down with software it's paid to preinstall: users can install the applications they want via a console.Asus is also innovating by using natural materials for notebook finishes. It tried leather three or four years ago, and designer Michelle Hsiao says it is now working with wood, a process that will culminate in the release of a bamboo notebook.Porsche or Hyundai?Yeh says that Asus has built 200 units to introduce the bamboo notebook to the market, then "we will see customer feedback". The shift upmarket includes a drive for quality. As Jonathan Tsang, president of sales and marketing, puts it: "Volume is not everything. Quality is everything. We're trying to make ourselves the most admired enterprise in the digital era." That's the company's new vision. He says: "Do you want to be Porsche or Hyundai?" It goes along with a corporate philosophy that demands Humility and Integrity ("Do not cheat!). Which is a refreshing change from: "Don't get caught!"Of course, success requires more than quality products, and stepping up marketing and press relations is part of the job. Hauling in jet-lagged journalists from India, Russia, Italy etc is just a start. Asus says it will sell more than 6m notebook PCs this year and 5m netbooks, making it a top five portable supplier with a group turnover of more than $20bn (&pound;11.4bn). The Asus name could soon mean much more than "Big in Taiwan".
Mac G5 forever?I have a 1.6 GHz PowerMac G5 running Mac OS X 10.3.9 (Panther). Earlier this year, the Safari browser was not supported as 10.3.9 is "old". I have recently bought 2GB of RAM, so the total is now 2.25GB, but this has done nothing to improve the operation or speed, as I thought it would. If I bought Leopard, would that improve things?  I hope to keep my Mac for a few more years.Peter MedhurstJS:The PowerMac G5 was an advanced and relatively powerful 64-bit tower system when it was unveiled in August 2003 at &pound;1,549, but it is coming towards the end of its life. Apple has stopped supporting "Mac Classic" (OS 9) and will stop supporting machines with PowerPC chips, like yours, having moved to Intel. Upgrading to Leopard would provide some useful extra features, and should help prolong its useful life. Leopard has had five upgrades in less than a year - it's already up to 10.5.5 - so most early problems should have been fixed. However, I'm very surprised that adding 2GB of memory did not give a noticeable performance boost (did you check the RAM was recognised?), and I would expect to see performance reduced with Leopard. One solution would be to partition your hard drive and have a different operating system (Panther and Leopard) on each partition. You could do this with software such as iPartition or DriveGenius.You can, of course, continue to use Mac OS X 10.3 (Panther) until the hardware breaks down, as long as your existing applications continue to do what you need. However, you may not be able to get some new functions that you would like.Me haltedI have a Sony Vaio PCG-FX101 running Windows Me. It will not boot in any of the startup options, and I get "Windows protection error. System halted". I want to transfer my files and documents to a new laptop.Adam BellJS:You should be able to transfer all your files from backup CDs. The main options are to get the Vaio going again, or to remove the hard drive and access it from another PC. Unfortunately, "System halted" is one of the more useless Windows error messages, and gives us no idea what's wrong. It could be one of a dozen problems including a bad driver, a corrupted registry, failing memory or a motherboard problem. Microsoft has a support document, How to Troubleshoot Windows Protection Error Messages (bit.ly/aj0046).Usually you can start a Windows Me machine from a DOS floppy disk, but the FX101 doesn't have a floppy drive. However, you could set the Bios to boot from CD and try to run a Live CD of Linux. The Knoppix version (bit.ly/aj0047) has been a popular choice for rescuing files from Windows PCs. Since you want to transfer the files to another PC, it's probably simpler to remove the hard drive from the Sony, install it in an external hard drive enclosure and plug it in to your new machine via a USB port. You probably need a case for a 10GB 2.5in IDE hard drive (bit.ly/aj0048), but check first. Finally, you could try blowing the dust out of the Sony, making sure all the chips and cables are fully seated and putting the hard drive back: it could work.Movie transfer from V+I have a Virgin Media V+ box (similar to Sky+, although I've never used that). I'd like to copy one or two programmes so that I can watch them on any television. According to the V+ manual, you must use the Scart socket to do this. Can I hook this Scart socket to my laptop to make the copy there?Michael SmithJS:Not as far as I know, and if you could, you'd need to capture the video signal in real time. The V+ system appears to work with DVD recorders, so you should be able to use the "Copy to VCR/DVD" option to save your programmes. (I don't have a V+ to try.) If you really wanted to keep a copy on your PC, you would have to rip this DVD in the way you usually would.Managing FavoritesI can useLive.comto tag my IE Favorites online, but I'd like to know if I can use folders to arrange them on my PC and then upload the folders to my IE.Manish MohanJS:You can always manipulate your Favorites bookmarks in Windows Explorer. Go to Documents and Settings, then to your user name and open the folder called Favorites. Each of your links is a separate shortcut file, and most of them should be stored in folders. You can drag and drop the files however you like. To create a new bookmark, right click in a folder, select New and then Shortcut.Nowadays, many people use online bookmark managers such as Live (favorites.live.com) for IE and Foxmarks (foxmarks.com) for Firefox because these are accessible from more than one computer. Delicious (delicious.com) is popular as a social bookmarking site. I've used Linkagogo (linkagogo.com) , but rarely access it unless I'm overseas. I'm currently trying Sync2it (sync2it.com) because it works with multiple browsers. There's a good selection of alternatives at Fileheap (bit.ly/aj0049), or search at Download.com (bit.ly/aj0050).More backupsIn last week's response to a query from Martin James regarding backups, you suggested using CD-R regularly. I'm surprised that you didn't suggest DVDs, or even a backup to an external (or internal) hard drive.Pete EdwardsJS:A CD-R holds 700MB and not many people accumulate data so rapidly that they need the higher capacity of DVD. It works well for documents, which are usually small, and for photos, which don't benefit from compression. (I tend to chuck my mail folders into a WinRAR file.) Also, a write once CD-R rarely goes wrong, in my experience, so it provides an archive that should last for many years. External hard drives are great for continuous backups until you run out of space, but any hard drive can fail.Backchat• Phil Leahy's problem was that double-clicking folders in Windows Explorer changed from opening that folder to opening the Search dialogue. That also happened to Jamie Woods, who says: "I cured it by going to Control Panel, Folder Options, File Types, Drives, Advanced, New, then typing 'open' as the Action, then browsing to c:\windows\explorer.exe as the Application Used to Perform Action, then highlighting 'open and setting it as the default action. I think this is better than tweaking the registry."
Our bodies are being measured for critical comparison like never before. Biometric devices prevent gambling addicts from playing casinos and bar intruders from nurseries. And the border security of the western world could soon depend on an emerging technology that offers security solutions for a post-9/11 world tormented by fears of terrorism, fraud and crime.Computerised examinations of our wrinkly digital extremities, the peculiar shapes of our faces and uniquely patterned irises will be used more and more often to authenticate our use of our passports, ID cards, mobile phones and laptops - as well as regulating access to offices and building sites.Too clever by half?The science behind the industry is advancing rapidly. Two UK universities - Kent and Robert Gordon in Aberdeen - this year established specialist MSc courses in biometrics and security. False rejection rates - when machines fail to recognise pre-registered passengers or staff - are plummeting. But is there a danger that the ingenuity of these applications will outrun the capacity of this young technology? The moment of truth is about to arrive in the UK with deployment of the first major government biometric programmes: ID cards (initially for foreign workers) carrying fingerprint records will be launched next month, while automated immigration gates this summer began recognition checks on passengers carrying the new generation of passports arriving at Manchester airport. And next week, the biggest showcase for the industry in Europe, Biometrics 2008, opens in London (at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Westminster, from October 21 to 23). A Home Office minister and European police officials will participate. More than ever, businesses are under to pressure to prove that the technology is both resilient and yet also politically sensitive.A research paper produced for the show by Simon France of the University of Kent and the UK Biometrics Institute, confirms that systems are becoming more complex to foil spoofing attacks (where people masquerade as others) and to reduce the error rate. The trend, he says, is to employ "multimodal" biometrics - security systems that incorporate several types of measurements. British passports now carry chips recording facial recognition data but will eventually add fingerprints. "Liveness" testing, to prevent fraud or spoofing, is increasingly built in. Iris scans, for example, check that the image of a human eye is from a convex surface, is glossy and/or wet and that the muscles oscillate at high frequency.There are still problems, France observes. "Having a laboratory-based solution is one thing, but achieving acceptable failure rates in the real world can be quite another. Transitory changes [illness, damage] or permanent changes such as ageing can cause identification decisions to become invalid over time. Equally challenging is the presence of varying lighting conditions, dirt or moisture."In facial recognition systems - which are slowly being integrated into CCTV networks - research is turning to the addition of 3D images to boost performance. A Dutch scientist, Dr Arnout Ruifrok, will discuss at the show the problem that current technologies have difficulty interpreting non-frontal images and even zoomed-in on faces more than four metres from the camera. Iris recognition - a British technology invented by Professor John Daugman, a Cambridge scientist - is developing methods of reading the unique patterns in our eyes at a distance.Its accuracy helps pre-enrolled frequent flyers pass quickly through congested UK airport security checks. It has lost out, however, chiefly because so many existing police and identity databases already contain fingerprint and photographic records.Voice recognition, palm prints and ear shapes are also being pursued for commercial development. The global biometrics market, according to a pre-credit crunch estimate by ABI Research, is worth around $3bn (&pound;1.7bn) this year and will rise to $7.3bn by 2013.One measure of the improvement in biometric capabilities, according to Mark Lockie, editor of Biometric Technology Today and programme director of next week's conference, is the US series of face recognition vendor tests, which for the past 15 years have evaluated the latest systems. With a false acceptance level set at 0.001, initial tests in 1993 returned a false rejection rate of 79%. By 2002, the rejection rate had dropped to 20% and by 2006 was down to 1%.Socially acceptable"One issue that remains is the speed with which data can be downloaded from the computer chip [in UK passports]," he says. "Privacy is another matter. You can design biometric systems that enhance privacy. In the US, samples can be given for Aids tests along with fingerprints and collected by proving your identity without giving a name."The battle ahead for the industry may be more about gaining for social and political acceptance. The Conservatives say they will, if elected, ditch ID cards. Security agencies believe that to be effective, biometric records need to be matched across networks of international databases. Airport workers, on the front line of the new technology, remain to be convinced.The Guardian is the media partner of Biometrics 2008biometrics.elsevier.com
Apple thinks that the market for high-definition video defined by Sony's Blu-ray is "just a bag of hurt" where the licensing of the technology is too complex - and its chief executive Steve Jobs said that the company is "waiting till things settle down and Blu-ray takes off in the marketplace".The remarks came after Apple refreshed its notebook computers on Tuesday night, introducing a "pro" version which includes two separate graphics cards and a new version of its consumer-focused MacBook line which uses an aluminium casing. But while the notebooks were unexceptional, the launch showed that the company is unafraid of the economic downturn in the US - the only concession to price was a lowering of the cheapest MacBook to $999 - nor in the UK, where the price of the cheapest MacBook actually rose from &pound;699 to &pound;719. "Apple is relying on its brand here," remarked Ian Fogg, an analyst with Jupiter Research.The new machines abandon the mouse button completely in favour of a larger multi-touch trackpad on which one can make gestures using up to four fingers. But multi-touch screens "so far haven't made a lot of sense to us," said Jobs.The launch in Cupertino was notable for the fact that Jobs shared the spotlight for the first time with Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer who took over the running of the company while Jobs was in hospital in 2004 for surgery for pancreatic cancer, and then with Jonathan Ive, the company's head of design. Jobs alluded afterwards to the continuing speculation about whether he has had any recurrence of the cancer, putting up a slide claiming to show his blood pressure: "This is all we're going to talk about Steve's health today," he told journalists.Jobs shrugged off the idea of a "netbook" (or ultraportable), saying it was "a nascent market that's just getting started". Also notable was the absence of FireWire, the high-speed data transfer system invented by Apple, from its new MacBooks in favour of USB 2 ports.Overall though the new machines showed that real processing power advances are coming from graphics chips, not CPUs: the new CPUs are barely faster than those of machines released six months ago, but the GPUs are dramatically more powerful. Apple intends to use that power in future versions of its OSX operating system (The piranhas of processing await, July 17 2008).
It's impossible to walk into a room and not notice Jason Calacanis. This is not because he is famous - although he's arguably a celebrity in internet circles - but due to the fact that he exudes confidence and has a dominant presence. He might be perceived as little arrogant, but he's earned his authoritative position: he has held successive productive roles in the tech world for many years, seen it through the good times and bad and come out the other end a millionaire several times over. It's no surprise, then, that people pay attention to what he has to say.Calacanis describes himself as "a nerd, geek and media guy". A serial entrepreneur, he founded Silicon Alley Reporter magazine in 1996 and then in 2003 a group of blogs, Weblogs, Inc., which he sold to AOL in 2005 for a reported $25m. Nowadays he's a frequent blogger, has more than 35,000 Twitter followers and is the co-host of - as he puts it - the "Sundance of Startups", TechCrunch50, which is the public launchpad for emerging internet companies. He's also the chief executive of Mahalo, a "human-powered" search engine, which he says is an "abridged Wikipedia with Google links, but built by humans". At last week's Future of Web Apps conference in London, where he launched its live news blog features, we met to to talk about how he sees the future of tech.Small is beautiful"Companies are going to have to get profitable, break even or go away," Calacanis says. "The down market favours the small two-, three-, four-person company, not the huge company with 100 people losing half a million dollars a month. The big companies are going to have to sell off their assets. You'll see Yahoo probably sell 10 or 20 companies they bought, you'll see layoffs. It will be a flat market for years. But the internet will do good in terms of advertising, because when the market goes down, people want measurable advertising, and the internet is the most measurable, performance-based advertising. Newspapers, magazines, radio and television and outdoor advertising will suffer the most; and the internet will actually suffer the least. So it'll actually be good, long-term, for the internet."So who's likely to do well when times are hard? Calacanis replies: "In general, it'll be companies that have a narrow focus, that focus on revenue and actually solve hard problems. The companies that won't do well will be the me-too companies: the fifth, sixth, seventh version of Twitter etc."And amid this carnage, how will Mahalo fare? "We haven't shut anything down; we're under two years old. I'm pretty cheap and we raised a lot of money. We raised $20m before we launched and we don't spend that much money, so that gives us the ability to go for five years - if we never make any money."But won't people retreat from a niche - and new - product like Mahalo? "I'm sure we'll do fine. We already have enough traffic, actually: we had 4.6m visitors in August, which is the slowest month of the year. That's enough traffic to cover about half of our burn rate, so based on that, if we double our traffic, we'll be able to break even. And if we cover half our burn rate, we can go for about eight or nine more years, so I'm pretty bullish."As we build out the product, the majority of people will use it. The Wikipedia, in the first five years, was a niche product that no one thought was that good, and then in the past three or four years, people think it's brilliant."What I've learned in my career is that it takes the same amount of effort to build a $10bn company as it does a $1bn company; you as the entrepreneur are going to put your entire life, your entire effort into it. So if you're going to put your entire life into it and have got some experience under your belt, why not swing for the fences, shoot for the moon? You have to have a big vision and take very small steps to get there. You have to be humble as you execute but visionary and gigantic in terms of your aspiration. In the internet industry it's not about grand innovation, it's about a lot of little innovations: every day, every week, every month, making something a little bit better."So will Calacanis spread his energies on to other projects if Mahalo doesn't grow as hoped for? "This is the first time I've ever said this to anybody, this is an exclusive: this will be my last company. I'm not going to do another company after this. My hope and dream is to build the next Yahoo, the next Google, the next eBay; an internet company that lasts for all time. That's my goal and I think we're going to do it. And if we don't do it, the only person that would be at fault would be me, because we've set it up to have five years to figure out the problem and to execute it, so I only have myself to blame if this is not a huge success. And anything less than being the next Yahoo or Google or Microsoft or eBay or AOL would be a failure in my mind."Silver liningCan he offer any advice for budding entrepreneurs? "These are dark days, but this is the time that value is built and the best companies are built in the down market, so there is really very little downside to becoming an entrepreneur; the risk is very minimal. If you're thinking about starting a company, you should take that plunge - it's actually a good time. Just control the costs, build something on the weekends, try to get some traction and take your time. Everybody else is going to be depressed and drinking and not working. So it's a great time to be an entrepreneur."&#183;This article was amended on Saturday October 18 2008. We misspelled Jason Calacanis's name as 'Calcanis' several times in this article, in the headline and in the caption to the accompanying photograph. This has been corrected.
You have a voiceShortlist voting in the government's Show Us A Better Way competition closes on Sunday October 19.suabw.uservoice.comLord British in spaceMultiuser game developer Richard Garriott - also known as Lord British - is now on board the International Space Station as a tourist. His father, Owen Garriott, was a Nasa astronaut.richardinspace.comA whole new donameA 19-year-old American, the former Jennifer Thornburg, has changed her name to an internet address, utoutDissection.comCutoutDissection.comFringe challenge for womenThe first Grl Gmr tournament for women gamers will be held on Saturday October 25 to open the week-long London Games Festival Fringe event.thinkmakeplay.co.uk/grlgmrlondongamesfringe.comMP3 deafness warningMeglena Kuneva, the EU's consumer affairs commissioner, has warned that millions of young Europeans with MP3 players and mobiles could be deaf within five years.http://bit.ly/eudeafA chance for horse playNo room for a real horse? You can own virtual ones in "the UK's first massively multiplayer online 3D real-time horse game".myhorseclub.comMoney talks for NuanceNuance has bought Philips Electronics' speech recognition unit for $96m (&pound;55m). It already owns Dragon NaturallySpeaking and L&amp;H Voice Xpress.nuance.com/philips
The government is drawing up plans to give sweeping new powers to the security and intelligence agencies, and other public bodies, allowing them to access personal data using a wide range of internet sites, including social and gaming networks, Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, signalled yesterday.In a keynote speech on countering terrorism, she said the police and MI5 needed greater power to pursue suspected criminals and terrorists using new internet sites to conceal their communications. Though she stressed the importance of legal safeguards and public debate, there is little doubt the move will cause serious concern about the erosion of civil liberties and individual privacy.At present, security and intelligence agencies can demand to see telephone and email traffic from traditional communications services providers, CSPs, which store personal data for their own business reasons, notably for billing customers. However, the rapid expansion of new services offering game playing, social networking, auction and video sites, WiFi access, and broadband present a serious problem for the security services, according to Home Office officials.This is because new CSPs provided their services free, relying mainly on advertising for money, the officials say. As their services are free the companies do not hold records of their customers, many of whom use a number of pseudonyms and send messages from different electronic addresses."People have many accounts and sign up as Mickey Mouse and no one knows who they are", a senior Whitehall security source said. He added: "We have to do something.""Criminal terrorists are exploiting free social networking sites," said another Whitehall security official.Communications systems were becoming "increasingly complex and fragmented", Smith said in her speech yesterday to the left-leaning Institute for Public Policy Research. New legislation would "make it possible, one way or another, to collect it and store it", she said, referring to personal data passing through internet sites. She said access to communications data - information about the identity and location of individuals - was a "vital capability" that had been used in 95% of serious crime cases and in nearly all MI5 operations since 2004. The alternative, she said, was a "massive expansion of surveillance and other intrusive measures".Anticipating a hostile response, Smith distinguished between the interception of communications - accessing the content of phone calls, messages, and emails which need a ministerial warrant - and access to "communications data", which identified the location and name of the caller but not the contents of their calls or messages."There are no plans for an enormous database which will contain the content of your emails, the texts that you send or the chats you have on the phone or online. Local authorities do not have the power to listen to your calls now and they never will in future."We have every right to be sceptical and questioning about a state activity which involves the collection of data ... and about the ways we already use it." She said she wanted to consult widely in the new year. A communications bill, due later this year, would now be postponed until well into next.Smith's intervention follows a serious dispute among senior Whitehall officials over a proposal that all communication data records would be held in a central database, a source said yesterday. A significant number of Home Office officials dealing with serious and organised crime believed this approach was impractical and disproportionate, he said.The Tories warned of the "exponential increase in the powers of the state" any new database could bring. Dominic Grieve, shadow home secretary, said: "While we welcome the consultative approach, Jacqui Smith's speech begs mores questions than it answers." He added: "These proposals would mark a substantial shift in the powers of the state to obtain personal information on individuals. Given the government's poor record on protecting data - and running databases - there needs to be a full and proper debate."Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Chris Huhne said: "The government's Orwellian plans for a vast database of our private communications are deeply worrying. I hope that this consultation is not just a sham exercise to soft-soap an unsuspecting public," he said.Government officials insisted last night that a central database of communications data was just one option in proposals that would be put to consultations.
Vint Cerf, who can fairly be described as one of the godfathers (but not in a Tony Soprano way), has endorsed Barack Obama in the US presidential race, saying that his decision is swayed by Obama's stance on net neutrality - the question of whether content providers should be charged more for different content by the "pipe" providers.The video is above, but if you feel textual, here's a short extract:We believe that the Internet should remain an open environment. It's vital to innovation. Companies like Google, and Yahoo, and eBay, and Amazon, and Skype and so on, got their start without having to get permission from any ISP or any broadband provider to offer services. They simply acquired access to the internet, put their services up and then made them available to the general public.So far, so much the usual explanation of net neutrality. But what does Obama offer?We think that's the best way for the Internet to evolve and I'm pleased to say that in the upcoming presidential elections, the two candidates have rather different views of this particular matter. Senator Obama in particular sees things the way I do which is that the Net should remain open, fully accessible and providing access on a non-discriminatory basis to the people who want to offer new services on the network.We had anexclusive interview with Cerfat the start of October: he makes the case there again for the benefits of net neutrality.There are more scientists and technologists and their endorsements on theAVoteForSciencechannel on YouTube; safe to say that it's not seeing a huge amount of backing for John McCain and his creationist-backing running mate Sarah Palin - although McCain has been unusual among Republicans in accepting that climate change is real, important and urgent. That though has not been enough for many American scientists and technologists who want a break from the Bush years when science has been overruled.Obama did win a certain amount of opprobrium for his backing in June to the FISA bill, "a sweeping intelligence surveillance law that has been heavily denounced by the liberal activists who have fueled the financial engines of his presidential campaign" (according to the Washington Post). It doesn't seem to have hurt him too much though - in the leadup to the final presidential debate on Tuesday night, he had anotional lead nationallyof 4 points - plus or minus 2.9.
I've been playingPES 2009– it's released this Friday - since the weekend and well, it's hard to know what to think really. The game feels slightly slower than last year but still plays noticeably faster than FIFA. The ball zips between players, despite feeling – and sounding – heavier than you would expect. And the Champions League licence adds some much needed pizzazz. All good. And where it matters – on the pitch – I still find PES more enjoyable to play than FIFA. But, and this is a very big but, I haven't been able to play online yet.Usually when you get final retail code for review – normally only a week or so prior to general release – all the Live (or PSN) features work as normal. Not with PES 2009. Online play has been unavailable all week, apparently for last minute tweaking. So until Konami flick the switch I have no idea if the laggy mess of last year has been fixed. Sure, fiddling around with the offline master league is fine but for me playing online is what brings the game alive.  So yes, PES still plays a cracking game but if the online hasn't been fixed then this could be the year I defect to FIFA. Fingers crossed for Friday..
Just in case you haven't seen this yet, politics is coming to paradise. EA has confirmed that adverts for Barack Obama's presidency campaign are now appearing in the latest Burnout title, via the publisher's in-game advertising system, which updates content when the user's machine is connected to the internet. The ads are running until November 3, giving undecided voters plenty of time to boot up their consoles and go power-sliding for political inspiration.From the New York Times:Jeff Brown, vice president of communications at Electronic Arts, which publishes Burnout Paradise, said Mr. Obama's campaign had purchased ads to run in the Xbox 360 version of the game, which he said is most popular among male players ages 16 to 30. The ads will run until Nov. 3 in 10 battleground states. Mr. Brown said Senator John McCain's campaign had not purchased in-game advertisements, but added, "There's still three weeks before the election."This isn't as unlikely as it sounds. In June, the McCain campaign launchedits own Facebook appnamed Pork Invaders, a 'humorous' take on the Taito classic, and apparently a reference to Pork Barrel Spending, which I can't be bothered to explain (here's the Wiki link). It's awful.Thisis The Daily Show's response). McCain is unlikely to have been directly involved in the design or coding process, however, as he famously admitted to complete technological illiteracy onan interview with Yahoo news.But that's beside the point. For now, which game do you think would be best suited to McCain and his target demographic?
Hey, remember when everyone thought that Wi-Fi would be offered for free as a come-on to other services like, I don't know, selling coffee and so on? Yes, it was a marvellous weekend, wasn't it. Anyway, hasn't happened, largely, so if you're out and about you're these days either going with BT Openzone, The Cloud (which includes O2), or T-Mobile's offerings. Or you're on a Great Northern train (whose service is that?).Well, BT must be feeling some pressure because it "today cut Wi-Fi rates by up to 50 per cent" - note thatup to, classic marketing obfuscation - "as it launched a new, simple, great value price structure."Well, it's certainly a new price structure. Simple, not so much. There are actually four different tariffs, and they vary from a monthly charge of zero (for the per-minute service) to £32.90 (inc VAT) per month. You have to sign up for a minimum of 12 months to the monthly ones. The per-minute, of course, has no contract.Thedealsstill don't strike me as great, and aren't designed for people who might want to use a little from time to time. (Or at least, the pricing doesn't encourage you to use only a little.)BT also says that it's adding 2,500 extra European hotspots, " bringing the choice of places to connect to more than 50,000 overseas, and over 100,000 UK and Ireland locations." Must be for all the people who are going to be travelling so much for business in the coming year. (Though then again, this is the time to invest to get a market lead.)So what's behind the price cut? In a statement, Chris Bruce, general manager, BT Openzone, said: "The wireless broadband access market is at an exciting stage. Over the last six months we have seen double the use compared with the same period last year, with huge demand at hotels, major travel hubs, high street locations and residential and business areas. We've listened to our customers and not only have we simplified our tariffs but we've added more value and places to connect."But if there's huge demand, that usually leads to prices remaining high. (Though of course wireless service isn't constrained by supply Perhaps BT is instead feeling the competition. The Cloud, for example, has "unlimited" access for a single device forjust £6.99 per month- with no 12-month contract whileits pay-as-you-go offeringcosts between £4.50 and £9.99, varying from 1 hour to 24 hours. Seems a lot better than BT's offering to me - though BT's has, since its inception, been the ugly and expensive sister of the UK hotspot offerings.As for T-Mobile, it's got an unlimited £20/month offering; a £5/hour, £10/24 hr or £40/30-day option. And the PAYG - £1 for the first 10 minutes, 75p/10 min afterwards - is pretty steep too.Overall? The Cloud still has it by price, but maybe BT has the breadth of coverage. But for the average person - and increasingly the average company - price may start to come into it. Those pounds add up; and 12-month contractsaren't the sort of things to commit yourself to willy-nilly just now.Update:some more details about GNER and BT from Twitter: Peter Bowyersaid: "GNER (now National Express East Coast) wifi is by Icomera of Sweden. You get a swedish IP address - and google.se by default." And it's been free, he says, since National Express took over last year. "GNER used to give it free in 1st class (with a voucher) otherwise £5 for 2 hours IIRC".Justin Williams, assistant editor at the Telegraph,added: "BT also quietly dropped the free Openzone vouchers for Total Broadband without a word - you now have to sign up for Fon".
The Daily Beast was the sensationalist newspaper featured in Evelyn Waugh's 1938 satirical novel Scoop. What was fictional may now have become a reality, at least on the web: the title is now being used by British journalist Tina Brown.Many will have heard of Brown. She edited Tatler in the UK, and wrote for The Sunday Times. She dated its renowned editor Harold Evans, and the couple moved to New York where she became hugely successful as editor of Vanity Fair. Later she edited The New Yorker, then launched Talk magazine, which failed. Last year her biography of the Princess of Wales, The Diana Chronicles, became a bestseller. She finally hit the web last Monday.In some respects,The Daily Beastis a bit of a surprise. For one thing, it's an aggregator. Rather than taking on the Herculean task of reporting the world, TDB aggregates content from other sites, though that's not quite how she presents it in her Q&amp;A.Brown says: "The Daily Beast doesn't aggregate. It sifts, sorts, and curates. We're as much about what's not there as what is. And we freshen the stream with a good helping of our own original content from a wonderfully diverse group of contributors."It's a brilliant little piece in which she asks herself the blunt questions she'd insist on asking anybody else. Like, for example, "Aren't you a little old to be doing a web startup?" and "Are you doing this because you're jealous of Arianna Huffington?" founder of the Huffington Post.The site is clean and strongly styled in black and red, which gives it a tabloid flavour. The main sections have snappy titles: Cheat Sheet, Big Fat Story, and Buzz Board. There are lots of political and celebrity stories, and some fine photographs. The Beast also has around 40 in-house bloggers, including Harold Evans, Michael Kinsley (who edited Slate), Andrew Neil (who also edited The Sunday Times), Peter Stothard (a former editor of The Times) and Brown herself.Obviously she's not funding these heavy hitters from royalty cheques. TDB is backed by Barry Diller, who ran movie studios before assembling a collection of websites at American media conglomerate IAC. These include the Home Shopping Network, Ticketmaster, Match.com and the search engine Ask.com. Diller is bankrolling a "soft launch" with no advertising until the editorial gels.But the launch week was hardly soft. TDB published a Jennifer Lopez interview originally written for Elle magazine, which had declined to publish it because it was too personal, or J-Lo's people thought it wasn't all true, or whatever. The Beastly version was picked up all over the world.Then cameaccusations that The Daily Beast's typical red-top logo had borrowed too heavily from The Philadelphia Daily News, which put the two mastheads side by side.So far it doesn't look as though The Daily Beast will make a dent in HuffPo, or overturn The Drudge Report, but it could well find its own spiky niche. Whether it can survive financially is a different matter.
Could Googling actually be good for you? That is the conclusion drawn by researchers who believe that searching the internet could improve brain function – at least among older people.A team from the Center on Aging at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that searching the web can stimulate the brain more than other activities such as reading a book.In a study to be published in the American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, the researchers say they examined the neurological activity of adults aged between 55 and 76 as they conducted a number of tasks.The study took two groups of older people, one picked for their knowledge of the internet, the other for being less technologically adept. The participants were then placed inside an MRI scanner and asked to take part in a series of activities including reading books and performing internet searches.While both groups saw overall brain activity increase during the tasks, the internet-based assignments created a greater burst of activity in the web-savvy users. In particular, the researchers said, they stimulated areas of the brain linked to decision making and reasoning – producing up to twice as much activity as their technologically challenged counterparts.Although the study group was small – just 24 subjects – lead researcher Professor Gary Small said he believed the findings showed that engaging with technology could have important benefits for mental fitness."The study results are encouraging: emerging computerised technologies may have physiological effects and potential benefits for middle-aged and older adults," he said. "Internet searching engages complicated brain activity, which may help exercise and improve brain function."Some technological gizmos aimed at older people have come in for criticism – particularly "brain training" games, which make explicit claims about helping keep the mind young by guiding users through mental gymnastics.The craze led to millions of Japanese adults buying video game systems in order to play quizzes and logic puzzles. Since then heavy marketing from companies like Nintendo – which has used famous faces such as Julie Walters, Chris Tarrant and Johnny Ball – has encouraged millions of British adults to follow suit.Elsewhere search engines such as Google have been accused of presiding over a dumbing down of information. Internet critic Nicholas Carr claimed websites were reducing levels of concentration and encouraging flighty behaviour. That opinion was reflected by research showing that readers of academic texts on the web often engage in so-called "horizontal skimming" – reading a small portion and then heading off somewhere else. But Small said that his study showed using technology could have positive affects on the mind."There's so much interest in exercising our minds as we age," he said. "One result of this study is that these technologies are not all bad. They may be good in keeping our brains active."
Etsy, the website which provides an online marketplace for artists and crafters to sell their handmade goods, has proved hugely popular since launching three years ago. It now boasts more than 1.3 million members and has even been touted as a potential successor to eBay.But in an interview with theGuardian's Tech Weekly podcast, chief executive Maria Thomas said the company needs to focus on a number of challenges before it can reach its potential.Among the problems she highlighted was fraud, which has been a growing concern for the site's buyers and sellers. In recent weeks there have been a number of accusations that unscrupulous vendors are passing off other people's handmade work as their own – an allegation that the site's community of artisans and crafters take very seriously."It's an important question and one that Etsy going to have to get smarter on," Thomas said. "We're still a relatively small enterprise – certainly compared to eBay – but that doesn't make the question less important."Fraud has become a major issue the web's leading marketplace site, eBay, but Thomas – a former executive at Amazon and US radio broadcaster NPR – said that it was something that Etsy needed to understand properly before it became a far bigger problem."We have to learn from eBay and Amazon about planning for the long term. We're going to be investing and learning around the issue of fraud. Etsy will, as a venue, do the best we possibly can to prevent those things from happening."Based in Brooklyn, New York,Etsystarted in 2005 as the brainchild of college dropout Rob Kalin and friends. Early backing came from angel investors and the Manhattan-based Union Square Ventures, but earlier this year the company took part in a $27m funding round led by Accel Partners. Thomas joined shortly afterwards as chief operating officer and soon replaced Kalin as CEO.She said that the company would continue bringing in new staff to boost its team, which also includes chief technology officer Chad Dickerson – a former Yahoo executive who spent three years working in the company's advanced products division."We need some people who have experience working with consumer-facing internet sites and building to scale," Thomas said. "Chad is among the first of what will probably be several hires."Etsy makes money by charging for listings and taking a small commission on every sale. Its members have bought and sold $56m of goods so far this year.
Lest you think theWikigameproject has disappeared, I am here to assure you that we are sturdily beavering away behind the scenes, and next week you will have the next phase of the demo for you to play with and pick apart.Expect greatness, as the team is, in short, great.And speaking of short, Emily Short, the uber-text adventure (aka interactive fiction) creator, has announced the finalists of anIF competitionon herblog. Check it out and lose yourself in the latest and greatest home-created games.DennisChow forwarded the link and this is my fave bit of his email:I've only had the chance to play a few games so far, but one I played stuck in my mind called Violet that I'm sure you'd find very interesting. It's about a character who has one more day to complete his/her Phd dissertation (or some other academicy paper.) The main goal of the game is to defeat procrasination by any means necessary e.g. removing the ethernet cable from your computer and locking it in a cupboard to stop being distracted by online stuff like email and blogging, or py putting gum in your ears to stop being distracted by the noise from next door, and lots of other stuff -- it's a really fun game that I'm sure you'd greatly empathise with.Indeed. Now, where's that chewing gum....More on the great and beautiful Spaceship! wikigame next week.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
American investigators have shut down an international criminal network they claim is responsible for up to a third of all spam email on the internet.After a protracted investigation between the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and police in other countries, courts in Illinois and New Zealand have frozen the assets of New Zealander Lance Atkinson and Texas-based Jody Smith. They are accused of making millions by bombarding people with emails offering illegal drugs and fake medical remedies.The duo are believed to be part of a well-known group of spammers known as the HerbalKing gang, who have sent enormous numbers of unwanted messages over the past three years."The defendants recruited spammers around the world to send billions of spam messages," the FTC said in a statement yesterday. "Their enterprise included participants in Australia, New Zealand, China, Russia, Canada and the United States."According to FTC officials, Atkinson and Smith used spam emails to promote drugs for sexual dysfunction, penis enlargement and weight loss – all of which were sold without a licence or did not live up to the claims made.The duo are believed to have used a string of up to 35,000 hacked computers around the world – known as a botnet – to send up to 10 billion spam messages a day. As many as three million complaints had been made about their messages.Documents filed in the case name the pair, as well as four companies they control, and accused them of clearing as much as $400,000 in Visa charges alone in a month. A sequence of injunctions and restraining orders prevent them from continuing to do business while the case is underway.According to the campaigning organisation Spamhaus, HerbalKing is an "infamous" group that has been operating since at least 2005, which was ranked as the most prolific spam gang on the internet last year.Both Smith and Atkinson - along with his brother Shane - are well-known spammers, and have been involved previously in cases brought under America's CAN-SPAM act, which makes it illegal to send large amounts of unsolicited email in this way.Three years ago Atkinson was fined $2.2m after he was found guilty of running a similar programme marketing herbal products over email.The news marks the latest in a string of cases brought by US federal investigators against spam marketersEarlier this year Robert Soloway, from Seattle, was sentenced to 47 months in prison and ordered to repay $700,000 which he had taken as a result of his activities.And this summer notorious spammer Sanford Wallace – known as "Spamford" – was fined a record $230m for attacking MySpace users and using the social networking site to send porn spam to millions of users.Although spam is usually most associated with clumsy attempts to sell unwanted goods, one official said that the spammers had improved their methods of attack in order to carry on fooling people."These sites are really professionally constructed," Steve Baker, the FTC's Midwest Region director, told the Associated Press. "Some years ago you used to be able to tell the bogus things because they looked cheesy and had misspellings. I don't think that's true anymore."Other experts warned that other spammers would be likely to take the place of the HerbalKing gang immediately."Anyone hoping that they might find less spam in their email tomorrow morning is probably going to be in for a disappointment," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at internet security company Sophos."It's unlikely that action like this is going to result in a dramatic drop in the amount of spam you encounter – but the more action that is taken to crack down on criminal spammers, the better for all of us."
Today's Apple notebook event turned out to be … an Apple notebook event, refreshing a line that looked somewhat tired but was selling very well at US retail. (SeeRejigged Apple laptops fail to excite.)Of course, there was no netbook, no touch screen/Tablet PC model, and no $799 machine. In fact, all the things we didn't expect to get, we didn't get. Everyone who disbelieved the rumours could sit back and have the satisfaction of being right.On the good side, Apple is moving away from the Intel Integrated graphics that are the standard in $499/£249 Windows PCs towards Nvidia graphics chips, including the GeForce 9400M and 9600M GT, which Jobs reckons gives 5x or 6x times the graphics performance. The 9400M goes into the MacBook Air, along with a 120GB hard drive. The improvements to the MacBook Pro line also look worth while, but they're not that cheap.The "one more thing" ...... was a new version of the old plastic MacBook, with a $100 price cut to bring it down to $999. A MacBook for under $1,000!Whoop-de-whoo.However, Apple seems to be in the process of abandoning FireWire, which has now disappeared from the MacBook. That might upset a few audio and video fans. Also, Apple still thinks two USB ports are enough -- or one on the MacBook Air.On the other hand, Apple has continued to move towards using theDell-backedMiniDisplayPortinstead of mini-DVI. Maybe there's a good business in selling $30 dongles (especially if people find they need both VGA and DVI adaptors). Or maybe a lot of MacBook users like Dell monitors. Still, it's interesting to see Apple moving before DisplayPort really takes off in the marketplace….Engadget live-blogged the press conference, and someone asked why Apple (which is, after all, on the Blu-ray board) still didn't support Blu-ray. Quote:Steve: "Blu-ray is just a bag of hurt. It's great to watch the movies, but the licensing of the tech is so complex, we're waiting till things settle down and Blu-ray takes off in the marketplace."Too complex for Apple, but not too complex for Sony to stick in a $399 games console?It's a "bag of hurt" that the Windows PC world managed to negotiate a few years ago, so it's a pity Jobs wasn't more specific about the problems. Presumably these include the need for low-level copy protection. Obviously it couldn't be some petty grudge against the fact that Microsoft's WMV9 video is one of the mandated Blu-ray standards, where it's called VC-1, though finally enabling Macs to support ubiquitous WMV video should make life easier for the BBC and several zillion porn sites.
The details of Apple's announcements today arealready written up by Bobbie. But to me what was interesting about the event was its subtext - the stuff that wasn't said, but which is just as important, and potentially more interesting.First, even before the event was the invitation itself. "The spotlight turns to notebooks", said Apple - showing its hand in a way that I cannot ever remember it doing before. It's always been vague - "Let's Rock", "Showtime", "a music event" - rather than so specific. Why do that? Perhaps it's news management: Apple's realised that if it's too vague, speculation spins off into the stratosphere, and that can actually harm the share price as short buyers ramp it up and down - buy on the rumour, sell on the fact, as the City saying goes.Second was the amount of detail that emerged before the event.Engadgetand the rumours sites hadprettymucheverydetailof the new machines nailed;John Gruber's postwas written with the authority of someone who had been told by someone whom he trusted to know.How does so much detail get out? Perhaps it's harder to keep secrets with manufacture in one country and Best Buy as a partner. (And of course never ascribe to conspiracy what can also be explained by cockup.) That'scertainly what Joe Wilcox thinks:Years ago, Apple typically announced a product weeks before availability. The process was good for secrecy, but bad for sales. By moving product through the channel faster, Apple risks more information leaks.Next, the event itself. Steve Jobs made a point of handing over large chunks of the introduction to Tim Cook, the ex-Compaq VP who is chief operating officer, who took over from Jobs in summer 2004 while he was recovering from surgery for a rare form of pancreatic cancer (the sort that has a very high post-diagnostic survival rate). And Jonathan Ive also appeared on stage - the first time I can remember - to talk about the designs.Subtext? It certainly feels like Jobs getting new people inculcated into the idea of making big, important presentations - even if this wasn't in the grand scheme of things. (In September 2004, with Jobs ill, marketing veep Phil Schiller - not Cook - presented to the MacExpo show in Paris, which introduced the new flatscreen iMac shape. He was funny and very competent; interesting that he wasn't called on to present this time. Already skilled up?)Next is the bombshell on Blu-ray. This just isn't there, and even though Apple has been a member of the Blu-ray consortium since, well, forever, and even though Blu-ray won its battle with HD DVD way back in January, it simply isn't shifting. "Blu-ray is just a bag of hurt," Jobs told journalists. "It's great to watch the movies, but the licensing of the tech is so complex, we're waiting till things settle down and Blu-ray takes off in the marketplace."I think that's going to guarantee that Blu-ray doesn't take off in the computer marketplace any time soon. Remember, Apple really can and does drive the adoption of such technologies: it got USB adopted by using it on the first iMac (and abandoning its own connectors); it got Bluetooth and Wi-Fi working early; it pushed DVD-reading drives hard (mistakenly, as it happened; in 2000 everyone actually wanted CD burners so they could play their Napster collections. Er, I mean, make important data backups.)And speaking of abandoning Apple connectors, and USB: the new MacBooks lack FireWire, Apple's high-speed peer-to-peer data transfer technology. Instead they've got USB2. This probably cuts costs, and is also a tacit acknowledgement by Apple that it lost that battle with Intel. Even so, it's a loss: FireWire is faster than USB2, and uses less CPU. Apple didn't mention this either.What about that economy, then? Jobs and co couldn't talk about financial matters or the economy - it's close to the financial announcements for the past quarter - but the US is not a place where you can run around on cheap credit any more. Fuel and food are more expensive, and houses aren't; that's a combination for a downturn. So Apple's solidifying its positioning, pulling its branding around it. But here's the thing: that means keeping its position as a premium brand, nor pulling in customers by taking a margin cut.That's evidence by the fact that starting prices aren't lower - despite the expectations that had been around of a $900 or even $800 MacBook. In fact, they're up: third-party developer Fraser Speirsnoted: "The UK entry level price point on MacBook has gone up from £699 to £949. Keeping last-gen model around for £719 is bogus." That is, you can buy the old "white" MacBook for the low price (though even that has gone up from £699, as Jupiter analyst Ian Foggspotted, which has a very slightly faster processor: 2.1GHz rather than 2.0GHz). But for the new models of MacBook, you're talking about £949.What credit crunch? Huh? Nationalised the banks? Never heard of it.But another sign of that careful approach to money: Apple is still paring away at the free stuff, as Michael Tsainoticed: "Apple Remote no longer included. Dual-Link DVI Adapter $99 extra."Joe Wilcox wassingularly unimpressed:I'm not picking on Apple but making a point. The rumors — all that free marketing for Apple — make much ado about nothing. Feature-for-feature, Apple notebooks have fallen way behind their Windows counterparts, as so I rudely blogged back in August. But the buzz is great marketing.But, he added, Apple shouldn't venture into the sub-$1,000 (in the UK, it would be about £650) market:Apple's branding means something. The company shoudn't risk its premium notebook brands tomorrow with cutthroat pricing. If there is a sub-$1,000 laptop, Apple should differentiate by something, such as new subbranding, lesser configuration or design appeal. Apple should keep the premium brands above $1,000.So let's sum up all the subtexts. Apple can't control how the news about its products gets out so well. It's getting us used to people other than Jobs presenting. It's drawing itself up to its premium position in the market, rather than trying to reach down, even though there's possibly more desire for its computers than ever before.Man, they must think it's going to beawfulnext year. Can't wait for the finance call.
The new Apple MacBookApple chief executive Steve Jobs today unveiled a range of updated laptops as the company attempted to keep up sales in the face of economic turmoil.The company's whole range of laptops has been given an injection, including its popular MacBook, MacBook Pro and the MacBook Air – which was only launched in January.The machines have been given new designs to bring them in line with the company's iMac desktop computers, although the current white plastic MacBook will remain on sale at the marginally lower price of $999 (£719 in the UK).All other models will now sport aluminium casing, shiny black screens and a new glass trackpad that dispenses with the traditional mouse button. They will also switch between twin graphics processors – both an Nvidia GeForce 9400M and 9600M GT - in what Jobs claimed was an attempt to boost performance and battery life."Apple has invented a whole new way of building notebooks from a single block of aluminium and, just as important, they are the industry's greenest notebooks," said Jobs. "The new MacBooks offer incredible features our users will love."The new MacBooks will cost £949 or £1149 for British buyers, while the MacBook Pro will cost between £1399 and £1749. The MacBook Air, meanwhile, will cost either £1299 or £1799.Laptops have been an increasingly important part of Apple's business. Its most recent financial results, for the quarter ending in June, showed that the company shipped 41% more computers than the same period last year, with portable machines counting for almost two thirds of sales.However, Apple has been bucking the computer industry trend by refusing to launch a lower-cost line of machines. Smaller, cheaper laptops such as the Asus Eee PC have helped drive the so-called 'netbook' market and have convinced many consumers to stay away from the higher end models.Despite rumours that Apple would consider releasing a lower cost laptop of its own – costing around $800 or £500 in the UK – Jobs merely lowered the price of the company's existing MacBook model, which now looks as if it will be phased out in the coming year.Among other rumoured upgrades which did not surface was the inclusion of a Blu-ray drive for watching high definition DVDs. The system, which is championed by Sony and a core component of the PlayStation 3, is struggling to entice customers to buy. Jobs described it as a "bag of hurt" and said that he would not include Blu-ray in Apple machines until there was more evidence that consumers were interested – despite Apple being a member of the Blu-ray consortium which has backed the technology.The event also featured a rare appearance by Jonathan Ive, Apple's British senior vice president of design, who is credited with masterminding the distinct style of the iPod and iMac. Ive discussed a new manufacturing method which allows the company to create thinner, lighter machines – including the MacBook Air, which was launched earlier this year.The Air was among the machines to benefit most from the rejig, with a serious boost in power – which Apple hopes will help it turn around its underwhelming sales figures.During a question and answer session with journalists, Jobs said that he considered netbooks a "nascent market" but would would not comment on the company's financials – it is due to make its latest quarterly earnings announcement next week.Apple's share price, which hit lows of $85.5 last week, has been taking a hammering recently – not least thanks to concerns that the harsh economic climate will drive down demand for its fashionable gadgets.The value of Apple stock had been increasing ahead of the announcement in California, with early trading putting the price at $111 before the announcement.However, it appears the news was not enough to convince traders to buy more shares in the 31-year-old company, as dropped more than 4% to $105 immediately after the launch.Although that marks a significant increase on the previous week's trading, it is still a distance from the $140 it was pegged at a month ago.
JoinAleks Krotoski,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnson(all the wayfrom San Francisco) as they grapple with the philosophical conundrumswhich follow a brush with artificial intelligence. AI researchersRolly CarpenterofIcognopitches in with his views on last week'sLoebner Prize- a competition for the machine that best mimics a human - anddescribes why his creation only came in 3rd place this year, when he'spreviously won the gong two years in the running.The team are also joined byMaria Thomas, the new CEO ofEtsy, the onestop shop for all things handmade. Thomas is fresh from NationalPublic Radio and Amazon, and she aims to inject the lessons learnedfrom those communities into this crafters start-up.There are reviews of theTokyo Game Showand insights into the effectsthe global financial crisis is having on the technology space, plusmore news, your views from the blogs and - can you believe it - more.Have a listen and do get in touch via the plethora means possible.
Yes, I had money inIceSave. And, as I search around to find someone to blame other than my own judgment, the Icelandic government and of course the global financial crisis, I can't help but think that their website had something to do with it. It's so slick, is the thing. The design is clean and clear, with the white spaces and rainbow-coloured single word logo so comfortingly reminiscent of everyone's online friend, Google. The site has fast response times and is laid out intuitively, with a helpful and extensive list ofFAQsand an easy to find Contact Us button which leads toan actual telephone number, rather than funnelling me to an online feedback system. Yes, IceSave's website is a model of customer-friendly design; it's a pity they don't have any money left.It's rather embarrassing to realise that I was so swayed by site design. After all, I've been spotting online imposters, with the help ofSnopes, for more than a decade now.Bill Gates will give money to charityif I forward this email? Don't make me laugh. You need me toupdate my pindue to identity theft? Pull the other one.Add to this that the web-savvy reader or consumer is constantly being told to withhold trust. We all know that the person we're talking to online might not actually look like the picture they've posted of themselves – even if their aim isn'tout and out fraud. Andphishing scams are steadily increasing. One really ought to know by now not to use online presence as a guide to trustworthiness.I have more reason than most to know that all that glisters online certainly isn't gold. For nearly three years, I was lead writer on alternate reality gamePerplex City, an online narrative which triedas hard as possibletolook real. We occasionally succeeded too well. For our wrap party, we wanted to order some M&amp;Ms printed with the logo of a drug we'd invented,Ceretin, a "cognitive enhancer". We had a call back from Mars after we'd placed the order, though. M&amp;Ms have a rule that they won't custom print their chocolates with the name of any drug; having checkedour entirely fictional pharmaceuticals website, they'd concluded that Ceretin was a real product and thus on their banned list. On the internet, it's all too easy to look like something you're not.So I suppose, although it's entirely irrational, I'll be shying away from financial institutions with beautiful websites for a while. I'm starting to notice a trend, actually.Northern Rock's siteis pretty attractive in a white-on-blackSteve Jobs presentation way. Kaupthing Edge, as well as having a name that sounds like a midtown NYC extreme sports shop, has a funky bubble effect going on in thebackground of its siterather reminiscent ofO2.  IceSave's design makes other institutions likeAlliance &amp; LeicesterorNationwidelook clunky and old fashioned. But then, Alliance &amp; Leicester and Nationwide haven't gone bust. Perhaps, in this era of decreased trust all round, ugly website design is going to stage a resurgence.
Maybe I'm just a sucker for making myself a hostage to fortune (after mywoeful iPhone predictions)but tonight's pre-announced Apple launch of new notebooks (the company's word) has some people in a sweat.They're expecting a"brick" made of diecast aluminium, carved by Goldfinger's lasers from a single block. They're expecting cheap Macbooks. They're expecting anew MacBook Pro. They've got photos of things. They'veseen the price list.As Kara Swisher comments at AllThingsD, it's "Apple, Apple, all around, but not a drop of thinking".So here's my thinking.Making a cheaper notebook makes a lot of sense. The US economy is tanking (no matter what its stock market is doing; that's not an indicator of economic activity), so making stuff people can buy for cheaper is sensible. A notebook costing under $900 would be very smart ahead of what will be a constrained Christmas for many there. (In the UK, it might check in at around £500.)Don't expect a tablet. Don't expect an ultraportable (aka "liliputer"). Reasons: introducing a tablet would be commercial suicide: it's expensive, it's a niche market even for Windows (which Microsoft has been pushing, like water uphilll, for seven years now). And an ultraportable would have to be more expensive in a market that thrives on being low-cost; and anyway Apple already has its offering in "light", which is the MacBook Air. Plus, introducing either would mean a whole marketing effort - which Apple might prefer to keep for next January, and MacWorld, when it could also see how the economy is panning out (or down).Do: expect some tweaks to the products.John Gruber, who is typically right about these things, has some "educated guesses":The new regular MacBooks look like 13-inch versions of the new MacBook Pro. Another single-piece all-aluminum chassis, the same black border around the display, and the same new no-button multi-touch trackpads. The displays are backlit LEDs, like the 15-inch Pros. (Engadget, which is reporting that the regular MacBooks aren't being revised, is wrong. They're not just being announced but should be shipping by the end of the week.)Interestingly, Gruber says that there won't be a low-priced MacBook. And recall that Apple did introduce the not-cheap iPod in October 2001, a month after the September 11 attacks in the US.And finally, if it comes up and you're not sure whether you should skip buying them.. Michael Gartenberg, a consumer devices analyst, hasadvice on "when to skip that purchase".
As the cliché goes, Football Superstars really is a game of two halves; the soccer bit and the fame bit. It's only possible to comment on the former before beta testing ends in a few weeks. Luckily, so far the signs are pretty encouraging.Football Superstars is free todownload and play; there's a small monthly subscription if you want to form your own club. Once registered, you customise your player, choose from the 14 fictitious clubs that make up the FS league and start to move around the clubhouse and the virtual world outside. Pressing F1 sets up a match with other real players, which starts automatically when enough team-mates are available. So how does it play?The first big innovation is the 3D perspective – viewed through the player's eyes using shoot-em-up controls (W/A/S/D keys). Yes, it takes some getting used to as footy games have always benefitted from a top-down or side-on view, but clever use of the mouse means I was soon picking out back heels while running full-tilt at the defence. There are limited interactive tutorials to help you through this, although a practice game with computer-controlled players would have been far better. Still, I had basic skills covered in about 20 minutes, and although my first match ended in a 7-0 drubbing, there are more than 100 levels of skill improvement. Over the course of a four-league tournament, you can expect to run harder, turn quicker and master trick shots to go with your rising professional status and bank balance.And what does an overpaid footballer do with all this money? Head to the game's bars and shops to buy more bling, hang out with stick-thin avatars and bribe paparazzi to raise his profile from Z-list to international superstar. With only a handful of the potential 5,000 players currently online, it remains to be seen whether this part of the game will prove as popular or well-defined as the developers intend, but my guess is it will need a lot more in the way of organised attractions.On paper, combining real football with an MMO sounds like a winner, and the buzz of forming a team with your mates is undeniable. Getting the right balance of gameplay and social networking will take time, but Football Superstars is a real innovation in two largely stagnant genres and deserves a fanbase all of of its own.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The hype has been intense – and is likely to intensify now that thefirst reviewsare out – butLittleBigPlanetlooks like it deserves the praise.  Sony's adorable platform game/community tool is one of those rare games that will charm casual gamers and hardcore alike.I recently went along to LBP developer Media Molecule's Guildford studio - situated above a decidely unglamarous bath shop - for a chat and a look at the game.So what is LBP? At its most basic think Mario-style left to right style platforming, with the ability to create and upload your own levels.  Physics is key, with lots of rope swinging, loop the loop racing and the like.  Of course, platforming style gameplay has been done many times before – albeit not this prettily – but LBP's big selling point is the level creation tools. Relatively easy to use these tools allow you to create your own levels, upload them and let other gamers play and rate your work.That's the theory anyway. While it is fairly easy to create something simple it's clear that design skills are really needed to create something memorable. How many casual dabblers will have the patience remains to be seen, although you can create a level with four players offline (online multiplayer creation will arrive "before Christmas").  Media Molecule co-founder Alex Evans argues that people tend to play a few pre-created levels first but then get hooked on making their own.It's just fun and it reminds people why they have a console. Hardcore people are buying into it as much as kids and casual players. It's a real buzz when people comment and engage with your created levelThe game itself looks like no other. Forget Blade Runner, Lord of the Rings and the standard game developer inspirations. LittleBigPlanet look is all tactile craft materials and 70s kids TV - think Bagpuss,The Clangersetc. Yup, it's all a world away from the usual space marine chic.Online is clearly crucial though. Sharing and downloading levels is the core of the game and if the experience of the beta is anything to go by downloading levels is quick and easy. Logging on and checking out the latest levels is likely to become a daily update for owners. While the score mechanic, with the game showing how your friends did on any level and how you compare, is also key to repeat play. This is especially true on the race levels as you compete against friend's times.LBP is a charming experience. Sackboy, the sackcloth created main character, can be customised – or dressed up – in numerous ways. New clothes and items are collected by playing through the main levels provided with the game.  Perhaps more tellingly my three year old daughter had her first ever gaming experience as she "dressed" up theSackboy/girl avatar.  The sticker element – where you can add your photo or use in-game stickers – was also enthusiastically welcomed by her. So LBP is likely to be a hit with families, and could potentially help persuade a recalcitrant partner that a PS3 is a good purchase. Or maybe that's just me.Anyone who has experienced the walking genitalia of Spore knows that moderation is vital in community based games.  Dave Smith, one of the other Media Molecule co-founders agrees.We have a simple moderation system which you get taught early on and allows you to easily to send a report to Sony. We've had very few levels removed from our beta trial.You can't accuse Media Molecule of holding back - Evans said even famously over excitable developer Peter Molyneux told him the game was too ambitous - but perhaps the real future for LittleBigPlanet is the potential as more general game creation tool.  Evans agrees.LittleBigPlanet is a tool that allows people to create more than just platforming games. There could well be a LittleBigPlanet role playing game for example. You can create characters and use some basic AI and create some real puzzles.Of course the Wii has changed everything, blowing the gaming market wide open. The effect on Microsoft and Sony has been profound with both pitching their consoles towards to the more casual market. But while Microsoft remains unconvincing - Gears of War 2 is supposedly, ahem, a "love story" – Sony seem to be have a stronger case. Singstar and EyeToy arguably kick-started the casual gaming boom on consoles and now LittleBigPlanet looks set to take it the next level.  Sony has bumped LBP way up the scale, to the point where it is has become the most important game yet for PS3.The visuals, stunning as they are, may put older gamers off. But you'd be foolish to miss this. Charming and guaranteed to make you smile, LittleBigPlanet is the best argument yet to buy a PS3.
The shocking revelation onMicrosoft's Vista blogis that the final name of what we now call Windows 7 will be… Windows 7. Mike Nash, corporate vice-president, Windows Product Management, says: "Simply put, this is the seventh release of Windows, so therefore Windows 7 just makes sense."Well, it is certainly true that the previous version – Vista – was Windows 6, but I'm not convinced at this stage that Windows 7 merits a 1.0 increase. Windows XP was only a 0.1 increase on Windows 2000, and that probably had more changes than Windows 7 will bring. After all, the interesting stuff will be how Windows 7 relates to Windows Live and Live Mesh – or doesn't. (I'd expect the US Justice Department to block the sort of innovations that would be really good for consumers on the grounds that they'd be good for Microsoft as well. Can't allow that!)Microsoft will be handing out a pre-beta "developer only release" atPDCat the end of the month, and atWinHEC, which follows.It will be interesting to see how Windows 7 is received, because then we might have some idea whether it will appear in February 2010 (or thereabouts) or whether Microsoft might get it out before Christmas. Either would arguably be "on schedule". After all, Microsoft delayed the public release of Vista until after Christmas, so as not to disadvantage PC retail suppliers who feared they would be stuck selling old fashioned and obsolete Windows XP machines…After that, roll on Windows 8 and Windows 9! There's plenty of virtualisation stuff that's worth doing and probably isn't going to make it into Windows 7, and (for the benefit of the particularly clueless) every numbered release is really a snapshot of what's actually a continuous work in progress. That's true of Mac OS X as well.Update: Mike Nash has commented on the responses to his post, inWhy 7?The answer seems to be that a lot of Windows developers are stupid, because "changing basic version numbers can cause application compatibility issues".  But, he adds:There's been some fodder about whether using 6.1 in the code is an indicator of the relevance of Windows 7.  It is not.Windows 7 is a significant and evolutionary advancement of the client operating system.  It is in every way a major effort in design, engineering and innovation.  The only thing to read into the code versioning is that we are absolutely committed to making sure application compatibility is optimized for our customers.
It is not clear whether sparring with paparazzi, haranguing referees or expressing outrage at a pay packet of &pound;55,000 a week will be rewarded. But a 3D game that allows players to live the life of a top-flight footballer will aim next month to take the already lucrative phenomenon of online interactive games into the mainstream.CyberSports, a Nottingham-based startup, has invested more than &pound;5m over two years in creating Football Superstars with a team of 80 programmers. It hopes the game will attract millions of players to hone their skills in its virtual world before interacting in real time on and off the pitch.It will aim to mix the appeal of virtual worlds such as Second Life with the popularity of console football games such as the Wayne Rooney-endorsed FIFA series in an effort to take a slice of the hugely profitable global market for so-called Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOG). The most popular, World of Warcraft, has almost 11 million paying players worldwide.Once players have downloaded Football Superstars for nothing, they will develop their skills in small-sided kickabouts before graduating to full 11-a-side games and, if they become sufficiently skilled, being picked for representative games and eventually international tournaments.Off the pitch, they will be able to socialise and blow their wages in a virtual world of restaurants, bars, clubs and shops. CyberSports has signed a branding deal with Puma that will see its Carnaby Street store recreated online and players able to wear its boots and clothing. It hopes to strike scores of similar branding deals. Although the game is free to play, which its backers hope will be an advantage during an economic downturn, players will also be encouraged to spend real money on virtual clothes, boots and cars.All the players on the pitch, with the exception of the goalkeepers, will be controlled by real players. They will be able to call to one another in real time using headsets and "3D sound" technology.More than 100,000 people have registered and the company yesterday claimed that new registrations were running at more than 3,000 a day. An unlimited number will be able to play at any one time. Games such as FIFA 09, produced by Electronic Arts, have recently introduced online elements that allow players on opposite sides of the world to compete against one another. But CyberSports chief executive Malcolm Clark said he was banking on Football Superstars being a much more realistic experience, with players socialising and training in the in-game world as well as playing matches.
