Drama keenDouglas Rushkoff enjoys aiming a few kicks at the soft target of TV drama. Speaking as a TV hack who is routinely tortured by rewrites, I wish it took only a week. Irritatingly enough, most people in the field strive to do high-quality, imaginative work.Douglas rightly points out that unexpurgated access to people's real lives via web-cam is boring. He yearns for the day that a dedicated band of people select scenes from life to be meaningful, edit them to be entertaining, and put them out there for whoever wants to watch. Ummm... sort of like TV drama?Gary Parkergary.parker@ntlworld.comNo time likeAnybody thinking of signing up with Freeserve's new Anytime service should be very, very careful.I attempted to switch to Freeserve as my internet service provider (ISP) on February 7. I found that my web browser would not work with Freeserve.Two days later Freeserve's technicians had not solved the problem and had lost me my connection to the other ISPs that I use (Comundo, Libertysurf and Onetel). At that point they decided to blame my computer manufacturer, Dell, and told me to get a Dell technician to sort the problem out.It was obvious nonsense, since no other ISP has encountered this problem.Dell's technician sorted the problem out in five minutes on the following Monday, by which time I had been without an internet connection for three days.A call to Freeserve's customer service department resulted in my being told off for using "abusive language" because I said that Freeserve had "f****d" my computer.I still have an Outlook Express which displays Freeserve's advertising. I also have an undeletable and unnecessary Networks icon on my desktop and Networks   folders in Microsoft Explorer. More seriously I have a bug or virus on Internet Explorer which causes it to open up dozens of new windows if I try to use a "mailto" from a web page. All these appear to have been downloaded from Freeserve.My credit card has now been debited &#163;12.99, and that does not include the futile calls to Freeserve technicians at 50p a minute (at least &#163;10 over 2 days).Jane Leaperjane_leaper@hotmail.comIns and outsI checked my Inbox at 1100 on Tuesday February 20 and was told that "there are no unread mail messages." I then sent out a message and this seems to have triggered a rush of activity. A few minutes later, there were four unread messages waiting.One of them had been sent on February 11, nine days previously, and the others on the 16th, 17th and 18th. That first one concerned an event that had taken place on the 19th and had been ruined by the tardiness of the email service.As I use Freeserve, I am wondering if this is their way of dropping a leaden hint that they were growing bitter at their lack of profitability. If so, they are making a poor decision.They are warning me not to trust email and to use the old-fashioned mail when I want fast, assured service.David Rossdavidtamara@rossd1.freeserve.co.ukPontificatingOn February 15, Paul Hartmann asked you "what GSM is". On 22 February, Keith Scott described Mr Hartmann as "stupid" because he didn't search the web for the answer.Clever Mr Scott demonstrated how it should be done: he asked Yahoo, and got the "answer" that GSM is the Global System for Mobile Communications. QED.But that wasn't the question. Knowing what the abbreviation stands for doesn't tell you "what GSM is".What Mr Hartmann needed was a comprehensive, but not over-technical, description of what GSM does and how it works.I've examined the 263 items thrown up by Mr Scott's Yahoo! search, and only one of them meets this specification. And I had to plough   through a vast amount of dross to find it.The point is that Mr Scott pontificated about a question he simply didn't understand. I wouldn't describe him as "stupid".But that's because I'm more polite than he is.Dermod Quirkedermod@dircon.co.ukRevealingPerhaps instead of Keith Scott insulting less technologically minded people it would be more useful to suggest a visit to http://whatis.com , which I find answers any questions I may have about new technology terms, and is more likely to provide revealing information than a simple search on Yahoo!Ben Conradbenjconrad@yahoo.co.ukJust too smugKeith Scott does have a valid point, although he's just a tad too smug about it (and he's assuming that the original inquirer has access to the net, which might not be the case).It's often seemed to me, over the years, that the most appropriate advice that could be given, not just to inquiries in Online but other PC-related publications as well, is RTFM!Ron Gravesron@graves3.fsnet.co.ukCall icabWeb watch (22 Feb) complains of a site in which "the type is too small, and bad web design means it cannot be made any larger".The site you complained about (www.Publicradiofan.com) works well with a new browser called iCab (free fromwww.icab.de) which has buttons to enlarge or shrink type size.This is a special boon to lecturers such as me who want to project pages for an audience. But the main benefit of this browser is it operates in about 2MB of memory.Michael Edwardsm.edwards@ucl.ac.ukSaintly talk"Critics point out that... much of the information was both inaccurate and poorly written." (Online, February 22 page 13).What better recommendation for the patron saint of the internet?Marc Wilsonmarc@cleopatra.co.uk
Sony is planning a major assault on the personal audio market by offering new Walkmans in five different formats.A new pair of Network Walkmans are due in the stores in April. A tad larger than a cigarette lighter, and not unlike one in its styling, the NW-E5 Network Walkman   sports 96MB of storage - enough, Sony claims, for up to 180 minutes of music.Launching at the same time is the latest Memory Stick Walkman, the NW-MS9. Billed by Sony as the smallest personal audio player on sale, the player includes a 64MB removable Memory Stick rather than embedded memory. Prices have not yet been confirmed, but both models are expected to cost between &#163;250 and &#163;300.PC owners are offered an alternative receptacle for their music files in the MZ-R700PC MiniDisc recorder. Due in March, the &#163;250 unit comes with a PC kit that enables the user to transfer audio files on to a MiniDisc.A new range of CD Walkmans, scheduled to arrive in the next few weeks, includes the D-EJ925. This super-slim player claims 80 hours of battery life, Sony's Jog proof technology and a stick-type remote control. Its predicted price is around &#163;170.Sony is also shipping a range of new cassette and radio Walkmans.Ring up the changesHandspring has confirmed that the module that turns its Visor range of handheld PCs into a mobile phone will go on sale in the UK in the next few months.The dual band VisorPhone unit is designed to fit into the slot at the top of the personal digital assistant (PDA). It allows the user to make voice phone calls, send emails and text messages and surf the net. Text messages and emails can be composed using the Visor's Graffiti handwriting system or its virtual keyboard.No news on prices yet, but the US version retails for around $300.Image makersBritish hi-fi manufacturer Arcam is taking on the Americans and Japanese by introducing an innovative high-end DVD player. The &#163;1,600 FMJ DV27, due in May, is one of the first models   to feature Pure Progressive Scan technology. This works to counter noise and digital artefacts on video images and has been highly acclaimed in the US. At present, British users will only get to see its benefits if they plug the player in to a projector or plasma screen.Ashley NorrisMulticolour dreamcoatApple has unveiled a faster range of multicoloured iMacs, two of which now sport CD-RW drives. The lurid designs, however, are likely to be the only new features to set your pulse racing.The mid and top-end iMacs - which will still be available in "traditional" iMac colours - will ship with the new drives and Apple's previously announced iTunes software, which will allow users to make CDs full of their MP3 downloads.The basic 400MHz iMac is &#163;799, including VAT, rising to &#163;1,199 inclusive for the top-end, 600MHz version.Surprisingly, only the most expensive iMac ships with enough memory (128MB) fitted as standard to run Apple's next generation operating system, OS X, which is released next month. That model also sports substantially faster cache memory than the other two.Meanwhile, Apple is also perservering with its beautiful, if unpopular, Cube. The new machine, now with CD-RW as standard, starts at &#163;1,149.
I have no problem travelling in a train carriage full of drones with phones, even if they are all shouting "I've just got on the train" to their loved ones. But I never thought I would get used to people's "unique" ring tones. Get a few twentysomethings with their own ring tones, and a train ride can be more like a theme tune reunion for crap 70s and 80s TV.On the other hand, there is be nothing more annoying than having to rifle through one's bag before realising that there are seven other people going through their pockets for phones with identical ring tones. Which is when the prospect of being the only person whose phone plays the Robin's Nest theme tune suddenly becomes more attractive.It appears I am not the only one either. Latest figures indicate that 64% of us own a mobile, with more keen to personalise them and internet sites only too happy to let us. Many products may be ill-suited to being sold online - just ask any of the e-tailers going bust every day - but ring tones are a booming industry, with hundreds of thousands sold every day over the internet. This figure is even more impressive given   that not every mobile phone can receive and play custom-made ring tones.Delivered by SMS text message that the phone translates into music, it is possible that your phone can't read the SMS message in the right way. If your phone can accept ring tones as SMS messages - and Nokia owners are by far the best catered for - it is an easy transaction. All you need to give the website is your credit card number and the phone number, so it can be beamed through.Nokiais so keen to expand its ring-tone business that it has signed deals with record companies such as EMI to rifle through their back catalogues in search of more tunes. The record companies are laughing as the royalty collection companies collect a fee for every tune sold by every tone retailer atwww.mcps.co.uk.Cheesy pop stars such as the Venga Boys (popular with "the youth") previewed their single Cheeka Bow Wow in October as a ring tone first on thewww.ringtones.comsite. The ring-tone site is typical of most in that its tunes are only compatible with Nokia phones, but it also offers   visual customisation of the phone, letting you buy and send pixillated works of art.You could also try www. tones4fones.com/ , as it offers a decent store from which to buy tunes from the past 40 years. Fancy the theme tune to the ill-fated 70s space opera Battlestar Galactica or the Ben Elton-penned Young Ones belting out of your phone next time it rings? Both can be yours for &#163;3 a pop. Or trywww.boltblue.com/product/fun.htm- a good site offering tunes, horoscopes and even jokes, all for the cost of a text message.Advertisers seem to have latched on to mobile phones as a badge of youth, what with the recent "pay as you go" ads, which had us believing that pill-happy clubbers chat about their call rates while queuing for a night's hedonism, but if you visit the ring-tone dealers, the most popular tunes are the current club classics - so they might be on to something. If you want your finger (and phone) firmly on the pulsing nub of youth, trywww.ministryofsound.com/music/ring_tones. The South London superclub lets you download the latest tunes. These repetitive, beat-based ditties are not even in the charts yet and you can snap up five dancefloor monsters for a tenner if you're quick.If you are not keen on paying, you will be pleased to learn that the old internet maxim applies: someone, somewhere, will be offering it free. And so it proves, withwww.tonez.co.uk. In fact, Tonez pays people to design certain sought-after tunes, so if you fancy yourself as a dab hand at adapting the tunes of popular beat combos into annoyingly tune-free ring tones, you could be on to a nice little earner.If you don't have a Nokia phone but want a ring tone, trywww.mobilemelodies.com, which caters for Ericsson, Siemens and, of course, Nokia. If you go into the Ericsson section of the site and click on the Links link, there is a treasure trove of links to all manner of highly dubious-looking sites, all displayed within frames from the Mobilemelodies site, such as "How to use GSM network without paying"! Fascinating reading - check it out before the lawyers do.A good guide to getting started can be found at www. iobox.com/iobox . The site, which specialises in mobile phone services, has a downloadable SMS Guide in "pdf" format, which explains all you need to know about downloading information to your phone. You'll need Adobe Acrobat Reader to read the file, but this can be downloaded free fromwww.adobe.co.uk/products/acrobat/readstep.html. What's more, if you register on the site you can create your own ring tones for Ericsson, Sagem and Nokia phones. Now that is a sure way to personalise your phone.
What computers/hardware were you using in the early days of Kraftwerk?There was no such thing as a home computer and not much we could use electronically! Ralf &#91;H&uuml;tter&#93; bought an immense and expensive Moog synthesiser and Florian &#91;Schneider&#93; had an early ARP Odyssey synth. We had a tiny, broken drum kit that inspired me to build an electronic percussion board - the world's first - in 1973. Ralf's Hammond organ was adapted with radio tubes and cut into two parts for transportation. We also used a tiny mixing desk and an oscilloscope. We were using a handmade hardware sequencer from Matten &amp; Weichers in 1977 which had 16-track capability. Computer-assisted sequencing software arrived in the mid-80s with Midi, but when I left the group in 1986 we still weren't using Midi!How did you first become aware of the internet?About four years ago I watched a programme about it but found it very American and slightly creepy. It took two more years of observation before I decided to get connected. I use it for researching dates and facts for my writing. I'm writing a weird and crazy novel called No Vacancies, and I'm thinking of giving out the first chapters free on the net. I'm also planning to post up samples of my song On The Beam to let fans play around with them.Are there any technologies that you would rather did not exist?I would ban all computer war games, war technology and violent games. They're immoral, inhuman and appeal to our lowest instincts. You see the result on our streets.How do you feel about file sharing software and the impending closure of Napster?I love the exchange of software between kindred souls - it is like sharing marbles as a child. I am happy they are closing Napster. It is too complicated to control the artist's rights and why should Napster give our music out free? Musicians live from their compositions and we do not like to be robbed!What is your overview of the net?The internet seems to be a fairy tale for adults - manifold and addictive - as well as serving our need for consumption. Everyone will soon be connected with this "stage of desire" and communicate with it, read newspapers, see films, order goods and wares. Losing speech, losing personal contacts, losing the adventures of shopping_Do you have any favourite websites?I likeAmazon,Books OnlineandGermany's automobile clubfor travel information.Any preferred gadgets?My Macintosh computer, my Supernova synthesiser, my Nokia dictaphone, my Aiwa minidisc, my AKG Solitube microphone, my Quasimidi Sirius solo entertainer, my Epson colour printer, my Jenoptic digital camera, my AKG 3-way headphones, my Stylewriter black printer, my Schneider TV, my...&#149;    Wolfgang Fl&uuml;r's new book I Was A Robot is available from Sanctuary Publishing. Visitwww.sanctuarypublishing.com
Today, Psion is expected to show analysts its first internet-enabled mobile phone. But the small British company that pioneered handheld computing in the early 1980s will not have the market to itself. The competition includes almost every major player in the cellular phone market, plus a raft of handheld computer manufacturers with systems based on Palm's operating system and Microsoft's PocketPC.Indeed, a small company based in Birmingham may already have stolen Psion's thunder. While many systems were shown at the recent GSM World 2001 mobile phone conference in Cannes, the one that attracted most attention was Sendo's featherweight multimedia phone.Psion is being put under pressure by the success of Palm and Handspring in the market for PDAs (personal digital assistants), and this may show   in the financial results it is also due to reveal today.Palm is not complaining. On Monday, International Data Corporation, a US-based research company, said it expected sales of "smart handheld devices" to grow from 12.9 million units last year to more than 63.4 million by 2004.But the bottom end of the computer market, made up of handheld devices, is converging with the top end of the phone market. The future may belong to merged PDA-phones. However, the battle for supremacy will be bitter, and may never be won.Two years ago, it looked as though the market would go to Psion's Epoc operating system, which it spun off into a separate company called Symbian. Its backers included the West's phone giants, Nokia, Ericsson and Motorola. At least seven companies are thought to be   building smart phones using Symbian's software.The first Symbian-based smart phone, the Ericsson R380, went on sale late last year, and Nokia is expected to deliver the Communicator 9210, with a colour screen, in the next few weeks.Today, however, victory for Symbian looks less certain. Handspring, founded by the people who started Palm Inc, has made a run with its VisorPhone, soon to be available in the UK. It is basically a Palm-based computer combined with a GSM phone module. Thus it should appeal to European Palm users who cannot buy Palm VII wireless handhelds. Nokia, Korea's   Samsung and Japan's Kyocera are also expected to launch Palm-based phones.Then there is the two-pronged attack based on Microsoft's PocketPC version of Windows CE. First, there are VisorPhone-style devices created by adding GSM modules to handhelds.Next, there will be smart phones based on a smaller and more efficient version of the PocketPC software.But the battle may not be decided on the merits of the hardware and software. For while the technology used by PDAs and smart phones is converging, they are usually sold on a different basis.PDA buyers have to pay the full whack for their systems which can be more expensive than desktop PCs. Most phone buyers, by contrast, expect to pay little for their handsets, with the real cost covered by call charges.So the real question will not be which &#163;500 devices perform best, but which ones the network operators and their retailers knock out for &#163;99.99 or less.
Shutdown shortcutI read recently about a shortcut to shut down Windows without going through the Start menu. Could you tell me how to do it?Linda Waddingtonlinda_wad@yahoo.com.Jack Schofield replies:It is a bad idea to shut down too quickly, as Microsoft has found with Windows 98SE and Me on some very fast computers. IDE hard disk drives store data in their own cache memories before writing it to the hard drive. Windows has no way of knowing if the drive has finished the job. In a fast shutdown, cached data may be lost, leading to corrupted files. Microsoft has therefore released a patch to add a two-second delay to the shutdown process. See article Q273017 athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/ rticles/q273/0/17.aspHowever, there are a number of utilities that provide a    more convenient shutdown routine. Examples include CloseFast 2000 &lt;a href="http://www.davecentral.com/12045.html ), ShutDown NOW! ( www. dworld.de ) and ShutDownKing ("www.shutdownking.de/english/ ). I have not tried them. You can also learn how to make your own shutdown button very easily at the PC Clinic atwww.md4pc.com/questions/05.htm.DefraggingWhen I run Defrag, I find it keeps restarting because "disk contents have changed". I was told that this could be cured by using Control-Alt-Delete to end all tasks except Explorer and Systray, but I still experience the problem with Defrag and Scandisk. I have Windows 98SE.Michael Ennalsmichael@mjennals.icom43.netJS:Your approach should work. Sometimes it doesn't.The easiest way to run Scandisk is to go to Start|Shutdown and select Restart in MS-DOS Mode. Simply type Scandisk at the C:\WINDOWS&gt; prompt.To run Disk Defragmenter, either restart your PC in Safe Mode or try a "clean boot". Microsoft's help file describes both approaches in article Q186978 athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q186/9/78.aspAnti-virus timeI have a 486 laptop running Windows 3.1 but it has no CD. Where can I get an anti-virus program for it? I also have a desktop PC with internet access so I could download a program   that will fit on a floppy.Cowan Ervinecarol@ervine.freeuk.comJS:I recommend Frisk Software's F-Prot for DOS, which is small and free for personal use. You can download a copy fromwww.complex.is/f-prot/Download.html(FP-Win costs $25 for one year's use). The file is too big for a floppy, but you can unzip it on your desktop PC before copying it. The most recent version was launched on January 18. Sign.def , the virus definition file, dated February 16, is only 830K.You could copy large files to your laptop using a compression program that spans disks. For example, with WinZip 7, you can use Windows Explorer to create a new archive on a floppy, such as A:\massive.zip (or whatever). Use the mouse to drag and drop files into that. When the floppy is full, WinZip will ask for another. However, you cannot do this with an existing zip file, and you cannot remove files once the archive occupies more than one disk.Before scanning for viruses, you should boot your PC from a write-protected floppy disk that is known to be virus-free. This could be the Windows Startup Disk created when the operating system was installed, or the one you made as soon as you got your new PC.To make one, go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and double-click the icon for Add/Remove Programs. Click on the tab for Startup Disk, then click the button labelled Create Disk.Capitals offenceMy version of Microsoft Word gives me a capital at   the beginning of a line when it is not wanted. How can I eliminate it?Eric Liggetteliggett@onetel.net.ukJS:That is Intellisense being helpful. Go to Tools|AutoCorrect and untick the box that says Capitalize first letter of sentences. Clicking on tabs such as AutoText and AutoFormat As You Type will let you disable other annoying functions.Which OS?I'm thinking of buying a computer to replace my Windows 95 machine. I would like to be able to use the printer, scanner, Zip drive and favourite old games I own. Should I choose Windows ME or Windows 2000? I've checked various manufacturers' web sites and all provide Windows 2000 drivers for the hardware I want to use, but not all offer drivers specifically for Windows ME.Chris Doncasterchristopher.doncaster@ntlworld.comJS:Windows 2000 is a far better operating system but it was not designed for home users. Having tried the upgrades, I'm sticking with Windows 98SE with IE5 and Windows Media Player 6.4 until Windows XP (eXPerience) is launched, possibly in September. XP is Windows 2000 for consumers, and has a "cool" new interface. Seewww.winsupersite.com/showcase/windowsxp_luna.asp.Cold comfortMy 233MHz PC used to work superbly. Recently, however, it seems to suffer from the cold and appears to need warming up to function properly. After starting up it runs for about two minutes and then freezes. It needs another two or three stop-starts before it gets into its stride and works perfectly. Is it just getting old, like me? Will it be better in the summer?Keith ClarkKeith.S.Clark@ks2728.freeserve.co.ukJS:I would guess the most likely cause is a loose connec tion. Take the lid off and make sure all the memory chips, expansion cards, cables and power plugs are securely plugged in. (Make sure the power is off, and that you are not carrying an electrostatic charge.) It might also be a cracked motherboard, or a faulty power supply, though the hardware geeks out there may have other suggestions. Temperature changes can create tiny differences that may have an effect, but I can't think of a simple way to isolate the problem.Outlook poorWhere do I find Outlook, please? This is apparently required to synchronise my Psion Revo.Brian Caseybrigantia13@hotmail.comJS:Outlook is the PIM (Personal Information Manager) included as part of Microsoft Office, and (says Microsoft) supplied with PocketPC handheld computers. It provides a calendar, addressbook, to-do list, email client and other functions. Many people have their data in Outlook and want to transfer it to their handheld, so synchronising with Outlook is important.Psion does not provide it, though at least it now includes PsiWin, so you can back up your Revo to a Windows PC. If you feel the need to buy Outlook 2000, it is available separately for about &#163;90. The Revo also synchs with, for example, Lotus Organizer.
New laws to make the "grooming" of children by paedophiles through internet chatrooms illegal are being considered by the government, Tony Blair announced today.The surprise move comes after new evidence from Liberal Democrat MP Paul Burstow that as many as one in five children using online chatrooms has been approached by paedophiles.The prime minister made the pledge in the Commons during question time - and just hours after the home secretary, Jack Straw, had a meeting to discuss the issue earlier today.A spokesman for the home office confirmed: "It is one of a range of issues we are actively considering."Whether or not the current criminal laws are strong enough to prosecute for online soliciting is something we need to consider, as well as whether this could take the form of an amendment to an existing act or an entirely new bill."Mr Blair was prompted to address the problems of youngsters being preyed on in Internet chatrooms after Mr Burstow – who is MP for Sutton and Cheam - called for the law to be changed to make "online grooming" a criminal offence.Mr Burstow said last year a 12-year-old in his constituency had been approached through a teenage Internet chatroom by a paedophile."He groomed her online to entice her to an offline meeting for sexual purposes," said Mr Burstow. "As many as one in five children who use internet chatrooms are approached by paedophiles in this way."Such a law has the backing of internet crusader and TV personality Carol Vorderman and the internet watch foundation.However, a Whitehall insider said: "Pragmatically, there is not enough time this side of an election for this to happen – even if it got the go-ahead."Useful links25.10.00 Five years for man who lured girl via internetThe issue explainedNet regulationRelevant linksCyber rights and civil liberitesNet parentCyber angelDebatePoliciing the net
Gnutella, the file distribution system, has finally incurred the wrath of Nutella, the homophonous chocolate spread.The makers of the spread, Ferrero, obtained an interim injunction last month in Cologne, ordering Lars Gollnow, owner of www.gnutella.de, to cease and desist from using his domain name. The site is currently closed.Gollnow signed the letter "immediately and without argument", said Ulrika Steiner, a legal spokesman at Ferrero's Frankfurt office.Because the Gnutella system is decentralised - a downloadable, peer-to-peer system allowing users to distribute files - there is no danger of its imminent closure. Steiner could not confirm or deny whether Ferrero planned to take any action against Gnutella outside Germany.Thousands of users are thought to have signed up to the Gnutella service since Napster, the file swapping service for MP3s, lost its US case against the Recording Industry Association of America.Steiner confessed her office only became aware of www.gnutella.de shortly before then, after reading about Gnutella in a German newspaper.She said Ferrero acted to protect its trademark rights, and in the light of reports of a police investigation into illegal content being exchanged by Gnutella users.But she denied it had forced www.gnutella.de to close.  "There wasn't any content before we filed for the interim injunction," she said.Gnutella's connection with the Nutella name does not appear to be accidental. FAQs on Gnutella-hosting websites say its title is a compound of GNU, a Unix software suite, and the name of the chocolate spread.Recent articlesP2P: power to the peopleThe alternatives to NapsterToadnode to take leap into Napster gapNapster loses court fightUseful linksNutellaFerrero GermanyGnutella.co.ukNapster
The battered e-commerce sector yesterday claimed its biggest casualty yet wheneToys- a US company once valued in excess of £12bn - filed for bankruptcy, declaring its shares "worthless".The online toyseller said that it had no choice after failing to find a buyer. It said its stated debt figure of $274m (£190m) was likely to become "substantially higher" when the full amount of monies owing was finally calculated.Shares in eToys were suspended, having last traded at just nine cents each and valuing the firm at £14m. At their height in 1999 the shares changed hands for $80 each."The climate we faced remained extremely harsh and a buyer did not emerge," eToys spokesman Ken Ross said.The website will be closed on March 8, cash will run out on March 31 and all employees will be fired by April 6, the company added.The collapse of eToys comes less than two years after it was being hailed as a business pioneer that stood to change the way people shopped for their toys forever.Founded in 1998, it raised $50m in venture capital funding as a private company and a further $166m when it floated on the Nasdaq stock market in 1999.Initial customer service was deemed to be poor and it struggled to fulfil orders during its first Christmas season. However, analysts and investors maintained it would emerge as a winner even if the dot.com bubble burst. Competitors like Toys R Us said they believed the "first mover" advantage of building a big internet presence would make it hard to compete with.Executives invested heavily in rectifying the fulfilment problems, building state of the art warehouses and computer systems.In December eToys said it was likely to run out of cash by March if it did not receive "additional, substantial capital infusion". Strong sales of $131m last Christmas suggested eToys might have turned the corner but it appears that the extra   money it spent simply tipped it over the edge.Analysts said it should have sold at least $200m worth of goods during the festive season to stay afloat.Three days into the new year eToys said it would shut down its UK operation with the loss of 74 jobs. At one stage the operation, which had a turnover of &#163;1.6m in its first six months, employed 100 people.The announcement was made on the company's website with an image of children's favourite Bob the Builder asking "Can we fix it?" and a reply saying "No we can't".Established toy retailers such as Toys R Us, Wal-Mart, Kmart and Target have been the biggest thorn in eToys side. A partnership between Toys R Us and online retailer Amazon.com was another blow.UK e-commerce firms have not been immune from difficulties. Debt laden e-tailer LetsBuyIt.com was recently forced to refinance, while Boo.com and Clickmango.com folded.
A Cornish surfers' website has stopped providing its most popular service - its surf reports - until its users stump up the cash and support it needs to escape extinction.Surfingcornwallsaid it is "running out of money. Fast." An attempt to raise advertising revenue and sponsorship for the website failed, as did a message to users asking for support. Without investment, the site will shut down on March 6.Mark Picken, who manages and designs the site, has emailed users to say that if they don't offer cash or practical help, they will have to "waste time and money driving from beach to beach trying to find the best surf"."We have taken drastic action," he said. "We are not letting anyone see the daily surf report unless they give us the support we want."The website's plight illustrates the difficulty of keeping an internet venture alive in the current climate.Mr Picken said surfingcornwall only needs about £5,000 to keep the present service alive for another six months. But he would like to secure a good deal more funding, using his site to promote tourism in Cornwall and to help local businesses.But as a niche site with only 15,000 page impressions a month, he has found that advertisers are not interested."The advertisers we've approached are looking at sites that get 2m impressions a month," he said. "We've tried Red Bull, as they're into surfing, and BT's Genie, as it uses a surfing logo. We've also tried the big surf companies, like Rip Curl and Aloha."Mr Picken will make a last minute effort to save the site by appealing for EU funds from the South West Investment Group. He has also considered a subscription charge.Useful site:Surfing Cornwall: Surf Report
Reuben Singh, the 24 year old entrepreneur who made a fortune from the sale of his Miss Attitude retail chain, is on the verge of closing a fundraising round for a new dot.com venture that he claims will be valued at &#163;85m.alldaypa, an internet based virtual office, is in advanced talks with the Arizona based Phoenix Fund, a specialist technology investment vehicle backed by five unnamed internet entrepreneurs, a spokesman for Mr Singh said.Phoenix has offered to buy a 10% stake in alldaypa for &#163;8.5m and may provide further cash for expansion into the US, he added.If the deal is completed it would value Mr Singh's shareholding at around &#163;60m. He provided the two year old firm with seed funding of around &#163;3m.alldaypa launches this week and offers secure data storage, unlimited web space, virtual secretarial services and online personal organisers.Mr Singh says he has 11 strategic partnerships in place and is talking to a major high street bank about providing services for 550,000 small and medium sized business customers.The Manchester based entrepreneur started girls fashion accessories chain Miss Attitude when he was a teenager and would be driven to meetings in a Rolls-Royce. The business was sold for a reported &#163;22m but observers suggested Mr Singh received as little as &#163;500,000.He has been warmly embraced by the government who have appointed him to the DTI's competitiveness council and the department of culture media and sports e-commerce steering body.His portrait hangs in the National Portrait Gallery.
Mezzanine, the bar and restaurant group, yesterday announced it had sold its loss-making internet dance music business,mezzmusic, to its management.The company, which introduced mezzmusic in February last year in a blaze of publicity, sold the dot.com arm for &#163;750,000 but will keep a 19.9% stake.The group has agreed to defer the payment for two years.It has poured &#163;2.5m into the site and last year planned to list mezzmusic on the stock exchange."We still believe it has got a great future, though. We just take the view that it was wrong to put aside the huge amount of funds that would have been necessary," chief executive Marios Georgallides said.Radio One disc jockey Dave Pearce, who in 1999 was drafted in to attract young customers by jazzing up the image of Mezzanine, will stay with the internet branch.The announcement came as the company posted a pre-tax loss of &#163;1.3m for the six months to the beginning of   December, including losses of &#163;813,447 at mezzmusic, compared with a profit of &#163;23,442 for the previous six months. Turnover increased from &#163;2.5m to &#163;4.6m.The group, which is focused on its core activities of restaurants, bars and clubs, plans to roll out further Smollensky's bars and restaurants - described by chairman Roddy Sutherland as being like "an American Chez Gerard".The company opened Attica, a club and restaurant in Soho, in December and is looking for acquisitions.There are concerns in the City, however, about the long-term strength of the Smollensky's brand and the company's ability to generate enough turnover to cover costs and to expand.Shares in Mezzanine rose 1.5p to 16p.
A US judge who publicly discussed his opinion of Microsoft after he had ordered the software company to be broken up was criticised in the US court of appeals yesterday.Microsoft's lawyer told the second day of an appeal hearing that the interview remarks showed bias and should lead the court to nullify the verdict. A government lawyer argued that the comments of US district judge Thomas Penfield Jackson were not enough to warrant overturning the decision.Harry Edwards, chief judge of the US court of appeals for the District of Columbia, took Mr Jackson to task, however. "The system would be a sham if all judges went around doing this," he said.Microsoft lawyer Richard Urowsky said Judge Jackson's interviews were a reason the court of appeals should overturn the lower court's ruling."What the statements suggest is actual bias," Mr Urowsky argued.Judge Jackson had compared Bill Gates to Napoleon and his company to a group of killers. Microsoft has complained that Judge Jackson was biased and conducted the lower-court trial unfairly.Bill Kovacic, an anti-monopolies expert at George Washington University, said after the first day of oral arguments that the seven appeals court judges might separate Judge Jackson's handling of the case from his conclusions. "Part of what may happen is nothing other than an attempt to rebuke Judge Jackson for, in some sense, showing up the court," he said.After a difficult first day of questioning, lawyers for Microsoft and the government argued yesterday about whether the software company used its dominance to try to monopolise the market for web browsers and whether the proposed break-up remedy was justified.The tenor of the judge's questions on the first day of oral arguments cast doubt on whether the decision to break up the company would survive the appeals court.
Embattled online retailer eToys has finally given up its hunt for a buyer and set a date for liquidation.The company scrapped its British operation last month in an effort to keep the US business alive, but it has now admitted that it will file for bankruptcy protection within 10 days and will close its website around 8 March.The California-based company has said it does not expect to meet its $270m in debts by selling off its assets, leaving many creditors empty-handed.Previously, eToys' management said that the company had enough cash to continue running until the end of March. But without a buyer or additional financing - and without the traditional fallback of profits - the company has simply run out of cash.Although eToys never made a profit, it floated on the hi tech Nasdaq stock market for $20 (£15) a share in May 1999. Yesterday shares were trading for less than 10 cents. Earlier this year, Nasdaq gave the company until 2 May to pull its share price above the $1 minimum requirement or risk being delisted from the stock market.The fall of the high-profile company, which began with what many industry analysts regarded as a solid path to profitability, will further shake confidence in the already fragile online retailing sector.The company had already told all of its 1,000 employees that they would be made redundant in April if no additional financing was secured. Now that date will be moved forward.Related articles04.01.2001: Parent pulls plug on eToys UK18.02.2001: Tricks in clicks and mortar18.12.2000: No Santa for eToys07.01.2001: Toyzone struggles to surviveUseful linkseToysNasdaq
JellyWorks founder Jonathan Rowland yesterday moved a step closer to a stock market flotation for his new vehicle, ZO Media, by quitting the board of a rival media firm.Mr Rowland, 25-year-old son of speculator David "Spotty" Rowland, is stepping down as a non-executive director of AIM-listed local TV group VFG just six months after taking up the post.VFG's non-executive chairman, David Hudd, a Rowland associate, is also resigning from the board of the firm, in which the Rowland family holds a 28.25% stake through a company called Lochangel.Mr Rowland said he was resigning to concentrate on ZO Media, which is in the process of closing a &#163;4m fundraising round. The Barclay brothers, owners of the Scotsman Newspaper and Ritz hotel, might become investors, he added."We're looking to buy an established sports media firm. We're looking at heritage sports media rights; things like squash, tennis, non-league football, equestrianism, maybe formula one."We've be getting more involved in companies. We've been a passive investor before."Mr Rowland's first dabble in the stock market was with JellyWorks, one of the wonder stocks of the dot.com boom which was later sold to the investment bank Shore Capital for less than a quarter of its peak valuation.VFG started out providing television production equipment for series such as quiz show The Weakest Link.The company is now building a network of free-to-air local television stations that will sit alongside the existing five terrestrial channels.Yesterday it reported that "extremely competitive market conditions" led to a &#163;1.6m pre-tax loss.The company's shares closed down 7% at 25p.
The limited impact of e-business on traditional companies was underlined yesterday by a survey showing that more than three-quarters of firms generate less than 5% of their sales from e-business."At the moment the figure is so low because companies are still at the stage between having a website for information purposes and having a website for trading and doing e-business", said Nigel Hickson, head of e-business for the CBI.The survey, conducted by the CBI and KPMG Consulting, shows optimism about the internet's future role for business. "The revolutionary aspect of e-business has been over-hyped but despite the hype real businesses out there are optimistic about using e-business technology for generating revenues in the years to come," Mr Hickson said.According to the survey, 58% of firms expect to derive at least 10% of their revenues directly from e-business within the next two to three years and 99% of the 1,000 British companies surveyed expect e-business to have some impact over the same period."This report undermines some of the pessimism that is being talked about in the e-market place," Mr Hickson said.According to the report, the internet revolution is much slower than first expected but it has not ground to a halt. Telecoms and retail companies are the most advanced at incorporating e-business into their strategies, managing customer relationships and supply chains over the web.There are, however, barriers to integration, including fears surrounding internet security, a lack of co-operation from customers and suppliers, the high costs of technology and a lack of internal internet culture or awareness of the potential benefits.
The US software giant Microsoft began its appeal today against the break-up of the firm for anti-competitive practices.Some commentators have said that the outcome of the legal showdown, at the US court of appeals for the District of Columbia, may depend as much on the judge who made the original ruling as on the legal arguments.US district judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's comments outside the courtroom - comparing the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, to Napoleon and suggesting company officials were not "grown-ups" - have injected extra controversy into the case.Legal experts have said the comments have made the job more difficult for government lawyers who are trying to preserve their historic antitrust victory.William Kovacic, a law professor at George Washington university, said: "Nothing good will co me to the government plaintiffs from all of this."In conscious or unconscious ways, the court of appeals will feel fewer inhibitions to second-guess Jackson's findings concerning crucial pieces of evidence."Microsoft has "a 50% chance of walking completely" thanks to the judges post-trial statements, University of Baltimore law professor Bob Lande said. Before the comments, he gave the government a two-to-one edge.      In interviews with reporters and authors writing books on Microsoft's legal ordeal, Judge Jackson made scathing attacks on Mr Gates, the company's legal team and the US district court which is hearing the company's appeal today and tomorrow.The district appeals court has scheduled seven hours of arguments, which began at 1430 GMT today, and will be completed by tomorrow. This is an unusually large amount of time for the argument, even more than the parties requested.The extra time will be spent questioning Judge Jackson's factual findings, in which he laid out how he thought Microsoft used anti-competitive practices and harmed consumers, the appellate judges said.Publicly, the justice department and Microsoft have both played down the significance of Judge Jackson's words.Generally, appeals are heard by only three judges. One former member of the court, Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr, said it was unprecedented for all the judges to hear it.Mr Starr, who now works for ProComp, a group financed by Microsoft competitors, said the court had scheduled more time because it wanted to be taken more seriously and reduce the chances of its findings being overturned.Related articles15.2.2001: Microsoft faces new inquiry on competition12.1.2001: Judge Jackson tackles the titansState defends Microsoft trial judge4.1.2001: Microsoft faces $5bn discrimination claimMore net newsUseful linksMicrosoftUS court of appeals for the district of ColumbiaJustice department
Microsoft has underlined the growing concerns about the long-term economic viability of "free" internet portals by indicating that it may soon seek to charge users of its hugely popular MSN site.Microsoft plans to develop extra services on MSN and then charge users up to &#163;60 per year for using the site. Neil Holloway, managing director of Microsoft UK, saidwww.MSN.comand www.MSN.co.uk received more than 8.5m unique visits in December, making them Britain's most visited sites ahead of rivals such as Yahoo and Freeserve.MSN receives 200m visits every month on a worldwide basis. Even so, it is thought to be unable to transform those   visits into a profit from advertising and sponsorship revenues alone.Demanding that users pay to receive the service would make it profitable almost immediately if surfers were prepared to pay. Subscription models for online content sites have not met with much success. The Wall Street Journal and several pornography sites are among the few exceptions.A decline in online advertising spending and a slowdown in the wider economy has forced leading content sites to look at introducing charges, at least for premium services. Hotmail, the free email service used by tens of millions of people worldwide, is likely to remain free but fees could be charged for more specialised services.
As a marketing and distribution tool for musicians, websites are challenging conventions of fan loyalty, copyright (thanks to Napster), and brand image.Firstly, they have replaced the official fanclubs. Gone are the days of the drummer's aunt sitting in a makeshift office in the spare bedroom sifting through bags of mail. Now there tends to be two types of site - the official initiative from the record company and the alternative fan or "stalker" sites.Although the revenue raised from   the official sites is presently insignificant, the information and the database that is subsequently generated from the site are extremely valuable. Via the web, record companies and fans have become the publishers of their own magazines.According to Marcus Vinton, executive creative director of digital communications for the Ogilvy and WPP Group, the past few years have seen a fundamental and radical shift in the way the music industry markets brands online. "The new marketing mix has come to utilise the web and other digital channels for their artists as brands in their own right. The web   is a highly targeted tool providing a depth of content that could never be reached through conventional 'off-line' channels," he explains.A successful web presence can do wonders for bands. But as Mark Richardson, managing director of Independiente Records, who represent Travis and Paul Weller, says: "The prosperity of the site involves a huge investment in terms of time. The most important thing is that the talent is involved. Two of the most successful sites currently areTravis's andRadiohead's - mainly because the bands have creative control over them."Top of the range musician   websites include the David Bowie's four-year-oldBowieNet- the first music-based, artist-supported ISP;U2's offering - a digital cornucopia of graphics, information, videos and downloading facilities; andClinic's for its track Second Line. However, Vinton believes that the majority of sites show little functionality or understanding of their commercial equity: "In general, the entertainment industry sites are among the least entertaining.George Harrison's new offering at least is fun and a natural extension of his own beliefs and inspirations. However, the web is still vastly under-used by the industry."Harrison's new website which is promoting the re-release of his 70s album All Things Must Pass, features pissing, giggling gnomes, screaming guitar solos, and all things Monty Python-esque. It is a relief to see that a seasoned rocker is not trying to be edgy or hip - witness the image of a hirsute Harrison on the home page sporting a sun hat and wellies, while being pissed on by a laughing garden gnome.The quiet Beatle, who is more likely to be found gardening than surfing the global freeway, had complete disregard for the medium at the start of the project. But he agreed with the design team at@radical.media, that the prospect of making a music video "hurt". Consequently, the website project was more appropriate.Creativity aside, the main issue currently affecting musicians' online offerings is the Napster ruling. This week witnessed a judgement to prevent Napster operating as an unrestricted independent. "Ironically Napster has been penalised for doing no   more than wanting to share its love of music," adds Vinton. "The company helped over 50m community members to do this with other people's music, for free, and threatened to undermine some of the most powerful divisions in the world. Today many artists have a far more mature understanding of their musical rights as well as a belief that their generation has a natural and demographic need to communicate online."Richardson of Independiente Records sees the Napster ruling as an attempt to set a legal precedent. He says: "The ruling is about copyright paranoia. It is no different to when kids tape the radio, or the arguments against videos when they were first introduced. Most musicians' sites only have 30 seconds of the track as that legally negates the payment of any royalties, or the music is encrypted so that you can't copy it. Whereas the issue with Napster is that it allows you to have a copy of the track. But you can easily go into any high-street retailer and buy the technology to allow you to download music."Downloading music doesn't take away anything from record sales. The fan will always buy the CD because they are loyal to the band and because the quality of the download isn't great. Radiohead put all of its Kid A album on Napster and it still went to number one in the US."Others disagree. Drew Leavy, a consultant with digital strategy consultancy Decipher, believes that mp3 will have a detrimental effect on CD sales. "I used to buy four CDs a month, but now I download everything, and I haven't bought a CD in six months. It's a logical choice. Why   pay &#163;15 for a lump of plastic, of which the band gets very little, when you can download?"The UK record companies and retailers have to be more realistic about pricing, and it will be the retailers who will suffer most. The true fans will still buy the CD, but why should you buy something by a band you're iffy about when you can download? In general, fans are into the band, they don't give a toss about record companies' copyright and profit. Fans are loyal to bands who show that they want their music to be freely available."The ruling against Napster is not the be-all and end-all of digital music. The net is now an audio galaxy and record companies have to come to terms with the digital format. As compression, storage and audio standards improve and the net becomes more creative, record companies will really have to prove their validity."Undoubtedly, digital marketing, production and distribution will change the way music works in the future. Ultimately it will redefine the relationship with the consumer, because multi-channel opportunities offer solutions that could potentially exist completely in a digital environment.Looking ahead, Vinton predicts that in 2005 more than 50% of the nation will have access to a digital TV platform and t-commerce will be worth approximately &#163;275m in the UK alone. The future may well witness hybrid MTV-type broadcasts, structured as pay-per-view models, or with a personalised download service. Because of this it is possible that a strategic alignment of labels could end up challenging high-street music retailers.
It's the glitziest night in the UK's musical calendar, a four-hour marathon of mutual backslapping, mumbled speeches and occasional fist fights. Tonight in Earls Court, the great and the good of the British music industry will grace the annual Brit Awards, but to see it on TV, you'll have to wait until tomorrow.Since 1985, the Brits have traditionally been shown on TV the night after the ceremony. Back then, a disastrous pairing of Sam Fox and Mick Fleetwood, as co-hosts, put paid to the idea that a live show would work in front of a TV audience.But tonight the first live pictures of the Brits in 16 years will be transmitted - only this time, they will be on the internet.Tonight's exclusively online show will feature the presentation of the four key awards; Best UK artist, Best International artist, Best Female and Best Male artist. For the rest, the Brits have hired Kate Thornton to loiter backstage and catch the winners after they've collected their prizes. Four webcams will be placed in the backstage and entrance areas - even Brandon Block, the hapless DJ who gained notoriety for last year's fracas with Ronnie Wood, will meet and greet the stars. As an online show, its makers claim, it will have a level of access that TV has never enjoyed.This is the first time the Brits have used the internet to show live video. It's an ambitious plan that led the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) to sign a two-year partnership deal with Done &amp; Dusted, the production company that brought us the record-shattering Madonna webcast from the Brixton Academy last November.Not so long ago production crews like Done &amp; Dusted were a set of hired guns you'd get in to televise your event, but the coming of interactive entertainment is changing that. Now a company such as Done &amp; Dusted is more like the driving force. No longer does it merely film the pictures, it offers to manage an event's commercial opportunities.Although the Brits designs its own site and manages the content, the webcast is very much Done &amp; Dusted's show. "The last thing we wanted was to produce another TV programme," says Paul Morrison, the company's managing director. "If you want TV, then watch TV. What we offer is a non-linear interactive experience."Done &amp; Dusted was formed three years ago by Hamish Hamilton, who will also direct tomorrow night's TV show on ITV.Last year he was joined by Morrison, the former MD of the large marketing company that put Virgin into the V2000. This combination of editorial skill and commercial acumen, they say, is helping Done &amp; Dusted forge a new role for production companies. "We're an events-driven broadcasting company with a commercial arm," explains Morrison.Hamilton directed his first large-scale webcast two years ago. The company filmed Robbie Williams in Slaine Castle in Ireland in front of 100,000 people. But it sharpened its teeth last summer on the festival circuit and last year it claimed to have filmed more than 300 artists as it brought the likes of V2000 and Creamfields to computer screens. The company has also produced concerts for Sky's interactive service.Although ambitious, this year's Brit Awards is still a trial run. But with the contract for the TV rights due to expire this year, a full-blown Brit Awards, live on the internet, could be not far away. If tonight's webcast is successful, something like a full show could be here by next year.        "We've got to respect the role that television needs to play in this," says Adrian Pettett, who gave up his job as publisher of Loaded to join Done &amp; Dusted. "The TV broadcast goes out in 67 other countries, but we are able to give people an as-near-as-damn-it experience. But the key thing with the internet is that it doesn't matter where you are, be it Tokyo, New York or Paignton in Devon. It's going out on the night live. It's not pre-edited, it's not polished or shiny. But it's     interactive, you can choose which camera to watch. It's not the full show live, not yet. But this is only year one."To reach a global audience, the Brits and Done &amp; Dusted needed a global player, so The Microsoft Network (MSN), which also worked with Madonna, was brought in on a similar two-year deal. Although the Brits has its own site,brits.co.uk, to reach a global audience from one concert you need a company with a massive reach and a marketing clout to match."The trouble with the TV footage is that you have to wait and get it edited," says Tracy Blatcher, marketing manager for MSN. "The juicy bits are taken out. But we're not going to edit anything. It will be far more exciting because people don't know what the results are going to be, we won't have a chance to read the papers."Madonna's gig received 4.5m consecutive streams during the concert, rising to 10.8m over the two-week period following the show. For the Brits, MSN has promoted the event with a 160m banner advertisements, about the same number it gave to Paul McCartney's 1999 Cavern Club concert. MSN will carry the Brits on 24 of its sites worldwide. It predicts that nearly 2m will watch some element of the Brits online."Madonna changed things," adds Pettett. "It changed perceptions about the value of working online. Madonna's sales of her album went up by 86% in the week after the show."The BPI clearly hopes to generate similar revenues by putting the Brits online and has signed a deal with Amazon, which paid an undisclosed six-figure sum to become the Brits etail partner. The Brits, a registered charity, will also receive a bounty for every CD purchased when clicked through from the site. Revenue has also been raised through selling SMS rights to the event. BT Cellnet paid another undisclosed six-figure sum. Users will be able to vote via text     messages for the first time. This allows record companies to appeal directly to the fans. Further syndication rights are also in the offing.Which all leads to the rare case of an entertainment website that's making money. The plan next is to convert the official site into a year-round music portal. Especially as it looks as if an online Brits could be profitable. Already, the Classical Brits are held in June, and a number of other award ceremonies tied to the brand are rumoured to be in the pipeline."Brands know that their traditional TV advertising isn't really working. But big events like the Madonna gig allow kids to feel part of something, and going online makes them part of a community," says Morrison.For the BPI, hosting a virtual award ceremony with strong commercial potential is the best way of putting on a united front after a period of deep unease over the internet. "A few years ago the record industry was cagey, nervous and threatened by the internet," says a spokesperson for the Brits. "But now its seems to have absorbed most of the adverse effects and is trying to expand into new media. I suppose this online show is part of that."But for the Brits, and especially for Done &amp; Dusted, it's about setting new standards, and breaking more records. For them, the audience for online entertainment is not restricted by appetite, only by bandwidth.
The bell is tolling for e-mmediacy but few will cry. When it came to the crunch, e-mmediacy simply didn't have enough disciples to become a major religion.For the uninitiated, a definition: e-mmediacy was the catchy description given to the service performed by a plethora of dotcom delivery firms that sprang up last year offering to scoot a courier to your front door bearing anything from a new pair of tights to a pack of fags; from the latest video blockbuster to a six-pack. All at the click of a mouse, within the hour and at any time of day.For the ferociously impatient or, let's face it, the feckless, it was manna from heaven, or at least from a moped driven by a struggling student. For the sceptics it was one of the most blatant examples of a dotcom business strategy that evolved despite the lack of a credible strategy, although, of course, this didn't stop investors stumping up millions of pounds to back them.Very, very quickly each e-mmediacy firm realised that just because it had a website didn't mean it had a business. Fulfilment was everything and few firms managed to meet consumers' expectations at anything like a satisfactory level.The fact that most firms decided to focus on launching in London, because of its obvious wealth and 24-hour lifestyle, actually may have been a mistake'To break through in London amidst all that clutter costs a fortune,' said Jonathan Kerr, marketing director with www.in60.com, an e-mmediator that operates in Edinburgh and Glasgow.First to bite the bullet was the inappropriately titled BagsofTime.com, which announced, on Friday 13 October last year, six months   after it started, that it was closing down.In a portentous statement on its website after it shut up shop, the company, backed by former News Corporation executive Bob Hitching, stated: 'We ... failed to distinguish our same-day workplace delivery model clearly enough from others in the 'rapid delivery' market that requires a significantly larger investment to concentrate on 60-minute delivery to individual consumers at home'. Which was grammatically challenged shorthand for: we didn't have the cash to hire enough couriers to deliver   within the hour, despite giving the impression that's what we were doing.But at least the guys behind BagsofTime had a sense of humour. As it went belly up after failing to secure a further &#163;3 million in funding, the company - like so many other dotcoms which seemingly managed to announce a new business strategy overnight - said it, too, was switching models: from a business to consumer (B2C) model to a 'B2R' strategy.As Bags' website explained: 'Now that we have bags of time on our hands, we   intend to concentrate on a brief B2R (beach-to-recuperate) strategy, somewhere hot.' This turned out to be Cuba, apparently.But on the same day that Bags was calling time, New York-based Urban Fetch announced it was winding up its four-month-old operation in London, a move that resulted in the loss of 100 jobs. The move surprised some because if any company should have managed to provide near instant online gratification to the masses, Fetch looked up to the task, if only because of its very deep pockets.The company was one of the biggest e-mmediators in the game, rivalled only by Kozmo, which operates in nine US cities. Fetch's London operation delivered everything from pastries baked in Terence Conran's Bluebird restaurant to books. But like many dotcom firms, Fetch found it difficult to keep a lid on its profligacy. The parent company burned through $70 million in 12 months and as a result closed down all of its e-mmediacy operations to focus on providing a standard courier service to US companies.Needless to say, this rankled with those who worked for the London operation, which seemed to be meeting its targets. Sales had been doubling week-on-week and the company was due to turn profitable by the end of this year. But the parent company failed to secure a further &#163;15 million cash injection and the UK employees were left   feeling deeply angry at the way they had been treated.Then there was the ill-fated attempt to break into London by the abstrusely named and Paris-based Koobuycity.com. The company, which employed 50 people in France and 15 in the UK, raised nearly &#163;2 million to fund its expansion plans but its attempts to make a success of it in the capital were thwarted by the most elementary of problems: its website didn't work. Visitors to the site in search of late-night sustenance were greeted with the words: 'Darnit Koobuycity is offline'. That was back in October, just two months after the company launched in the UK. Then the company failed to secure third-round financing as the dotcom climate worsened on the back of successive slumps on the Nasdaq and the operation was pulled completely.As the backlash against the e-mmediators reached new heights, other firms, like ziparound.com, were stillborn. The company was due to launch in the summer of last year in London and one other, as then, yet to be decided city. But ziparound never got off the ground and,   like Koobuy, its defunct website floats listlessly in cyberspace.And now, at the end of this week, London's last e-mmediator, ZapitOver, will shut up shop having conducted a fire sale. Ironically, the company reports that, during the last few days, demand for its services has soared. 'It just goes   to show everyone is price-sensitive,' said Will Sankey, Managing Director of 86 Ltd, the internet incubator behind ZapitOver.The company, whose management injected &#163;250,000 in capital to get it up and running, suffered from the fact that it was initially called   WapitOver, which led some potential customers to believe that the service was available only on mobile phones.Nevertheless it was able to run on a shoestring and the 15-strong operation needed to hit only 100 deliveries a day to have a sustainable business plan, compared with the   whopping 4,000 Urban Fetch London needed to keep afloat.On a good day, like Valentine's Day, ZapitOver was taking &#163;2,000 worth of orders. But unfortunately the bad days, when it would take as little as &#163;300, came around too frequently.If it could have stayed alive a little longer, ZapitOver might have been a success. There were deals in the pipeline with mobile phone companies Orange and BT Cellnet and the company's incipient success had been achieved without any advertising.Sankey said: 'There is a market for instant gratification. But it will probably take 12 months before there's maturity. The players need to promote themselves more.' But there are no players left and there is little sign any will be along soon. Not in the e-mmediate future, anyway.US legal war that pulled the plugThe problems facing the UK's e-mmediators when it came to securing new funding in recent months might not have been so acute had it not been for the bitter spat between the US's two leading firms, Urban Fetch and Kozmo.The story starts a couple of years ago, when the management team behind Kozmo approached venture firm Integrity Capital for funding.Integrity was impressed with Kozmo's business plan. So impressed, in fact, that it decided not to fund the company but back a start-up rival, Urban Fetch, instead. Kozmo subsequently sued Fetch for allegedly copying its model. Fetch counter-sued, arguing Kozmo's legal action had helped turn off the tap on further funding.The case was settled out of court and the two sides proceeded to engage in a vicious and mutually damaging price war. Partly as a result, Kozmo was forced to pull its flotation and cut more than 10 per cent of its near-3,500 staff. Urban Fetch also initiated job cuts and eventually the two sides entered into merger talks, which came to nothing.Cynics suggest that Kozmo dragged out the talks to put pressure on Urban Fetch, which was haemorrhaging cash and needed to find a solution fast.The result is that Urban Fetch has now given up on the instant gratification market, leaving the way clear for Kozmo. UK firms believe the bitter price war between the US companies frightened investors away.
There ought to be an annual Foot in Mouth Award for the company spokesperson who reveals most about what his bosses would prefer to keep confidential.In computing, this award would have gone several times in the past decade to Jim Allchin, platform group vice-president (whatever that means) at Microsoft. If you want to know what Microsoft is Really Thinking at any moment, Jim's your only man.It was Allchin who presented the US Department of Justice with the smoking gun for its successful anti-trust action against Microsoft. In December 1996 he emailed his boss, Paul Maritz, on 'concerns for our future'. In the message, Allchin fulminated about the slow progress Microsoft's web browser, Internet Explorer, was making against Netscape.'I don't understand how I&#91;nternet&#93; E&#91;xplorer&#93; is going to win. The current path is   simply to copy everything Netscape does packaging and product-wise ... My conclusion is that we must leverage Windows more. Treating IE as just an add-on to Windows, which is cross-platform, is losing our biggest advantage: Windows market share.'This email - with the magic word 'leverage' - unearthed in the DoJ's trawl through Microsoft's email archives, led to the court verdict that Microsoft had abused its monopoly position in desktop operating systems to crush a competitor.But it turns out that Netscape is not the only competition worrying Allchin and his colleagues. Another is the open source movement, and in particular the hold that the   (free) Linux operating system and the Apache web-server program have on the server market. Microsoft's public position vis-&agrave;-vis open source software is intriguing. On one hand, the company argued during the anti-trust trial that Linux represented a serious threat - and therefore should not be treated as an omnipotent monopoly. On the other hand, company spokespersons invariably tell Wall Street analysts that Linux and Apache are not serious competitors.When Windows 2000 was launched recently, a Gartner group analyst asked Allchin whether the popularity of the Linux might be regarded as 'a referendum on Microsoft'. 'Linux is Unix,' he responded, 'I don't consider it to be very innovative.' He went on to say that although Linux's momentum could be traced in part to unfavourable perceptions about Microsoft, 'it's not something I'm super-worried about, either'.This does not entirely   square with the celebrated leaked Microsoft memos addressed to Messrs Allchin, Maritz &amp; co in which the comparative merits of open source software were frankly discussed. According to the first memo, free software 'poses a direct, short-term revenue and platform threat to Microsoft, particularly in the server space'. The author noted that open source software is 'at least as robust - if not more - than commercial alternatives' - which presumably explains why Microsoft uses such software to run its Hotmail service.As the PC market declines, the server market increases in importance for Microsoft, and so the enduring popularity of open source products becomes increasingly maddening to the boys in Redmond.This may explain why Allchin has switched to a new line of attack - implying that open source software is somehow un-American. In a recent interview he said that 'open source is an intellectual property destroyer' (translation: a communist plot). How times change: only a few months ago,  the government re-garded Microsoft as the threat.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
If it wasn't for the internet, finding a good interest rate for your cash would be a tough call following the recent rate cut by the Bank of England. But there is now so much competition between banks to make their mark in the virtual world that there are some market-beating rates available.Not all of these rates appear in savings best-buy tables because they are being offered as rates on credit balances in current accounts. Even so, the league table of savings rates for no-notice accounts are dominated by web accounts.Six out of the top 10 no-notice savings accounts in the best buy table from Moneyfacts are web accounts. The e-banks are offering market-beating rates in order to ensure enough people sign up for their products and they reach critical mass. For some providers, like Egg, which tops the Moneyfacts table, it will start to become profitable when it has sold several products to customers with a savings account.Egg holds number one position in the Moneyfacts league for its Investor account, which is only open to customers who invest in the Egg Isa (Individual savings account). This makes it unsuitable for people who want to use all their Isa allowance to invest in stocks and shares. It pays 7% on balances of &#163;1 and above.Nationwide building society, which this week prompted a mortgage war by cutting its variable rate for existing as well as new borrowers, has an e-Savings account which pays 6.70% for balances over &#163;1. Close behind is Halifax's Web Saver at 6.35%, Intelligent Finance's Direct Access paying 6% and Egg's Internet Only, also paying 6%.You can, however, earn up to 7% on credit balances if   you open a current account with Cahoot, the new e-bank from the Abbey National. It doesn't appear in the Moneyfacts savings table, however, because it is a current, rather than a traditional savings account.Some of the high headline rates available from the new internet banks are likely to be loss-leaders and won't be available for ever. First-e, for example, used to pay one of the best interest rates on the market for savings account, at 6% gross, but it has introduced three bands of interest rate and has just dropped the rate to 4.5% gross for balances under &#163;5,000. For balances of &#163;100,000 or more, the rate is 5.5% gross. Its current account is paying 4.75% gross (down from 4.88% gross before the last interest rate cut).First-edoes not offer an overdraft facility or cheque guarantee card. It does offer a savings account, but you are encouraged to use both accounts as pure internet accounts and you may be charged for making telephone calls.Smilefrom the Co-operative Bank, pays a top rate of 6% gross on its savings account but to qualify for this you have to have a current account into which you pay your monthly salary or &#163;1,000 a month. In fact, Smile once again topped the league of internet banks in a league table compiled by Gomez, the internet quality measurement firm.The Smile current account pays 4.85% gross AER (compounded interest rate) on interest on credit balances and has an interest-free overdraft facility up to &#163;500.The savings account pays a better rate of interest if you already have a current account for balances over &#163;1 or more. The basic rate is 5% gross AER but you could earn an extra 1% gross on your savings by opening both a   current account and a savings account.Nevertheless, canny investors who were planning to switch their current accounts and who get in quickly can enjoy high rates on credit balances. Gomez has drawn up an Internet Banker Scorecard for current accounts from online banks according to ease of use, customer service, product lines and overall cost. According to the latest report, the league is as follows:1.Smile2.Nationwide3.Cahoot4.First Direct5.Royal Bank of Scotland6.Halifax7.Intelligent Finance (IF)8.Abbey National9.NatWest10.The WoolwichThe interest rate war began when Prudential first launched the Egg account as a loss-leader. The account paid the best interest rate on the market. Although Egg   eventually lowered the rate and announced this week that it was putting a planned current account on hold, its internet-only savings account is still competitive.Egg has three savings account options - one is internet-only and the other two offer the option of a telephone or postal account or a cashcard account.&#149; Marianne Curphey is editor ofGuardian Unlimited Money. She is the author of E-Cash, a guide to managing your money, bank account, mortgage and investments online.
There is little more stressful than a supermarket on a Saturday. Parents pilot overloaded trollies through heaving aisles while bored children create chaos. The staff are in overdrive to keep shelves stacked and quick-shop singles huff and puff with indignation.By comparison, hooking up to the internet, sending a shopping list across cyberspace and sitting back waiting for a happy chappy to deliver the lot, professionally packed, to the front door, seems like heaven.This is the world of online grocery shopping, where you let your fingers do the walking and use your modem, not your muscles.It is also a business where Britain is leading the world. A higher proportion of British food shoppers have converted to the net than in any other country andTesco.comis now the world's biggest internet grocery business.According to market research group Datamonitor, British grocery shoppers spent &#163;395m online last year - with more than half of that ending up in Tesco's tills.But in terms of the &#163;95bn UK grocery market, it is still a tiny business - accounting for just 0.4% of the market.Datamonitor believes online shopping will account for 5.4% of the British grocery market by 2005. Across Europe, they calculate, the market share is likely to be only about 3%.Investment bank Goldman Sachs estimates that e-tailing groceries is likely to grow to 7-10% of the European market in the same period. The Institute of Grocery Distribution, however, believes that 23-27% of the grocery market will be online by 2008.The variations are huge, but the market for groceries is so vast that even the most conservative estimates would create a substantial business.So far e-grocery firms come in two forms: pureplays, which are new businesses set up specifically to deliver groceries to the customer's door, and traditional supermarkets exploiting a new sales channel.Pureplays have dominated in the US, where for a while they were among the brightest stars of the dot.com share boom. Webvan launched on the US stock market in 1999 backed by an impressive list of blue-chip investors and banks.Its shares have crashed so low, however, that the company could be thrown off the Nasdaq - and it has ceded important markets to US grocers.Earlier this week, Webvan pulled out of Dallas saying it had trouble competing withGroceryWorks.com, a small online grocer owned by Safeway, and with other brick-and-mortar companies such as Wal-Mart that offered unbeatable prices.In Britain - and now in the United States - it is traditional supermarkets that are setting the pace, led by Tesco.com. Online grocers have used two distinct business models - either using warehouse "picking centres" to fulfil orders or simply sending staff up and down the aisles of existing stores. The pureplays, together with Sainsburys and Asda in Britain, set about building specialist low-cost picking centres, while Tesco based its service on its stores.It was a smart move by Tesco. It may not be the most efficient model in the long term, but using existing stores and staff meant Tesco was able to roll out its service cheaply and rapidly - and steal a march on its rivals.In the five years since Tesco.com was launched it has grown from a pilot project in 11 stores to a service available in nearly 250 of its outlets. It covers 90% of the population and has 750,000 registered users who place 60,000 orders a week.Tesco has invested &#163;60m in the service, buying hundreds of vans and installing computer systems - and claims its new way to do the weekly shop has also created 8,500 jobs.Left behind in the race to win customers, Sainsbury's and Asda have been forced into a rethink and are playing catch-up by rolling out store-based services to supplement their picking centres."The store operation allows us to roll out rapidly, to assess and build demand in new areas without the greater investment of picking centres," Sainsbury now says, belatedly. Even so, Sainsbury's still only covers about half the country while Asda can only service web shoppers inside the M25 plus a few more outlying home counties towns.Iceland - which changed its name to Iceland.co.uk to reflect its online creden tials - is also sizeable player in the market, although several others, such as Somerfield and Budgen, have recently logged off, having failed to build a big enough customer base.About 65% of online grocery shoppers are women - but the key to running a successful online grocer is size. To be profitable they need a lot of big-ticket, busy family shoppers, who regularly spend more than in-store shoppers.The average Tesco.com basket size is &#163;85, four times the in-store average. But the grocer needs to ensure that shoppers are buying the full range of goods. According to one supermarket executive, shoppers buy more low-margin bulk and commodity items online, such as toilet rolls and tinned beans. Tesco is addressing that problem by offering more non-food lines, including furnishings, electrical goods, videos and clothing on its website.The grocers must also generate regular business. With 60,000 orders a week, most of Tesco's 750,000 "registered users" are not regular users. Webvan in the US has the same problem, but magnified. In San Francisco - its longest established market - its shoppers order only 1.8 times a quarter.Datamonitor believes that online grocery shopping "is set to become the largest business-to-consumer sector given that expenditure on food, drink and household products is still the most important element of consumer expenditure after housing costs". They calculate that the market is worth $3.5bn (&#163;2.6bn), but will be worth $55bn within five years - a compound growth rate of more than 77%.Britain, they say, is leading the field because British shoppers are much more relaxed about giving out their credit card details to make purchases on the phone - and are therefore less concerned about security risks when making purchases.Elsewhere in Europe, e-tailing is most advanced in the Netherlands, where the Ahold chain last year bailed out the struggling US web grocer Peapod.Virtual chainsLeading online grocers sales 2000Tesco, UK &#163;210mAhold(inc Peapod), US &amp; Holland &#163;116mWebvan(Inc Homegrocer, US) &#163;85mJ Sainsbury, UK &#163;42mGroceryWorks, US	&#163;41mAsda Wal-Mart, UK &#163;35mHomeruns, US &#163;34mAlbertson's, US &#163;24mIceland, UK &#163;22mCarrefour, France &#163;21mGaleries Lafayette, France &#163;21mGroupe Casino, France &#163;17mWaitrose, UK &#163;16mCora, France &#163;15mSource: Datamonitor analysis
Gao Xingjian, the Chinese-born author who won the Nobel prize for literature last year only to hear that his main novel was unpublished in many countries, had the most handsome and risky of amends made to him yesterday.His story Soul Mountain was chosen by HarperCollins to spearhead its first big push into the risky and untried domain of e-publishing. Downloadable versions went on sale for &#163;8.17 - &#163;1.73 less than the printed paperback - at online retailers including Waterstone's.Soul Mountain is the first of 100 e-titles due out by Christmas. Others include titles by the fantasy author Raymond E Feist, the novelist and short story writer Joyce Carol Oates, the naval storyteller Bernard Cornwell and the bestselling US children's horror writer RL Stinewith.HarperCollins UK is the first big British publisher to bring out an e-book and its parent company the first to mount a global e-publishing operation.But its initial market is small and uncertain. At present the books can be read only on PCs, Apples or laptops. Print-outs are barred because of piracy fears. And concern over the security of encryptions means that so far computers cannot download them on to palmtops or other handheld personal digital assistants, though these are a large part of their natural market.No purpose-built e-book reader is on the UK market. To import one from the US would cost about £150. Acknowledging these drawbacks, Leo Hollis, HarperCollins's editorial director of e-books, said: "This is a first step and a brave one."
Napster's plans to transform itself from a renegade song swapping service into a paid-up member of the music industry establishment received a setback yesterday when two of the world's biggest companies in the sector said they would develop a shared website to compete against it.Vivendi Universal-owned Universal Music and Japan's Sony underlined their determination not to cede ground or revenues to Napster by giving first details of plans to use a joint venture named Duet to buy up licensing rights to half the world's music."We often thought an alliance with Napster would be the only possibility but I don't believe it is right to give the advantage to pirates," said Vivendi Universal chairman Jean-Marie Messier.Mr Messier said he was also to approach other, as yet unnamed parties about joining the Universal-Sony accord. "We hope others will join us," he told French economic daily La Tribune.The development could be a significant reversal for Napster which, with the backing of Bertelsmann-owned record label BMG, has offered the big record companies $1bn (£693m) over five years for the right to use their music online.Duet, which operates out of San Francisco, is expected to offer both a subscription service and a pay-per-listen option. It would unite online stars including Sony's Jennifer Lopez, Ricky Martin and George Michael, with Universal's Boyzone and Elton John.Napster is looking to introduce a monthly subscription fee of its own. Earlier this month it was found guilty of copyright infringement at the end of a year-long legal battle with the industry's biggest firms, including Universal, Sony, EMI and Warner.
Online grocers, once some of the brightest stars in the dot.com firmament, have fallen to earth in the US, decimated by a wave of mergers and closures.Kurt Barnard, president of the Barnard Retail Monitor, said: "No one has really been able to evolve a model that is capable of producing profits." He believes that even fewer consumers will be prepared to pay extra for their groceries to be bagged and delivered now that the US economy has slowed down.Ken Cassar, e-commerce analyst at online research group Jupiter Communications, says that even in areas where local deliveries made sense - wealthy, urban neighbourhoods - the services have suffered from serious traffic congestion during the busiest times.But some analysts remain optimistic. Jupiter forecasts the US online grocery market will increase from an estimated $700m (&#163;485m) this year to $18.5bn in 2005. At these levels, online deliveries would represent just 3% of the total grocery market.Among the companies that have tried to make online grocery business pay isWebvan. Perhaps the best known of online grocers, it has big problems. In the last quarter it annnounced a loss of $109m with full-year losses of $413 - almost double the previous year.The company, which hired George Shaheen, the former head of managment consulting group Anderson Consulting, as its chief executive, has closed some operations and cut jobs to slow the pace at which it is consuming the $200m cash it has left in the bank. Shares of the company have dropped from a 52-week high of $18.50 to a low of 21 cents a share and it faces relegation from the Nasdaq stock market. It delivers more than 15,000 items in 10 US cities and had planned to move into 26 more cities by 2002.Peapod was founded by brothers Andrew and Thomas Parkinson in 1989 after they read that consumers would rather not shop for groceries. Investors pulled the plug last year but Royal Ahold, the Dutch supermarket group, stepped in and now owns 51%. Some 100,000-plus members -largely working mothers - pay monthly dues of $5 plus order and delivery fees."No carts, no lines, no hassle" is the Netgrocer slogan. It may also be close to having no money. The New Jersey-based company uses Federal Express to post its goods. With a promise of delivery to 48 US states within three to four days, the company cannot offer staples such as dairy, meat or frozen foods.Streamline.com, the company which installed refrigerators in customers' garages, closed in November. It had been unable to find any investor willing to continue to stem losses that added up to $56.4m by the beginning of this year.Kozmo and Urbanfetch, two Manhattan delivery services set up within months of each other, took each other to court on alleged espionage charges. Kozmo expanded into several US cities and Urbanfetch into London. Both started to retrench as the downturn kicked in and last year started merger talks which were aborted.
This summer will see the launch of a new online grocery business in Britain.Last Minute Solutions, set up by three former Goldman Sachs bankers and two former heads of the M&amp;S food business, appears to have chosen all the wrong business models. It is a "pureplay" - set up to be operated solely online - and the sort of business struggling to survive in the US.But the business has won a &#163;35m investment from the John Lewis partnership and will have the exclusive right to use the Waitrose brand and branded goods. John Lewis has installed directors at the firm and taken a 40% stake.The grocery service, as yet unnamed, will start in the summer and LMS is building its first warehouse at an undisclosed location in the south east. The founders believe they can create a huge brand and are modelling themselves on companies like Orange and EasyJet."Orange gave the consumer something they wanted", says Jason Gissings, one of the former bankers. "They had an interesting brand and created interest in themselves.""The LMS approach is based on a unique business model that incorporates the best from the incumbent delivery models - Tesco and Webvan - and combines them to create a model that surpasses both," says the company. LMS insists store picking is "unreliable and inefficient", and economies of scale are the ultimate solution.It has signed up some big name consultants: Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young for technology, Descartes for delivery software, Arthur Anderson for the business blueprint and Interbrand to help develop the LMS brand.
Internet auctions were one of the web's earliest successes and the benefits are clear - no more tiny classified ads, no more unwinnable arguments with second hand dealers and no more musty collector emporiums. They are also, you should be warned, very addictive.While some publicity has been attracted to merchant auctions such as the bit by bit sale of Wembley Stadium bywww.qxl.com, the classic, original and still most popular internet auction is the one that lasts seven days, held between ordinary members of the public and typified by those atwww.ebay.co.uk.Common auction logic says that your first step should be as a buyer. The buyer has less to do than the seller and through their first auction gets a feel for the greater responsibilities of the seller. Before you can place a bid though there are some legal   niceties. Unlike the seemingly pointless chore that is the registration page at internet shopping sites, at auction sites this page binds you to a contract, which states that any bids placed on the site must be honoured.There is also the business of finding your self a user ID. My own instinct on this is that a sensible or even a dull name is more likely to inspire confidence in those looking to buy, say a &#163;500 laptop from you. This theory can of course be junked if you consider that Parrothead88 is the user ID of the most prolific internet auction user ever - 26,500 auctions completed atwww.ebay.com.Now you are ready to bid, which is the easy part. Check the descriptions and photo carefully and the shipping costs. If anything is unclear, use the "ask seller a question" link before, and not after, you bid.As a buyer you will have a natural anxiety over sending a cheque in the post to someone you know very little about. Why shouldn't they just take the money and run? This is possible, but unlikely. Firstly, every auction user should have the number of successful trades they have completed next to their user ID. Anyone with at least 20 of these feedback points is a good bet.Secondly, trust your common sense over what looks suspicious.   Most internet auction frauds concern the sale of fake luxury goods particularly Rolex watches.A third safeguard is provided by sites such aswww.iescrow.com,www.tradesafe.comandwww.paypal.comwhich provide escrow services that ensure no money is handed over until the goods arrive.QXLruns its very own escrow service, whilewww.ebay.comis shortly getting round to providing such a service too.Lastly, as extra insurance, eBay, Amazon auctions and QXL all offer a compensation scheme for those who are conned out of amounts up to &#163;120 at eBay and &#163;150 at QXL and Amazon.If this has reassured you, now place your bid by clicking on the link provided: it is at the bottom of the page at eBay. Again, anxiety about getting yourself involved in some whirlwind bidding war can be allayed. Many auctions will only attract a single bid; others at the most usually three or four bids.If you decide that the item on view must be yours come what may, you should make use of your auction sites automatic bidding device. This works by letting you state in secrecy the highest amount you are willing to spend. Each time you are outbid, the Auto bid as it is often known (at eBay it is called proxy bidding) will up your bid by a prearranged increment. Even if you do not use this, most auction sites will email you whenever you are outbid.Lastly, for buyers there is   another nifty tool that eBay pioneered called the Personal Shopper page, which can be found under the buyer and seller services link. This is for those looking for anything that they cannot see on the website. Tell the "personal shopper" what you are looking for and they should email you automatically whenever something of that description is listed for auction.Meanwhile, selling requires more strategy and work. Unlike the speedy process of bidding, setting up your own auction, especially your first, takes time and patience.Most grief is caused by putting photos on to an auction - so much so, that many forgo them altogether. Yet while it is possible to sell   items without a photo, the lack of one will lose you bids and a good sale price.Your first step is to get the image onto your desktop. A digital camera is ideal, though a scanner can be used for flat items and conventionally taken photos. You could also try your photo developing service, most of which should be able to put your photos onto a disc or park them on the web. This latter service is handy as photos put on your desktop by a digital camera, scanner or disc next have to be put on the web. eBay offers a cheap and speedy service for this, though I have always found the free service offered bywww.auctionwatch.comquite adequate.Price your item slightly less   than what you hope to get for it: 10-20% less is recommended. A low price will attract more bidders who may bid up your item to your ideal price, if not above. Include in the price your shipping and packaging costs, which should be broken down in your description. Bear in mind also the small charge or percentage taken by the auction site.When writing your advert always put in a few emotive words and phrases - such as, for example, good as new, rare, shiny, in original wrapping, bonus and free - where they are warranted. Write the ad before going online and cut and paste it onto the site.Now click the Submit button and your auction is underway. To keep up with it   easily on a daily basis, go to your auction page and right click with your mouse on the "create a shortcut" option to creatre a direct link to this page on your desktop.Do not get dispirited if you receive no bids for several days. It is quite common to receive most of your bids on the final day, and sometimes in the final hours of an auction. eBay's current spin on the number of successful auctions is that at least a half of all auctions on their site find a buyer, and this is the highest ratio for any site. This will, however, depend on what you are selling. The hottest categories are in collectables and computers. Household appliances, in my experience, sell very poorly.Once the auction ends, the onus is on the seller to contact the buyer with their real world address and phone number. The worst problem a seller faces is a recalcitrant or deadbeat bidder who is slow or reluctant to complete a deal.Be warned: disputes at this stage must be sorted out by yourself. The auction site does not have the manpower or the inclination to deal with this.Once payment from the seller arrives, send off your auction item promptly and wait for the glowing feedback to arrive.&#149;  David Rowley is the author of The Virgin Internet Auction Guide, &#163;5.99.Auction websiteswww.auctionwatch.comAuction help site, that provides photo hosting, lively chat pages and the sort of news that eBay would rather you did not know.www.ebay.comThe original auction site from the USA and vastly bigger than the UK version.www.ebay.co.ukThe best UK site, with strengths for collectables, computers and cars.&lt;A HREF="http://www.qxl.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.qxl.comMany promotional B2C auctions as well as C2C auctions.&lt;A HREF="http://www.firedup.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.firedup.comB2C auctions only.www.auctions.amazon.comGood for books, videos and CDs.www.auctions.yahoo.comLow tech, but for the time being, free auctions.www.sothebys.comGood for some surprisingly cheap and popular collectables items.www.ibidlive.com&amp;www.theauctionchannel.comTake part in live auctions at Christies, Bonhams etc through a computer link.www.holidayauctions.netCheap package holidayswww.loot.comBest for practical items or ordinary online classifieds if you prefer.
Hard pressedThe move from the Sony PlayStation to the PlayStation 2 has, not surprisingly, hit sales of PlayStation magazines, with sales of Future's official title falling from 300,459 to 215,508 a month. But in what looks like a more   general downturn, sales of many other games magazines have also fallen, leading to changes in the industry.Future Publishing, a huge success over the past two decades, is closing six magazines in the UK and six in the US, and others may be sold. Five websites will also be closed. The company expects to shed up to 350 of its 2,000 staff, with about 90 UK staff to be made redundant.Emap has gone further and sold all but one of its games magazines to Dennis Publishing, which publishes PC Zone and PC Pro. Emap's titles included CVG, which enjoyed a rise in circulation from 43,509 to 45,606. However, in its heyday as Computer &amp;   Video Games, it sold more than 100,000 a month.But in this market, magazines rise and fall with the popularity of consoles and   computers. On the upside, Future's Official PlayStation 2 had an audited circulation of 81,883. It will also be publishing the official Xbox magazine.Dream onSega may be getting out of the console hardware business, but it is still keen to increase the Dreamcast's user base. The company has just cut the price of is machine, launched at &#163;300, to &#163;99.99, and will release some of its best- selling titles in a budget range. The last price cut, from &#163;200 to &#163;150, was last September.In the pipelineCodemasters plans to launch LMA Manager 2001, its latest football management game, for the Sony PlayStation, on March 9.As well as offering updated stats, the new version lets   players manage Scottish league clubs too.Rage hopes to make a splash with Hostile Waters, which is due on March 30. The game has taken four years to create and includes a cast of Tom Baker (Dr Who), Paul Darrow (Blake's 7) and Glynis Barber (Dempsey and Makepeace). Seewww.rage.com/hostilePeter Molyneux's long-overdue game,Black &amp; White, is finally scheduled to appear on April 6. There is a "massive world exclusive review" in the March issue of PC Zone, which claims it will be out mid/late February, but believe it when you see it.
Phantasy Star OnlineSega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99  Sega 	*****It is up there with trainspotting and learning Klingon, but online gaming has finally broken free from geekdom. The reason is Phantasy Star Online: the world's first console-based online role playing game (RPG). Unlike the bearded fantasy cliches of PC titles such as Everquest, PSO offers a colourful futuristic environment, albeit with a limp sci-fi plot.Despite a manual twice the   size of most console games, PSO is wonderfully easy to pick up but has enough depth to satisfy serious stat-addicts. Your first task is to create your character and it is wise to spend time on this. You could patiently weigh up the combat or magic potential, or just play around with hair colours. It is this great dichotomy between accessibility and complexity that makes PSO such a revelation.The next choice is simple - on or offline. Offline play lets you build up your character and undertake some interesting side-missions but the only way to truly play Phantasy Star is online. Getting connected is a cinch and before long you will be creating your own team or joining another. Then it is time for some   planetside monster-bashing. As you cannot harm your team mates, co-operation is all and combat strategy is essential for success.Thankfully communication is easy, with instant translation into five languages, and standard icons used to create an unrivalled team atmosphere. In fact, the communication element is perhaps the biggest achievement of PSO, taking the relatively simple hack'n'slash gameplay to a new level.Sumptuous graphics are the icing on the cake and the only downside to Phantasy Star Online is cost. With the average session lasting more than an hour, you can expect heavy phone bills. In this rare case, they are worth it.  (GH)Three Kingdoms: Fate of the DragonPC CD-Rom	&#163;29.99 Overmax/Eidos Interactive	***After Civilization, Age of Empires, and the legion of inferior imitators, the historical real-time strategy game seemed a used-up genre.Three Kingdoms is not about to change that. Sure,   the setting is rich and colourful. The game takes us back to second century China, where three warlords are engaged in a fierce battle for control of the fragmented empire. Using an isometric view, you can play as any of the three, each of whom has unique forces at his disposal. You know the shtick.In order to build up those forces, you must first develop your home city by chopping wood, mining, building farms, and training peasants. Yay. Resource management. Has no one yet told games designers that resource management is the opposite of   fun? Some of us have enough trouble remembering to buy milk, for goodness sake.Anyway, once the city is up and running, things get slightly more enjoyable as you send out your troops, occupy county towns, besiege enemy cities and invent new technologies. You know. The usual. (One tiny difference here is that you must remember to keep your troops supplied with food or they will weaken and become useless in battle. Personally, I would rather spend a little longer training the soldiers until they were intelligent enough to forage for themselves.)Military might is not the only route to victory, however. You can also win by making more scientific progress than your rivals, or by skilful use of trade and diplomacy. Hey, there has to be somebody out there who wants to try that.Graphically speaking, it is pretty and the soundtrack is marginally preferable to having a plate scraped in your ear.I know, I know, I have just described every historical RTS you have ever seen. But then, that is what this is. A dead horse being flogged, albeit in a competent and moderately entertaining way.  (AB)GlobetrotterPC 	&#163;29.99 Vsion Park/EA	*In many ways there's something charming about Globetrotter, in that it harks back to days when games were a cottage industry and A-list titles frequently arrived with photocopied instructions and labels stuck to cassettes by the programmer's mum. Globetrotter turned up looking decidedly low-budget and boasting the most useless   insert ever seen - a poorly drawn departure schedule. Not a promising start.But wait. Having installed it, up popped a very professional video montage of people travelling to exotic locations, easily up to Lonely Planet titles and accompanied by some funky original music. Perhaps I have judged this too early?Nah - it's rubbish. Video over, the game kicks in with hilarious results. Imagine Pokemon Snap without the 3D engine, with gigantic characters strutting across unconvincing, out-of-scale maps. Every level involves much the same thing: you have to go to a location and take photos of it, returning to   base or travelling elsewhere within a set time limit. Some places can be walked to (simply point on the map and click); others need train, plane or boat connections. Along the way, you may be asked one of 4,000 simple trivia questions loosely based on local history. For instance, in London we are asked what performance led to the rise of the Beatles. Yes, it is the Ed Sullivan show - and that's London summed up, don't you think?In fairness, there is the potential here for quite an interesting game, perhaps using a Sim City-style engine. But alas there are far too many problems to be cured by a simple makeover.As a game, Globetrotter's credentials are uncertain; as a travel aid it is one stage below chronically inept. For example, although major bridges are pointed out on the map, characters can still wade through rivers leaving tell-tale splashes in their wake. Somehow, being able to choose their sex (it makes no difference to the gameplay, of course) fails to make up for so many laws of physics, geography and common sense being broken all at once.All in all, Globetrotter looks and plays like a school project and cannot be recommended even to lovers of kitsch (which it so nearly is).Whoever Vision Park is, this merely adds weight to the claim that developing videogames is a big boy's game these days.  (MA)
Big shotSanyo has announced a high storage capacity digital camera that doubles as a basic camcorder. Due next month, the IDC-1000Z uses Sanyo's new 730MB ID Photo Magneto optical disc system to house up 11,000 stills or two hours of video files. It can also be used to archive up to 24 hours of voice dictation. Another key facility is the camera's Sequential Shot Function, which can take up to 30 shots in one second. The IDC-1000Z, which has a resolution of 1.5 megapixels, is due to retail for around £700.   Sanyo has also become the latest Japanese consumer electronics manufacturer to offer its take on the MP3 format with its just launched personal-sized player, the £250 SSP-PD7. In addition to playing MP3, the unit is also compatible with AAC (Advanced Acoustic Coding) files. If AAC is used, the player can store up to an hour of music on its removable 32MB MultiMedia card, whereas MP3 compression stores around half an hour. AAC download times are also twice as fast MP3 ones. The player comes with rechargeable batteries, which deliver around five hours of playback.  Sanyo is also joining Philips, Bush and Goodmans in offering a personal CD player that will read MP3 files burned on to CD-ROMs. The CDP-M300, which also boasts a 45-second anti-shock system, goes on sale in July. No news on prices yet.Snap and singKodak has joined Samsung and Fuji in offering a digital camera with a built-in MP3 player. Scheduled for a March launch, the £200 MC3 is also one of the cheapest digital cameras to offer both video capture and an LCD screen.  The camera comes with a 16MB CompactFlash card, which will store up to 110 digital images or 20 minutes of video, but a paltry 15 minutes of standard-quality MP3 music. Larger-capacity   CompactFlash cards are available, although adding a 64MB card, which archives more than an hour of music, ramps up the cost by a further £140. The camera's other audio facilities include a built-in speaker, a headphones socket and an output for connection to a home or car stereo. Snappers are offered a self-timer, auto white balance and exposure and an image resolution of 640 by 480 pixels.  (AN)Boxing cleverYorkshire-based Pace Micro Technology has unveiled a television set-top box that incorporates a Sega Dreamcast games console. The system includes a 40 gigabyte hard drive to store up to 60 games, which can be downloaded and updated via a cable or modem or data broadcasting connection. The drive can also be used to record TV programmes, like TiVo's digital VCR, and in the next five to 10 years, Pace thinks it could develop into a "home gateway" to connect up other devices.  Andrew Wallace,Pace's marketing director, says: "Fundamentally, what we are offering is cost-effective access to a new market of casual gamers. We don't expect keen gamers to buy this product."In fact, neither type of gamer will be able to buy the product. Pace is offering the system to cable and satellite TV operators, who will charge their subscribers a higher monthly fee - perhaps $20 - to rent the system.  The deal is non-exclusive on both sides. Pace remains free to integrate rival games systems in similar set-top boxes, while Sega is talking   to other device manufacturers about using its games technology. (JS)
This time last year, it was a safe bet that most online retailers launched on the internet were not having conversations about how to branch out on to the high street.For these "internet pure plays", the ability to blow away the traditional rules of business, cut out the middleman from the supply chain, and eradicate the need for an organisation built on bricks and mortar was central to their desire to capture a substantial share of the budding e-commerce market.Collectively, they exhibited an almost perverse aversion for all things rooted in the physical world, preferring to set up shop on the web and exclude the high street altogether. Extremely high market valuations handed out by the City coupled with bullish forecasts for internet penetration within UK households seemed to vindicate them every step of the way. This was the "new economy", after all.Fast-forward to the present day, marked by crashing dot.coms, minuscule advertising revenues, dangerously high cash burn rates and bargain basement shopping by high-street stalwarts looking to establish an online presence on the cheap. Pure play e-commerce companies will now try to sell to customers in any way they want to buy - online, over the phone, from a shopping centre or all of the above. Suddenly the customer - not content - is king again.A survey from marketing research company BMRB   provides grist to that particular mill. According to its quarterly Internet Monitor report, the average amount spent per UK internet shopper dropped from &#163;403 to &#163;326, in the six months to November 2000, and total e-commerce spending fell to &#163;2.2 billion from &#163;2.5 billion in the preceding six-month period. Whether or not this is just a blip peculiar to a burgeoning market, it has been enough to make online retailers give more thought to offline sales."It's about a move from 'the web is everything' to 'convenience is everything'," acknowledges Dominic Cameron, chief technology officer at Lastminute.com, one of many branching out from offering sales purely over the web.ForLastminute.com, the move began last Christmas with the launch of its interactive voice recognition system (IVR), an automated dial-in service for people not necessarily at the other end of a PC to call in with their requests. Simultaneously, the e-retailer published a gift catalogue that circulated as an insert in a number of national newspapers over the period. This also carried the telephone number for the service, which allowed the customer to buy from the Lastminute.com database, by navigating through a number of pre-recorded questions.Cameron says the level of response surprised the company. "Firstly, the average value of a shopping basket bought through the IVR service was distinctly higher than that bought over the web; and secondly, more   items were bought per purchase this way than on the web. We also think that the vast majority of people who bought via IVR had either never visited or never bought from the site."However, Carl Lyons, head of UK marketing at Lastminute.com is reluctant to see the catalogue as separate from other offline marketing activities (such as advertising on the sides of buses) and will not be drawn on whether it will become a staple feature of the company.But there are plenty of others who now see the catalogue as integral to their sales strategy, as mail order fast becomes the complementary   channel of choice for many e-commerce companies.TakeThinkNatural, the online natural health and beauty retailer, which bought the mail order business of the Women's Nutritional Advisory Service (WNAS), last December and launched into the German market a few weeks ago. In addition, it has forged a deal that takes its products right to the heart of the high street, by engaging investor Kingfisher's Superdrug chemist chains to stock ThinkNatural-branded products. "We've always seen the high street as a very powerful tool. Walking past a brand in the high street every day delivers a powerful   message," says ThinkNatural co-founder Emma Crowe.The retailer is about to print its third catalogue to date with a 120,000 print run, according to Crowe. "Some of our customers have no internet access at home and so would want the catalogue instead. So it has increased our customer base and has been another opportunity to promote our brand."Likewise,Confetti.co.uk, the wedding products website, is offering an "upmarket" catalogue in a bid to enter the lucrative wedding list market, and will use a warehouse acquired last year from home shopping business Findel to stock and ship the goods.< a href="http://www.Madaboutwine.com"target=_new>Madaboutwine.com, the online wine merchant, has also acquired direct mail outfits World Wines Direct and Waverley Direct since it was launched two years ago.Mike Honor, an analyst at Forrester Research, declares this strategy a "no brainer" because it can exploit assets already held by e-commerce businesses, such as the same back-end computer systems, warehouses and call centres. "It can even be seen as a viable exit strategy. If things don't work out on the internet, moving into mail order would be relatively easy," he adds.The high street is also proving fertile ground for   failed dot.coms to begin again, away from their pure play origins. ThinkNatural's rival, Clickmango, closed down last September, five months after launch. Since then, US-based Red Beach bought the brand, and plans to re-launch it on the high street in the next few months with fellow investor, Adcore. Having learned lessons and borrowed an idea from ThinkNatural, it is now looking to sign a deal with "a major high street chain" to feature the Clickmango brand in its stores.But the boldest offline move so far has to be the effort by Gameplay. Last November, the online and mail order games retailer launched eight high street shops, after it acquired Dixons' chain of @jakarta games outlets in exchange for a 12.5% stake in Gameplay.However, going into direct competition with Virgin Megastore, HMV and Electronics Boutique on their own turf turned out to be a flawed move. Barely three months after opening its shops, Gameplay announced plans to shut them down, in a bid to shelve "non-core" activities."To actually move wholesale from the internet into the high street is expensive and difficult. And there is an argument that the UK is already saturated with high-street stores," Honor says.That said, Yahoo also opened up a shop in London briefly last year. Although it was a publicity stunt, it drew attention to the need for pure plays to extend their presence beyond the web. As Intel's Andy Grove said, "In five years' time there won't be any 'internet companies', they'll all be internet companies."
E-tailer Letsbuyit.com is to begin trading on its website again, just days after a Dutch court lifted a debt moratorium on the firm."The company intends to settle all creditors' demands, refund customers and fulfil outstanding orders promptly," it said after finalising a 52m euros (£33m) rescue package.The new Letsbuyit will still offer reductions to customers who buy in groups but will be a scaled back version of the business that sprawled across Europe before it collapsed with massive debts.Offices in Britain, Germany, France and Sweden will reopen immediately. If trading is positive, other offices might reopen in the spring.Letsbuyit has sought to reduce its cost base by cutting more than 200 jobs and closing several offices. It plans to turn a profit by the end of 2002.Founder John Palmer, who has returned as chief executive after the previous management quit, hopes to improve supplier relationships and sell a broader range of products."Recent events have left us with a renewed sense of responsibility to our shareholders, our million-plus member community and our employees to deliver on our promises."Now its time for us to build the kind of world class business that has long been the vision for LetsBuyIt.com and which is now within our sights."
According to reports from the Vatican, a Patron Saint for the internet, computers, computer users and computer technicians is about to be named.Brushing aside a strong case for Clive of Cambridge - the eccentric TechnoEvangelist publicly crucified in 1989 over an electric car - the chosen man will be St Isidore of Seville, a 6th century monk renowned in his day for his vast accumulation of knowledge, and currently patron saint of both school children and students.A formal announcement is expected from the Vatican at, or shortly after, Easter, marking the end of a hushed two-year debate on a suitable candidate for the job.St Isidore's name was first suggested early in 1999 by an obscure group of Spanish Catholics known as the Observation Service of Internet, and has remained front runner largely through default. However, not everyone accepts that a man who lived 1,400 years before the web was conceived has a great deal to teach the current generation."The computer is such a modern invention - we're probably awaiting for a patron saint who can give us a valid example of how to use it," maintains Luke Coppen, deputy editor of the Catholic Herald, "some great media mover who actually knew what computers were. However, things are taking on their own momentum and the Church is following."The principle of patron saints is that they are there to pray to in times of need, and should therefore have knowledge or at least affinity with the particular subjects in hand. In his defence, Isidore (not to be confused with the Isidore, the 11th century patron saint of farmers) is often credited as the compiler of the first database, a 20-volume encyclopaedia called the Etymologie as well as a history of the world. Clearly, this was a man with big interests and ambitions - a prototype Bill Gates, if you will. Critics point out that all he ever did was compile information, not disseminate or interpret it, and much of that information was both inaccurate and poorly written. Furthermore, few of the prayers attributed to his own hand (for example: "The man who is slow to grasp things but who really tries hard is rewarded") would find willing believers in today's Silicon ValleyFortunately, there are prayers for every occasion - in this case, one of the proposed Prayer Before Logging On To The Internet. Here the saint would be beseeched to "direct our hands and eyes only to that which is pleasing to Thee and treat with charity and patience all those souls whom we encounter".This, at least, is a rallying call both Christians and computer users can latch onto, patience being a key requisite for anyone not using a high speed line, and charity being particularly appropriate given the Church's uncertain stance towards the internet in the past.The web has always offered potential for developing Christianity at a time of falling attendance and dwindling collection plates. However, the idea of endorsing a medium which was then more than 40% pure porn, or Christians logging on to wor ship together without the crucial act of breaking bread, was initially met with a disdain."Everyone was aware of it three or four years ago even if they were slow to get plugged in." says Bishop Konstant of Leeds, instrumental in setting up theChurch's national websiteand often credited as Britain's   most wired bish. "But all the dioceses are now online, which wouldn't have been expected two years ago, even if most are using it only for email," he says.The change in recent attitudes has been stark, with the Vatican now producing of the most visited non-commercial sites on the web atwww.vatican.vaand a growing realisation that if anyone truly needs a Mission, the internet would be right up there with Goths and Americans."Just because a certain percentage of the web is used in a seedy way, doesn't mean it should be avoided, " says Bishop Konstant. "The written word is extraordinarily valuable, and the more one uses it for higher purposes, the lower that proportion of pornography becomes. I think the appointment of a patron saint would send some very important signals."
Whether people are learning online or in classrooms, one thing is for sure, the internet revolution has made learning
    IT skills more essential than ever. Yet in the busy workplace, employees also have less time than ever, especially to
    find three years retraining in Britain's leafy university campuses.To many, corporate IT training is the answer, the
    market for which is booming, regardless of how people are learning. 
    "We take people who have never even put their fingers on a keyboard, take them through a training program - say, a
    diploma in software development - and they get a job as a visual basic, C or Java computer programmer," explains
    Veronica Dzelde, director of Spherion Education. Veterans of the Australian market, the company originally moved
    into IT education when it noticed rising public demand for its own internal training.In the UK market, if you are a professional and are considering a move into IT, then you are aligned with Spherion's
    students. Typical Spherion students are in their 30s, want to change career and are pressed for time.They are
    motivated professionals who come with clear aims and want to learn technical skills - from the most basic up to
    complex programming. Rigid campus learning this is not: full-time students study for 25 hours a week when it suits
    them. They can book places at the Mayfair teaching center and log into an intranet. And unlike education on campus,
    students start and complete courses at all times of the year, free from the term system.Dzelde explains learning with Spherion as more like the work place than school, getting help when needed. "People
    coming to us from the workforce, find it easy to adapt. People straight from other educational backgrounds find it
    helps them to get ready for the workforce. Some people do need the 'hand-holding' classroom process, but most of
    our students don't have time for that - they're too anxious to get out there," she insists."Out there" seems the place to be, given the rewards. "In the UK, our graduates see a 25% increase in their salaries
    between their entry and rentering their profession when they finish their course," says Dzelde, having recently
    surveyed IT training's effect on salaries. 
    So does Spherion's success mean Southampton, Sheffield or Stamford university's demise? Is online and IT learning
    the death knell for the classroom? At the Learning Technologies Conference, the question was: "Is the classroom
    dead?""The general consensus is that it isn't, it can't be -because people need that social interaction - but that there are
    lots of things you just don't need to do in a classroom' insists Dzelde. 
    "In my experience, universities tend to have their own agenda," insists Alan Bullock of Forbes IT. Another player in
    this strong market, the company teaches software development to selected applicants. Bullock maintains the
    private sector has an advantage which makes them "less theory-based, more innovative and more tailored towards
    the client." Forbes then uses its recruitment arm for its new graduates, provided they attain strong level of both
    technical and personal skills.And while Forbes is planning online teaching by the end of the year, it is this personal
    skills element, so prized by employers, that ensures not all the courses can be we web-based. 
    While IT as a whole simmers, no part of it is burning brighter than the market for Java. Java servlets, swing, Java
    server pages - whether this means to you '"server side Java" or just junk jargon, it is the employment skill to have."The Java market is very hot at the moment. It is probably one of the most sought-after, in-demand skills by both
    employers who want it and people who want to be trained in it," explains Paul Rosenthal of Java specialists Fastrack
    IT.High demand for skills? You would have thought the market would be rejoicing. But things are not that simple. While
    basic Java training companies are easy to find, move to the top end of this complex language, and the number of
    specialists drop off rapidly. "One of the biggest problems the Java industry faces is the sheer number of people
    purporting to know the language.Anyone who is recruiting runs the risk of taking someone who claims to know it but
    doesn't," says Rosenthal. And while salaries have rocketed, many employees with superficial Java skills are not
    finding employment rapidly. But with every business adopting an e-commerce strategy, supply is outstripping
    demand.The steady supply from Fastrack's specialist course remains employer-friendly because of its apprentice system.
    Students spend six months working on the extranet, an innovative extension of the Fastrack website that allows its
    customers to log into the company's internal system and monitor service progress. The transparency builds
    inter-corporate trust while the students acquire workplace skills that employers snap up."It is what we call a
    virtuous circle," says Rosenthal. 
    Finally, at the other end of the market, there is Direct Computer Training &#91;DTC&#93;. While it offers professional
    courses for sale, one side of this company is devoted to training the unemployed in IT. Funded by the government's
    Focus Training and Enterprise Council, they teach the full range of skills - from IT to interview techniques - to
    ensure students do not just pick up knowledge but actually find jobs in the workplace."We are acutely aware it is not about computers, it is about people. We give students the skills they need to achieve
    their aims," explains Graham O'Connor, from the government side of the DCT. Nida Ufmani, the training co-ordinator
    for the professional side of the business seems to echo his hands-on approach: "I have a degree. I could stick as
    many letters next to my name but it doesn't mean that much in terms of hands-on experience." Here's to IT
    experience for all, then.
True BritThe Brit Awards roll round again on Monday (appearing on ITV on Tuesday), and will feature that well-known non-Brit, Eminem. There is    an official site atwww.brits.co.uk, which is no better than you would expect. Also, Carlton. com has put up a Brits game and a quiz atwww.thebaseonline.co.uk/brits/game. For a few more links, try http://msn.co.uk/ page/ 11-637.asp .The Oscarsare, of course, still a month away.Bottoms upDon't get caught with your pants down: send that special someone a brief message or, to be explicit, aPantyGram. You   do need Flash to view cards, but at least they are clean. What is new is that the site has now started selling real underwear from Skiviez, though probably not outside the US.This is a tough market. Rivals includeBlab.com, which has just launched a musical e-card builder featuring web-star Mahir, who recently released a single of I Kiss You.Station masterKevin Kelly, of Wired fame, has launched a directory to public radio stations both in    the US and around the world atwww.Publicradiofan.com. The programme listings should be enormously useful to anyone who listens to radio stations on the net, and ought to become a popular start-up page at the BBC. What a shame the type is too small, and bad web design means it cannot be made significantly larger.Sound fans will also enjoySound Portraits, a collection of documentaries, most of which were produced for America's National Public Radio.Mayor culpaThose concerned about transport in London - which should be just about everybody - can download theMayor's Draft Transport Strategy, on which comments are invited. Unfortunately, it is not yet possible to comment on the web, but that facility is promised "in the near future".Ken Livingstone has also spoken favourably of the new Transport forLondon Wap site. This enables people with Wap (Wireless application protocol) phones to find out about delays on the tube, and get other information about London's creaking transport system. The site shows PC users what the service looks like, and has Ken's mug pictured on a mobile phone.Index linkedGooglehas quietly started indexing the contents of Adobe Portable Documents Files (PDF), and providing links to plain text versions of the documents stored in them. After doing a search, headers that start with &#91;PDF&#93; should now show a link to a text version instead of the usual cached version. This allows you to take a quick look at the content without loading the Acrobat viewer. However, there does not seem to be a way to limit a Google search to PDF files.Google has also taken over the Usenet archive from Deja.com. To retrieve any gems from the avalanche of dross that makes up most newsgroup postings, go tohttp://groups.google.com. The   more limited database and search facilities have attracted criticism, but both are due to be improved.Love bugThe people at Nasa clearly have an eye for setting up stories, and their latest effort was to land a vehicle called Eros on a near-Earth asteroid just before Valentine's Day. If you missed the touchdown, you can catch up now athttp://near.jhuapl.edu/andwww.space.com/mission, which includes a number of animations.Bunch of fivesLast year, Online reported a competition where the aim was to create web pages that used only 5K of code, or less. The organiser, Stewart Butterfield, was swamped as more than 1,200 entries arrived, mostly in files called 5k.zip! This year's competition was to be announced "some time in January". It was not, but watchwww.the5k.org/nextyear.aspfor details.The 5K was a laudable attempt to show that web pages do not need to be made up of 125K of slow-loading self-indulgent rubbish, and the results certainly showed the ineptness of the majority of supposedly professional web designers. If they had any talent, they could create pages comprising 5K of self-indulgent rubbish instead.New &amp; noted&#149;  Who killed Bill Gates in 1999? The truth is out there, but not necessarily atwww.macarthurpark.com&#149;  Get your tickets now atwww.FIFAworldcup.com&#149;  Business is war. For how to wage it, seewww.belisarius.com&#149;  The magazine:www.newyorker.com&#149;  A home from home for Guardian readers? Maybehttp://humanspellcheck.com&#149; Flash horror for fun:www.skipintro.comSix of the bestBooksMarch 1www.worldbookday.comBook searchwww.bookfinder.com/What next?www.whatamigoingtoread.comBooks that clickwww.ebookconnections.comeLibhttp://etext.lib.virginia.edu/ebooks/ebooklist.htmlLink pageshttp://etext.lib.virginia.edu/ebooks/ebooklist.html
Personal computers of the world, unite! That is the ardent message from the advocates of peer-to-peer, or P2P, computing. And it is scaring many of the powers that be, from governments to law enforcement to groups concerned with protecting copyright material.At the same time, the technology, that lets individuals directly chat, exchange files and share computing power and storage space, is creating a heady, contagious buzz in the computing industry and among consumers. Just witness the Napster phenomenon, where more than 50m people have downloaded a   free copy of the music file sharing program.Not since the first web browsers opened up the internet to a broad public has there been a technology that promises to change so profoundly the way people use computers - buying, selling, communicating, collaborating and, ultimately, challenging patent, copyright and intellectual property law. "Peer-to-peer is empowering a whole set of users on the internet who heretofore were being balkanised. It is really giving users of the internet control over information and resources," says Robert Young, co-founder and chairman of the Linux software company Red Hat.For the general public, the most visible manifestation of P2P, and an example of both its promise and its threat, is Napster. And ironically, during the week in which San Francisco's Ninth Circuit Court issued a judgment against Napster (see opposite page) that will effectively shut it down, the same city hosted an energetic three-day conference on P2P sponsored by the technology publisher O'Reilly and Associates.The oversubscribed conference - attended by a thousand P2P fans, start-ups, big businesses scouting for acquisitions, venture capitalists and overflowing with some of technology's best-known names (including   Young) - underlined that whatever the courts may do, the world is going to have to reckon with P2P."What Napster showed us is the shape of the next-generation internet," said publisher and conference organiser Tim O'Reilly.Why is P2P seen by its proponents as revolutionary? Since the arrival of the web, the PC has been little more than a mute appendage, a passive receiver of digital content stored in big, centralised computers. Even email is not a direct link to another individual, but requires the sender to go through a centralised digital post office: the sender asks a server to take the message and ship it over   the network, then the recipient asks a server to deliver it. But P2P makes every computer a broadcaster of content as well as a receiver, an autonomous source of whatever information and resources the computer user cares to share.In the early 90s, PCs were "really nothing more than a life support system for a browser", said writer and analyst Clay Shirky at the conference. While PCs now often have the power of yesterday's big workstations, they still constitute a "veil of second class connectivity".But the veil hides a wealth of real computing resources that P2P can place at the disposal of the PC user. Together, the computers currently on the net represent at least 10 billion megahertz of power and 10,000 terabytes of storage, Shirky said. He sees P2P as socially "communitarian" - literally giving power to the people - and asks, "How far can we go towards distributing power to the edges of the network?"Many argue that P2P is not a distortion of how the net should operate, but a vision of the net as its creators originally intended.With P2P "the internet is   being used in the ways that it was intended," argued conference speaker Ian Clarke, inventor of the P2P software program Freenet, which links users into a giant, anonymous web. "With peer-to-peer, we now have a phrase to describe something that &#91;the internet pioneers&#93; took for granted."Whatever the net's originators intended, peer-to-peer applications have already caught both the public's and the business world's eyes, in most cases without their knowing it. For example, instant messaging is considered the first real peer-to-peer application, because it opens and holds a direct link to an individual user, unlike email. Napster has spawned several similar programs such as Gnutella and Freenet, which also allow users to directly exchange files or chat.More exotically, SETI@home, the Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence organisation, has pooled the unused processor power of home computers through a screensaver program that crunches through radio data received from space. Some   companies, including the P2P start-up Entropia and the veteran internet service provider Juno believe they can sell such "spare" processor time from home users to corporates that need supercomputing power on a budget.Other young companies attending the conference believe they can bring P2P to the workplace with applications that allow groups to collaborate on projects with realtime updates, or form online meeting groups or develop software using chat, or pool the processing power of separate PCs on company networks. And even some of the technology world's biggest players have rowed in behind P2P. Chief Sun scientist Bill Joy announced that Sun would introduce a P2P development platform called JXTA (for juxtaposition). Intel and Microsoft have also announced they will create an open source library for creating P2P applications.But for P2P to penetrate the business world developers will need to understand the corporate mindset, cautioned Ray Ozzie, founder of another P2P pioneer, Groove Networks. The corporate world fears that P2P applications "have no respect for intellec tual property", are "bandwidth hogs" and could allow viruses to pass corporate firewalls. Businesses must believe P2P programs will bring no harm and either "alleviate pain" or provide an opportunity or competitive edge, he said.But venture capitalist Bill Burnham raised doubts by bringing up the terms pen-based computing, push technology and business to business exchanges. "Those technologies sold themselves too soon; they couldn't live up to the hype. Will P2P be the same?" he asked Ozzie and a set of P2P panellists."It is much too early to be worrying about which business models will succeed because we are still discovering which technological models will succeed," said Shirky.However, some fear that neither the technological nor business models for P2P will find any breathing space, for reasons illustrated by Napster's woes in a nearby San Francisco courtroom."The courts are ratifying the ability of &#91;the entertainment industry&#93; to regulate cyberspace now, before we even know what it's going to look like," lamented Lawrence Lessig, an internet commen tator and Stanford law professor, in a speech that voiced strong support for Napster. "We need the period of experimentation. Give me 10 years before we get to that conclusion, but don't restrict the innovation now."Others are more optimistic. Shirky believes computer users will demonstrate an online form of mass civil disobedience and continue to use P2P programs to share files, but within limits. "We will find equilibrium," he said. "A set of limits in which people can live, while respecting content, is coming."Shirky believes P2P's real promise is the creation of a single, global made out of hundreds of millions of terminals linked over the internet. "Thomas Watson &#91;the founder of IBM&#93; predicted that the world would not ever need more than five computers," said Shirky. "We now know he overestimated that by four."What is P2P?About the only agreed definition of P2P is that it means peer to peer. After that, P2P serves as a general term for a rainbow of different computing concepts, from networks to forms of communication to applications. And confusingly, many argue that the application best known for popularising the concept, the music sharing program Napster, is not even, strictly speaking, P2P.In networking terms, P2P describes a method of connecting computers so that each computer acts as a server to all the others on a network. In contrast to a client/server network, each computer can then share files directly with other computers without having to go through a central server. (Napster requires users to find songs through a central server, although a link is then established between individual users' PCs to share music files.) P2P can also describe the pooling of the unused processing power of many computers on a network to create a "virtual supercomputer" that can attack very complex computing problems.Perhaps the most considered definition of P2P   comes from American writer and analyst Clay Shirky. "P2P is a class of applications that takes advantage of resources - storage, cycles, content, human presence - available at the edges of the internet," says Shirky. "Because accessing these decentralised resources means operating in an environment of unstable connectivity and unpredictable IP addresses, P2P nodes must operate outside the DNS &#91;domain name&#93; system and have significant or total autonomy from central servers."Such a system means computer users can act with independence and total privacy: sharing files, sending messages, aggregating computing power. This aspect makes P2P a powerful and potentially transformative - or, alternatively, worrying - technology.
It is three o'clock in the morning, a week after the ruling that could kill Napster, the online song-swapping service, and Anonymous Coward, one of the most prolific chatters on Napster's website, is both extolling its virtues and wondering whether there are any alternatives.Urging his fellow users to boycott the record labels behind the legal battle, Anonymous asks what is the point of closing down Napster given that people will simply start up something similar. As if to prove his point, he then asks if anyone has used Freenet, the Napster alternative.A week after the US court of appeals ruling against Napster, and most of its users are still none the wiser about what they can and cannot do. This is partly because of the complexities of the legal case and partly because of the fledgling nature of the technology.Last week's ruling by the ninth court of appeals, should have been as clear as the white paper it was written on. The court upheld a ruling delivered last July by Judge Marilyn Hall Patel that Napster was guilty of copyright infringement. By allowing more than 50m users - Napster itself says 61m - to share each other's music, the court found that   Napster was aiding illegal behaviour. The judgment agreed that it was vital to act swiftly because of the irreparable harm that was being done to the recording industry.But more than a week after this decision was taken, Napster is still up and running. What is more, it looks set to continue operations for at least the next few weeks while Judge Patel redefines her initial judgment.In the meantime, the judge has appointed a mediator to negotiate a settlement between the two sides. The appointment of former federal judge Eugene Lynch has   raised hopes that some form of Napster can survive without breaking copyright laws.Analysts are less clear about whether this can happen, however. Bruce Kasrel at Forrester Research says, "They can put all sorts of restrictions in place so that Napster polices its site, but that wouldn't be Napster any more."Kasrel is among several analysts who believe that for Napster to work as a business, and not just a cult, it needs the support of the majority of record labels rather than just one. After last year's court ruling, Napster agreed to work with Bertelsman, one of the major record labels, on a new, legal system. While few of the details of this partnership have been announced, most analysts expect them to unveil a subscription-based service later this year.Part of the beauty of Napster is its universality. Nsync fans can download the music of the Backstreet Boys, for example, despite the fact that both are owned by different labels. With only one label involved, the desire to pay a fee for a service, provided upto now for free, would be even more diminished.So far, however, the recording industry as a whole has shown little desire to follow Bertelsman's lead. More attention has been paid to developing new technology to make it   easier to spot pirates.Napster executives have said little about the future apart from a promise to "pursue every avenue" in the legal process.While this corporate manoeuvring is set to intensify, Napster's users are flexing their new-found muscle. As well as calling for boycotts of the companies concerned, Anonymous Coward, Beergut et al are urging their fellow fans to write to members of the US congress about the abuses of the music industry.There are also the alternatives to Napster such as   Freenet, Bearshare and Todenode, to name just a few, which could prove just as popular if their founders find a way to improve and simplify them. Some are already threatening to continue their illegal behaviour. As Metallica has found to its cost, it can patrol the number of times its songs are downloaded but how about that little-known band Mtllica or Metlca."There will be illegal copying and there is nothing they can do about some of the more nefarious things," says Kasrel.
How do you make God laugh? It is an old joke. The answer: "Tell him about your plans." The physicist Niels Bohr put it more scientifically: "Prediction   is very difficult," he wrote, "especially about the future."These days, however, if it is   the future you seek, you can find a host of helping hands online.   The Chinese have been using divination tools for three millennia, so a good place to start is www.myfortune 21.com, "an amalgamation of the wonders of Oriental intelligence and modern scientific technology". Here you can discover your fortune through traditional games such as Shake the Tortoise,   or input the date and time   of your birth to discover the "weight" of your life.Apparently, mine weighs 5.6kg, guaranteeing "great success and good fortune".   Atwww.aquarianage.org/china/diary, Ping Wu's Taoist Diary uses Chinese astrology to predict world events. His millennium prediction is for   a unified Europe, releasing "unbelievable power" - but also war and dark years until 2003.You might need a cup of tea after that. Willa G Cline used to offer to drink a cup then give a real tea-leaf reading over the web; it must have been oversubscribed as the service has now been automatedwww.willa.com/tealeaves/.There is also a QuickTime tea-cup: give it   a stir atwww.worldtea.net.   Once you have your strength back and feel up   to a stronger brew, try www.facade.com. Methods   on offer here include Bibliomancy, where a random phrase is plucked from the King James Bible; a variety   of Runes (will Microsoft always dominate the desktop? The Gold Runes seem   to think so);  I-Ching; and even a lawyers' page for instant legal divination. I asked: "How is my mortgage coming along?" and was told, "We have sent the forms which seem right for you." Creepy.Facade treads a nice line between the occult and self-satire: the biorhythms section produces accurate charts, but if you leave the dates blank you get the life-rhythms of Sandra Bullock. At least, I hope that's satire.  Perhaps the most well-known divination tool is   the Tarot deck. The Tarot emerged from traditional playing cards in the 16th century, and has since burgeoned into hundreds   of styles.Facadeoffers comprehensive Tarot readings from eight classic decks.If the concerns of 500 years ago seem outdated,Silicon Valley Tarotpromises fortune-telling cards for the information age. ("Cheaper than a consultant. Same results.") The cards are tailored to fit the anxieties   of our time: The Layoff  replaces Death; Strength   has become Double Latte. I asked: "Should we ever buy tech stock again?" and got The Eight of Cubicles: "Time for a sabbatical." We knew that much already.Other modern divination methods includeAaron's Fortune Telling Program, which claims to "read the psychic impression you have made on your computer over the years." The fortune delivered is strangely specific - apparently, I'll be "caught at the US/Canada border."There are plenty of other   offbeat oracles out there:   you can ask aKlingon);Elvis the dog; even theA-Team's Mr T, who, true to form, says "No, sucka!" or "Quit that jibber- jabber!" to just about everything.  The accuracy of predictions about the future is debatable.Still, there is no doubt that the more genuine divination methods such as the Tarot and the I-Ching help focus the mind on troublesome issues, and the accompanying texts are age-old stores of human wisdom. Plus, making predictions is fun.   So what does the new millennium hold for mankind? Will George "Dubya" Bush last more than a term? Mr T says: "No, sucka!"Will 3G mobile live up to its hype - and its hyped licence costs? TheConey Island Fairground Madamesays: "Don't travel." Sounds like a no.Will the world's oil reserves be replaced by alternative energy sources in time to save civilisation? A single card from Facade's St Petersburg Tarot (the Star) indicates "Hope, Faith, Inspiration. Bright prospects." Phew.  We will leave the last word to my favourite divination method, theYes/No floaty pen."Are monkeys following me?" Yes, the pen says, but I knew that already.   How about the one answer I have always wanted? "Oh, all-wise floaty pen, in this next millennium, will the internet blossom into an all-powerful 'Ur-Mind' which will benevolently rule mankind?" The pen tilts left. No.   Oh well. Perhaps we are better off with the physicists after all. "I never think of the future," Einstein said once.   "It comes soon enough."
The man in the black leather jacket looks nervously around him as he is approached by another man in a dark blue ski jacket and grey woolly hat. They talk briefly, then the first man says something into a walkie-talkie. A couple of minutes later a third, younger, man joins them.They huddle together. The younger man hands over a bundle of green cards to the first man. The second man then hurries off, slipping a card carefully into his inside pocket.Almost immediately the ritual exchange is repeated. This time the man in the leather jacket can be heard apologising. "Sorry, we don't want to rip anybody off. It's those bastards at ONdigital. It's a tenner to reprogramme the card."In the space of the next 10 minutes, half a dozen customers hand over their money for a working card. It is a nice little earner for the trader: the process of reprogramming takes the token techie sitting in the back of an old van just a few seconds, using a device which only costs around &#163;50.These exchanges are the public face of a cat-and-mouse game being played between broadcaster ONdigi tal and a loosely linked network of pirates. The green cards - a printed circuit board mounted with two chips - offer access to every ONdigital channel. That includes Sky's sports and movie channels, Film Four, pay-per-view, even the so-called "adult" channels.Porn is a particular attraction for purchasers of the pirate cards. However carefully the name is disguised, a man may still have to account for the &#163;6.99 monthly subscription on his credit card or bank statement. With a pirate card this is not an issue.Whatever the reason, the pirates at Ingliston Market on the outskirts of Edinburgh are doing a roaring trade in ONdigital cards. The trade has to be attractive for buyers and sellers because, as shopping experiences go, Ingliston on a February morning is not one of the best.The market itself is in the midst of flat potato fields with little shelter from the falling sleet and icy wind except the   ineffectual plastic awnings covering the stalls. The only permanent fixtures are a blue and white toilet block and, for some reason, a huge grey 	concrete statue of a gorilla.Twenty years ago the crowds came for cheap denim and dubious antiques but, gradually, the legitimate trade has faded away. There are still legitimate stalls selling everything from fruit and veg to clothes, but while most street markets have a dodgy side few in Britain are so dominated by trade in illicit goods as this one.Online has made several attempts to contact the managing director of the market's operating company, which is based several hundred miles away in the English Midlands. Although he did not respond to our phone messages, the initial response of the person who answered our calls was to say: "We do condemn the sale of pirate goods. But you had better speak to our managing director."Eric Robinson, head of regulatory services at Edinburgh City Council, knows of the problem at Inglis ton. "If you said to me that the majority of stalls at Ingliston were selling counterfeit goods, I'm sure my officers would not disagree with you," he says.The problem for the local trading standards officers is   the massive amount of work created by raids on stalls. To prove their case after each raid, each counterfeit item has to be identified as such by the legitimate manufacturers. "About eight stalls is the most we can deal with in a raid. We have to target them and arrive at the same time," says Robinson. "You do get swamped by the work. It ties up a huge proportion of the staff... The work involved in bringing it to court is not worth the effort."Robinson denies this is defeatist talk, saying the department is working on "other avenues", but in the meantime the brisk business goes on. On the day of Online's visit, stall after stall is filled with PlayStation or Dreamcast games for a fiver each. Videos of films that have just hit the cinema screens are also a steal at just &#163;5. Elsewhere, customers flip through ring binders filled with sheets listing PC or Macintosh games and utility software sometimes worth hundreds of pounds. A CD-rom crammed with programs will set you back &#163;10 - or &#163;15 if you look middle class.This is also where the black economy meets the new economy. Despite there being apparently dozens of stalls competing with each other, in fact there are rather less in   terms of suppliers. And much of the trade runs through a single website.Regular customers are told the address of this site so that they can go and see what the latest offers are and make their orders. Because of the way the trade is organised there are only a limited number of discs physically available. The pirates "burn" CD-roms as necessary.This means that not only do they not have to hold stock that might not sell, but in the event of a raid there is little to lose. Blank CDs, their main raw material, now cost less than 50p each when bought in bulk.The website also has another customer service role. If you have problems with the software you can get advice both from the site's operators and from other users. This goes for the ONdigital cards as well, because these generally need one vital piece of information. The codes.In common with other pay-to-air broadcasters, ONdigital uses a combination of a set-top box and a smart card that plugs into it. These cards are the size of a credit card with a gold chip near the top which is, in effect, a tiny computer. Every month a set of codes is sent out that tell the card that channels can be   unscrambled. The trick is how to get the codes onto the pirate cards.There are two main 	methods. The first, which was popular at places such as Ingliston until recently, auto-updated the cards with the codes as they were broadcast. These, however, are vulnerable to "electronic countermeasures" (ECMs). What ONdigital did was to send out signals that knocked out these cards while leaving the legitimate ones untouched.The crackers, meanwhile, had developed a way of getting updated codes on to their cards. The second method takes advantage of the "parental lock" which is intended to prevent children from watching unsuitable programmes.It uses a pin number which is set using the ONdigital box's remote control. The viewer with the pirate card uses the same method to   enter nine sets of four-digit codes with a few other key presses to get another month of free ONdigital programmes.Or they did until recently. ONdigital began sending out a signal periodically in January which prevented the cards being recognised and updated through the child lock. Within hours, however, notices were posted in internet discussion groups explaining how two legs on a pirate card's chip could be disconnected to make them write only and, therefore, in theory invulnerable to an ECM. The following Sunday, cards began to appear at Ingliston and elsewhere with a built-in switch.For the more sophisticated user, cards at around &#163;8 each and programmers for &#163;50 or so are readily available from people who advertise on the internet or who run stalls at computer fairs. From internet discussion groups it is clear that many are used by groups of friends in offices or pubs.ONdigital claims to be unworried by the problem. "We take it seriously, but it's not a major cause of concern," says a spokesman. "There are occasional outbreaks. But it comes and goes. Generally the people who suffer are the ones who buy the cards."The crackers exchanging   information across the internet believe that ONdigital is more concerned than it lets on. One website until recently opened with a screen that looked exactly the same as ONdigital's, except the slogan was changed. Instead of "Isn't it time you switched on?", it read: "Isn't it time you stopped paying?"The website is still operating, but sports an angry threat of legal action against any ONdigital employee attempting to enter the site.Many of the websites are hosted overseas, which would make it hard for ONdigital to take legal action to close them down. The trade itself is also international. In Europe some estimates put as high as 20% the proportion of people watching satellite television without paying.In North America, pirates have been able to exploit 		differences the law between the US and Canada to openly sell hundreds of thousands of cards for DirecTV, the satellite broadcaster currently being taken over by Rupert Murdoch. The broadcaster recently got its revenge, however, after it broadcast code, piece by piece, until it was able to knock out almost every pirate card on what has become known as 'Black Sunday'. DirecTV had waited until just before the Super   Bowl to launch its attack, the equivalent of hitting the UK pirates on FA Cup Final day.The pirate internet discussion groups, meanwhile, are filled with concern that ONdigital might be plotting a similar attack. They are even more worried that ONdigital might adopt the same form of encryption used by Sky for the last three years or so. This has never been cracked.ONdigital's official line is that it is relying on nuisance value by making it difficult to watch for free. It also points out that subscribers since May 1999 have only rented their boxes. If they cancel their subscriptions, as currently around 20% do each year, a van comes and takes the box away. Despite this there is still a saving of more than &#163;30 a month for couch potatoes who would otherwise pay for the full package of channels.The trade in pirate cards at Ingliston and elsewhere continues. This Sunday the men will be there, huddled against the cold, selling cards at &#163;40 a time or upgrading them for &#163;10. Last year Edinburgh City Council launched two major raids which brought in more than 10,000 pirate CDs and videos. The following week the stalls were full again.
Do reality TV and webcams indicate the future of media? Shows like Survivor, its countless clones, and the thousands of voyeuristic web sites springing up online all point to an alarming trend: we have become more interested in watching real people than crafted entertainments such as television drama and movies.Given the quality of fictional drama these days, that's no small wonder. Scripts for television shows are conceived and written by committee, usually in a week or less. Their stories are ripped from the headlines and translated into a three-act structure with little or no regard for their thematic power or contribution to cultural conversation. In a sense, they are just acted-out (and usually watered-down) versions of something happening in real life somewhere, anyway.In possession of remote controls and camcorders, and other interactive devices, modern audiences are less   likely to submit to the hackneyed and conventional plot structures of the commercial media machine. We channel surf the dial in search of anything authentic - even if it is as mundane as the security camera at the convenience store.Sure, Homer, Shakespeare, and Chekhov offered us windows into the human soul with dramas as authentic, or more so, than our experience of life itself. But these playwrights spent their lives honing their crafts. As the word "playwright" suggests, their works were wrought, not just written. Authentic, compelling drama cannot be cooked up overnight - however much media conglomerates may require more fodder for their cable TV schedules.As a result, a camcorder sitting in an office (or, better, a college dormitory) now seems to have more of a chance of catching an authentic human interchange than three Panavisions on a soundstage. And we, the viewing public, appear to have gleefully adapted to our new role as media voyeurs. We live to watch.Or do we? My friend Josh Harris, a new media artist and entrepreneur, has been living in public for the past 100 days. The site he has created, WeLiveinPublic.com, is an experiment in internet exhibitionism. He has fitted the loft that he share with his girlfriend with 32 cameras and motion sensors that follow the couple as they engage in everything as mundane as reading the paper and as exciting as, well, you get the idea. Forty thousand people have registered to watch the couple, and 5,000 of them spend at least several hours a week on the site.This foray into exhibitionism is really just the premiere of a new web concept. Harris will be working with another company to sell webcams with motion sensors, as well as internet access, to anyone else who might want to   broadcast their own lives on the web. So far, several thousand have signed up.So, within a few months, there will be tens of thousands of people broadcasting every intimate detail of their lives to the world. Taking their cue from MTV's show Real World, these amateur exhibitionists will most likely compete for our attention by engaging in the most outrageous acts they dare to.While big media companies will no doubt hope to capitalise on this trend by offering to scan the net for the most engaging stream of home media (based on our personal profiles and collaborative filtering), I have a sneaking suspicion that such strategies will miss the underlying passion driving the webcam trend.It's not about watching, it's about showing.As Harris readily admits, "it's sexy to be watched." Of course it is. It means someone cares enough to pay attention to you. It turns your every action into a work of art. But there is a difference between this quest for immortality and the work of poets past. An artist used to earn his place in our collective memory with his craft. A web exhibitionist earns attention by doing something in front of people that most people would normally do in private. It is a willingness to reveal, not an ability to conceive or create.Is this art? For Harris, it certainly is. He is inventing the form. For the countless exhibitionists who follow in his footsteps, I am not so sure. My guess is that a webcam-based entertainment network will simply accelerate the downward spiral of sensationalism we have been witnessing on our TVs for the past couple of decades.Maybe it will help us reach a nadir sooner, though. With proliferation comes ubiquity. We will get our fill of voyeurism and look for something more dimensional. Intentional art. And maybe a new wave of talented people from around the world will rise to create novel forms of expression, particularly suited for the webcam.I'm glad the internet is about to be used, once again, for expression instead of passive consumption.But, for now, I think I'll just watch.
America's OmniSky, which delivers email and web information to pocket computers, is gunning for the UK market. In a "public beta test", the first users are being offered three months' unlimited use of the system plus a Handspring VisorPhone or equivalent for &#163;299."We think we're in the right position for the market to take off," says Neville Street, chief executive of OmniSky International, a joint venture between OmniSky Inc and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. "It's the sort of thing everybody's been crying out for."OmniSky lets you send and receive email from up to six standard POP3 mailboxes, and is not limited to a proprietary service such as Palm.net. Users can access almost any website, not just ones that have installed Palm   Query Application (PQA) software to handle requests from devices running the Palm OS operating system.OmniSky has signed deals with more than 30 content providers to provide material for its service. These include Google, Scoot, Sports.com, Onlineweather.com, Maporama, the Wall Street Journal Europe, the Financial Times and Guardian Unlimited.But this is no "walled garden". Users can call up any website, with the pages being reformatted on the fly by OmniSky's servers. This is similar to AvantGo's "clipping" service, but Street says it is an interactive system rather than one where users download material and read it later.Although some of OmniSky's senior staff used to work for Palm - Street ran Palm's international operations - the service will not be limited to Palm users. In the   US, OmniSky upports Palm, Handspring, and PocketPC devices such as the HP Jornada 540 series. Street says: "We want to support the devices people really want to use."This could include smart phones based on Microsoft's PocketPC software such as the Sagem and Mondo Trium or Symbian's Epoc operating system, which is used in Psion handhelds. OmniSky plans to show a Symbian device at next month's CeBIT computer trade show in Germany. "We'll see what the response is before we commit to supporting the product," says Street.However, getting into the European market ahead of the Palm VII (the wireless device Palm sells in the US) has led to some sacrifices. In particular, OmniSky was supposed to be based on a faster always-on system called GPRS (General Packet Radio Service)."Clearly, GPRS is the endgame for our service," says Street. "But because GPRS has been slipping, we decided to get into the market early with a service based on GSM" &#91;Group System for Mobiles&#93;. In other words, a standard cellular network: BT Cellnet. This also means users have to dial the network. But Street shows that this can be done by pushing one button, and the connection takes about 10 seconds. It's slower when the network is busy, but still much faster than a Wap (Wireless application protocol) phone.The results also look much   better than you get with a Wap phone, because handheld computer screens are much bigger and may be in colour. Put the two side by side and there is no contest.Unfortunately, OmniSky users will not be able to leave their mobile phones behind. "For the beta test, we are not going to enable the voice channel," says Street. "We'll do that later." The aim is to avoid complications, including the problems of charging for services. However, Street thinks people will have the option to pay a flat rate for a data connection to OmniSky and buy airtime separately. "We'll partner with different airtime providers," he says.In some ways it is disappointing to see the UK service offering less than the US, but in both cases, there is more to come. In the US, for example, OmniSky also has a deal with America Online to deliver   AOL's proprietary email and content in AOL format: "It's aimed at a more consumer market," he says.In the future, there are plans to extend the instant messaging system, which only connects people to other OmniSky users, though SMS will still be available via the phone part of the service. The next version of OmniSky will also be able to read Wap sites, and in the longer term, there will be location-based services. Users will be able to find the nearest restaurant, for example, download a map showing where it is, and phone to make a reservation. Late last year, OmniSky bought NomadIQ to develop location-based offerings.But these are extras. Street reckons OmniSky's "killer applications" are email and messaging. The core target market is therefore made up of business professionals who already use handheld computers and need a simple way to check their email from the back of a cab. "If we can get a couple of percent of those to move to wireless, I think we'll be pretty pleased," he says.www.omnisky.co.uk
IBM ThinkPad XX Series Basic Specification: 500MHz Intel Mobile Celeron 64MB Ram, 10GB hard drive 12.1in screen with 800 x 600 resolution, built-in V.90 modem Weight: 1.4kg Price (including VAT): &#163;1,567.45 (with Windows 98SE) or &#163;1,643.83 (with Windows 2000)Most people think the IBM ThinkPad X is sleek and amazingly neat, except me. Well, it is roughly the size of   an office diary, and barely an inch thick. Not bad for an ultraportable with a 500MHz Intel Celeron or Pentium III. It only looks big to me because it is noticeably bigger than the machine it is designed to replace: the ultraportable ThinkPad 240.The 240 has become a classic, if that term can be applied to something with a shelf life of about 18 months. However, like the old IBM Butterfly keyboard, which extended, it has become a victim of the onward march of flat-screen technology. The X Series is bigger because it has a 12.1in colour LCD, whereas the 240 could only manage 10.4in.Unfortunately, the X as tested does not derive any particular benefit from the extra screen estate. Both machines run Windows with a resolution of only 800 by 600 pixels in 16-bit colour. As a result, you cannot see any more on the screen, it just looks a bigger - though at least you can buy an X Series with a 1024 by 768 resolution screen, which is not available on the 240.The larger screen size also makes room for a full-size keyboard and about a dozen extra keys. Again, however, the practical benefits are rather small, and both keyboards suffer from a few odd key placings. On the X Series, the most annoying is the Esc key, which is positioned above F1 instead of next to it. It is annoying to hit the F1 (Windows Help) key at all: hitting it several times a day becomes infuriating.Oddly, IBM has still not managed to find room for a Windows key. Even more oddly, there's no key to turn   on the X's novel light, which is built in to the lid to illuminate the keyboard. There are three keys to operate the speaker (volume up, down and mute), but to turn the light on you have to press the Function and Page Up keys together.Where the X Series thrashes the 240 is in expandability, which is important in machines that do not have built-in floppy and CD-rom drives. Both can take port replicators. However, the X Series also has a neat bus connector on the underside, to mate with the optional UltraBase X2 Media Slice. This locks securely to the bottom and adds a floppy drive, a device bay, two stereo speakers, and a number of ports. The device bay can hold a CD-Rom, CD-RW or DVD-Rom drive, a 250MB Zip or LS-120 floppy, a second hard drive or an extra battery. But,   instead of a stripped-down ultraportable, the result is a full-spec machine at a heavy price. And if that's what you want, you can buy something better and cheaper, even within IBM's current three ranges of ThinkPads.Nevertheless, I'm sure IBM is right. Today's buyers want bigger, higher-resolution screens, and they want full-sized keyboards. They also want expandable notebooks because many are now buying them as their main machine, not as adjuncts to desktop models. However, if you are the sort of oddball who wants a dinky little portable that will go almost anywhere, the ThinkPad 240 will do nicely. But buy now, because stocks are unlikely to last.
Who really wants to be a millionaire?Hurry -this is the last week for students and academics in Britain to pitch for part of a prize fund of &#163;1 million established by Launchit2001. This competition is backed by Cross Atlantic Capital Partners (XACP), a venture capital management firm, and Brainspark, an internet and technology incubator ,and supported by the Guardian. Details of the competition, which closes on February 28, are atwww.launchit2001.com.It is open to any individual in higher education or teams that include a student or academic staff member. The best two or more ventures will be eligible for direct investment ranging from &#163;100,000 to &#163;500,000. There is also a prize for The Most Innovative University. Ideal entries will have products and services that are ready to be commercialised or ideas that have passed a proof of concept. Entries will address one of four areas: new enabling technologies (including optical networking, nanotechnology, and materials science, but excluding biotechnology); internet infrastructure; enterprise software; e-communications and wireless infrastructures and applications.CrackerjackI have been following the 'hacker/hack' means with interest. Isn't the common sense approach to accept that the same word can have more than one meaning?Similarly with 'cracker/crack'. It's usually perfectly clear from the context what meaning is intended.David Harrisda.harris@ntlworld.comLost propertyIt appears that a company called Propertysellers.co.uk has registered a domain name which is a misspelling of our website,www.findaproperty.com. Its version, www.findapropety.com, takes browsers to its site rather than to ours. Because of this, your article (Online, February 15) states that we charge &#163;29 per week, which we don't.  Another error is that the article, as printed, gives the impression that we are an estate agent, or advertise property online for people wishing to bypass estate agents, neither of which is true. Quite the contrary: we work exclusively for estate agents and charge them to advertise their properties with us.Michael O'FlynnMichael@HallmarkProjects.co.ukTop of the plopWhy does the chart of top 10 games list the name of the publisher?The piece of information is of no use whatsoever. The name of the developer may be more useful since that is where the talent involved in developing the game lies. Such a listing might give readers a way of judging the likely quality of a title.Would a similar chart of films attribute the new movie Hannibal to Ridley Scott or MGM?Robert Knowles-LeakLeak@triangle-group.comThrow it awayIsn't it odd that your article by Anita Pincas on the serious business of online education, in your weekly supplement supposedly associated with science, does not mention the possibility of learning about science online?Business yes, management yes, art yes, even how to iron a shirt, but nothing otherwise except a throwaway reference to 'even polymer engineering'.Janice Tavernejanice.taverne@lineone.netToo cynicalIn the article about web learning (Online, February 15) Anita Pincas' comment on the way that human beings learn is not only cynical but ill-informed. There is a vast number of home educated children and adults who have proved that human beings are more than capable of independant and autonomous learning when the material is of interest and/or relevance to them. The fact that they choose their own 'curriculum' as children also makes them much more focused and self-directed learners as adults.Eva O'RorkeEvaandMary@aol.comPat on headSuzi P's "interview" with Patricia Hewitt was   more akin to a press release. More pertinent - and dare I say, more interesting - questions might have been how does Hewitt think she or her ministry have helped small e-commerce businesses while they have been in government? By (covertly) increasing taxes?K Dugganksduggan@hotmail.comVirus alertMelissa, Anna Kornikova and all their Visual Basic Script cousins are surprisingly simple to avoid. Just change the file association of .vbs files to be something that doesn't execute.The full details are at:www.merrioncomputing.com/OnlineIssue1.htmDuncan.Jones@AIG.COMOrange pippedGiven that the typical speed of an office wireless LAN is 11Mbps, it hardly seems appropriate to describe the 1.5Mbps of the Orange "home of the future'"wireless LAN as "high-speed".Mike Whittakermikewhittaker@totalise.co.ukGSM? DIYYou had someone asking what the letters GSM stood for. I stuck those very three letters into the Yahoo search box.And the search result? I found six categories, 225 sites and 32 news stories for GSM. And the first link was Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). So why don't you tell these stupid people to find out for themselves?Keith Scottkscott1@ntlworld.com
Most people under 25 would rather eat their own heads than enter anything longer than a friend's name on their mobile. And yet if mobile commerce is to succeed, as many believe it will, we will need better ways of inputting text than fiddling with nine tiny keys.So far, higher portability has meant a poorer input interface, but improvements are at hand. What is quickly becoming a global standard for mobile-phone input, T9, has soothed some of the stress. But for truly simple access, quicker interfaces are a must.The leader in this field, with its i-mode users permanently switched on to what the Japanese are calling the Evernet, Japan's DoCoMo has come up with quite a few novel ideas, such as a pen-size scanner for its 15 million wireless subscribers. The device clips neatly into mobile phones and can be used to scan bar codes at the end of magazine articles. To check out one of the products mentioned, you pass the pen over the stripes and your phone calls up the company's website. It can also be used to place orders from product and mail order catalogues, either via email or pages on the web. Japan is also pioneering a service where you key in a company's telephone number and the web page comes up.Wired magazine, too, is now promoting scanning of its pages, but as Jan Chipchase, a researcher at the Nokia Research Centre (NRC), Tokyo, points out: "Would you carry a pen around with you just to scan articles? I quite like the idea of scanning using a mobile. The biggest problem is having different bar code systems in different shops - there are compatibility problems - and whether there are enough magazines supporting this feature."Meanwhile, the next-  generation wireless devices are now in development by Japanese electronics giants. Despite being left out the GSM agreements years ago - which renders Japanese phones useless outside the country - Japan's mobile technology has developed rapidly and will dominate the production of the much-vaunted globally-usable G3 mobile phones.The country's biggest handset producer, Matsushita Communication Industrial (MCI) - trading as Panasonic abroad - was also largely behind the miniaturisation methods that have resulted in a phone the size of a woman's compact case. The company's development lab in Yokohama is now busy perfecting alternative keying methods for these tiny devices.  Speech recognition has already been incorporated into existing models with varying degrees of success. But the best way forward would be the reinvention of the human interface, says Toshiro Iizuka, chief product designer for MCI."If the mobile phone is evolved, for example, to the third generation, there   might be completely new applications such as video conferencing by mobile phones, or gaming battles between mobile phones with game functions. People's lifestyles themselves will be changed by such advanced mobile phones," he says.What Iizuka and his team have come up with is a fusion of the Game Boy and a mobile handset. By holding the pad with both hands, and pressing buttons on the top with your thumbs and on the bottom with your fingers, all manner of data can be entered. The inspiration, says Iizuka, came from watching a saxophonist play, and gamers at local arcades.Chipchase believes Matsushita may be on the right track. "I don't think keyboards are going away in a hurry. However, look at how much fun it is to enter a name for a high score using a Game Boy-type device. I'd place bets on one-hand keyboards. Not those desktop ones but one converted to fit into your semi-open fist. So you could 'chord' &#91;type one-handed&#93;. You could walk around with your mobile typing at the same time."Some one-handed 'chording' key boards are available already such as the BAT   Personal Keyboard, which claims to replicate all the functions of a full-size keyboard. However these devices also require the user to learn another new skill if they are not a regular gamer."Chording tends to be unsellable to the mass market because people have to learn the functionality, or the combinations on the interface need to be explained somewhere. Having said that, chording is loved by a few: pianists, Street Fighter 3 players, etc."As far as m-commerce is concerned by far the most exciting development is Bluetooth as it will help to take some of the grind out of getting to a businesse's web site, after, say, you might have been enticed to do so by an advertising billboard.   this transaction. "You can take the most difficult part of the interaction process (entering in the web site address) and zap it to the users phone seamlessly", says Chipchase.In our convenience-crazed culture it could be the catalyst for m-commerce's success.
An evangelical Christian lecturer who helped run his local church youth club was convicted yesterday of sexually assaulting a schoolboy he befriended through an internet gay chatroom.Judge David Morris told Anthony Gray, 30, of Bicester, Oxfordshire, that it was inevitable that he would receive a lengthy custodial sentence.He added: "I have come to the view you came to Cardiff with deceit in your heart and lust in your loins."He remanded Gray in custody for reports and ordered him to register as a sex offender.The jury heard how Gray, who studied theology at Exeter and Oxford universities, met the 14-year-old boy after logging on to Gay.com and they chatted online about 20 times before meeting in Cardiff.Gray, now the father of a six-month-old daughter, was due to go to the city on a business meeting in April last year. The meeting was cancelled but he made the 200-mile round trip and met the boy at the city's central railway station. They went to a cinema and then booked into a hotel.Gray, who denied the charges, said that in the hotel room they had only chatted about the boy's struggle with his sexuality. But the judge said it had been "pre-planned" and that he had "wreaked his sexual satisfaction on a young and vulnerable boy knowing full well he was under age".Gray admitted he had told the schoolboy during their on-line chats that he was a 22-year-old openly gay man and said he wanted to advise the boy about his sexuality.Gray, now a lecturer for the Universities and Colleges of Christian Fellowship, said he had started struggling with his sexuality five years ago after seeing images of gay pornography on a borrowed computer.He described his home life as "happy and content" but found that he was excited by the gay pornography.The court heard that he bought gay porn magazines and videos on trips to London and Oxford and hid them from his wife in the attic. When police raided the house after his arrest in August they found 33 gay videos, hundreds of magazine cuttings and 3,000 gay images of teenage boys downloaded on to his computer.Prosecutor Greg Bull described Gray as a "Jekyll and Hyde" character who appeared to be a respectable citizen. "But he had deeper, darker motives for seeking out young boys," he said.The court heard that the boy told of the meeting when, three months later, his parents questioned him about his internet phone bill. In evidence, the boy, who had been given the computer with a dedicated phone line to help with his homework, said he was "confused" because he thought he might be gay. "I confided in my friends but not my parents. I was trying to speak to people of my own age who would understand me. I gave &#91;Gray&#93; my telephone number."After the hearing, the boy's mother said: "I would warn other parents to watch what their children are doing on the computer."The case comes after seven men were jailed for their part in the Wonderland internet paedophile ring.Michele Elliott, director of Kidscape, said recent cases showed the urgent need for restrictions on the internet.
Napster, the online song-swapping company, yesterday gave details a proposed subscription plan for users, a week after an appeals court ruled that its free service was illegal.The move was worked out with Bertelsmann, the entertainment company, and given to journalists in a private briefing in San Francisco last night.Napster, which faces closure for infringing copyrights, hopes that its proposals will convince the record industry and the financial community that it has a viable business model.Sources close to the talks said that the plan was likely to consist of a monthly membership fee of between $2.95 and $9.95. An estimated 61m users have so far downloaded musicfrom Napster for free, which led to the legal action against the company.Napster and Bertelsmann have spent the past six months trying to garner support for the plan from the other record labels. They hope that it can be used in any settlement discussions between the five major record labels that brought the lawsuit and Napster.They have had little success.   Even BMG, the record label owned by Bertelsmann, has not yet reached an agreement over possible compensation.The two sides have held settlement discussions with a court-appointed mediator.Analysts were expected to welcome the details of the alliance between Bertelsmann and Napster. The two companies announced their plans to work together on a new service last October, following judge Marilyn Hall Patel's initial ruling last summer.As part of the deal, the German company agreed to lend Napster about $50m to finance   operations and to work on a viable, subscription service.The agreement upset both Napster users and the the recording industry, which continued to push its case through the courts.Yesterday's announcement was made at a joint briefing by Andreas Schmidt, CEO of the Bertelsmann subsidiary set up to oversee the Napster cooperation, Shawn Fanning, Napster's founder, and Hank Barry, the company chief executive.Judge Patel is expected to release her new ruling within weeks. Napster has promised to appeal against the decision.
Heard the one about the Scottish comedian, the golden labrador stud and the professional cybersquatter? A bizarre introduction to a gag perhaps, but it is one that Billy Connolly may wish to add to his repertoire.Yesterday the comedian successfully wrested control of the internet domain namewww.billyconnolly.comfrom a cybersquatter who registered the name to advertise the stud services of his pedigree dog.Connolly was distinctly unamused when he discovered the site - still live yesterday evening despite the ruling - carrying a picture of the pedigree golden labrador, full name Rougemar Billyconnolly, and the message "Available now for stud duty". The site had been registered by the dog's owner, Anthony Stewart, a trader in internet domain names."Here I am getting ready to launch myself on the world wide web to announce my availability for stud duty and out of the blue Billy Connolly, the banjo playing, ex-shipyard welder from Partick, the well-known Glasgow suburb, wants to take possession of my web address, billyconnolly.com," the site says. "I know it's a dog's life, but is there no justice in this world?"Connolly took the case to the UN-controlled World Intellectual Property Organisation, which ruled yesterday that the 58-year-old comedian had the right to control the name.Connolly claimed he had established common law rights during a career spanning nearly 30 years. He said that sales of Billy Connolly merchandise since 1994 were estimated at £175,000.Mr Stewart originally offered to hand over the domain name in return for a five-year supply of Connolly's Tickety-Boo Tea and a press release to announce the agreement. But he then rejected an offer of £202.80, the cost of buying the tea bags commercially, and also knocked back an increased offer of £750 for the name. Mr Stewart increased his demand to £7,500, plus legal expenses.David Perkins, a member of the ruling panel, said Mr Stewart had intended to "tarnish and damage" Connolly's name, and rejected the suggestion that the website could be named after the dog, whose kennel name was Rougemar Pindar. He ruled that Mr Stewart was using the name in bad faith, and that he was in the business of buying and selling celebrity domain names.The UN introduced the system of control to prevent "cybersquatters" profiteering by buying celebrity domain names for a few dollars and selling them for vast sums.
Microsoft yesterday set the scene for what is likely to be a fierce struggle to establish the standard operating system for the next generation of mobile phones.The company announced deals with handset manufacturers Mitsubishi and Birmingham-based Sendo in addition to an earlier agreement with Samsung. Microsoft will hold trials of its system, called Stinger, with networks including Vodafone in Britain, Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile, Telstra in Australia and Spain's Telefonica Movile.Microsoft described the agreements as a "significant leap forward" in its attempt to break into wireless.Although a relative latecomer in the mobile phone market, Microsoft's ubiquity in the PC market means it is likely to provide a formidable threat.It is lining up against Psion, the British handheld computer group which is the lead shareholder in the Symbian operating platform, US business Palm and the i-Mode platform developed by NTT DoCoMo of Japan.Symbian yesterday announced a separate agreement to supply its operating software to next generation "smartphones" for Siemens, now the second largest mobile phone manufacturer in Europe. The deal prevented the Microsoft announcement from denting Psion shares, which closed 6p higher at 192p.Alive to the fact that access to the internet is moving away from the desk to mobile phones and television sets, Microsoft has been hurriedly adapting its software for different platforms.The Psion-led Symbian consortium took an early lead in   the mobile market with a set of investors including four of the world's top five handset manufacturers: Nokia, Motorola, Ericsson and Matsushita.Microsoft's agreement with Sendo is to develop handsets bearing the branding of the network operator, the mobile equivalent of own-label. Microsoft hopes it can erode the market share of some of the larger manufacturers by stealth - in doing so displaying a willingness to adapt its usual more aggressive approach to market. Sendo makes phones for Virgin Mobile.Microsoft presented the system at the GSM World Congress in Cannes, the annual mobile phone conference.The company hopes the first of its phones will go one sale before the end of the year taking advantage of GPRS technology, the interim between the current standards and the third-generation phone networks.The phones will offer large colour screens, email, faster mobile internet access than the current Wap phones as well as a diary, database of contacts, music and video. It also provides secure corporate web access. Microsoft's Stinger platform is built on a version of the Windows CE 3.0 operating system.GPRS, which has been dubbed 2.5G, is expected to provide a significant change in the use of wireless internet, providing much faster speeds. It will introduce "always on" technology, unlike WAP which requires users to log on every time they want to go online.The first Microsoft phones were about 30% smaller than the present average phone, the company said.
