Manitoba abounds in geography. The western Canadian province stretches from the shores of Hudson Bay to the North Dakota plains, taking in some of the world's largest freshwater lakes. Of interest, too, are the databases describing this natural wealth.The government of Manitoba says it was the first in Canada to make all its publicly funded geospatial data freely available, without any licensing terms, to government, businesses and citizens. This is the policy that Technology Guardian's Free our Data campaign calls on the UK government to adopt.Officials say that theManitoba Land Initiative, adopted in 2000, is based on sound business sense. "Frankly, it just did not make good economic sense to try and sell data that the taxpayers already paid for, and it was costing us much more to try to sell data and manage distribution then we were making in revenue," says Harvey Pokrant, director of the information technology services branch in the provincial capital Winnipeg.Under the initiative, geospatial data held by different provincial agencies is harmonised and made available to all comers through internet and intranet sites. This is a vivid contrast to the UK government approach, which encourages state bodies holding data to treat it as intellectual property and to charge for its use, even by other parts of government. Significantly, the Manitoba initiative includes the provincial property registry, a contrast to England where the land registry is a separate trading fund.In theory, freeing data along the Manitoba model should make life easier for officials creating policies for environmental protection, managing natural resources and encouraging investment in the province. It should also encourage the private sector to create value-added products based on public data.Pokrant says there is evidence that this is happening. "Since we liberated our data holdings and placed all our data on the web, we now have over 9,000 registered data users." The disadvantage of making data free in this way is that government has no immediate commercial incentive to keep its intellectual property up to date.Officials in Winnipeg say the land initiative is a part of an ongoing process, not a fixed or final product. "GIS users and decision-makers will guide future evolvement of this tool based upon their business needs."Could Britain follow suit? It is important to stress that Manitoba's geography could scarcely be more different - the province is three times the size of the UK, yet contains only 1 million people. This means that the workload of updating databases to include new buildings and other construction works is trivial compared with that faced by, say, Britain's Ordnance Survey.However, Canada is held by UK policy makers as an exemplar in several areas of e-government. As debate intensifies over the UK's future policy on public sector information, the Manitoba Land Initiative deserves to attract much interest.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The marriage season is in full swing, and I'm currently stuck in a week of two weddings - one between George and Rachel and the other between Treena and Nick. When considering the appropriate presents to give to these couples on the cusps of their (continued) lives together, my partner and I thought back on the most useful and important element which has kept us in relatively stable matrimony over the years - good, stiff competition mediated by playing computer games.Contrary to the images we've been fed by Hollywood, marriage is not a series of blissful and romantic moments. Ours is interspersed with inevitable disagreement and the joys of resolution. Rather than take up kickboxing together, and thereby having not only the (occasional) desire, but also the capacity to cause GBH, or draw upon lessons learned from a few sessions of primal scream therapy, I find that the tactical and cathartic properties of a good game have worked well to intervene in the "I'm-right-no-I'm-right" stand-offs.The obvious contender to resolve debates is a beat-em-up game, but I feel that virtually kicking the holy heck out of one another is too cheap. It can also lead to accusations of sabotage, thus spinning the original altercation over dirty dishes into new territory.A much better genre for solving interpersonal disputes is the strategy game; the old PC title Total Annihilation pits wits against wits as players develop mighty armies to destroy one another. It's like chess, but with guns. Again, I'm not so good at that one so it tends to stay in the cupboard.The best games I've found which assuage disagreements in our household are cooperative titles. They force players to work together to defeat a common enemy (instead of each other), so a series of joint decisions at breakneck speed often serves as the antiseptic cream for any emotional abrasions, which occur in real time. These games aren't about being "the best" at something, so ability isn't an issue. There's no leader board, just teamwork, thus forging ties and opening up communication channels that transcend petty arguments about whose turn it is to take the rubbish out. King among these is Halo on the Xbox. When one of us starts grumbling, we fire up the big green box and take pot shots at the Horde. As the old adage says, the family that plays together...And so, for couples about to embark on a formal rollercoaster ride of commitment, I reckon essential elements on the wedding list are games machines and cooperative titles. For partnerships made in heaven, two controllers are better always than one.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There is a character known as Mylo - Scottish musician Myles MacInnes - but he didn't inspire this latest personal communicator. According to Sony, Mylo stands for "my life online," which is what it is supposed to deliverwww.sony.com/mylo"It's ideal for people who want to stay connected to their online friends and family, but not be weighed down by a PC or buffeted by charges for IM and texting on cell phones," according to a Sony spokesperson.Mylo is basically a Wi-Fi device designed to send instant messages via Yahoo Messenger and Google Talk, though you can also use the internet to make VoIP phone calls via Skype. All three applications are built in, along with a web browser (which provides access to web-based email services) and 802.11b wireless networking.A Mylo could therefore make sense if you are an IM addict and live somewhere that has free Wi-Fi widely available, or you plan to use it mainly with a wireless network at home or at work.Alternatively, it could be useful if a group of people all own a Mylo, because it can form ad hoc networks even without a Wi-Fi base station.Mylo can also double as a portable music and video player, using headphones or its built-in speaker. It can play MP3, Microsoft WMA (protected and unprotected) and Sony Atrac music files. It can also play Mpeg-2 movies on its 2.4 inch, 20x240 pixel colour LCD screen - but, sadly, it doesn't seem to support the emerging H.264 video standard.Files can be transferred to the device via a USB cable or on Sony Memory Stick Duo, and the Mylo has almost a gigabyte of Flash memory storage. Sony says the lithium-ion battery "offers up to 45 hours of music playback, around seven hours of chatting and web surfing and more than three hours of continuous Skype talk time".This is more than most devices, though, of course, results will vary.What it doesn't have, shockingly, is mobile phone functionality - a drawback it shares with the little Nokia 770 tablet computer.This suggests the Mylo might not be a big hit in Europe, where Taiwan's HTC has enjoyed great success with a string of Windows Mobile-based smartphones-cum-PDAs sold by telecommunications companies such as O2, T-Mobile and Vodafone.There's also, of course, the product Paris Hilton made famous: the Danger/ T-Mobile Sidekick. Sony does compete successfully in this market, but via the separate Sony Ericsson operation.On the good side, IM and Skype-to-Skype calls are free, so buying a Mylo does not involve entering into an expensive contract. But it also means that mobile phone suppliers will not be knocking them out for low to zero prices subsidised by contracted usage charges.It's not clear what Sony's plans are at the moment. So far, it has only announced Mylo in the US, where it should appear in both black and white versions in September at $350(&pound;184).Mylo does represent Sony's return to a market where it once produced lots of innovative PDAs using the Palm operating system, before it shocked everyone by withdrawing from the global market.However, the PDA market is in decline, as many buyers switch to smartphones.Whether Wi-Fi will become cheap and ubiquitous enough to turn the tide is open to question, but if that happens, Mylo-style devices could lead the way.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The French reputation for broadband superiority rests mainly on a start-up company called Iliad. This provides more than a million French subscribers with a "triple play" package called Free, which includes 81 TV channels, unlimited phone calls within France and to other 14 countries, plus 24 megabits internet for just &euro;29.99 (&pound;20) a month.Free's Freebox was the system demonstrated on last week's BBC 2 Money Programme, The Broadband Boom and You (http://tinyurl.com/), where the British guinea pigs were taken across the channel and given a real taste of the inferiority of the services available in the UK.So how was it done? The foundation was laid by the French government which, in a spirit of deregulation, brought in what we call LLU - Local Loop Unbundling- in 2000. This enabled rival firms to install equipment in France Telecom's exchanges in order to provide an independent service. LLU is what has tempted TalkTalk into the UK broadband market.But then Iliad's young, entrepreneurial founder, Xavier Niel, decided he didn't want to use the usual ADSL equipment supplied by big companies such as Alcatel. Instead, Iliad designed and made its own Freebox terminal, to deliver TV, internet and VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) phone calls. Even more unusually, Iliad also developed its own Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer (DSLAM), the complicated exchange equipment that bundles up all the local traffic from separate lines and feeds it into the backbone network.You would not expect a start-up to introduce new technologies and pick up more than a million customers in less than three years without some teething problems. For example, Wikipeida describes Freebox as "a rather erratic ADSL modem" and at least some users have had problems getting the things working, or working consistently.On the other hand, that's also true in the UK, where some broadband providers have generated customer hatred for their inability to deliver a reliable service in a reasonable time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Civilization IV: WarlordsPC, &pound;19.99, 4 starsI think I may be getting too old for this kind of game. Not because of declining reflexes or coordination; any add-on pack for Civ 4 must remain a leisurely, turn-based affair. There's new nations and leaders to play with, six new scenarios based on legendary warriors such as Genghis Khan and Alexander the Great and new units for every nation. And as you might expect, the gameplay is unchanged - brilliantly tactical, with the usual comic animations as units clash in slow motion. Civ fans would not have it any other way. So, I'm more than up to playing this game; the question is, can I afford to? Once you get to my age, the thought of throwing away 1% of my remaining life expectancy on conquering the Persian Empire seems a little profligate. Still, in a sea of shoot-em-ups, this series retains its unique charm.MAThe Ant BullyPlayStation 2, PC, &pound;39.99, 3 starsWhile The Ant Bully may not be hugely convincing in grown-up gaming terms, it should keep young fans of Lucas Nickle, the boy shrunk to the size of an ant and forced to contribute to his new environment, occupied for considerably longer than the film on which it is based. Unsurprisingly, The Ant Bully is an action-platform game with some neat touches cribbed from the film - such as the ability to assemble pyramids of ants which act as ladders or bridges, for Lucas to float around on air currents using flower petals as a parachute, and for him to use silkworm-guns to keep marauding wasps at bay. The game could use a bit more hand-holding at the start (so parents should be prepared to assist in the early stages), but it offers a substantial and engrossing experience that should keep youngsters quiet and enthralled for a satisfying amount of time.SBCarsPS2, Xbox, Gamecube, &pound;19.99, 3 starsSadly not the long awaited Gary Numan game, Cars is instead a tie-in with the Pixar movie of the same name. The action revolves, as you may expect, around racing the titular vehicles and completing some fairly amusing mini-games. A wee bit of freedom is included, with players able to search the main hub area for hidden goodies, but the meat of the action is the racing. And for the core pre-teen audience - there is a special short version of the game for very young children - Cars offers some rewarding and accessible entertainment. Winning races is insultingly easy with AI opponents reaching for the brake if they get too far ahead of you. But the charm of the characters makes it hard to dislike. Older children will be dismayed by the sluggish feel of the vehicles and the easy learning curve. But Cars is a polished and professional movie tie-in that will appeal to those far too young to drive their own.GH&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Rumours had been circulating for months about the goodies that Apple might unveil at this week's Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco. A new professional Mac? The new OS X 10.5 operating system, known as Leopard? What about a new iPod? Or perhaps even, some speculated, the appearance of an iPhone.By the time Apple chief executive Steve Jobs took the stage to deliver his presentation, the frenzy of excitement which usually surrounds his keynote speeches was again in evidence: a hall thronged with journalists and fans, while hundreds of thousands of enthusiasts gathered online to try and keep up with announcements. In the end, though, they got what they expected and no more.The crowds at WWDC are, by the event's nature, Mac developers, and Monday's announcements were squarely aimed at the professional user. The centrepiece product was the high-level desktop Mac, the Mac Pro.Based around a pair of dual-core Intel Xeon (Woodcrest) processors, Apple is not joking when it calls this the fastest Mac ever: the quad core machine can run at up to 3GHz, and its 64-bit Core 2 Duo architecture means that it's future-proofed for some time yet."Today the Power Mac is going to fade into history," said Jobs.The built-to-order Mac Pro should operate at up to twice the speed of a Power Mac G5, according to Apple, and includes eight FB-DIMM memory slots, support for nVidia and ATI graphics processors, along with space for four hard drives and a pair of optical drives. It will also be backed up by a new version of the company's server product, Xserve.The "standard" Mac Pro set up will set you back &pound;1,699 including VAT. American buyers get the same for $2,499, which works out at just over &pound;1,300 before any sales taxes.Cheese grater look preservedBut although the interior may be radically different, nothing seems to have changed on the outside. Just as the iMac switched to Intel without ditching its form, so the old PowerMac "cheese grater" look has been used for the new Mac Pro with only a few tweaks. Why has Apple, a company that prides itself on innovative design, stuck with old styling? Observers say it is partly to assuage the fears of the hardcore Mac faithful, and partly because the design works - it is, after all, the same basic shell that has been banging around Cupertino for years.There wasn't just hardware on show: Apple also previewed a selection of features from Leopard, the latest incremental version of the now five-year-old OS X system.In what surely counts as a case of preaching to the choir, Leopard was trailed with a selection of Microsoft-taunting slogans ("Microsoft has a cat, too. A copycat," "Hasta la vista, Vista" and "Redmond, start your photocopiers" were among the jibes which might prompt the company to start thinking about hiring some new copywriters). The idea, for those unable to spot the campaign's subtle approach, was to point out that Microsoft's long-delayed Vista - which is not expected to reach consumers until after Christmas - has many features that OS X rolled out years ago.True enough, many of the "breakthrough" developments heralded by Vista are already standard in OS X, and Mac fans have a right to crow about such advantages. But some were left wondering whether a return to Apple's old-fashioned competitor baiting is really a productive strategy - especially considering the fact that Boot Camp, which allows users to dual boot OS X and Windows on the same Mac, has proved so successful that Apple will include it in all copies of Leopard.Building virutal desk topsBut this is just a small part of the changes afoot in the new version of the core operating system. The headline features of Leopard revolve around a handful of ideas new to the Mac platform.Time Machine, an automated backup system, is set to take care of the enduring problem of users who fail to back up their data. Running constantly in the background, the system keeps track of changes, and should allow users to recover deleted or corrupted files, as well as rebuild their machine as it was at a specific point in time.Another major development is Spaces, a way of building virtual desktops for running groups of applications. Users can split their machine into different desktop clusters - particularly useful as a way of handling multiple windows inside OS X. While virtual desktops are already standard on many other machines, Spaces seems well designed and put together.There were other new features unveiled, too. Developers and users will find it easier to build new Dashboard widgets, there will be better integration of Spotlight search functions, and extra facilities for Mail and iChat. Other special features, said Jobs, were being kept under wraps - in case they end up in Vista.But despite all the talk, this product is not yet ready. Leopard, said Jobs, is due to arrive next spring, though given Apple's penchant for setting deadlines that can be beaten, it would be no surprise to see it unleashed by next January's MacWorld conference, in San Francisco.Those expecting anything more were disappointed. Privately, Apple had already scotched chatter of any new consumer-level releases, and given the niche audience of developers, the gossip of new iPods and iTunes products seemed premature.The real triumph, of course, is that the event marked the last part of Apple's switch to Intel chips.With the Mac Pro, Apple has put the final pieces of the Intel puzzle into place and, despite a few casualties along the way, has completed the transition inside 14 months without much of a hitch.&amp;#183If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
My 40GB iPod, which I received for Christmas 2004, has recently frozen. When I took it to the Apple Store in Regent Street, I was told that the hard drive had failed and that as the one-year warranty had expired, my choices were to spend upwards of £100 having it repaired (and they couldn't guarantee that this would solve the problem) or to buy a new iPod costing some £160 or more. The implication I got from the store was that by putting a one-year warranty on the iPod, Apple believed it to be a disposable item that wouldn't have that long a life-span. Needless to say, I won't be buying another iPod. James StepIn a recent article in the Chicago Tribune, Apple spokeswoman Natalie Kerris was quoted as saying iPods were designed to last "four years" but apparently was misquoted: she meant "for years". However, Apple only guarantees iPods for the usual one year in the UK (an AppleCare warranty offers a further two years, if you pay for it), and in May a Guardian Money story said: "Apple operates on the basis that the iPod life expectancy is a year, and that's it." (http://tinyurl.com/zkga9)Under the Sale of Goods Act 1979, your rights extend for up to six years, but you will have to work hard to make use of it. Contact the head office of the retailer and explain that you plan to take action through the small claims court to recover the value of the balance of the period that the product should reasonably be expected to last. You will probably need to get an independent "expert opinion" on the state of the device, to prove that you did not damage it yourself. This could be provided by an electrical repair shop for a fee of £30 to £40, or less. If you have to pay this fee yourself, you can reclaim it in court as well as the refund.You might be offered a settlement. If not, it could be an interesting case. Hard drives are inherently somewhat fragile, and portable devices such as iPods are susceptible to knocks, including the risk of being dropped.Backchat: Rob Clarke had the same problem and says: "With the iPod plugged into a PC, I was able to re-format the disk with Symantec's Partition Magic and this revived it."Peter Kewley says: "Further to your story about being able to re-start an iPod by formatting its disk: some time ago I got the message from my iPod that its file structure was corrupted. Not wanting to start from scratch with reloading, I dredged the old DOS commandchkdsk /ffrom my memory and it worked."
A colleague has received an email allegedly from NatWest asking him to click on a link and confirm details of his account. The email looks authentic, sporting the NatWest logo etc. Is the best response to simply delete it or to advise the bank? My colleague is not a NatWest customer. Jim Mc AllisterDelete it. Millions of these phishing emails are sent out every day, and if everyone reported them, the banks would be deluged. There is a community effort called the Phishing Incident Reporting and Termination (PIRT) Squad, which is dedicated to taking down the fake web sites used to collect victims' financial details. This is the key to making phishing spams pointless, but I don't know if it is having any success. See:http://wiki.castlecops.com/PIRTBackchat: Paul Laudanski of the Phishing Incident Reporting and Termination (PIRT) Squad, which I mentioned, says to send them to pirt@castlecops.com. Christina Murdoch sends the ones purportedly from financial institutions to reports@banksafeonline.org.uk, and says: "eBay and PayPal phishing emails can be forwarded to spoof@ebay.co.uk and spoof@paypal.com". Martin Humphries sends "West African 419 fraud emails to Fraud Alert, the Metropolitan Police initiative, at fraud.alert@met.police.uk."Keith Williamson, of Scientific Software Systems Ltd, adds: "I quite often click on the links in these messages to see if they still work (I have a professional interest, being involved in finance sector IT). In the vast majority of cases they don't, because the offending web page has already been taken down. This suggests that anybody who is taken in by such scams must be very quick off the mark."
If I access Hotmail on a computer other than my own, will my messages be secure or could someone else gain access to them? James HunterYou cannot trust the security of any computer you do not personally control, and even the ones you do control are a risk! There are plenty of ways for the PC's owner to log every keystroke you enter, without you being aware of it, and even innocent desktop search tools can record emails. You can minimise the risk by only dealing with people you trust, by using a secure connection, by emptying the cache (Temporary Internet Files) and closing all browser windows, and so on. If security is critical, try running your own browser from a USB thumbdrive. The StealthSurfer II Privacy Stick (www.stealthsurfer.biz/) is designed for the purpose.
I can't download my POP3 email from BT Yahoo! I get an error message 0x80042110 that says: "The number of messages returned by the STAT command does not match the number of items returned by the UIDL or LIST commands. Contact your POP3 or Internet service provider." Yahoo says it's nothing to do with them and they don't understand what it means. Bernard MeakinsGenerally it means that you have one or more corrupt messages in your mailbox, so you need to log on via the web and delete it - or delete as many as needed until you find it! The topic is mentioned onYahoo! Answers.If you cannot log on to a mailbox via the web, MailMaint (www.magsys.co.uk/mailmaint/) software provides another way to do POP3 mailbox maintenance.
The printed version of the Guardian Technology section is out today, and you can also read it onlinehere. This week's features include:Dead disks yield live informationRemember the old PC that you or your company got rid of? Did anybody wipe the hard drive, or does someone now have your personal data? Peter Warren reportsThe age-old battle for power and sex.comThe fight for the world's most seductive internet address is a Trojan war story for the digital age, writes Kieren McCarthy.Bye-bye Power Mac... hello Mac ProAt its annual developers conference this week, Apple delivered just what its supporters expected - and no more, says Bobby Johnson.Spam callingSpam phone calls from abroad are flooding the UK as international call costs fall to almost nothing. Wendy Grossman reports.Free ManitobaThe Canadian province is doing something the UK should copy: freeing data, says Michael Cross.Beaming in on a deadly diseaseOnce the stuff of science fiction, charged particle beams are being used in the fight against cancer.Connecting to the NHS 'spine'Unless hospitals can be certain that information applies to a unique patient, the government's vision of electronic health records accessible from anywhere in the NHS is a castle in the air, says Michael CrossMicrosoft heads for the zone with ZuneMicrosoft has finally tired of its "partners" in the digital music player business trying to wrestle Apple's iPod to the ground marking an important shift in the software giant's approach to partnership, says Charles Arthur.TechnobileWhy are we subjected to folksy family fun when we just need a quick word?Letters and blogsSend your letters. comments, questions and rants to tech@guardian.co.uk and please include your address and telephone number.Games reviewsCivilization IV: Warlords | The Ant Bully | CarsGamesblogContrary to the images we've been fed by Hollywood, marriage is not a series of blissful and romantic moments.Newly asked questionsHow did the French suddenly get better broadband than us?Mylo, isn't he out to destroy rock'n'roll?Ask JackSend your questions and comments to jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.NewsbytesChild safety online | Google's space | 3D view | Live Spaces goes live | Apples in cars | Disc tracking | GI convention
One of the most interesting responses to my recent30-something bloghas come from user TheFool. While he touches on one of the real issues that makes it harder to play games as you get older - lack of time - he nails down what is probably the most important reason."All these guns and war and orcs and girls in leather bikinis ... It's like they rehabilitated and cloned the Columbine boys in game design departments across the planet."I love World of Warcraft (orcs) and Battlefield 2 (guns) and will argue with anyone that gaming is a valid and unique artform, but you know, it's hard to really disagree with his statement. I was flicking through a PC games magazine - it's been a while - on the train the other day and felt embarrassed reading something in public that had page after page of "guns and war and orcs". And yes, I know games mags are aimed at a much younger audience - Edge aside - but seeing the sci-fi/fantasy hegemony splattered across 90 odd pages made you realise that the industry has a long way to go if it wants to gain or retain the interest of adults whose cultural interests extend beyond Lord of the Rings and Star Trek. Or, as TheFool puts it, "is gaming incompatible with a full, culturally broad, grown-up's life?"
Thereviewsare in this week, with summer holiday movie tie-ins The Ant Bully and Cars joined by the latest Civilisation add-on, Warlords. While the first two are slick and perfectly playable titles aimed squarely at the kids, Warlords adds yet more content for Civ 4 fans to strategise over. Personally I haven't played a Civ game for years - I fully intend to rediscover them in later life when the reflexes required for other games have finally been shot - but it gives me a warm nostalgic glow to know that the series is still going strong.Elsewhere there is a look at theMicrosoft Zune, while Aleks offers someinteresting adviceto those of you wondering how to resolve any marital disagreements - play co-op games.And so, for couples about to embark on a formal rollercoaster ride of commitment, I reckon essential elements on the wedding list are games machines and cooperative titles. For partnerships made in heaven, two controllers are better always than one.I think she has a point too, although in my experience - not personal, honest - one of the couple, normally the man, will take over or get frustrated, leading to yet more arguments. At that point there becomes only one way to defuse the situation - Singstar singoff.
Erasing data from a computer is not as simple as the manufacturers would have you believe. Just deleting it or reformatting the hard drive does not remove the data, and the secure removal of data about individuals by companies is now a legal requirement.There are a number of methods used to "delete" data from a hard drive. These methods do not remove the data, they simply make space available for the system to use when next required. The data remains on the disk. Readily available software tools can be used to restore the data. Some are even free.When data is deleted, all that actually happens is that the computer marks the space as available for reuse - it does not removethe data. The only way to remove it is to overwrite it. But failing to delete data may result in identity theft, financial loss, fraud or blackmail. Such concerns have prompted Microsoft to add a drive encryption feature called BitLocker into its new Windows Vista system to protect data on a PC.According to Nick Coleman, chief executive of the Institute of Computer Security Professionals, the Glamorgan research highlights a glaring problem for the computer industry. "This is about how you manage data to the end of its life and what is best practice. People are used to buying shredders to get rid of paper information; now they need to be pointed in the direction of properly accredited people who they know are competent to destroy the data for them."There are disk wiping utilities and programs available that will erase data if correctly used. Some programs erase the entire disk, while others allow you to select which files or folders to erase. It is important that the utility or program provide an option to erase free space.Life Cycle Services has a list of data removal programs and instructions atwww.howtowipeyourdrive.com
Bill Kerridge is a North Shields publican who runs an award-winning pub in the Tyneside Town and whose daughter is a talented gymnast. Normally, Kerridge would be happy for the readers of a national newspaper to know those details, only he is not because along with a wealth of other information relating to his family, it was recovered from a computer hard drive bought off the internet via eBay that the Kerridges knew nothing about.The news that such personal information about his family holidays, his eldest daughter's training regime, details of his business and of other members of his family - which was recovered as part of an investigation by BT and data destruction specialists Life Cycle Services, carried out by researchers at Glamorgan University - has profoundly shocked Kerridge.Richard Martin, 53, was another individual who felt the same way. A hard drive from a personal computer that he had thought he had disposed of properly yielded highly personal letters relating to his financial affairs including details of bank accounts and insurance claims.All of which is potential gold dust for the UK's fastest growing crime trend, identity theft."I think that this is shocking, that there is information like this going around about my family," Kerridge says. "Basically I think that there should be a lot more information made available to people on how to destroy the data on their computers. I wouldn't know the first thing about how you would go about destroying this data."Valuable informationMartin had given his computer to the IT department of Man Trucks, the company he was working for, and asked them to destroy it. Both Kerridge and Martin are fairly typical of the bulk of the UK population who see the value of new technology in the computer rather than the data it is able to process, obtain and retain.A potentially fatal error given the close relationship that now exists between ourselves and computers, as the Kerridge's case has proved.As the university's forensic team conducted the research, it peeled back the layers on the disk. Web searches, phone numbers of employees, email conversations with family friends and details of their daughter's boyfriends - all spilled onto the university computers.There was enough data for a would-be identity thief to garner more information by ringing up those people identified and "socially engineer" more relevant details.In the case of Rob Morris, a 38-year-old IT worker from Swindon, it could have been even more damaging. Details of his mobile phone account were found on a disk that had been disposed of by Vodafone - which bought the company he worked for, Cellular Operations, in 2003.According to Morris, Cellular Operations also held crucial personal details such as his date of birth and credit card records on the diskarded disk."When Cellular Operations was taken over by Vodafone they were only interested in the subscriber base - they got rid of the buildings, the computers and the people," he says. "It's a bit worrying that a company like Vodafone has not disposed of it properly."It is also potentially illegal and could lay Vodafone open to prosecution by anyone who finds that poor safeguards on their personal data have led to any loss from ID thieves or hackers - a risk highlighted by the Information Commissioner, Richard Thomas, in his annual report last May."My office has exposed an alarming trade in illegally obtained personal information," he said. "Impersonation and bribery are used to get inside information ranging from car registration details to bank records."Being careless with personal information also breaks the Data Protection Act, a point forcibly made by a spokeswoman for the Information Commissioner.She says: "With the widespread use of technology and the constant updating of systems, it is imperative that information about individuals is kept secure at all times, which is why we have the DPA."Despite this, the BT and Lifecycle Services research uncovered huge amounts of company information from Man Trucks, a German transport manufacturer with its UK headquarters in Swindon.Network hackedThe company, which has a worldwide workforce of 58,000 and sales of &euro;14.7bn, had again disposed of hard drives from computers that contained highly detailed company information including personal details on staff payroll, internal contact details, internal planning and strategy documents, written warnings to staff plus copies of invoices and orders.Sufficient information had also been recovered on the company's computer network to allow the multinational to be effectively hacked, and indeed one disk appeared to show that a Trojan had been installed on the computer of one manager. "A Trojan program is one that lets a hacker siphon information out of a computer and the Man Truck disk that we looked at showed that the computer had been turned into a server that was using port 8182, which is very unusual," said Dr Andrew Blyth, who oversaw the Glamorgan research.Which is just the sort of insight Blyth was hoping that the cast-off computer hard drives would turn up."This fits in with ongoing research that is being carried out here by out specialist forensics team into the business and personal impact of people not disposing of their data properly," he said."People have got the message with personal information and how they should use it online, but they have not got the idea with the electronic information that is stored on their computers. They think that when they hit delete that the data fairy comes along and the information is wiped off forever."The research - which was based on 317 computer hard drives obtained from the UK, North America, Germany and Australia - showed just how many people believe in the data fairy: though 41% of the disks were unreadable, 20% contained sufficient information to identify individuals, 5% of the disks held commercial information on organisations ranging in the UK from Man Trucks to Easington Council, and included records of a Children's Day Care centre.There was also illegal information with 5% of the disks holding "illicit data" and 1% of the disks bearing paedophile information. As a result, a criminal investigation has been launched in South Wales and another one in Australia."This is the second time we've done this research and it shows that businesses are neither taking adequate precautions nor meeting their obligations," said Dr Andrew Jones, BT Exact's head of technology research. "Given the rise in ID theft we need to do better, and finding out things like that is the point of the research."Just how compromising and thorough the information stored on computers can be was demonstrated by data obtained from disks belonging to Port Weller Dry Dock, a Canadian ship building company.On the drives was information that showed the company had details on a bid for the US Navy's top secret DD21 destroyer programme, part of a US defence programme intended to equip the US navy for the 21st century.There were also details that compromised one company employee, showing him to be a closet transvestite and potentially leaving him open to blackmail - once again showing just how intimate the relationship with our computers has become. Other drives from Port Weller also contained even more compromising sexual information.Jon Godfrey, managing director of Life Cycle Services, which recycles computers and destroys any data left on them, says: "The thing about computers is that they hold a complete personal profile on you and they compile it over a number of years and then people just throw them away with that slice of their lives on them."People get worried about losing data on computers but they don't realise that erasure is as important as retention. The survey shows that the commercial sector is still chronically ignorant of the destruction and retention of data, and our experience is that the problem is actually worse than the study suggests."Ensuring data is completely destroyedErasing data from a computer is not as simple as the manufacturers would have you believe. Just deleting it or reformatting the hard drive does not remove the data, and the secure removal of data about individuals by companies is now a legal requirement.There are a number of methods used to "delete" data from a hard drive. These methods do not remove the data, they simply make space available for the system to use when next required. The data remains on the disk. Readily available software tools can be used to restore the data. Some are even free.When data is deleted, all that actually happens is that the computer marks the space as available for reuse - it does not remove the data. The only way to remove it is to overwrite it. But failing to delete data may result in identity theft, financial loss, fraud or blackmail. Such concerns have prompted Microsoft to add a drive encryption feature called BitLocker into its new Windows Vista system to protect data on a PC.According to Nick Coleman, chief executive of the Institute of Computer Security Professionals, the Glamorgan research highlights a glaring problem for the computer industry. "This is about how you manage data to the end of its life and what is best practice. People are used to buying shredders to get rid of paper information; now they need to be pointed in the direction of properly accredited people who they know are competent to destroy the data for them."There are disk wiping utilities and programs available that will erase data if correctly used. Some programs erase the entire disk, while others allow you to select which files or folders to erase. It is important that the utility or program provide an option to erase free space.Life Cycle Services has a list of data removal programs and instructions atwww.howtowipeyourdrive.com&amp;#183If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Be careful before wishing for cheaper phone calls - you may get them. As I did. The voice at the other end is cheery, upbeat, relentlessly American. Until recently, I assumed I got them because of my American connections, and believed that the calls originated in the US partly because of the perky voice and also because they arrive at an American's idea of British dinner time. Telemarketing calls during dinner have been a staple of American life for so long that sitcoms have stopped making jokes about them.But my British friends get them too. Being registered with the UK Direct Marketing Association's subsidiary, theTelephone Preference Service, makes no difference. With most experts predicting that long distance telecommunications costs will drop to zero, the UK may represent the next "growth market" for transatlantic telemarketers frustrated by the new "Do Not Call" facility that was introduced in the US in 2003"We as an organisation are very concerned. It brings the entire industry into disrepute," says Robert Dirskovsky, senior manager at the DMA UK, who wants telemarketing to have a good name. He does not think my call came from a DMA member. DMA members are obliged to honour the Telephone Preference Service, and they are required to obey rules such as providing calling line identification (CLI, more popularly known as "caller ID").A common complaint, he says, is premium rate number scams. You pick up to hear a recording that ends with a premium rate number to call, typically to collect a lottery prize. The scammer makes his money from your call to that premium rate number, which may cost you &pound;10. Other common complaints these days centre on "silent calls". There, Dirskovsky says, automated dialler equipment puts through more calls than the company has agents available to handle and cuts the phone off when calls outnumber the staff.Dirskovsky sees several things wrong with the call I received. For one thing, it's illegal in the EU to use an automated dialler to call numbers at random, though many scammers do. Second, companies are not allowed to place automated recordings to consumers without the recipients' consent. "I think a lot of these are dodgy, if not fraudulent," Dirskovsky says. "I've long wanted to get the authorities to do something about it. I think they feel under-resourced. There's never a CLI, so it's really difficult to trace," he adds.Brave new telephone callsWe're so used to seeing characters in movies and TV shows keep crooks on the line long enough to trace their whereabouts that we're not really used to thinking that a phone call can be hard to trace. But these are brave, new telephone calls. Those traceable calls were carried over an exclusive circuit opened between point A and point B for the duration of the call until someone hung up. Even if you aren't a VoIP subscriber, as Dirskovsky says: "Many calls are circling the globe before they reach you. Once they're launched, they still cost the same."This is, of course, the same as email. "[But] it's nothing to do with VoIP at all," says Kerry Ritz, chief executive of Vonage UK. "The cost of bandwidth around the world is actually decreasing. There's a glut from the build-out in 1998 to 2000. There's huge capacity, and then people have to fill it, so they drop the prices." Most of Vonage's customers, he adds, are small businesses and private individuals, not the kind of folks who buy phone calls by the million."If it's a recorded message, it's probably a dodgy deal." And, he says, it's probably nothing to do with the US. Nonetheless, automated dialler software including recorded message facilities is readily available for as little as a few hundred dollars. One of the warning signs about my call is the missing CLI; hitting 1471 does not return a phone number. Throughout Europe, telemarketers are required to provide CLI, even across national borders. They are also required to provide the company name and contact information if you return the call.Reputable VoIP operators, like landline and mobile phone operators, pass CLI through their networks. But, Ritz says, "third-party least-cost routing is likely to send calls through systems that cut costs by eliminating CLI. It's cheaper not to pass it. There aren't as many checks and there is less head room needed in the call."My call is becoming more and more like a spam email: dodgy, annoying, random and remote. And although everyone has said my call probably has nothing to do with the US, the US is still, by a factor of eight, the biggest source of email spam.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) says that fraudsters' first contact with consumers was by telephone in 17% of the complaints it received from 2003 to 2005."It's not the first time I've heard of this," says Charlie Prescott, vice-president for international business development and government affairs for the Direct Marketing Association US. About a year ago, he says, "the DMA UK passed on complaints from people getting these recorded messages, all claiming to be from Miami and offering these cruises from Miami to Cancun. We said, if you can get us a phone number or a company name or location we will work with the FTC to shut them down."Things are going to get worseEven in the US, under the 1991 Telephone Consumer Protection Act, companies need to have consent to start calls with recorded messages, and they are required to honour Do Not Call lists in other countries as well as the US.Prescott makes it plain that things are going to get much, much worse. On recent trips to India, he has found that nobody uses the VoIP program Skype there because ordinary international phone calls cost less than a penny a minute. Given zero-cost calling, automated dialling, and recorded messaging, the price of voice spam will nearly match that of spam email. What cost there is, Prescott says, "will be pushed onto those stupid enough to call the premium rate numbers".Despite some collaborative efforts such as the London Action Plan (a 30-country effort to stop spam) and the Europe-US collaboration, the International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network, Prescott says there is no international system and there isn't good coordination among consumer protection authorities and regulatory bodies to put a stop to this.In fact, the FTC has proposed new laws, termed USSAFEWEB, intended to streamline sharing information with foreign authorities to ease investigating cross-border fraud, and it even has a name for the kind of call I got - SPIT, for Spam over Internet Telephony.In the UK, Ofcom, can do little its remit is telecommunications, not privacy, though it has recently beefed up the rules on automated dialling and silent calls. Privacy matters are the province of the Information Commissioner, Richard Thomas, who has no authority outside the UK.Prescott can't blame these agencies for making their own citizens their priority but, he says, the lack of an international system "drives me nuts". And he adds: "Believe me, what we saw with email and all that junk is going to go online and it's going to be voice calls."&amp;#183If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I never stole it. He stole it!" cries Stephen Michael Cohen, pointing wildly at the man who had been chasing him for over a decade. "It was you guys who went into court and explained that there was some cockamamie list and therefore he was the owner. The name sex.com has always been mine." The cockamamie list referred to is the internet's most valuable document: a list of the owners of all the internet domain names ending with ".com".And the owner of the dotcom mentioned - the infamous sex.com - is the man responsible for making all those millions of domains into property in the eyes of the law. On January 19 this year, Gary Kremen made the most of his extraordinary legal victory by selling that property for a record $12m (&pound;6.3m).But the tale of sex.com is about much more than property and money. It is a modern retelling of an ancient tale - a Trojan war for the digital age, except with Helen, the most beautiful woman in the world, replaced by the world's most seductive internet address. It reveals what men will do - and are capable of doing - when confronted with their most basic desires of sex and power.The battle began on October 18 1995, when Gary Kremen noticed that sex.com no longer listed him as its owner, despite him having registered the domain some 18 months earlier. Even at this time, the internet had barely penetrated the public's consciousness - the dotcom boom was another four years away - but both Kremen and Cohen had realised that a huge market would soon appear in this entirely electronic and virtual world, and sex.com would be one of its prime pieces of real estate.Life of crimeDespite having similar backgrounds as white, middle-class American Jews, the two men could not be more different. Kremen was a star pupil, gaining a degree in computer science before going to Stanford to sharpen his business brain. He has started a series of successful business before selling up and moving on, and his experience and understanding of the internet makes him a prized consultant.Stephen Cohen, on the other hand was an appalling pupil, barely scraping through high school despite an extraordinary intellect. With no qualifications and poor literacy, he turned to a life of crime, using his wits and almost unnatural gift for persuasion to pull off a long series of increasingly complex scams. After 20 years as a professional con man, he has become expert in company law, bankruptcy law, offshore bank accounting and countless other areas that proved useful in a lifelong quest for cash.Back in 1995, while Kremen busied himself with building from scratch what is now the internet's biggest online dating service, Match.com, Cohen applied his skills to figuring out how to get control of sex.com. Eventually, through a clever and complex mixture of charm, computer hacking and forgery, he managed to persuade the company in charge of all dotcoms, Network Solutions, to put the domain in his name.It was the start of a vicious decade-long fight between Kremen and Cohen that witnessed sordid affairs and spectacular break-ups, ruinous lawsuits, the theft of court documents, a nationwide manhunt, a gunfight, illegal offshore accounts, international stock scams, multimillion-dollar court judgements, a trashed mansion in one of the world's most exclusive neighbourhoods, and at the centre of it all, two men regularly in touch by phone - goading, commiserating, mocking and joking with each other.No strategy was too devious and no approach too risky in the struggle to own sex.com. From the very first day that Kremen finally sued Cohen - July 9 1998 - it was a high-stakes game with a worldly fortune guaranteed to the victor and the promise of ruination to the loser. Each knew his entire life depended on winning, and each knew that only one of them was ever going to win.The trouble is that Stephen Cohen refuses to accept he has been beaten. He lost the sex.com domain in court back in November 2000 but has yet to pay one cent of the $65m he was subsequently ordered to give Gary Kremen.To stop the courts getting at him, Cohen moved all his money between October 2000 and April 2001 to hidden offshore accounts and then moved himself to Mexico. Worried about Kremen's determination to get him, he then moved to Monte Carlo, living the high-life for a few years before returning to Tijuana some time in 2004. Despite Cohen's constant pretence to be in other parts of the world, Kremen discovered his nemesis was back and started plotting to get him dragged into the US.Profit from sex.comBut before his plan came to fruition, fate intervened. Cohen's step-daughter was arrested trying to smuggle 202 pounds of marijuana across the border in her car, insured in Cohen's name. The Mexican police started taking an interest in the con man. Four months later, on October 27 2005, he was arrested and transported across the border to sit in the same jail as his daughter. Two months later he sat in a San Jose jail facing Kremen and Kremen's lawyers, refusing to give any details about where his money was. Including interest, he now owes Kremen $82m, and Kremen wants it.The judge told Cohen that he will stay in jail until he hands over bank details, but eight months later Cohen's absolute refusal to be beaten means he is still there under lock and key, having not given a single usable piece of information.Cohen can certainly afford the massive fine, despite his endless protestations. A court appointed receiver back in 2001 estimated he had made at least $40m profit from sex.com alone between September 1995 and November 2000, but accepted that he had been stymied by Cohen stealing his own bank records while they were being copied for the court to review. Kremen's team of specialist financial investigators have since traced huge transfers of funds which suggest Cohen is sitting on several hundred million dollars.When Kremen did go after Cohen, Cohen used his huge income from sex.com to frustrate the legal fight. But then the dotcom boom hit and Kremen cashed in, most profitably with a $3m windfall thanks to an early investment in content management company Interwoven. Even so it took Kremen another 14 months to get sex.com back.From there it was another three years and a few more million in legal fees to finally get Network Solutions, the company that had wrongly given Cohen control of sex.com (and then refused to hand it back), to sit down at the settlement table with Kremen. They paid him an estimated $20m not to go to trial.But Kremen had already won his main victory - recognition by the US legal system on July 25 2003 that domain names were in fact property and an individual has rights over it, establishing a fundamental pillar within internet law.Before Kremen risked everything he had to get sex.com back (and then used the majority of the money from running it as a sex search engine to continue his legal fights), domain names were legally viewed as only being rented out for an annual fee by the company in charge; the domain owner had no legal rights over the domain itself. It was an insane legal inconsistency, considering the market value (even then) of companies such as Amazon and eBay that work exclusively through their internet addresses.But Kremen isn't finished yet. While Cohen remains in jail, with his next court appearance due in four months, Kremen is tying up loose ends. He lives in the San Diego mansion that he managed to prise from Cohen after Cohen tried to push it through a fake bankruptcy in September 2001. Earlier this year he also managed to get control of Cohen's shrimp farm in Mexico. But one thing that he doesn't have yet is a large series of internet addresses owned by Cohen that the court ordered five years ago should be handed over to him.While the domain name system enables words to identify individual websites, every single connection to the internet must have its own individual IP address, in the form of a series of numbers (eg 102.86.126.65). These act as a directory for the computers themselves. Domain names are associated with individual IP addresses, but the IP address itself forms the connection to the internet. However, despite being ordered to hand over Cohen's IP "address block", the company in charge of them, the American Registry for Internet Numbers (Arin) has refused to do so. So Kremen is suing it, and Arin is fighting back. The parallels to the sex.com fight are startling."It's an insiders' club," Kremen says. "They really have no defence. They said they would hand over the addresses if I signed this contract that basically allows them to do whatever they like. They won't allow a market or any transfers of IP addresses. It is a monopoly, it is not transparent and these addresses are valuable."Asked if he intends to do the same to the IP address as he did to the domain name and make it legal property - able to be bought, sold, traded and stolen - Kremen is unequivocal: "Yes."Coming from a man who spent 10 years chasing down one of the world's most successful con men and beat the most powerful company on the internet into submission, that threat is something that Arin is going to have to take very seriously.&#183;Kieren McCarthy's book Sex.com will be published by Quercus Publishing on November 2. More information on the case is atwww.sexdotcom.info&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Computer programs to get going with GoThank you very much for your article on Computers and Go (August 3): you may well have whet people's appetite for more. If so, they can easily download free programs that play Go fromwww.britgo.org.As you point out, these programs are not very strong, but do have value in challenging novices.Geoff KaniukI read today's article on Go with great interest. We have spent the last five years running workshops introducing the game to nearly 15,000 children and their teachers, and are the only full-time promoters of Go in the West. Our Zen Machine website (www.zenmachine.co.uk)gives an idea of the scope of our work.Peter and Sheila WendesZen MachineIn the version of your Go article on your website, it should not read 1027, but 10^27, or 1,000,000,000,000,000, 000,000,000,000. This is quite a bit bigger than 1027.John Horsfield-BradburyGames that fail to growIn the Gamesblog column (August 3), Keith Stuart asks: "Do games have the character to grow up?" Then he mentions a new type of game which he says is "a true next-generation experiment" with "real people, real adventures." No. They're not.Ed WalkerJust powerlessIn your interview with Will Wright, there is an error in one of the questions. The film Powers of 10, by Charles and Ray Eames, was made in 1977, not 1997. Charles Eames died on 21 August 1978. Ray Eames died 10 years later to the day, in 1988.Richard DoustRoyal College of ArtSpore's never looked so good. Your caption says: "A scene from Spore, developed by Will Wright, below." I wonder if Will Wright is aware of how similar his game looks to Prey...David CumborMiddlesbroughWi-Fi phone's for meMethinks Charles Arthur may have risen from the wrong side of the bed last Thursday - he was certainly anti the Wi-Fi phone. But this sounds a little like the device I have been waiting for. A Wi-Fi phone at home would allow me to take more advantage of VoIP using Skype or Gizmo or some other offering without being tied to a fixed position and without paying excessive mobile charges.Jack WhyteiPod lifeI bought my second-generation iPod in August 2002, and it still works perfectly, with reasonable battery life to boot. So I am now expecting it to fail sometime this month!Paul GodierBournemouthNot so gloomyI'm and so sick of the "doom and gloom" Sony stories. Listen, gamers are older. They can afford more. The Xbox 360 was going for over $1,000(&pound;525) on eBay and over $700 during the launch month. This should be an indication that gamers are willing to spend more. As for Blu-ray, I want 1080p movies. And I'm willing to spend money to get them. Got it? Good!David SalinasWould I be any good as a programmer?My parents often struggle to grasp the idea of me being a programmer. They are always asking, "what is it you actually do? "My Mum sort of understands so it was with interest that she sent me the article by cutting it out of the paper and then posting it to me, which in my book means that she has failed the programmer test before she has even taken it.http://hoskinator.blogspot.com/
Child safety onlineChildren are at risk online from adults pretending to be children. NetIDme Ltd, from Glasgow, offers an electronic identity card that children can use. The system has been field-tested in some UK schools and has now been launched in the US and other countries.www.netidme.com/Google's spaceGoogle will pay News Corporation at least $900m (&pound;472m) to be the search provider on MySpace and other sites.3D viewMatt Services, a UK company, has developed a new way to find information on your Windows PC hard drive - a 3D browser.www.spectasia.comLive Spaces goes liveMicrosoft has released an upgraded version of its MSN Spaces blogging/photo-sharing/social networking service. Now it's called Windows Live Spaces.http://spaces.live.com/Apples in carsIn the US, carmakers Ford, General Motors and Mazda will provide iPod connectivity in most of their new models next year. "More than 70% of 2007-model US automobiles will offer iPod integration," says Apple.Disc trackingDatacatch has announced Datacatch Librarian Professional Edition, a Windows program that tracks the contents of CDs and DVDs even after you have removed them from your PC.www.datacatch.com/GI conventionThe Association for Geographic Information is holding its annual conference, AGI2006, at the Business Design Centre, Islington, September 12-14.www.agi.org.uk/&amp;#183If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Still phishingA colleague has received an email allegedly from NatWest asking him to click on a link and confirm details of his account. The email looks authentic, sporting the NatWest logo etc. Is the best response to simply delete it or to advise the bank? My colleague is not a NatWest customer.Jim Mc AllisterJack Schofield replies:Delete it. Millions of these phishing emails are sent out every day, and if everyone reported them, the banks would be deluged. There is a community effort called the Phishing Incident Reporting and Termination (PIRT) Squad, which is dedicated to taking down the fake web sites used to collect victims' financial details. This is the key to making phishing spams pointless, but I don't know if it is having any success. See:http://wiki.castlecops.com/PIRTiPod casesMy 40GB iPod, which I received for Christmas 2004, has recently frozen. When I took it to the Apple Store in Regent Street, I was told that the hard drive had failed and that as the one-year warranty had expired, my choices were to spend upwards of &pound;100 having it repaired (and they couldn't guarantee that this would solve the problem) or to buy a new iPod costing some &pound;160 or more. The implication I got from the store was that by putting a one-year warranty on the iPod, Apple believed it to be a disposable item that wouldn't have that long a life-span. Needless to say, I won't be buying another iPod.James StepJS:In a recent article in the Chicago Tribune, Apple spokeswoman Natalie Kerris was quoted as saying iPods were designed to last "four years" but apparently was misquoted: she meant "for years". However, Apple only guarantees iPods for the usual one year in the UK (an AppleCare warranty offers a further two years, if you pay for it), and in May a Guardian Money story said: "Apple operates on the basis that the iPod life expectancy is a year, and that's it." (http://tinyurl.com/zkga9)Under the Sale of Goods Act 1979, your rights extend for up to six years, but you will have to work hard to make use of it. Contact the head office of the retailer and explain that you plan to take action through the small claims court to recover the value of the balance of the period that the product should reasonably be expected to last. You will probably need to get an independent "expert opinion" on the state of the device, to prove that you did not damage it yourself. This could be provided by an electrical repair shop for a fee of &pound;30 to &pound;40, or less. If you have to pay this fee yourself, you can reclaim it in court as well as the refund. You might be offered a settlement. If not, it could be an interesting case. Hard drives are inherently somewhat fragile, and portable devices such as iPods are susceptible to knocks, including the risk of being dropped.Insecure webmailIf I access Hotmail on a computer other than my own, will my messages be secure or could someone else gain access to them? James HunterJS:You cannot trust the security of any computer you do not personally control, and even the ones you do control are a risk! There are plenty of ways for the PC's owner to log every keystroke you enter, without you being aware of it, and even innocent desktop search tools can record emails. You can minimise the risk by only dealing with people you trust, by using a secure connection, by emptying the cache (Temporary Internet Files) and closing all browser windows, and so on. If security is critical, try running your own browser from a USB thumbdrive. The StealthSurfer II Privacy Stick (www.stealthsurfer.biz/)is designed for the purpose.Stuck mailI can't download my POP3 email from BT Yahoo! I get an error message 0x80042110 that says: "The number of messages returned by the STAT command does not match the number of items returned by the UIDL or LIST commands. Contact your POP3 or Internet service provider." Yahoo says it's nothing to do with them and they don't understand what it means.Bernard MeakinsJS:Generally it means that you have one or more corrupt messages in your mailbox, so you need to log on via the web and delete it - or delete as many as needed until you find it! The topic is mentioned on Yahoo! Answers (http://tinyurl.com/hjq2t) If you cannot log on to a mailbox via the web, MailMaint (www.magsys.co.uk/mailmaint/) software provides another way to do POP3 mailbox maintenance.Backchat&middot; A reader who is ex-directory was "horrified" by my response to Jessica James last week. I pointed out that if you buy a domain name, your contact details will usually be listed in a Whois directory, but Nominet, the UK registrar allows "non-trading individuals" to opt out. However, she had bought a .net domain and says: "I find that you cannot opt out of .net addresses, only from .uk ones." Nominet does not, of course, control top-level domains such as .com, .net and .org, or other countries' domains.&#183;Get your questions answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, onblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails to tech@guardian.co.uk
What is it with people? Ring them up and you get some half-soaked attempt at humour or their delightful toddler humming the Bob the Builder theme down the receiver.I mean, when they're not in, of course. We're led to believe that the only time answerphones are worthy of complaint are when some hard-hearted boss sacks his entire workforce by leaving a message - and that's only because he doesn't know how to text.But if I hear one more cheery "hello, I'm afraid I could be a while" then the oh-so-hilarious noise of a flushing toilet, I don't know what I'll do. That's a real life example, by the way. Drives me round the (U) bend. But not half as much as when the kids get to do their amusing "tell them we're not in" routine - with a proud mummy and daddy hardly containing themselves in the background.Perhaps the worst came this past Christmas when I called a business contact only to hear their youngest giggling his way through Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer. Bah humbug. I wouldn't have minded, but it was the office phone.Caught in a strange limbo of not quite knowing if there really was someone who'd mistaken a receiver for a plastic microphone, I listened transfixed for what seemed an eternity. Baffled, I was waiting for someone to come and wrestle the phone from the friendly little chap. And when I called back and back again, just to check you understand, I felt like Bill Murray in some warped remake of Groundhog Day.So wonderful to hear little Max having a fab time, but I only wanted to know could his dad make an appointment the next week. Inevitably, when I tried to leave my message I was cut off. No time for my bit.I've faced my own battles with family, work and phones. I invested in having a "virtual secretary" answer my calls for a while so I could pick my daughters up from school. My first day of using the service seemed so exciting - until the sole caller was my mum. And its days were numbered when a weakness with, erm, taking messages was revealed.When a contact confided: "You'd be better off with 1571," I knew it had to end. I still pick my girls up when I can - and divert my mobile to the office.Now we can all rent super new phone systems that mean customers' calls need never go unanswered again. Messages stack up in your voicemail box until they are what the marketing blurb calls "manually retrieved" (I think this means "picked up").Your calls can reach you by text or email or you can log on to what's known as a "cutting-edge web interface" - that's got to beat little Max or Mollie every time. "You never need never miss another call, or worry about losing customers' goodwill if you forget to collect your messages," the marketing men boast. Perhaps they should just threaten another chorus of The Wheels on the Bus.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Kevin Collins, senior program manager at Microsoft, demonstrated the HD DVD drive, which he said is scheduled to hit store shelves for the upcoming holiday shopping season, to attendees of the DVD Forum here," reportsCNet."The device -- about the size of a hardback book -- played "The Phantom of the Opera" as Collins pulled up a menu bar to display a few of its navigation and interactive features that can be called up on screen while a movie is playing. Collins said Microsoft's HD DVD drive will be among the least expensive of the HD DVD players, but he declined to disclose the drive's retail price."Comment: TheDVD Forum, founded in 1995, is the open industry organisation that defines and publishes DVD formats and specifcations, and that backed the creation and adoption of the extended DVD format called HD DVD.
Just went to Steve Jobs's blog,The Secret Diary of Steve Jobs, Aged 51 1/2, to get the facts about his underwhelming WWDC performance (even Wired's top Apple Cultist Leander Kahney wroteHas Steve Jobs Lost His Magic?) only to find that all the earlier content has disappeared. The blog has been renamed In Memorium and just says: "RIP. It's gone...."(Well, you can still get old posts from lots of places, such as Google's cache, and it seems some kind person haszipped it up on SendSpace.)Sob, now there's justCrazy Apple Rumours. (Business Week doesn't count: its Apple coverage is not funny on purpose.)
Speaking to friends who game has been rather depressing recently. All I hear is how bored of it all they are and how there is "nothing out". I've given up eulogising WoW or the 360 achievements system and have got bored of explaining the flawed economics of releasing bugger all games over the summer. Instead I've resorted to producing a calendar so we can tick off the days untilPro Evo 6, one of only two games - the other being Lego Star Wars 2 - that excites them all.But maybe this gaming ennui is more than just the summer lull. The PS3 is already discounted due to cost and a perception that it will offer merely more of the same shooting/driving etc. 360 is still not convincing a lot of them - despite my protests - and the PS2 is seen as essentially a Guitar Hero console. Handhelds? Again, seen as a snack rather than proper gaming.Perhaps it's an age thing as everyone I spoke to was 30 or over. Marketeers and analysts often talk of the 16-34 audience but you could knock 10 years off the latter figure when it comes to the appeal of many game releases. Gamers who have been through the broken promises - Mario 64/3D aside - of four or five "transition" periods may have finally given up when they realised that "next-gen" now appears to mean bland sci-fi first person shooters and urban action games. You could argue that this is a grumpy old-ish men thing that will be fixed come the Autumn game deluge, but the question remains. Have gaming's elder statesmen, the 30-something veterans of the C64/ZX Spectrum era, given up on gaming or has gaming given up on them?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
ModelFord S-Max Titanium 2.0iPricefrom &pound;19,995Top speed122mphAcceleration(0-60mph) 10.4secsConsumption(combined) 34.9mpgCO2emissions194g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelGordon BrownThey'd rather walkJohn PrescottOn the stereoArctic MonkeysEn route forfamily photo-opThe Ford S-Max deserves better than the appellation "people mover", but that's what it is. The problem is, nobody wants a people mover; you either need one or you don't. And if you have need of a seven-seat vehicle, then you can't really be too choosy about looks, because you are buying a bus. There is no point in being fussy about colour, because a stupid-looking car in a good colour still looks stupid. You might as well take the purple one they have in stock.For the people-mover-needing classes, the S-Max represents a belated attempt to prove that sensible doesn't have to be quite as hideous as previously thought. Sportier and lower slung than the dowdy Ford Galaxy, it very nearly has the proportions of a saloon and in profile it looks rather sharp. The overall shape is pleasingly deceptive: it is only when you get up close that you realise how big it is. It's a people mover without the shame.Inside, you sit much lower than you do in an old-school MPV. It feels like an aeroplane cockpit. Behind the gearshift there is a chunky lever that looks like something from the flight deck of a 747, but which turns out to be the parking brake. Even the air-con louvres have a space-age look.At times the styling gets a bit ridiculous; no one is going to mistake this for a sports car, after all. There are cooling vents behind the front wheel wells, which on closer inspection turn out not to be vents at all, but a bit of pointless detailing. There are also fake air ducts under the headlights which, like the vents, don't even have holes in them. If anything they must make the car less aerodynamic. The front grille is rimmed in orange plastic, as if the car were sporting a ginger goatee, an option to be politely declined if ever there was one. I know lots of cars have panoramic roofs these days, but I'm still not sure what purpose is served by a giant ceiling window that doesn't open.Round the back you have a choice between a capacious boot or the two extra seats - and you don't have to remove them; they flip up ingeniously from under the floor. Even when they are being sat on, there is enough room in the back for a washing machine. You can also flatten the three seats of the middle row if you want to jettison a few passengers in favour of an even bigger loading bay. In fact, there are said to be 32 configurations to suit every conceivable need - a diagram in the brochure, for example, shows you how to take on board four passengers, two suitcases and a kayak. There are an additional 26 stowage compartments dotted around the interior, including a couple of hidey-holes in the floor.I normally drive a Ford estate, which just holds the whole Dowling family and wisely leaves no room for anybody else. We don't want anyone to know what we're like when we're in the car. This does, however, leave us with limited options. When you are ferrying children around on a weekend, you inevitably pick up a few extra ones along the way. In circumstances where two more seats equals one less trip, the S-Max would certainly represent an improvement. This styled-up, motorised shed may not be as fuel efficient as some smaller cars, but the diesel model gets better mileage than David Cameron's hybrid Lexus, and with seven seats it's practically public transport.I never thought I would say this about a people mover, but I wish the S-Max was my car. Perhaps if my children weren't always squashed together on the back seat of a Mondeo they wouldn't fight so much. As I drove, I tried to work out a configuration where they would be optimally spaced throughout the cabin, with kayaks strategically interspersed between them to prevent arguments.There is a price to pay for all this room, however. The S-Max is distinctly sluggish on even a gentle incline. Putting the pedal to the floor with a full complement of passengers doesn't elicit much of a reaction from the two-litre engine. Of course you can get an S-Max with a bigger engine or, if you are in no hurry, an even smaller one.The S-Max boasts a range of safety features, including a "driver's knee airbag" which sounds, if nothing else, incredibly thoughtful. I was keen to see it deployed, but I couldn't think of a way to test its efficacy that would be agreeable to the people at Ford. There are also park-assist beepers that tell you when you are getting too close to the car behind. I used to think this a deeply irritating innovation - the beeps have a panicky urgency that bears little relation to the actual space between bumpers - but that was before I backed into a bollard in the Homebase car park last week, striking it so hard that now the boot of my car won't open. From now on, I would like to be cocooned in stylish safety, in a car that looks like a plane inside, fiddling with the parking brake while airbags massage my aching knees.&#183;Giles Smith is away
Way back in the daywe reported on Rupert Murdoch's intentions to move into the gaming space. While at that time such thoughts and contemplations were just rumour, a lot of water has passed under the bridge. Murdoch nowowns IGNand MySpace(see his - wink -MySpace sitefor details) and I noticed that both of these sites did pretty darn well for hits in 2005. Has anyone else?So according toMCV, RM has finally decided to act on his long-promised take-over of game-dom:Murdoch-owned broadcasting giant Sky has revealed details of a monumental move into PC gaming by openly looking for a new 'head of PC gaming'.The media behemoth is currently advertising for a candidate who will be charged with the task of managing the firm's forthcoming 'broadband games destination', and is also looking for a marketing manager to join whoever spearheads the new operation.The new revelation is widely believed to be part of the telecoms giant's move into both the broadband and games spaces as it attempts to take on established companies like BT and AOL.'course, he'salready making moves on AOL.MCV also points out that this may cause the knees of people in online gaming to tremble; the big bucks which the behemoth throws at his little projects has always tilted the scales in his direction. Is this the guillotine for innovative content or will online gaming become a populist sport? I'm still waiting to see what happens withMySun...
They call it "wiki-crack" - and in the summer of 2003 it took just one puff to change Mark Pellegrini's life. Pellegrini, a PhD student of electrical and computer engineering at the University of Delaware, was trawling the internet looking for questions and answers to a pub quiz he was preparing. He kept stumbling across Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia that anyone can edit, and getting "quality results". But when he came to the page on Joseph Heller, author of Catch 22, he noticed something missing. "I knew he wrote a sequel before he died and it wasn't on there. So I went on and edited it in. Then I was hooked."It was his first puff of wiki-crack. "I got a real rush. People like to know that other people are reading what they wrote."Before long the addiction had started to take over his life. He started offering new articles and editing more established ones. In December 2003 he stood to become a Wikipedian administrator (any Wikipedian with an account can vote) with access to technical features that help with maintaining the site. Since then he has climbed up the hierarchy to "bureaucrat", giving him the technical ability, among other things, to promote other users to administrator or bureaucrat status. Most recently he was elected as a member of the arbitration committee (only those who make 100 edits a week can vote), which is the highest dispute-settling body in the organisation before you get to Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy "Jimbo" Wales, who can deliver a fiat.How long does Pellegrini, who is also Wikipedia's featured article director, spend doing this? "In a slow week, a low-ball number could be 20 hours," he says. And a high-ball number? His girlfriend, who is a wearing a T-shirt asking, "But what if the Okey-Kokey is what it's all about?" giggles and Pellegrini chuckles with her. "Maybe 40 ... it becomes like a full-time job." Only Pellegrini does not get paid.To most, Wikipedia - the 17th most popular site on the internet - is a comprehensive if fallible online research tool. But to those like Pellegrini who attended last weekend's Wikimania conference at Harvard law school, it lies somewhere between a personal obsession and an entire world view.Opening the conference, Wales referred to it at different moments as a "mission", a "movement" and a "community". It has an established hierarchy, in which Pellegrini is one of a small number of aristocrats, which enforces "community norms". Those who transgress them inhabit their own subculture populated by "vandals" (who wilfully wreck the pages) and "sock puppets" (people who create multiple online personalities to make it look as though lots of people agree with them). "A lot of them are probably the sort of people who would have social problems in real life," said one wikimaniac over lunch, as though being a "wikiholic" suggested a full and active life.It is an easy world to ridicule. The conference is three-quarters male and 90% white, with the other 9.9% being of Asian extraction. "I got into it when my marriage collapsed," says Brian Corr, confirming the view of many that those most devoted to the internet are those with too much time on their hands. Back then he was the chairman of the mediation committee. "I used to do three or four hours a day then. But I'm in a relationship now and I have a kid. So I just do about two hours a week. I just don't have time to do more but now I've been to Wikimania, I might try and find time. It really is like a drug. It's challenging to do it moderately."Back at the podium, Wales announced: "We come from geek culture," claiming the insult for themselves as lesbians and gays have done with "queer". But in many ways Wikipedia is both a noble and radical project. Wales's aim is to provide everyone on the planet with access to a free encyclopaedia. He is eager for the encyclopaedia to make greater strides in Bengali and Swahili. "We are still not doing much for people in developing nations," he tells the conference.Unlike the blowhards who tend to dominate the blogosphere, this is a far more convivial group who try to govern the chaotic world they have created by consensus. "A lot of [vandals] come to the site but they tend not to stay," said one wikimaniac. "People try to give them advice about conforming to community norms."Funded primarily by a non-profit wing and small donations, Wikipedia takes no advertising. With only five full-time staff, it is operated primarily by volunteers. Running on its own brand of libertarianism, it is difficult to categorise politically. It is not anti-capitalist. "It's not, not about making money," says Daniel Bricklin, co-creator of VisiCalc, "father of the spreadsheet" and software developer of wikiCalc. But the insistence that it should be a collectively owned and governed space renders it anti-corporate, if only by default. "You can't talk about it in terms of left and right," explains Corr. "But the whole way it is set up is about inclusivity, community and equality rather than competition and individualism."For the most part, people at the conference didn't talk about it in these terms at all. When the wiki-crack takes over, all you are interested in is your next hit. Andrew Haggard, 20, from Cincinnati has been a user on Wikitravel, a travel site that anyone can edit, since March 2005. On Mondays and Thursdays he unloads a truck for a restaurant and on Fridays and Saturdays works in the restaurant. But somewhere along the way he has time to spend 10 hours a day contributing to the website. "I'll go outside every now and then just to make sure the sun's still there," he says.Haggard checks hotels.com to find listings for places to stay in cities he has never been to. He has called tourist offices to find out opening times to museums he will never visit. Why? Haggard shakes his head and smiles. He really doesn't know. "I like to see the things I've written up there," he says. He flew to Boston from Cincinnati on his own dime and for the duration of the conference he stayed in Everett, Massachusetts. "When I get back I'm going to write about Everett."A wiki is a basic software device that enables collaborative writing and editing. Herein lies both the underlying appeal and unruliness of the Wikipedia experience - anyone can create a page and change anything on any page at any time. In the time it has taken me to write the first half of this sentence changes have been made to the pages regarding Hizbullah, the Israel-Lebanon conflict and the South African rand.The key rules include that the information should contain original research - Wikipedia does not claim to be a primary source. The information has to be verifiable against a reputable source (blogs, I was told, are generally not regarded as reputable).And it should adopt a "neutral point of view" - an attempt to root out malice and bias, which becomes difficult to police over issues such as the Middle East. To avoid "revert" wars in which one user edits the text, another changes it back and then the first changes it back again, there is the 3R rule: any user who reverts the same text more than three times in a 24-hour period is banned from editing for a day. It goes without saying that the entire process is open to abuse. Tony Blair's page was once changed to describe one of his jobs as "George Bush's bitch boy"; some BBC Radio 1 DJs spent an afternoon defacing each other's entries live on air.But some subjects are constant targets and for them there are protected pages, which can only be changed by administrators and are often closed for days. At present these include George W Bush, Uma Thurman, Dick Cheney, transvestic fetishism, the Battle of Normandy, deconstructivism and Mexico. Others are semi-protected, which means they can only be changed by people who have registered at the site for four days or more. These include "gay", "Jew" "nigger", Halle Berry and Fidel Castro. For some reason "cheese" is a favourite with the vandals too.Next to each protected or semi-protected subject is an explanation of what has happened, which gives a glimpse of the Wikipedia vandal and the random nature of the targets."Gary Lightbody: persistent addition of libel and vandalism by a horde of sockpuppets.""Libertarianism: we have socks running amuck. Will keep this protected until the checkuser goes through.""Uefa Champions League 2006-07: edit warring over Serbia issue."A lot of vandals tend to be teenage boys. Rates of vandalism go up around holiday time and the weekend. Messing around with pictures on the penis page (which is semi-protected) is a favourite pastime for some. Notorious among vandals was a user who called himself Plautus Satire, who did unmentionable things to Einstein and Columbus pages to name but a few.When Pellegrini mentioned some of Plautus Satire's antics, such as insisting that Einstein was a plagiarist, I started to laugh. "It might be funny now," says Pellegrini, who clearly didn't think it would ever be funny. "But he was the most disruptive user in the history of Wikipedia."Usually these spoof edits are changed within days if not minutes. But occasionally they linger. In May 2005 Brian Chase, 28, created a page for John Siegenthaler, the prominent journalist and former assistant to Bobby Kennedy, in which for a prank he suggested that Siegenthaler might have been implicated in Kennedy's assassination and had lived in the Soviet Union for 13 years during the 70s and early 80s. The posting was up there for months until Siegenthaler saw it and went public with a broadside against Wikipedia. "Every biography on Wikipedia is going to be hit by this stuff," said Siegenthaler. "Think what they would do to Tom DeLay and Hillary Clinton, to mention two. My fear is that we're going to get government regulation of the internet as a result."When Jimmy Wales was summoned before the cameras of CNN to explain, his embarrassment was tempered by news that he was not yet in a position to share. Nature magazine was about to publish a survey where they picked science entries from Encyclopaedia Britannica's online edition and Wikipedia, sent them to experts without saying which was which, and asked them to check for errors. Britannica had an average of 2.9 minor errors per article; Wikipedia had 3.9. Britannica disputed the findings; Wikipedia hailed them as a victory."On Wikipedia, there is a giant conspiracy attempting to have articles agree with reality," Plautus Satire once wrote. But as long as there are people like Plautus Satire, that conspiracy will be challenged. After all, even the page dedicated to the Siegenthaler controversy is under semi-protection.
One day, you might get a phone call from a reporter who knows more about you than your mother ever did. Not just facts that are publicly available, but the kind of pornography you like, the time you thought you might have AIDS, how you planned to dispose of the body of your spouse, and so on. And if you have ever searched for bomb-making instructions or child pornography or something similar, you can now worry about the fact that someone may well have kept a record.The first person to be exposed in this way is "Thelma Arnold, a 62-year-old widow who lives in Lilburn, Ga.," and she was called byThe New York Times. Happily for her, she doesn't seem to have any skeletons in her closet -- she worries about the health of her three dogs, and her friends, and wondered when would be the best time to visit Italy.Arnold is Searcher No 4417749 in the search data that AOL released recently. It was, technically, anonymous data, but it was pretty easy to track her down from the searches she typed in.Ms. Arnold, who agreed to discuss her searches with a reporter, said she was shocked to hear that AOL had saved and published three months' worth of them. "My goodness, it's my whole personal life," she said. "I had no idea somebody was looking over my shoulder."The information has cost AOL a customer:Ms. Arnold says she loves online research, but the disclosure of her searches has left her disillusioned. In response, she plans to drop her AOL subscription. "We all have a right to privacy," she said. "Nobody should have found this all out."However, someone should tell her that practically every search engine keeps similar logs, and some may keep them longer, if not forever.The fact that those logs exist means they are at least potentially accessible to governments and other organisations that want them badly enough, and are willing to get them by fair means or foul.And the next expose may not be a friendly exchange between two older ladies like Ms Arnold and The New York Times.....
Two hardware stories dominate the internet this morning - at least the portion that concerns itself with techy trivia. First up, Microsoft has been showing off its Xbox 360 HD-DVD drive at the DVD Forum in Los Angeles. There's no price point or release date yet, butapparently, it's going to be one of the cheaper HD-DVD options available, and itshouldbe out by Christmas.Elsewhere, Sony officiallyannounced Mylo(short for 'my life online') a couple of days ago. It's a handheld internet communications device aimed at talkative teenagers. Featuring a 2.4" LCD screen, slide out QWERTY keyboard and 802.11b wi-fi, the gadget supports the Google Talk instant messaging service as well as Skype and Yahoo! Messenger. With 1GB of flash memory it also operates as an MP3 player and digital photo gallery.Sony hopes to attract thrifty students who'll be able to chat with pals via Wi-Fi hotspots without incurring mobile phone bills. Sadly, Mylo is currently only available in America where it retails for around 350 USD.Okay, so cynics may suggest that Sony is simply taking most of the promised communications functionality of the PSP and re-packaging it in a different form factor, but they're just spoiling the fun...
Last week, Alekspointed you towarda site that harvests MySpace banner games. Now, it's my turn to stop you doing any work.Diggpuzzles.comcollects together all the cool Flash games that appear on Digg - and as these have all been Dugg you can be sure they're going to be more fun than finishing off that overdue marketing report.The image above comes from the site's brilliant Metal Slug rip-off, which perfectly captures the real game's blend of relentless action and cheeky humour.
Dear Matt,I've recently bought a road bike, fitted with a 53/39 gearing, but any gradient over 16% causes me to come to a wobbling halt, followed by an unseemly toppling-off, because I can't get the necessary impetus even in the lowest gear. A friend advised me to change to a "compact" gearing, but I am unsure about the benefits. Or do I just need to get fitter and attack the hills harder?Steve Shaw,via emailGetting fitter and attacking the hills wouldn't hurt, but in the meantime it would be nice to save you toppling over. Triple chainsets on road bikes were all the rage, but they seem to have fallen out of favour. Compacts are the fashionable solution now.Compacts typically give ratios of 50/36 or 48/34, which means easier pedalling on the climbs. You can also improve your ratios by replacing the rear cassette, so that the biggest sprocket has at least 27 or 28 teeth.But technique helps too: try keeping a nice cadence - "spinning" - and pace yourself carefully so that you have something in reserve for the steep bits. Standing on the pedals gives you extra leverage and power for short distances.
ViaWatercoolergames, there are two highly topical newsgames making the rounds:Ynetnews reports on two newsgames that target Hezbollah's Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah.The first one, created by somebody called Amir Lotan, uses a Google Earth image -I assume that it is meant to be a picture of somewhere in Lebanon, Beirut perhaps? The gameplay is simple, whack-a-mole style. Nasrallah's face pops up and you must send a fighter jet to bomb him. ... the winning screen says something along the lines of "Very good chief of staff. Come back to work now."The second game is more complex. Nasrallah is shown performing a chicken dance and you are supposed to hit him with objects ranging from toilets and refrigerators to Israeli bombs. Other objects include a dead pig head (something meant to be offensive to a Muslim) and a dead peace dove. The game is hosted on an Israeli domain (.il)They'rehereandhereif you're interested.
We don't like Monday's. Chat now...
Thanks to everyone who turned up for last night's Gamesblog GRAW session. We had a dozen or so readers coming in and out for a series of closely fought Team Elimination rounds. The likes of Billy Brush and Spleeenboy emerged as seasoned pros, managing worrying bodycounts in each encounter. Mostly, the face-offs were pretty tense, often coming down to a final kill in the last seconds of a bout.Enjoyably stuff, and it was good to speak to you all, even though conversation was often limited to 'you go behind that rock and cov...' [sound of Keefer71 being shot from behind]...I'll arrange another session for next week sometime and am looking to form set teams so we can get a sense of competition going.Next up: Battlefield 2, PC, Monday 8pm. I'm better at that.
Nintendo UK have risen from their summer slumber to announce the launch date for theDS browser. The Opera software will launch across Europe on the 6th October, priced around 30 quid. The browser is available as a standard DS cartridge and comes bundled with a memory expansion pack that will help heavier pages load a bit quicker - hopefully. Tempted? I think I am, especially as the stylus should make navigation intuitive. But how will it display?Web sites can be viewed through the Nintendo DS Browser using two main modes. Overview Mode shows the complete web site on one screen and areas which are highlighted will enlarge on the other screen. It also features Opera's Fit-to-Width Mode where web sites will be adjusted to fit inside the two Nintendo DS screens, eliminating the need for horizontal scrolling.Parental controls are built in too, although I have sneaky feeling the browser is more likely to be used by dad on the sofa rather than little Johnny/Jane who are more likely to be hogging the PC/laptop for games, chat etc. Having said that, does anyone actually use the browser on their PSP? Still, the Opera browser launch continues the evolution of the DS from Game Boy's awkward cousin - with great games - to sleek n' sexy multimedia device - with great games - in the space of 18 months.
Although a confirmed PES acolyte, I look out for each instalment of the FIFA series with genuine interest. That's because EA Sports isalwaystrying something new with its long-running franchise - and often the ideas seem to have been scrawled down during some kind of surreal shamanic trance possibly involving certain plant-based chemicals.Take for instance the 'off-the-ball' feature from a couple of years ago, which invited you to simultaneously control your own player, plus the player you were passing to.Now, some pedants wrote this off as an extravagant and ridiculously demanding means of covering up for poor AI - surely your team mates should be able to make runs and read balls for themselves? However, there was clearly a highly developed zen-like philosophy behind the feature - the idea that the passer of the ball was also the receiver had profound karmic connotations that most reviewers failed to spot. I also enjoyed the fact that it was near impossible for most people to get their fat fingers around. This is not what we expect from an EA game.So, anyway, FIFA 2007 is on the way, and, once again, EA has some intriguing ideas up its copious sporting sleeves.For a start there's the 'Interactive League' feature, which allows you to control your favourite team in an online version of the Premier League, Bundesliga or whatever big division you fancy. And interestingly, matches take place concurrently with real-life meetings. The press release says:Experience the future of online gaming as you play your games according to the real-world schedule. When they play, you play. Track your team's progress as the aggregate results determine your club's position in the league table. Now you actually take to the pitch for the glory of your club. This is the season where you make the difference!This seems to be suggesting that both your own results, and the results of your real-life side are taken into consideration to formulate your standings in the online league. Already, EA is making some kind of complex post-modern comment on the relationship between real and simulated events in the digital era. Baudrillard - the French philosopher who declared that the Gulf war of 1990 didn't really take place as it was simulated into insignificance in advance - would certainly approve.There's also the slightest suggestion of another blissfully over-complicated control modification. Apparently, you'll be able to add top and back-spin to freekicks. Finally, the football sim meets the tennis sim. Why have they been kept apart for so long? Who cares if adding precise spin to a deadball is a skill that actually alludes many professional players?EA is also promising to deliver what other sports sim creators have only ever promised - proper cross-over gameplay between handheld and home platforms. FIFA 2007 boasts a management mode compatible with both PSP and PS2 - you'll be able to make changes on one format, then upload them to the other, giving you permanent access to your side. This, unavoidably, is the future of gaming. It is the EA dream - all your waking hours at the mercy of a single publisher.The defining moment of EA's press release, however, is the boast that FIFA 2007 features "intelligent A.I". So that's intelligent Artificial Intelligence. IAI. This represents an interesting assumption about what exactly the term AI has meant for the fifty years it has been in general use. Whatever it meant, it wasn't good enough for EA. "Watch as your players jostle and collide realistically while trying to win balls. Experience the realism of the world's superstars who come to life with signature moves and authentic playing styles," we are told.Thisis AI, you idiots.Reviewers who lazily refer to each iteration of the FIFA series as 'just like the last but with better graphics' are doing the brand an immense disservice. EA Sports is continually refining its engine, just as Konami is with PES, it's just that EA is a mad scientist, obsessed somehow, with both grassroots realism and the idiotic, illusory grandeur of 'signature moves'. In EA's schizophrenic universe, every Roberto Carlos freekick has a good chance of going in; no Ronaldo step-over is ever a wasted petulant extravagance. It is a mythological understanding of reality - gods fighting among men, at once ethereal and human.Konami just tries to make a good honest football sim. Really, when you think about it, how dull is that?
A teenager has been arrested on suspicion of hacking into a police computer, it emerged yesterday.The youth, 17, from north London, was arrested in connection with unauthorised access to the Devon and Cornwall police website on June 29, on suspicion of an offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. The website home page was replaced with one displaying the word "hacked".The teenager has been bailed to reappear at a London police station on August 31. A police spokesman said: "It is important to note that the force website is a stand-alone system and carries only public information."
Photo: EngadgetAs usual, Engadget has done a great job covering a live keynote, in this case,Steve Jobs at Apple's World Wide Developers' Conference. The good stuff includes a G5-replacement professional Mac with two 64-bit Intel Xeon (Woodcrest) Core 2 Duo chips -- the expensive ones designed for workstations and servers. Well done Apple for not shipping a 32-bit Core Duo version and almost immediately making it obsolete....While highlighting the fantastic success of Apple stores, Jobs also acknowledged the strength of build-to-order in the professional Mac market. Of course, he didn't say Apple was copying Dell's approach. His Holy Steveness probably believes Apple invented the idea.The next version of OS X is scheduled for early 2007, so it could still ship around Windows Vista time (not counting any more Vista delays). However, it's probably not "late" -- did Apple ever pre-announce a date?The new features include Time Machine back-up, which seems to be something like a combination of Roxio's GoBack and Centred's Second Copy. There's also a virtual desktop feature, which is old hat but -- as you'd expect -- looks nicely done. Since it will be bundled with the operating system, it should get more use than, say, Xerox's Rooms for Windows.One amusing graph showed the rise and rise of OS X, which Jobs claims now has 19 million active users. Naturally he didn't say this was equivalent to roughly 10 weeks of Windows XP users. He also failed to enhance the graph by contrasting the rise of OS X with the rapid delcine of, say, Windows 98, which has now been abandoned and is fading into insignificance with only 70 million or so users.One point picked up in several comments to Engadget's coverage is the childish and immature sniping at Microsoft which, goodness knows, continually manages to do more damage to itself than even a megalomaniac Jobs could imagine. Example comments include:Wow, is apple a little testy? I mean, their banners are like a children's playground of badly formed insults.amdPathetic, Apple, Just Pathetic, Is Apple so insecure that they have to rely on childish name calling? Oh, I forgot, they have a tool at the helm, Captain A-Hole - Steve Jobs.Perhaps Jobs merely intended to "feed the failthful", but it makes Apple's management look like a bunch of jerks, it alienates potential switchers, and it just invites those who haven'tdrunk the Kool-Aidto snipe back.It's well past time you grew up, Steve. We can snipe at least as childishly as you can, and there's nearly a billion of us out here.
David Sifry has just done his quarterly update onthe state of the blogosphereand, again, the results are fascintating.The blogosphere has continued to double in size every five to seven months, and Sifry is beginning to wonder how much longer it can keep growing exponentially. Sure, it can't go on forever. However, Technorati only tracks 50 million blogs, and there are getting on for a billion people online, so there's still a lot of room for expansion. Indeed, there's no reason why there shouldn't eventually be more blogs than than there are people.The highlights include:The Blogosphere is over 100 times bigger than it was just 3 years ago.About 175,000 new weblogs were created each day, which means that on average, there are more than 2 blogs created each second of each day.Total posting volume of the blogosphere continues to rise, showing about 1.6 Million postings per day, or about 18.6 posts per second.The graphs are worth close examination....
Edge magazine has added a new category to its annual videogame awards event held as part of theEdinburghGamesInteractive Entertainment Festival: the EIEF Edge Mobile Award. The industry bible has long held a rather skeptical view of the mobile gaming sector with few, if any, mobile titles making it into the magazine's review section. Understandable perhaps, but frustrating for those of us who believe there's something here worth writing about.So does this award represent a new era of recognition for the platform? Probably not, but if you're a mobile gamer, head overhereand cast your vote on Doom RPG, Dirty Sanchez, TowerBloxx or Lumines Mobile, all worthy nominations.
It's been a while since I've blogged anything on the virtual worldSecond Life, the online land where I make myacademic research home. Now it's not just the gamesblog community, or even the early adopters liketheBBCwho are going to be hearing about it. Anyone who tunes in 3 Minute Wonder after the news onChannel 4over the next four nights will discover that the online community is a pretty nifty place.Dangerous Films' Rob Marchant and Nic Stacey have created a series of fourthree-minute documentariesabout Second Life whichexplores this cutting edge of the internet revolution. With much of the Second Life footage filmed 'live' within the world it is the very first 'virtual observational documentary'.The series discovers what draws people to live a second life away from the prying eyes of the mainstream, and examines how virtual worlds have become a haven for zealots, outsiders, entrepreneurs and artists.The series meets people who inhabit Second Life, from the designer of virtual clothes who met her husband in the virtual world, to the artist who plans to upload himself to live on after death, and the Buddhist who has created a virtual retreat for people suffering from depression.
Don't forget, the first ever official Gamesblog online gaming sesh takes place at 8pm tonight. We'll be doing battle via the Xbox 360 version of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. If you didn't leave your GamerTag on last week's notice but want to sign up for action, please leave your details in the comments section below.I'll be running the game as a private session from my machine. Telewest have very kindly bumped up my connection to 10meg providing an upload of around 380Mbps which should be fast enough to handle 16 players - although the proof will be very much in the online gaming pudding. Be aware, things could go pear-shaped pretty quickly - if so, I'll need to revise down the number of players I can handle. Let's see how it goes. Also, at the moment, we have more GamerTags than I can accomodate in one sesh so we may need to evolve a sort of 'winner stays on' system with three or four competing teams.Anyway, come online at 7.50 and either send an 'I want to be friends' message to Keefer71 or wait til I send you one.Next week at the same time, I'll be running a Battlefield 2 server for PC gamers. More info on that later...
According to theirwebsite, "StreetWars is a 3 week long, 24/7, watergun assassination tournament," which has been taking place in London over the past two weeks. The final water-soaked days are upon us, and there are only a few people left who have remained dry.Anyone out there with a StreetWars story to tell? How have you gaming skills served you in this metropolis-wide water-based FPS? Or is it even comparable, likeAlicediscovered when she, the former UK Quake Team Champ, went clay pigeon shooting.Check out theirblogfor some dramatic tales.
Hi-tech biometric passports used by Britain and other countries have been hacked by a computer expert, throwing into doubt fundamental parts of the UK's &pound;415m scheme to load passports with information such as fingerprints, facial scans and iris patterns.Speaking at the Defcon security conference in Las Vegas, Lukas Grunwald, a consultant with a German security company, said he had discovered a method for cloning the information stored in the new passports. Data can be transferred onto blank chips, which could then be implanted in fake passports, a flaw which he said undermined the project.The revelation also casts another shadow over the government's plan for a national ID card, which would contain much of the same information."The whole passport design is totally brain damaged," Mr Grunwald toldWired.com. "From my point of view all of these [biometric] passports are a huge waste of money - they're not increasing security at all." Since March anyone applying for a UK passport has been issued with a biometric version, which contains physical identification information.Mr Grunwald said his discovery was made within two weeks of first attempting to copy the data, and the equipment used cost $200 (&pound;105). It is believed the hacking principle could be applied to any new passport issued in Britain, the US and other countries. But the findings do not mean that all biometric information could be faked or altered by criminals. Although the data held on a passport chip is not encrypted, it is not yet possible to change the cloned data without alerting the authorities.The Home Office said yesterday that the UK biometric passport was one of the most secure in the world and while it might be possible to copy the chip data it was not possible to modify or manipulate any of the data. Last week the House of Commons' science and technology committee called on the government to reconsider the technology behind the biometric ID scheme.
Apparently it's the Web's 15th birthday today, and the BBC has an aritcle about theearly days, plus aFlash timeline. This is clever because it uses sideways scrolling: this means you can see much less information than a boring old vertical timeline, so it's both harder to read and less useful. But on the good side, Flash 9 seems so flaky that it will may well crash your browser window before this becomes annoying.What is particularly cringeworthy about such events is the number of people who will say it is the 15th anniversary of the Internet, rather than the Web. In the UK, Classic FM was doing it last night. But it's a mistake that is not entirely unknown in The Guardian....
Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has made an appeal to the site's users to start concentrating on quality, not quantity. According tothe Associated Press:With more than 1.2 million articles in English alone, Wikipedia already has met its goal of becoming a comprehensive encyclopedia, founder Jimmy Wales told more than 300 people at the start of "Wikimania," a three-day gathering of people devoted to Wikipedia and other community web projects.But even while Wikipedia's vast scope exceeds that of traditional encyclopedias such as Britannica, Wales said Wikipedia would become even more valuable if entries were written less choppily, for example, or better identified their sources."Although we've always had this goal of Britannica quality or better, we're not there yet," he said. "We can no longer feel satisfied and happy when we see these (article) numbers going up.... We should continue to turn our attention away from growth and towards quality."Does this mark a departure for the site? Possibly. So much has been written about the fluctuating quality of entries of late (some of it unfairly, some of it not) that it's clearly stung Wikipedians. There's also the upcoming project from Larry Sanger - the "forgotten founder" of Wikipedia - which is a more controlled version of the Wiki project.We've written a lot about these issues...We interviewed Sanger about the scheme). And, of course, Andrew Orlowskiwrote about Wikipedia's problemsback in April, to some clamour.
With Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) opening tomorrow (Monday), it hardly seems worth speculating at the moment, but MacRumours hasRumor Roundup.
'IBM Corporation today announced its smallest, lowest-priced computer system - the IBM Personal Computer,' ran the press release 25 years ago this week. 'Designed for business, school and home, the easy-to-use system sells for as little as $1,565. It offers many advanced features and, with optional software, may use hundreds of popular application programs.'On 12 August 1981 no one could guess quite how profound an impact the announcement from International Business Machines would have on hundreds of millions of lives. Nor how wildly divergent would be the fortunes of three men who were there at the genesis of the IBM PC 5150 - a invention to rank in importance with the motor car, telephone and television.One of those men was David Bradley, 57, a member of the original 12 engineers who worked on the secret project and who is still amazed by its profound consequences, from email and iPods to Google and MySpace. Speaking from his home in North Carolina last week, he said: 'Computers have improved the productivity of office workers and become a toy for the home. I don't want to assert that the PC invented the internet, but it was one of the preconditions.'The man with perhaps most cause to toast the industry standard PC's 25th birthday on Saturday, even more than the engineers who built it, is Bill Gates. His software for the IBM PC, and nearly all the computers that followed it, made him the world's richest man. But for IBM, the story was arguably one of defeat snatched from the jaws of victory.Bradley was also working on a similar machine when, in September 1980, he was recruited to the IBM team and sent to Boca Raton in Florida to come up with a PC that would rival the pioneering Apple II. A few months later the team had grown and got its leader - Don Estridge, a photographer's son from Florida who had worked for the army and Nasa. Racing against a 12-month deadline, the engineers scoured the country for components, and asked Intel, then a manufacturer of memory chips, to deliver the central processing unit, or 'brain'.IBM also needed operating system software. The man in the right place at the right time was a young geek who had dropped out of Harvard. Bill Gates of Microsoft specialised in more modest computer languages but assured the IBM team that he could come up with an operating system for their new machines in just a few days. After Estridge's task force had left for their hotel, Gates went around the corner to a tiny company which had written a system for the Intel processor and bought it out for &pound;26,000. He then customised the system for IBM and sold it to them for &pound;42,000. Critically, Gates retained the right to license the system to other manufacturers who could, and would, clone the IBM design. A quarter of a century later, he has an estimated wealth of &pound;26bn.IBM's failure to secure exclusive rights to Gates's software is often regarded as a blunder comparable to that of the music executives who spurned The Beatles. But Bradley disagrees, saying that there was a higher purpose - he and his colleagues used 'open architecture', off-the-shelf parts which others could acquire, and so defined a standard that allowed others to build compatible machines capable of running the same software.Experts generally regard this as the result of haste rather than altruism on IBM's part, but Bradley points out that in the spirit of openness it published technical manuals to explain how the PC worked. Unlike Apple, who stuck by its proprietary system and lost the lion's share of the market, the IBM PC was an invitation to rivals eager to imitate and improve upon it.Bradley said: 'I believe the primary reason it was so successful is that it was an open system. There was a microprocessor from Intel and an operating system from Microsoft. We published everything we knew so that if you wanted to work on an application program you had all the information to do it and you could be reasonably confident IBM wouldn't change things later.'The participation of the rest of the industry was important because IBM alone could not possibly have invented all the applications that people would want.'The IBM PC 5150 weighed 25lbs, stood just under six inches high and had 64 kilobytes of memory and a five-and-a-quarter inch floppy disk drive. Initial sales forecasts expected 242,000 to be sold over five years, but the figure was exceeded in single month. It was a personal triumph for Estridge, the 'father of the PC', but he would not live to see its full legacy in the democratisation of computing.On 2 August 1985 Estridge was on Delta Air Lines Flight 191 from Fort Lauderdale, Florida approaching Dallas-Fort Worth airport. It was caught in a freak wind and plummeted to the ground, bursting into flames. Of 152 passengers on board, 128 died, including 48-year-old Estridge, his wife and several IBM executives.IBM was overtaken in the PC market by Compaq in 1994. IBM sold its PC division to Chinese giant Lenovo for &pound;628m last year. 'I'm sad and disillusioned that IBM got out of the computer business since I was there at the very beginning,' added Bradley. 'But as an IBM stockholder I think it was an extremely sensible business decision.'Bradley quit IBM in 2004 after 28 years and lives in comfortable retirement. He mused: 'I have no regrets about what happened. I was there when it was just a glimmer in everybody's eye and it's a privilege to still be here to talk about it. And no, I don't envy Bill Gates.'
