Clay Shirkyhas published a thoughtful essay on mailing lists, weblogs and Wikis, netiquette and social interaction.
"If you wanted to find out what was happening on the street and inside the campaigns during Tuesday's election, it was more useful to spend time on blog sites like Talking Points Memo (for a Democratic view) or GoDubya.com (for a Republican) than to read boring wire stories," says David Kirkpatrick. Nothing unusual about the content, but this is an article inFortunemagazine.
One of the drawbacks with using Movable Type blogging software is that it is susceptible to "comment spam" -- scumbags trying to advertise their poker sites or whatever. I've had a go at removing anything that might have got through before we installed MT-Blacklist. Have I missed anything? Please let me know....
Cyber crime experts yesterday expressed their shock at a "basic" security flaw at internet bank Cahoot that could allow hackers to view private account details.Cahoot, which is owned by Abbey, closed down its website for 10 hours after it was tipped off that users could access other account holders' details, bypassing the usual security requirements.The bank, which has 650,000 customers, blamed the security problem on a software upgrade that took place 10 days ago and claims that it has now closed the loophole. A spokeswoman said: "Nobody was at risk of losing any money as a result of this flaw, and we have had no reports of any customers' accounts being compromised."Neil Barrett, professor of computer crime at Cranfield University, said: "The flaw was   so simple that it would fall below most testing horizons. It could also have been a lot more serious than they are prepared to say."Most internet banks upgrade their security every eight to 12 weeks in an effort to keep ahead of cyber criminals, and employ external "ethical hackers" to test the robustness of their systems. Cahoot said yesterday it is reviewing its testing systems, but the security lapse comes at a time of growing concern about the incidence of "phishing" scams and attacks by cyber criminals on financial websites.Yesterday it was revealed that Protx, a company that handles secure online payments for retailers, was the victim of extortionist hackers who jam websites by bombarding them with millions of bogus requests. It is believed that as many as 4m online payments may have been disrupted.Professor Barrett blamed the   lapse at Cahoot on a relatively simple hacking technique in which criminals open an online account and then create a false password to masquerade as someone else.Professor Barrett said: "Other banks I have tested have had similar problems. Mostly they are discovered at testing stage but some have gone live and only later withdrawn without the public becoming aware."Other experts said that internet banking security systems tend to be the toughest on the web. Paul Vlissidis, of net security specialists NCC Group, said: "We test a lot of the UK's banks and we're very surprised this got through the system. It has the smell of a last-minute software change that wasn't tested properly. We cannot believe an error like this surfaced."Cahoot said that the security scare had not caused any panic.
Been away this week? Check out what we've been blogging...MondayGTA missions - originally an afterthought.Game Boy Orchestra Project. Blimey.GTA III on NES?Sony have shifted 74 million PS2s worldwide.TuesdayNew mobile "inspired" by Sony's PSP.Star Wars Galaxies wedding.Virtual elections in online communities.WednesdayGTA: San Andreas smashes record.Nintendo DS doing well too.ThursdayHello Kitty, says Aleks.Online reviews this week.FridayNew releases.The Golden Joysticks winners.
This week may prove decisive in the history of spam - and in more senses than one. The hearts of all email users will have soared yesterday on the news that two people in Virginia have been convicted of sending unsolicited emails from anonymous addresses; one of them could face a nine-year jail sentence if the jury's recommendation is upheld. The two were reported to have made a fortune of &#163;13m from fraudulent emails. In one month they received 10,000 credit card orders worth $39.94 each for what was called a "FedEx refund processor". It is hard to credit the gullibility of those who handed over such funds to the digital revolution's snake oil salesmen - but that is not the point. It should never have been allowed to happen in the first place.Yesterday's ruling shows that something can indeed be done about the plague of unsolicited emails that undermines the efficacy of one of the great inventions of the internet age. It was only possible because Virginia (home of AOL, whose customers the spam was directed to) passed a law banning such unso licited bulk emails. It is known that most of the world's spam is sent from a few sources, with Florida being the main culprit. Spam accounts for anything up to 80% of all emails sent and is still a major problem despite the growth of spam filters that attempt to winnow them out.Email spam got its name from a Monty Python sketch in which the comedy team, dressed as Vikings, chanted a chorus of "Spam, Spam, Spam" increasingly loudly to drown out nearby conversations. This was something of an embarrassment to the Hormel company that manufactured the tinned meat version, even though Hormel claimed not to mind providing their product was always clearly distinguished by the use of capital letters. By one of those delightfully serendipitous coincidences, it has emerged this week that while email spam is under attack, sales of tinned meat Spam are booming. UK sales are up by so much (10% a year) that the delicacy is about to be advertised for the first time on television next week. If spam dies, it is good to know that Spam lives on.
The Golden Joysticks awards have just been announced. The event - voted on by over 200,000 punters - has thrown up a few suprises. Beyond Good and Evil won best PS2 game, while Galleon romped home on Xb...sorry, must have been dreaming. In reality Burnout 3 was voted best PS2 game, Fable won the Xbox gong. Doom 3 was the big winner, scooping the "ultimate" game of the year award and the top PC prize. Nintendo didn't miss out, with The Legend of Zelda rightly picked as "Most Wanted Game for 2005". Read on for the full list...PS2 Game of the Year: Burnout 3: Takedown (EA Games)Runners-up: Pro Evolution Soccer 3 (Konami); Spider-Man 2 (Activision)Game Cube Game of the Year: Mario Kart: Double Dash!! (Nintendo)Runners-up: Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes (Konami); Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles (Nintendo)Handheld Game of the Year: Sonic Advance 3 (THQ)Runners-up: Metroid Zero Mission (Nintendo); Mario &amp; Luigi Superstar Saga (Nintendo)Xbox Game of the Year Sponsored by Sonopress: Fable (Microsoft)Runners-up: Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow (Ubisoft), GTA: Double Pack (Rockstar)PC Game of the Year Sponsored by PC Retail: Doom 3 (Activision)Runners-up: X2: The Threat (Deep Silver); Far Cry (UbiSoft)Online Game of the Year: Battlefield Vietnam (EA Games)Runners-up: Burnout 3: Takedown (EA Games); Counter-Strike: Condition Zero (Valve)Publisher of the Year Sponsored by Macrovision: Electronic ArtsRunners-up: THQ, UbisoftRetailer of the Year Sponsored by Electronic Arts: Amazon.co.ukRunners-up: GAME; Play.comHardware of the Year: GBA SP NES Classic EditionRunners-up: Creative Labs Gigaworks S750; GBA Wireless AdapterUnsung Hero Game of the Year (Editors' Award): The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (VU Games)Runners-up: The Suffering (Midway); Mashed (Empire)Game of the Year (Editors' Award): Pro Evolution Soccer 4 (Konami)Runners-up: Zelda: Four Swords (Nintendo); Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising (NovaLogic)Hall of Fame – Industry Personality of the Year: Warren Spector (Ion Storm)Radio One Colin &amp; Edith Show Most Wanted Game For Xmas: GTA San Andreas (Rockstar Games)Runners-up: Half-Life 2 (VU Games); Halo 2 (Microsoft)Most Wanted Game For 2005: The Legend of Zelda (Nintendo)Runners-up: Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater (Konami); Resident Evil 4 (Capcom)Ultimate Game Of The Year: Doom 3 (Activision)Runners-up: Fable (Microsoft); Pro Evolution Soccer 4 (Konami)The Sun Ultimate Gaming Hero: Sonic The Hedgehog (Sega)Runners-up: Master Chief (Halo 2, Microsoft); Lara Croft (Tomb Raider, Eidos)Thoughts then? Does Sonic deserve an award? Is Doom 3 better than Pro Evo 4? Does the average punter actually know who Warren Spector is?
In the US, Napster To Go, the innovative $15-a-month music subscription service, is using Windows Media 10 digital rights management (Janus) for downloads direct to Audiovox SMT5600 handsets. (This is an HTC device also known as the Orange SPV-C500, the i-Mate Smartphone 3, the Qtek 8020 and the Dopod 565.)"The Audiovox SMT5600 comes with 28.5MB of internal flash memory which can hold up to 6 songs. Consumers can purchase miniSD memory chips for additional song storage in either 128MB or 256MB varities, which can hold approximately two and four hours of songs respectively. MiniSD chips are currently widely available for under $25 each," says thepress release.However, I'd expect most people to download music files to a PC then copy them to a storage card or a phone later.
Ariel Andrews, Jareb Armstrong, Burt U Shipley, Minnie X Bailey, Sanders Pomywpo, Shelley and Iknowma Education got in touch via email yesterday. Across Britain office workers were inundated with junk mail from strangers offering everything from the chance to "turbo charge your sex drive" to fake degrees, and "superfine choice software".A US court yesterday fired a shot across the bows of those one prosecutor described as "snake oil salesmen" by recommending that the man thought to be the eighth most prolific "spammer" in the world should be jailed for nine years.Jeremy Jaynes, 30, of North Carolina, was found guilty, along with his sister, Jessica DeGroot, of sending out thousands of fraudulent emails   which conned millions of dollars from unwitting victims.Ms DeGroot, 28, was fined $7,500 (&#163;4,000) under the new law in Virginia that forbids "spam felonies", including the dispatch of bulk emails and the spammers' tactic of preventing users from replying by concealing their true identities.As employees and home computers are increasingly bombarded with fraudulent and embarrassing unsolicited emails, internet filtering companies warned that legal attempts to cleanse inboxes of spam were almost certainly doomed to failure.A spam epidemic is clogging up the internet. A year ago, less than 50% of all email traffic was spam. Last month, 82% of all email traffic was junk mail, up 9% on September, according to Email Systems. The global cost of spam, including lost productivity as   employees laboriously delete countless junk emails, is estimated to be &#163;13.5bn a year.Most spam entering British inboxes comes from the US. According to Email Systems, Florida is the spam capital of the world. When hurricanes lashed the state in September, the volume of spam racing round the internet dramatically fell. When phone lines and servers were repaired, spam soared again.With broadband and wireless connections, spammers can sit in a coffee shop and dispatch thousands of junk emails from their laptops. Working from home with numerous aliases, Jaynes and DeGroot were typical spammers.The Virginia court heard they amassed a fortune of &#163;13m sending unsolicited emails to AOL subscribers selling virtually useless products, such as an "internet history   eraser" and a "refund processor". They were finally tracked down after more than 10,000 AOL subscribers pressed a "report spam" button on the site after receiving their emails."This was just a case of fraud," said Gene Fishel, for the prosecution. "This is a snake oil salesman in a new format."Spam scams are becoming ever more sophisticated. "Phishing" is the new buzzword in internet crime. Automatically generated emails cleverly copy real corporations, fooling users into disclosing personal information - and credit card details - to criminals, who then empty their bank accounts. In the past year, 57 million Americans have received phishing emails, including fake loan scams and offers from fake online banks."It is a constant war," said   Daniel Hepner, the marketing manager of SurfControl. "The spammers create a new kind of spam and the filtering companies have to react and identify and isolate that spam from legitimate email."While filtering companies are confident they could block all spam from reaching people's inboxes, they admit the cost would be the loss of some perfectly legitimate emails. "One person's spam is another person's legitimate business email," said Mr Hepner.Spam watchdogs have hailed the example of Australia, where the toughest anti-spam law in the world came into effect in April. Penalties of up to &#163;600,000 a day for professional spammers have helped deter junk email there.
"As in other industries throughout the country, strong feelings surrounding Tuesday's election spilled into technology world workplaces Wednesday and Thursday," reportsCNet.Quoting the concentration of Kerry supporters in tech-heavy districts like the San Francisco Bay Area, the Seattle region and Boston, the report does point out that:"Not everyone in technology has been dragging. Some leaders in the field, including Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina and Cisco Systems CEO John Chambers, supported the Bush campaign with contributions."
BT passed another milestone yesterday in its effort to focus on new-wave technologies, with a record quarter for broadband connections.The telecoms group said it achieved more than 600,000 wholesale link-ups in the quarter to September 30, taking its wholesale arm's end user base to nearly 3.3 million. BT Wholesale sells phone line capacity to internet service providers which supply broadband connections to householders.BT said the figures came in the same week that the UK overtook Germany in terms of broadband users per 100 people in the population. The company has said the cornerstone of its long-term strategy is to remove its reliance on fixed lines and focus on new technologies such as broadband, although the landline operation would remain its core business. Traditional fixed phone lines are facing fierce competition and are becoming a smaller part of the overall communications market, the company has said.BT Wholesale chief executive Paul Reynolds said yesterday the UK broadband market was "really taking off"."These are fantastic figures for BT, for the hundreds of service providers we support and for Broadband Britain," he said. BT also said its retail arm, which acts as an internet service provider, lifted its share of net extra connections in the quarter by one percentage point to 30%, taking its installed base to 1,283,000 customers.
With GTA San Andreas cruising through the high streets taking out sales records like whack-ass chumps, this weekend's releases were always in danger of being utterly overlooked. But if you can stop BMX-ing through the Los Santos ghettos for just five minutes, there's plenty to pique your interest here. Most importantly,Sports Interactive, the creator of the Championship Manager series, is back with its long-awaited new title, the epic, life-sucking management simulation that isFootball Manager 2005. If you thought uncut crack cocaine was troublingly addictive, you clearly haven't played the FM demo…Okay, some gamers have never 'got' Championship Manager, but if you have any interest at all in football, you must give FM 2005 a look. From the first insult you sling at Alex Ferguson to the last moody Italian genius you slot into your dream side, this game exudes depth and obsessive compulsive detail. It is complex, unwieldy at times, and it can be overwhelming to the newcomer, but what it provides is a fully functioning football universe, subject to the same cruelties of media scandal, devastating injury and personality clash as the real thing. If the computers in The Matrix had really been serious about imprisoning human kind in an inescapably seductive simulation of reality, they should have just stuck everyone in front of this. I doubt if Neo would have bothered investigating Morpheus' rabbit hole, if he was busy guiding Yeovil to the Division One play-offs.And here I am in the game as a £14m ratedMan Citymidfielder, courtesy of the chaps at Sports Interactive. Perhaps Keegan will play me on Sunday.Erm, anyway, if you prefer dancing around in front of your TV to hunching over a PC screen studying player stats, Sony hasEyeToy Play 2out today. Featuring 12 new mini-games that take in kung fu kicks, DIY, table tennis, air guitar and home cooking, this is another joyous and silly addition to the growing range of party titles. If you have relatives around this weekend and envisage a Saturday night filled with awkward silences and Strictly Come Dancing, buy this. Oh, and the new SpyToy mode which allows users to turn their EyeToy cam into a, 'fun security system', sounds horrendously open to abuse. Another good reason to invest then.Elsewhere, EA offers its latest Lord of the Rings title,The Third Age- another fine attempt to render the world of Middle Earth interactive. The turn-based RPG gameplay is extremely focused on combat, but the characters, locations and set pieces are compelling enough to appease fans of the movies. From a similar branch of gameplay DNA comes Capcom's Anime-infested sci-fi adventure,Crimson Tears. Button-bashing combat and the odd-RPG adventure element combine with some luscious movies. I feel like I've been playing this game since I first got my hands on a Sega Saturn in the winter of 1994.And then, two racing games. Empire Interactive'sFlatOutfinds itself sandwiched between EA's bruising twosome of Burnout 3 and Need for Speed Underground 2, and may be lost in their exhaust fumes. But its interesting use of boundless environments, and destructible scenic elements mark it out for further attention. Or you could buyKnight Rider 2in a similar fit of smirking nostalgic irony that saw you paying £200 for an original Raleigh Chopper on ebay.By the way, there are also some very good mobile games around at the moment. I recommend checking out Colin McRae Rally 2005 and Tiger Woods 2005 both fromDigital Bridges. The CMR conversion is easily the best driving game I've ever played on a Java handset – it's not a patch on the real thing of course, but you'll find that the race-against-the-clock, rough-and-tumble gameplay works well in this miniaturised format. Tiger Woods is everything you'd expect from a pared-down golf sim, and a must if you're a fan of the genre. The putting system could do with a bit of work (it's difficult to get any accuracy into your shot, due to a densely crowded display), but everything else – from weather conditions, to club selection, to background scenery – is spot-on.THQ Wirelesshas a couple of very good shooters on the go. Red Faction is a slick 2D conversion of the console series, while Seal Team 6 represents an interesting take on squad-based combat, with some innovative gameplay compromises.And finally,In-Fusiohas launched a Java version of Microsoft's chaotic urban racer Midtown Madness 3. Although the visuals have switched from 3D to an isometric view, this translation retains the hectic, open-ended nature of its predecessors. If you've yet to download a mobile title since snagging Pac-Man and Space Invaders two years ago, give one of these a try this weekend – you can't play GTA on the bus you know.
"Hollywood's major movie studios said yesterday that they would begin filing lawsuits this month against people who make copyrighted films available for downloading over the Internet," reports theNew York Times"The lobbying group for Hollywood's seven major studios said the companies decided on the aggressive strategy after concluding that record companies suffered financial consequences because they waited too long to combat people who were sharing digital music files."Surely it was only a matter of time. However, as I think the success of iTunes has proved - you can't hit people with a stick if you're not providing them with a carrot as well.Litigation makes no difference if there's no popular and easy way for people to legally download content... and the movie industry has a way to go before it can say it's done that.
A set of modest offices above a bank in Dundee does not look a likely venue for the genesis of the next generation of computer games. The unassuming man behind the helm of this quest also looks more suited to work in the NatWest downstairs than at the forefront of Silicon Glen's gaming industry.But Dave Jones is a big shot in gaming. He's the man who created the notorious Grand Theft Auto, the shoot-em-up game which provoked unrivalled ire in equal measure among the British tabloid press and the American moral majority. Perversely, he also created the gently seductive Lemmings.Now, though, Mr Jones has his sights on a more ambitious task: getting the people of Europe to ditch their console games. He wants European gamers to emulate their counterparts in Asia, particularly Korea, and play massively multiplayer online games (MMOGs).MMOGs allow literally thousands of players to take part in the same computer game. They are hugely popular in South Korea, China and other parts of the far east. The games run 24 hours, seven days a week, whether you play or not. They encompass massive areas and require the sort of server that would put Nasa to shame. Typically in the far east 3,000 people will play at any one time. But in Europe they have yet to take off."They are still very much a niche market in Europe," says Margaret Robertson, games editor of the Edge magazine. "It's a big niche, mainly for role playing games, but no one has yet taken them into the mass market."Mr Jones, who owns Dundee-based software developers Real Time Worlds, wants to bring MMOGs to the mass market in Europe. It is one of the boldest - and most potentially lucrative - plans to come from Silicon Glen for some time.Within two years, he hopes to have thousands European gamers playing his online   games simultaneously amid the sort of hype that surrounds online gaming in the far east."Gaming is a social experience, going back to board games and cards, but computer game players here have never really experienced that," Mr Jones says. "Video games at the moment are about beating the system, but when you can get lots of people involved it's a whole different scenario."The seductive benefit of online gaming over console games is interactivity. The game is released on to the web in first version form. Then players - who will pay a monthly subscription of, say, &#163;7 - explore the game and relate their likes and dislikes back to the software developers. The developers can then shape the future of the game."We will have a customer service team and a team of dedicated developers working on the game," says Colin Macdonald, studio manager with RTW. "It's the first time we will have had a real link between player and developer."South Korea is the home of online gaming and accounts for 80% of the world's online gaming market. Console sets, like PS2 and Xbox, so common   in Europe, are unknown there. Instead, everyone plays their games online, usually in PC Bangs - a gaming internet cafe - alongside hundreds of other players.Mr Jones admits he cannot replicate the PC Bang gaming culture in Britain, but he hopes the spread of broadband will dig him out of that hole.South Korea is one of the most connected countries in the world. But Europe is beginning to catch up: the average broadband penetration in western Europe is between 13% and 15%, compared with just 3% five years ago.The increase of broadband, and the next generation of games consoles will provide the opening for online gaming in Europe. "With the new systems people are going to be connected from day one, so there is going to be the opportunity from the start-up to play big online games on a mass-market scale," Mr Jones says.Currently, most of the MMOGs available are role playing games, beloved of men under 24. If RTW is to succeed where some of the biggest game companies have failed, they will have to create a game of much broader appeal.
Back up!I know I should back up my files, but usually do it in a moment of panic when my hard drive makes an unusual noise. With external hard drives now very cheap, is this a good way to go?Robert GardinerJack Schofield replies:Yes. Personal computers now come with such large hard disks that it's awkward to take back-ups to removal media, even if you have a DVD writer. External hard drives are the obvious solution. They are also competitively priced, partly because they have enabled hard drive manufacturers such as Western Digital, Maxstor and Seagate to enter the retail market. However, it also helps to have either a FireWire or USB 2 port on your PC to talk to the drive at a reasonable speed. You can add these ports to older PCs via expansion cards. You can use a USB 1.1 port for back-ups, but it will feel frustratingly slow for other uses.Ideally, buy an external hard drive that is twice the size of your built-in drive, so you can back it up without overwriting your only previous back-up. It also helps to have a large buffer memory - 2MB is common but 8MB is better. Many external drives come with back-up software, but if not, Centered Systems' Second Copy (www.centered.com) is worth a look. Some external drives also have slots for CompactFlash and other storage cards. If buying one of these, check how many cables are needed: you may need a second USB cable (or both FireWire and USB cables) to support the extra functions, which can get messy.You can also get external hard drive cases that allow you to buy the disk separately, or install one you already have - perhaps one taken from an old PC.Bear in mind that you still need at least two copies of everything. If you move files to the external drive to free up space on your hard drive, that does not constitute a back-up: you will lose your data if the external drive fails, and they do. While you can back up your whole PC installation to an external drive, you should still back up irreplaceable personal data files to CD or DVD.Time outOne consequence of going to digital TV, by any route you cover in your article last week, is that time is not what it was. Digital TV and radio reach me (via Freeserve) about two seconds after their analogue versions. If I see a clock on TV or hear the six pips, which time is correct, analogue or digital?Brian JonesJS:Analogue. Digital signals undergo processing delays that don't happen with analogue signals, and the sound may be a second or so late when it leaves the station. Your set-top box stores the digital signal in a buffer to smooth reception, then decodes it, which takes another second or so. If your digital TV is only two seconds behind, that's pretty good, and it's close enough for most purposes. The major drawback is that if you listen to a concert on Radio 3, the sound isn't synchronised with the pictures on BBC4.Stuck on eBayI went to register on eBay and a box popped up saying I was already registered with a name I've never heard of. No matter what I try, I cannot unregister.Ian WakefieldJS:eBay registers people (with passwords), not their PCs. However, if you want to stay logged in, eBay will put a small text file or "cookie" on your hard drive so that it can recognise you. The solution is to delete the cookie that was presumably left behind when someone else used your PC on eBay. Clear your temporary internet files, then restart your PC without running a browser. Go to the C: drive in Windows Explorer, press F3, and search your PC for all filenames containing the word eBay. This should find some small (1-2K) files referring to your unknown interloper, probably in the C:\Documents and Settings\_\Cookies folder. Since you haven't joined eBay yourself, you can delete all of them.Eye openerIs there a way to have all the folders open in the left-hand window in Windows Explorer, not just the one or two that you select? I run Windows XP.Martin H ManserJS:Curiously enough, there is. Select the drive icon (eg C: ) in the left hand pane and press the asterisk key (*) on the numeric keypad. I thought you'd never ask...Backchat&#183;Last week in Mail Slicing, I said it was ridiculous for Outlook Express to split large attachments into 60K MIME chunks. Alex Cockell points out that OE is a combined mail and Usenet news client, so the setting has to cover both."The 60K default limit is there to cater for the old UUCP days, where the maximum message size was declared to be 64K with routing information." If you are posting files to Usenet newsgroups, you may still want to observe that limit. The default in the Forte Agent newsreader is 472,500 bytes (460K) for Usenet, which sounds more reasonable, but I've never done it.
SoftwareCreative projectsThe joint director of the BBC Creative Archive addressed the Royal Television Society (RTS) last week at London Television Centre, as part of a decision to "cut through the hype" surrounding the project. Paula le Dieu said a pilot of the scheme, which aims to release BBC television and radio programmes on the internet for free downloading, will definitely begin next year. When RTS members identified external rights ownership as a major barrier to the project's success, le Dieu outlined her hopes that rights owners of material that has "not seen the light of day" for decades would be encouraged by the pilot to enter into discussions with the BBC.www.bbc.co.ukHardwareSnappy scannerFujitsu's Scansnap fi-5110EOX claims to take the hard work out of scanning documents. Essentially, it works like a fax machine, feeding paper through and scanning with alarming speed - up to 15 pages per minute. Small, well-styled and quick, its ability to handle double-sided documents at the same rate is also a plus. The proprietary software could be better, but its direct links with Adobe Acrobat are great if you are just copying lots of paperwork. Some awkward tweaking will let you scan in different file formats, but the hefty £399 price is likely to put off most casual users.www.fel.fujitsu.comLite fantasticTaiwanese company Lite-On, best known for manufacturing DVD and CD drives for PCs, hopes to make a name for itself this month with the launch of its first DVD/hard disk combination video recorder. Set to retail for £350, which makes it the cheapest of its kind in the UK, the LVW-5045 pairs a 160 gigabyte hard disk with a DVD   recorder compatible with DVD+R/RW and DVD-R/RW recordable disc formats. Like other hard disk-based recorders, the LVW-5045 can also pause live TV and playback a programme that it is still being recorded. It features multiple Scart connections, DV-Link and DV control for editing camcorder footage and VideoPlus+ to enable timed recordings.www.liteonit.comMobile PhonesSmart moveNokia's campaign to deliver mobiles that double as entertainment devices continues this week with the unveiling of the 7710 smartphone, right. The handset, which uses the Symbian operating system and has a pen-controlled widescreen, features a host of media applications, including a web browser, FM radio, integrated music player and video streaming and recording. If connected to Nokia's SU-22 accessory, it is also compatible with DVB-H digital TV transmissions being trialled across Europe. Other features include a megapixel camera with a 2x digital zoom, 218MB of memory and a push email solution powered by BlackBerry rival Smartner. It will be launched in Europe early next year.www.nokia.co.ukDigital camerasFull ContaxContax is to release a pair of new digital cameras. It claims that one of them, the i4R, is the smallest four megapixel model on sale. Due to debut for £300 at the start of next month, the i4R is a tiny cigarette lighter-style camera in brushed aluminium. It features an inno vative slide mechanism that switches the camera on. It also sports a Carl Zeiss lens, 3x optical and 6x digital zooms and a 1.5 inch LCD display.Due on sale this week, the £400 four megapixel U4R combines a brushed magnesium body with a tanned leather finish and features a Carl Zeiss lens and a 2in LCD monitor. Both cameras are bundled with 256MB SD cards.&lt;A HREF="http://www.contaxcameras.co.uk""&gt;www.contaxcameras.co.ukBroadbandBroadly speakingIn the race to snare Britain's growing number of broadband customers, cable firm NTL has launched its first offering to 14.5m homes outside its network catchment. While consumers will not be able to get cable television, they can choose from a range of internet and telephone packages from as little as £4 per month. Meanwhile, stalwart internet service provider Pipex is inviting registrations for a trial of its new Solo 2000 2Mbps connection, a £39.99 monthly service aimed at heavy broadband users. A full launch is pencilled in for early next year, and willing guinea pigs can sign up by visiting the Pipex website.www.ntl.comwww.solo.pipex.
Launched in a blaze of publicity in the US a few months ago, the Danger Hiptop 2, a cross between the Nokia N-Gage and the BlackBerry, is being pencilled in for a UK launch in the new year.At first glance, the phone looks like a glasses case, until you flip it open and up pops a 3.5in screen above a very usable Qwerty keyboard. Danger has made the most of this excellent combination, offering a suite of messaging features that include an intuitive POP3 compatible email system and IM courtesy of AOL. Standard smartphone facilities include a VGA camera, a personal information manager compatible with Microsoft Outlook and a fast, but primitive, web browser.The device is larger than European smartphones and lacks key features such as MP3 playback, Bluetooth and Flash memory card compatibility. Battery life is relatively poor, and making voice calls is tricky. Still, the Hiptop 2 is sure to attract message-mad 18 to 40-year-olds when it reaches the UK.www.danger.com
With millions of Britons being invited every day to share their credit card details with "phishing" fraudsters, the government is under pressure to do something about IT security as it affects the public.A report published last week by the Cabinet Office points out the need to raise awareness about "information assurance" among ordinary users.Meanwhile, Ian Watmore, the government's chief information officer, last month invited companies to join a new government-sponsored awareness scheme, Project Endurance. Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, attended the inaugural lunch and "voiced support", the Cabinet Office says.The man responsible for the new efforts is Sir David Omand, the government's security and intelligence coordinator and former head of GCHQ. He last week took time out from supervising the intelligence services to unveil a study of current work in information assurance.Sir David warns that government can no longer rely on building a security fence around its systems. "In today's information society, there is no longer a clear divide between systems in the public and private sectors; they depend on each other to run smoothly and effectively."Although numerous recent reports have warned that the government is not doing enough to protect its critical national IT infrastructure, the new study suggests that Britain is doing more than countries elsewhere in Europe. "We're well ahead of the game," says Nick Coleman, the report's author.The study was carried out by Saint, the Security Alliance for Internet and New Technologies, an industry-government task force set up three years ago to work on information security. It found more than 30 groups carrying out work on information assurance, including industry and banking organisations as well as obvious candidates such as the Home Office's High Tech Crime Unit. Two government groups and five industry groups are working on the information assurance issues of biometrics, the survey found.Coleman says that the survey reveals gaps in three key areas. The first is public awareness. "We've seen a lot of activity but the majority of initiatives have focused on corporate systems. We've seen very few aimed at small companies and home users."The next gap is in skills and professonalism. Much more needs to be done to train and accredit security experts, says Coleman. "There's no one institution that covers people working in information assurance."The final area that the survey highlighted was in sharing information between government and business. "There doesn't seem to be much collaboration around some issues, for example social engineering &#91;tricks for persuading insiders to give up passwords and other secrets&#93;," says Coleman. Not surprisingly, the study suggests that a culture of secrecy pervades the security community. "Where information and intelligence is exchanged, it tends to be between two or more individuals who have built up a trusted relationship."Saint is likely to call for action in all three areas when it reports on the survey next month. Although at present responsibility for information assurance is split among several government departments, from the Department for Trade and Industry to the Home Office to the Ministry of Defence and Department for Constitutional Affairs, Coleman says there is no need for a single body to take control.A Cabinet Office organisation called the Central Sponsor for Information Assurance is supposed to coordinate work across government and identify gaps. However, he says it is unclear who will take on the task of educating home users in how to protect their systems.According to the IT services firm LogicaCMG, more than 1m Britons have become victims of online security breaches and one in 20 consumers have experienced an attempt to steal their details while on the internet.Meanwhile, a "dumbed down" guide to the top 20 IT security threats has been published by Commissum, an Edinburgh-based security firm. The No 1 threat, it explains, is the web server. "This is the big white box in your tech department which inspired the phrase '24/7'. If it's not on, customers get a blank web page when they try to surf your site. Trouble is, since it's always on, it is the first port of call for the opportunistic hacker."The guide explains workstation service applications, file sharing and instant messaging in similar terms, which it says are aimed at the "average businessman on the street".
Bill Gates already delivers the operating system for the majority of PCs, and is taking an ever-growing chunk of the smartphone and PDA markets. But now the Microsoft empire is stepping up its plans to control the space under your TV.Two weeks ago in London, the company unveiled the latest incarnation of its Windows XP Media Center operating system, which turns standard computers into mini entertainment hubs, hooking them up to a TV to offer a huge range of audio and video applications.The theory runs that within a decade, standard cathode ray tube TVs, VHS videos and DVD players will be history. In their place will be a home entertainment system in which one box wirelessly streams audio, video, web and television content to a series of flat screens and handheld devices throughout the home. That box could possibly be anywhere in your house, but the first step for Microsoft is to establish its PCs as the prime consumer electronics product for the living room.Arguably, the most interesting thing about the Microsoft launch was not actually the software - which has been slightly refined to incorporate several new features like Instant Messaging while watching TV - but the direction in which the hardware is moving.When the first Media Center PCs emerged two years ago, they were largely not very alluring towers. Now, however, many look less like computers and more like traditional consumer electronics products. One key model, the Elonex Lumina, is a PC incorporated into a 32-inch widescreen LCD TV. By attempting to   place Media Centers under - or inside - your TV set, Microsoft and its hardware partners pose a real threat to consumer electronics manufacturers such as Sony and Philips. But it is not a battle that will be won easily.Looking at the specifications of the latest Media Center PCs gives you a sense of Gates's ambitions. The models not only boast standard PC features like a DVD/CD player, and a huge hard disk that houses MP3 or WMA music files, Windows Media video files and JPeg photo files, they also include an analogue TV tuner and offer hard disk-based video recording similar to Sky+, all operated via a remote control and wireless mouse and keyboard. They also offer easy access to web-based content such as streamed audio, video and internet radio.If Microsoft's hunch is right, many consumer electronics companies could be sidelined. With their core DVD/video recorder market on the wane, they could be left making just screens and speakers. Such well-established companies will not take the threat lightly, however, and many are gearing up to take the software giant on.At the CES conference in Las Vegas last year, Sony boss Kunitake Ando reiterated his belief that it was the TV and not the PC that would take centre stage in the living room. Since then, the company has worked to position the television set as the hub of the digital home.Sony's strategy is based around set-top boxes, called Network Media receivers, which wirelessly link to a PC to access music, video and, in the future, web-based content. "We think that some consumers will want to access the kind of content they have on their PC, on their TV and hi-fi system so we are providing them with an easy way of doing it," says George Sebastian, Sony's product manager for Vaio desktop PCs.Although Sony offers a Microsoft Media Center XP PC in the US, it has developed its own software, which it feels offers superior performance levels and interface. "I expect we will see a lot of this functionality integrated into TVs shortly," adds Sebastian, hinting at what perhaps is the company's strongest hand for taking on Microsoft in the streaming arena.Sony's key European rival, Philips, has also been very active in promoting wireless home entertainment products under its Streamium banner. Its SL-3000i is a set-top box that sits under a TV and streams video, audio and images files from a host PC. The range of devices, which also includes a full DVD-based surround sound system complete with streaming functionality, are incredibly simple to set up and use.Probably the fiercest competition that Microsoft will face in the UK is from the companies that deliver digital TV - namely Sky and cable operators Telewest and NTL. Sky is adamant that while computers may play a large role in the living room of the future, most consumers will favour consumer electronics devices.Sky could have the backing of the media companies, too. "While it is inevitable that in the future, consumers will be able to move content around their home," says Brian O'Sullivan, director of new product development and sales at Sky TV, "the key issue for, say, film companies is how secure will that content be. They won't want a repeat of the illegal downloading of music files. We have years of delivering secure content over satellite, while content via broadband has only just started."The company could potentially evolve its Sky+ box, a satellite de coder and hard disk video recorder, to receive content via the internet. Unlike other TV broadband operators, Sky already has a set-top box with a hard disk in place - it would only need to replace the dial-up modem in its box with a broadband one and it could offer video on demand. O'Sullivan, however, is not convinced by this supposed trump card. "Studies in the US, where this kind of video on demand is available, have shown that figures aren't actually that different for the near video on demand service that Sky offers."Microsoft and its partners could also face problems in persuading cable subscribers to trade their set-top boxes for living room-friendly PCs. Cable firms not only offer a more comprehensive portfolio of channels, but have hooked many subscribers on three counts by giving competitively priced internet access and phone calls as well. There is, of course, nothing to stop consumers from using PCs in tandem with cable or even satellite, but as future set-top boxes are likely to replicate many PC features, it might not make economic sense to have both.In the short term, there are many areas in which the Media Center PCs will have to improve if they are to challenge for the home market. Most use analogue terrestrial TV tuners - which makes them look rather backward in the UK, where more than 10m homes already have digital TV. And while PCs with Freeview Digital terrestrial tuners are available, there is no certainty that the satellite and cable companies will get into bed with Microsoft to support a potential rival to their own set-top boxes.Another issue is the quality of the Media Center's audio-visual performance. "Without doubt, Media Center PCs will find their way into living rooms, but more work still needs to be done on perfecting picture quality," says Chris Price, a technology journalist who has been tracking Microsoft's products. "Companies like Sony and Philips have been perfecting TV image quality for over 50 years - and it shows. For Microsoft to dominate the living room, it needs to work on the basics as well as providing fancy features such as instant messaging and twin tuner recording."Many consumers will also ask questions about how secure their own content is on a PC. At present, most music download services - including the most popular, Apple's iTunes Music Store - will not let users re-download a track they have already paid for. That means consumers who do not back up their PC could lose thousands of pounds worth of content if their computer malfunctions or is stolen - not to mention the potential threat from viruses and worms. This seems less of a gamble if your goods are spread across several platforms - but imagine if all your entertainment purchases reside in one place.So in the battle for the living room, who are likely to be the winners and losers? It is very difficult to say. Interestingly, several consumer electronics companies have become successful in areas outside their traditional remit. Philips, for example, believes medical technology for the home remains untapped, while Sharp is a major player in the solar power market. Sony, of course, has its highly successful PlayStation games consoles. If the Media Center fails to establish itself, Microsoft will still its games console, the Xbox. It has also been developing set-top boxes with European cable and telecommunications companies.But should these companies be hedging their bets? "Ultimately, both the Media Center PC and the hi-fi/TV system will evolve to do slightly different things," argues Ian Fogg, an analyst with Jupiter Research."Some consumers will opt for the established AV route, which offers reliability and performance but isn't very flexible, while others will be attracted by the variety of applications offered by the PC. Both will be successful. By 2006/2007, most PCs will offer Media Center-type functionality."Will consumers put the PC under their TV, or even use all of its functions? At this point, no one - even those at the heart of the fight - really knows.
Optic illusionJack Schofield (Make the connection, October 28) continues to perpetrate the myth that fibre-optic cables are needed to provide true high-speed connections. It is not true. The current coaxial cable used by cable companies will give all that is needed; it just needs a change in the technology at the ends, from the archaic cable television model to a newer model.To change requires switches in the street side boxes and in the exchange, and probably fibre-optics between the two - but does not require the really expensive bit, ie re-cabling the street. In the short term, the cable companies could increase the bandwidth provided for broadband at the expense of a TV channel or two if they wished - but why should they when the competition, ADSL, cannot beat their present offerings? It is not the cable in the street that is the limitation today.This is the unique selling point of cable over satellite, and is why it is much more important to get cable, or equivalent, to all homes and businesses rather than waste money upgrading the cities to fibre-optics.David GiddingsLondonFlexible approachI think it is worth noting that NTL - and presumably other cable companies - will unbundle their services, so if you want any combination of cable TV, telephony and internet access, they will oblige. I only have its broadband offering, which although it has a fairly standard £24.99 price tag, does offer 750k uncapped downloading. If you don't take the cable TV service, it will give you a cable modem, which is much more reliable than the set-top box. Coupled with a wireless router/DSL gateway, it gives a fast and neat unlimited wireless access solution straight out of the box.David ParkerBeckenhamSignal boxI noted Dave Kirk's satisfaction (Feedback, October 21) with his hard-drive recorder for digital television, the Humax PVR 8000T, which includes a Freeview receiver. It seems great value at about £140 - except that I am one of the many who live in an area that cannot receive digital terrestrial signals, so I use Sky satellite. Can the Humax - or similar - be set up to record Sky signals?Alternatively, I have a computer with a big hard drive. Could I connect it to the Sky box with an add-on card and give myself a hard-drive recorder that I could then feed to the TV set? If so, what do I need?James AndersonNewtownards  Northern IrelandBad behaviourDave Birch's suggestion for attacking sick servers (Second Sight, October 21) is somewhat ill-advised. Such vigilante behaviour would be illegal, irresponsible and impractical. Many innocent people would have their access disrupted - most of the traffic in a denial of service attack also goes through other networks, and would therefore disrupt or delay access for people on the networks concerned. It is the system administrator's duty to investigate reports of illegal content on my network. Ordinary users who abuse their provider's facilities in the name of a moral crusade may find themselves not only without access, but also subject to criminal charges.Gideon HallettLondonPlugging the dykeThe idea of using spare computer time and net bandwidth to tackle this pernicious blot is a brilliant idea. How about harnessing the talents of virus authors, once caught, to drive these servers off the net? It would be more effective for the police to manage such a workforce than to continually try to plug the holes in the dyke.Hans KruinigerBristolNet lossI was connected to Wanadoo broadband last month. A fortnight later, the service failed. I have since spent more than five hours on the phone to the company (charged at national rate), and spoken to about 10 people. I have been promisedreconnection six times, without success. It seems that for some reason, BT temporarily suspended my phone service - such suspension leads to Wanadoo ceasing the broadband connection.Wanadoo must then authorise reconnection, for which it makes an additional charge of £25 each time.I am self employed and work from home, so I need broadband. I would like to walk away from Wanadoo and find a hassle-free provider, but Wanadoo requires everyone to sign a 12-month contract for its service.Monika BeutelDesign faultI thought most companies would, by now, have realised that having a non-standards compliant website is the online equivalent of selling goods from a market stall. Yet PowerGen, a large business, seems to have let its web designers/programmers get away with murder. Try to access its website (www.powergen.co.uk) with, for example, Mozilla Firefox and note the results. Powergen has evidently spent a considerable amount of money on it, yet whoever created it did a very shabby job.Tony Stone
The internet was never designed to be this popular. The flexible architecture that has made it possible to use the net for everything from grocery shopping to online gaming also makes it hard to stop viruses, spam, hackers and denial of service attacks. All the network protocols care about is letting a user send packets of data to another user, not what they might contain, or who is in more of a hurry.To help solve this problem, Intel has got together with universities around the world to start building PlanetLab. It is an experimental network that piggybacks on the internet and offers services on a global scale in an attempt to get beyond what Intel's chief technology officer, Pat Gelsinger, calls the internet's "architectural limitations".Internet connections are not always as stable and secure as we would like. Servers crash, popular destinations such as the 1901 census site cannot cope with the number of visitors, and audio and video streams get interrupted. Routing problems sometimes cut off parts of the network. Internet pioneer Vint Cerf cheerfully says today's internet is primitive: "I think we're still in the Stone Age when it comes to serious networking."Faster internet connections won't deal with the load, which will only increase as companies connect more devices, as new services take up more bandwidth, and developing countries start to use the internet more heavily. But making fundamental changes to something as popular - and as commercially important - as the internet is not easy.For example, look at the slow adoption of Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6), which offers far more IP addresses and devices. As well as improving security and privacy, IPv6 is also designed for mobility and is easier to administer. However, ISPs and businesses are reluctant to face the complexity and expense of installing and supporting the new system.So instead of changing the basics, PlanetLab builds on top of them. Instead of trying to be just a faster network, it is aiming to be smarter - and more secure.Combining intelligent routing and distribution services could take the delay out of getting data from there to here, and with PlanetLab, these services can be distributed across the whole planet rather than restricted to just one company or ISP.Instead of just sending data back and forth, PlanetLab lets you run applications and services inside the network. A PlanetLab node is a Linux PC (running a modified version of Red Hat) with the PlanetLab software, which includes built-in management tools to monitor the node and handle user accounts.Each node is sliced up into different virtual machines so that different services can run on the operating system they need without interfering with each other. One service might run on slices of many different nodes, joining them into a virtual machine that happens to be in different parts of the world. The node might be at a university, inside an ISP or in a company, and the owner of the node can choose what resources to make available - like limiting the bandwidth the node can use - and which services are allowed to run in a slice.From the first 100 nodes donated by Intel in August 2002, PlanetLab has grown to more than 400 machines in 26 countries. Its goal is 1,000 nodes around the world, peering with the key internet backbones. Most sites are in the US and Europe, but China, Brazil and India are adding nodes.It is still very much a research tool, with the advantage that it is connected to the internet rather than isolated from it, so researchers can experiment in a more realistic environment. And with HP, Google, AT&amp;T and France Telecom signed up, Gelsinger thinks the time is right to start moving towards commercial services. He says: "We think the work we're doing today is laying the foundation for the internet of tomorrow."The first customer is US broadcaster PBS, which will use PlanetLab to put high-definition TV shows online. PlanetLab could also make peer-to-peer and Voice over Internet Protocol phone systems more effective, although you might never know it is behind them.To check out PlanetLab services, try the CoDeeN content distribution network (codeen.cs. princeton.edu/) or the Coral peer-to-peer distribution network (www.scs.cs.nyu.edu/coral/). Both are designed to take the load off busy websites to make them faster. Think of them as being like free versions of Akamai's caching network, which anyone can use to make their website more available.Some of the most useful PlanetLab services measure and monitor the   internet, looking for problems that range from local failures to virus attacks. Netbait looks for machines infected with viruses all over the internet and creates a list; network administrators and ISPs could use that information to block infected machines and stop viruses spreading. PHI (Public Health of the Internet) tracks attacks and infections, most of which turn out to come from computers within the US."It turns out that more than 60% of viruses and denial of services attacks typically come from just 10 sources," says Gelsinger, pointing out the difference this kind of information could make: "There could be more sophisticated analysis and repudiation but even simplistic blocking helps: we get extraordinarily better results than with other techniques."Other tools let you see who is using what and how different connections are performing. If you want to stream video over the internet, it helps to know which network connections are available and which are running slowly.How about being able to take not just your files but your office computing power with you when you travel? There are PlanetLab services designed to move files and applications to systems closer to where you are staying, to give better performance.Few people back up securely and keep copies of data out of the building. OceanStore is a storage infrastructure that takes files, encrypts them and then breaks them into overlapping file fragments, so you can rebuild the file without needing all the original pieces. It copies the file fragments on to PlanetLab nodes all around the world, and keeps on moving and copying them so there are always enough copies to rebuild your file even if individual nodes fail.As a distributed, peer-to-peer system, OceanStore does not need the time-consuming planning and expensive hardware that goes into storage area networks. Instead, it relies on the number of redundant copies of the fragments on different systems. The aim is to produce a system that could cope with 10bn users storing 10,000 files each, adding up to an exabyte (a thousand million gigabytes) of data.But do not expect to see services like this appearing overnight: the first for individuals are due late next year, and ISPs and companies will take time to get involved. But as Mic Bowman, from Intel's PlanetLab strategic research program, puts it: "The change in two to three years will be unnoticeable, but the change in five years may be beyond our wildest imaginations."
That's VATThe European Union wants a centralised European portal to be used for VAT declarations, with traders assigned a single VAT number, to simplify and harmonise VAT handling across the member states. The plans published by the European Commission say the current situation (where VAT is levied in the country where the goods are delivered) is unsatisfactory if the vendor has no office in that location. With a single identity, VAT returns can be submitted online and any refunds sent directly to the seller. The portal will also clarify which goods and services are exempt and how much VAT is levied on others.masl.to/?N2DA61DA9PIC of the netAMD aims to benefit poorer countries with the release of its Personal Internet Communicator (PIC), right. The compact internet access device combines the Microsoft XC operating system and AMD Geode GX500 processor with 128MB of memory, a 10GB hard drive, a modem, and four USB ports. AMD is aiming to help equip half the world's population with internet connectivity by 2015. Other companies involved in producing the PIC include Macromedia, Samsung, Seagate and Solectron.&lt;A HREF="http://www.amd.com/50x15""&gt;www.amd.com/50x15No YorkE-government collaboration is crumbling in Yorkshire as a key member of the North Yorkshire ICT Partnership bows out. The City of York Council is the seventh authority to pull out of the initiative, which originally had nine members. York was charged with operational leadership of the strategy. The council blames the withdrawal of £650,000 of government funding and the belief that hoped-for savings would not be delivered. In an executive report, the council states that the estimated costs - between £8.8m and £10.3m over 10 years - are more than expected. North Yorkshire and Hambleton are now the last members of the partnership. Procurement will still be handled by Agilisys.masl.to/?Y12B25DA9Laptop leaksLaptop users are a threat to corporate network security and could open the door to viruses, keyloggers and other spyware, or even leave employers liable to prosecution. In a survey of 500 European users, Dynamics Markets found that 86% download non-work software, music and videos, with 72% ignoring the terms and conditions attached to their downloads. Almost half admit visiting peer-to-peer file-sharing, adult or hacking sites, and half allow friends and family to use their company laptops. Websense, which commissioned the report, concludes that company policies must be enforced and that European businesses must wake up to the legal liabilities and security threats that laptops pose.Extended serviceVMware is extending the capabilities of its ESX Server software to create virtual machines running on four processors. ESX Server partitions a single server to act as two or more virtual machines. The current version can use single or dual AMD or Intel servers, and a Four-Way VMware Virtual SMP module will be added later next year. This will give administrators the ability to use spare capacity on large servers to run other tasks. It will also be used to migrate operations from one physical server to another, to allow maintenance without stopping services.masl.to/?O21B42DA9NFC nearerThe first trial of NFC (Near Field Communication) for ticketing will be launched in Frankfurt next year with the Rhein-Main Verkehrsverbund (RMV) public transport authority. Bus passengers with Nokia 3220 phones equipped with special NFC shell covers will be able to register their journeys by holding their phones next to the buses' contactless smart card readers as they get on and off. The RMV ticketing application will be stored on a smart card controller in the phone. The technology was demonstrated at this week's Cartes IT &amp; Security trade show in Paris.www.rmv-get-in.deYahoo scamYahoo! users should ignore fraudulent emails that ask them to verify their Yahoo! ID, according to MessageLabs. The emails claim to be helping Yahoo! prevent automated registrations, but dupe users into creating email accounts that can be used for spamming. MessageLabs says: "The emails contain a fake Yahoo.com URL that leads to a completely different site, but redirects through a Google URL three times to obfuscate the link. It then redirects to another fake Yahoo! web address that loads a real Yahoo! help page with legitimate information explaining the code verification process, followed by a fake pop-up window which shows the user a Yahoo! picture ID and asks them to enter the code."
Not much happened in the first 1,000 years of fireworks history. From the ancient Chinese mixing saltpetre, charcoal and sulphur to make the first gunpowder, through Handel's Music for the Royal Fireworks to celebrate the coronation of George II in 1727, to your dad standing in the rain on Guy Fawkes' night trying to light a rocket stuck in an old milk bottle, is not much of a step.But anyone who watched this year's awe-inspiring St Patrick's display in Dublin, or the displays at Legoland last weekend, will realise that something big has happened in pyrotechnics.The transformation in the sheer scale and ambition of displays is due to the application of 21st century technology to 10th century chemistry. At the heart of modern set-piece displays lies a digital control system that can launch shell after shell to within 5/100ths of a second of each other through a signal embedded in the music track, and able to be transmitted to remote firing stations via an encoded radio signal.According to Daryl Flemming, display director for Kimbolton Fireworks, one of the world's leading manufacturers, and the choreographers behind the Dublin and Legoland displays, technology has liberated fireworks and transformed the kind of displays the company can stage. "Before we used the computer, a show might have some 50-60 cues (launches of individual or grouped fireworks). Now a show like Dublin might have more than 2,000 cues. The sky is literally the limit."FireOne is the software and hardware package of choice. It can run an entire display, firing thousands of fireworks, each with split-second precision. The hardware mainly comprises miles of cable and some nondescript switch boxes. As for the software interface, to call it perfunctory is to imbue it with a glamour it does not warrant. It is in marked contrast to the spectacular effects it helps deliver. A wave pattern at the bottom of the screen shows the music being played. Above it, the software runs through the thousands of cues linked into the beat of the tune.But, says Flemming, the software is only the tool. The real creative process takes place in his head. Although only in his mid-30s, he has 16 years of display experience, including seven as full-time director.Underpinning every display is the music. Get the music right and the rest will follow. He admits to hating Handel's Fireworks music - "It's not that good for a display." He prefers something more contemporary, with a strong beat. "I'll find myself listening to something on the radio and think, 'oh, that would make a good candle bouquet', or 'you could launch a series of mines to that'."The whole display is then "written" out in the FireOne software. The music track is laid down first, and then at every point Flemming wants an effect, he pauses the music and chooses the effect he wants. The software knows the flight time and hang time of every one of thousands of combinations of firework, and will calculate the time to fire the electrical detonator to launch the shell in   perfect time. On the night, once the hard work is done, Flemming just has to press the start button and the show fires itself.According to Flemming, we have not seen the full potential of this technology. While computers are used to time the launch of the firework, their fusing is down to chemistry that the ancient Chinese would have felt very much at home with.However, a recent display in America pointed the way ahead. It was a display of the first "smart" firework: instead of the usual gunpowder fuse, each shell had a digital timer, initiated from the launching computer. It put unprecedented precision in the hands of the director. Even seasoned professionals were awe-struck: "It was the most stunning thing I have seen in fireworks," said Flemming.Each shell was given a unique detonation time, and sequenced using the FireOne controller. Using the split-second accuracy of the launcher coupled with the computerised timers in each shell, the first rainbow of fireworks was built, shell by shell, in seconds. Each layer of colour was precisely laid upon the previous until the sky was full of glowing sparks sweeping across in a single arc.But for all the hi-tech equipment, perhaps there is an element of your dad and the milk bottle remaining. Pinned to Flemming's wall is a reminder of things to take to shows. Along with rolls of tape, batteries and cables, at the bottom of the list is the one thing no display is complete without: a box of matches.
Price comparisonswww.buy.co.ukBill reductionswww.saveonyourbills.co.ukSwitch and givewww.switchandgive.comIndependent watchdogwww.energywatch.org.ukCheaper energywww.energylinx.co.ukGoing greenwww.guardian.co.uk/renewable/Story/0,2763,1310657,00.html
Last week, our Gamesblog looked at the introduction of calorie-counting in the new Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas game. It stirred up some interesting debate, which you can follow atmasl.to/?C54E253A9Keith Stuart:"GTA: San Andreas's lead character must eat regularly to stay alive, but everything available for consumption has a calorific attribute. Stuff his face with french fries and burgers, and he'll put on weight and be laughed at by other characters. Starve him and he'll be too scrawny to pick up heavy objects. Body image has become a game feature. Is this a good thing?"James:The only disturbing factor is the characters laughing at the lead man if he gets fat. That is a form of bullying, which we could do without in the escapist world of gaming.However, the eating/exercising thing is a good thing. Most people can keep their body in shape as long as regular exercise is a part of their life. If a video game instils this notion in the minds of the gaming population, then it's good.Tom:Surely the real concern is the violence, not one or two characters eating a balanced diet?Benj:I think it's a laudable idea in   principle, and of course adds another dimension of realism to the game. But therein lies the problem: there is a fine line between realism and tedium.Don Carlos:I hope they offer a few restaurants to eat at, other than McDonald's and Burger King. A nice Italian or Indian would go down a treat.John:I want to see how they make this feature - needing to eat and spend time in the gym - fun. It sounds really dull.Callum:This may hint at what is to come: game worlds that have sociological messages and political points to make. We could find our industry taking some unexpected turns in the near future; unexpected investors as well!Lupo:The idea of obese kids sitting at home keeping their virtual character fit through dieting and exercise while their own bodies swell embodies our modern consumerist society.AC:So let me get this straight. GTA is all about gang warfare, drugs, drive-bys, cop-killing and speeding. And we're worried about "body image"?Join in the conversation. Log on to our blog and see what tickles your fancy.blogs.guardian.co.uk/games
OK, so it is only just November, but shop staff are blowing the dust off the tree, shining up the baubles and wondering if the fairy survived last year's Christmas party. You, too, might be considering what to buy the gadget-lover in your life this Christmas. Here are a few sub-£100 gizmos to get you started.Sushi USB keyswww.dynamism.comForget stamps, commemorative plates or Pokemon cards. The coolest thing is novelty versions of USB keys, mini Flash-based storage devices that enable you to port round all your most interesting data. Among the most desirable are limited edition, handmade in Tokyo, Sushi keys. They come in lots of slimy looking flavours, including sea urchin, samson roe and cucumber maik. Yours for $79 for a 32MB key or $109 for a 128MB one.Vivitar 5.0www.firebox.comThe time was when a five megapixel digital camera would set you back the best part of a £1,000. Not any more. Firebox has lined up the latest 5mp snapper from Vivitar for a penny less than £100. It has a neat design, not unlike an Olympus Mju, 14MB of built in memory, a 1.4in LCD screen and is small enough for your pocket.Linksys NSLU2www.linksys.co.ukLinksys is leading the way in wireless add-ons. One of its best is the £54.73 NSLU2. It is a little adapter that plugs in to an external hard drive so you can wirelessly see or hear files from another computer in your network. We also like the WVC54G, a cool camera that costs around £180, which automatically latches on to your wireless network, so you can view footage of your home via its web page.Crumpler Crippy Duckwww.crumpler.co.ukThe height of geek chic used to mean a naff leather wallet for your PDA. Not any more, though, as Australian accessory company Crumpler is trying to turn the laptop bag into an ultra-fashionable item by giving it a funky makeover. In our books, the ludicrously named £70 Crippy Duck is the coolest computer bag. It comes in black, orange or grey, and has space for plenty of other gadgets, too.Alba TRDAB2820www.albaplc.comDigital radios have always seemed an extravagance, especially as most of the stations are broadcast over the internet or are available via a digital TV receiver. However, if you fancy a DAB radio for the kitchen, the Alba TRDAB2820 is worth a punt, largely because it looks inoffensive, performs well, and is the first of its kind to retail for under £50.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418 gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111 gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Software development is changing fast, and the days of sitting at a terminal writing code to simple flowcharts are long gone. While there are dozens of methodologies - depending on corporate standards and the preferences of the project's architects - there is a growing interest in "agile" approaches such as "extreme programming".Complex projects take time, and are often run in isolation, away from the people who will use the code. Typically, an analyst condenses the user's way of working into a UML (Unified Modeling Language) Use case and an object model, which is not the same as a developer sitting down with the user, and showing them how a section of the application will work. The reaction against this has seen a rise in agile development methodologies, also known as lightweight methodologies, that enable complex projects to be delivered in a tight time-frame.The Extreme Programming (XP) movement is a loose alliance of software architects and computer scientists who have gathered behind a manifesto defining the things that agile development models value. These include prioritising individuals and interactions over processes and   tools, working software over comprehensive documentation, customer collaboration over contract negotiation, and responding to change rather than following a plan.That is not to say that tools are not valued: agile development means that testing frameworks such as the Java JUnit - and its Microsoft.net equivalent, NUnit - are important.XP is probably the best known agile methodology, and comes into its own in the rapid development cycles of today's fast moving, flexible businesses. An XP development cycle starts with user stories, which are simple descriptions of end-user requirements. These are used to estimate development time, and to define a plan for release application features. XP relies on frequent small releases, each of which supports the business, and makes it easier to get feedback from users as the whole application is developed.It is when you start writing code that XP really shows its differences from traditional methodologies. Developers are encouraged to work in pairs to help trap bugs and to produce simpler solutions.However, perhaps the most powerful part of XP is the idea of "test first". Developers are encouraged to write unit tests for their applications and components before they start to write any code. It helps keep development focused on delivering only the required features.One key difference between the agile methodologies such as XP and the more complex approaches seen in traditional software development is flexibility. But there is no reason why you cannot take just one part of XP and include it in your approach to software development. You will find concepts like "test first" embedded in the next generation of development suites. Also, some elements of XP are well suited to web application development, especially its reliance on regular working prototypes. These can be used to solve tricky problems without affecting the rest of the application.There are many agile approaches to development - from the elegant approach of XP, to the "fire and forget" approach of Scrum, which splits projects into 30-day sprints to deliver specific functionality. It then leaves the development team to get on with the work, with daily meetings known as "scrums" to report back to management on progress and problems.However, agile methods tend towards common sense solutions to the problems of software development, and can best be described as a craft approach, rather than the overly intricate software engineering and project management methods at the heart of other popular development methodologies.Britain's agile software developers meet at regular events, such as Agile Tuesday Meetings, and one-day conferences. They exchange ideas with developers all over the world. Last week saw the launch of Agile Alliance Europe, a non-profit body intended to encourage and promote agile methodologies, and act as a forum.The agile approach has not been dismissed by more traditional methodologies. IBM is linking its Rational modelling and software engineering tools with the Eclipse development environment, while Compuware is throwing its weight behind Model Driven Architecture (MDA). Microsoft has just announced its approach to agile development in the shape of its Software Factories. Taking a cue from the industrial revolution, software factories abstract and automate elements of the development process, taking advantage of the collective skills of the development team.Unlike XP, this is a more formal approach. Visual models are used to capture the often informal information needed to guide application development, and then the models are used to help create executable code. Refining the model refines the code.In contrast with some MDA approaches, Microsoft's software factories will capture information in XML-based domain specific languages, which can be used to map processes, components and the hardware used to deploy the application. Organisations will be able to define their own domain languages, and add their own modelling concepts. This approach should help enterprise architects deliver complex applications that fit the way their businesses work.Traditional application development methodologies such as UML will not go away overnight, especially when organisations require strict project management approaches. But developers are likely to pick up lessons learnt from agile methods, and incorporate them into day-to-day operations, even if they don't become formal processes. This will become more commonplace as the next generation of tools, including Microsoft's Visual Studio 2005 Team System, roll out over the next year.Taken to extremes UMLwww.uml.orgExtreme Programming (XP)www.extremeprogramming.orgwww.xprogramming.comAgile Alliance Europewww.agileallianceeurope.orgXP Daywww.xpday.orgMicrosoft Software Factoriesmsdn.microsoft.com/ architecture/overview/software factories/
Festive fracasOnline retailers are gearing up for Christmas, but some have more of an advantage going into the festive fracas. According to tracking firm Hitwise, eBay is the most searched-for retailer, with more than four times the number of requests as its nearest rival, Amazon.
Chip manufacturer AMD has announced a plan to bring low-cost computers to hundreds of millions of people in poor countries, starting with India, Mexico, Russia, Brazil and China. This will be done with a small, sealed $185 box called a PIC (Personal Internet Communicator).It is, says AMD, "an innovative consumer device that enables affordable, managed internet connectivity and offers Microsoft Windows-based computing capabilities to help fulfil the communication, education and entertainment needs of people in high-growth markets."The PIC is the manifestation of a plan that Hector Ruiz, AMD's funky chairman, president and chief executive officer, touted at this year's World Economic Forum in Davos as the "50x15 initiative". The idea is to get 50% of the world's population on to the net by 2015. Today, it's only about 10%.The strategy is for PICs to be manufactured locally and then "branded, marketed and sold by local service providers such as telecommunications companies and government-sponsored communications programs", says AMD. In Mumbai, India, last week, it said the first takers were the Tata Group in India, Mexico's CRC and Cable &amp; Wireless in the Caribbean.It's a good idea to sell PICs as part of a service, because people are unlikely to buy them if sold separately. Even kids in the poorest countries want real PCs that can run Quake or whatever, and their $5 pirate CDs of Windows XP and Microsoft Office. The PIC isn't one.Ignore AMD's reference to "Windows-based computing capabilities". In the same press release, Microsoft's Craig Mundie refers to the PIC as "a low-cost Windows Powered solution", which means Windows CE. In other words, the PIC is the equivalent of a Pocket PC handheld, Windows Mobile smartphone, or television set-top box - albeit one beefed up with 128MB of memory, a 10GB hard drive, four USB 1.1 ports and a keyboard.The PIC's version of CE has apparently been given extensions to make it more compatible with XP applications, but it is still an entirely different operating system.We can applaud AMD's attempt to take the internet to the masses (and sell a few billion processors) but we have heard this story before. The PIC is our old friend the Internet Appliance, which appeared as   the WebPad, Compaq's Web Companion, Netpliance's iOpener, Microworkz's iToaster and other guises. It flopped horribly.The PIC started with an even smaller chip company called Cyrix, which developed a "system on a chip" it called the Geode. National Semiconductor gobbled up Cyrix and launched the Geode WebPad a year later, at Comdex Las Vegas in 1999. At the time, I quoted IDC as projecting that the market for internet appliances would be 55.7m units worth $15.3bn in 2002. Ouch.By August last year, National Semiconductor had had enough, and sold its Information Appliance business unit and Geode family of microprocessors - what was left of the old Cyrix business - to AMD. The PIC is its latest incarnation.Good luck, guys. It might work one day.&#183;Jack Schofield's column AMD 50x15 initiativewww.amd.com/50x15< /a>
If you point at a picture on a gallery wall, you don't expect to be able to zoom in. But that is exactly what is happening for visitors to Florence's Palazzo Medici Riccardi. Once the home of the Medici family, the great patrons of the Renaissance, the vast building houses an important set of frescos by Benozzo Gozzoli. Hundreds of thousands of tourists visit every year.But the paintings are too high, too detailed, and the room too full of people for them to be properly appreciated in a crowd. Museums are stupid in this way: even here in Florence, surrounded by the treasures of the Renaissance, the exhibits pale in comparison to the fully interactive, knowledge-sharing, totally accessible information sources that make up the best of the internet.It is fantastic to be standing in front of the masterpiece itself, rather than looking at it in a browser window - but if you can't zoom in, or follow links, or look up details of the artist, just how educational is it?As Alessandro Valli of the University of Florence says, the usual exhibit is nothing but the paintings and a small notice of their year of creation, but this fails to answer some of the questions visitors will be asking: "Who paid for it? What do the details mean? Who's the guy in the strange hat? What's the context?"It's difficult for a museum to display all the information you want, and difficult to appreciate the picture on a screen. But today's answers to this problem aren't much better.Giving people handheld devices or audio commentary players, even when loaded with this year's latest   acronyms and wireless protocols, only shifts attention from the art to the technology. Plus, you have to teach people how to use the device, which requires expensive staff, and it usually distracts people from each other, ruining the social experience of a museum visit. It's not an elegant solution at all, and out of place in buildings dedicated to beauty.Enter, then, the new field of Natural Interaction and Valli its Florentine pioneer. Along with his team, Valli photographed the Gozzoli paintings, then had art historians point out interesting areas, and record commentaries for each of them. Sometimes these areas were in parts of the painting that are too hard to see in real life. No matter. The images are projected on to a screen against the wall of Lorenzo the Magnificent's bedroom - there is a surfeit of significant rooms in the building - and it looks like any ordinary projection. Indeed it is, except that if you stand in front of the screen, and point at the area you are interested in, the image will increase in size, and the commentary will start. Point at the cross in the top right of the image, and itreturns to its original size. Point at the navigation arrows on the left or right and the picture scrolls along.You don't need special equipment or training. You just stand in front of the screen and point. Two off-the-shelf webcams connected to a Windows PC sense if you are pointing at anything, and where to. It works brilliantly and is, professionally speaking, the coolest thing I have seen.Valli's research, and the foundation this year of a new laboratory at the University of Florence, aim to create systems to allow people from all the different cultures and languages that come to Florence, to interact with the exhibits - and with computer systems - without any special hardware and without being taught how to do it.This is a tricky problem: how can you augment public spaces with computer systems that might be useful, and allow these systems to be used by people with no training at all. How, in other words, can you build computer interfaces from the natural environment? For Valli, the interest stems from a lifelong love of art, and the desire to know more about the paintings in the galleries of his home town.But, he says, the potential for mixing buildings with computers that understand people's gestures is huge. He has systems that react not only to pointing, but to where people walk, or where they place objects on a table top. There are systems designed for shops that detect where you are touching a wall, and others for projecting maps on to tables, and detecting where you are pointing. Those interfaces you've seen in the movies are actually being built.Interactive shop windows and display cases, Alessandro Valli says, will be in our supermarkets within the next two years, and other museums are looking at installing his system for exploring paintings.
What Amazon sales rankings "really mean"www.fonerbooks.com/surfing.htmSeymour Hersh web castwww.berkeley.edu/news/media/releases/2004/10/11_hersh.shtmlMobile Newsnightwww.bbc.co.uk/newsnight
In his book The Internet Galaxy, the sociologist Manuel Castells said that it is not Big Brother (ie the government) we should worry about, but the "multitude of little sisters": the million and one databases that store every fact about our lives and our behaviour.I believe he is only partly right, because to be concerned about the inevitable perversion of government identity management schemes is not paranoia. For example, last month, a DVLA employee was sentenced to five months in prison for using its computer systems to look up the addresses associated with vehicle registration numbers and passing them on to animal rights activists.The idea that the government could implement a gigantic database of everyone in the country and guarantee that it could never be misused is far-fetched.But back to the little sister databases. The threat lies in the coordination of little sisters without individual consent. If I, as a consumer, decide that it is OK for Dixons and British Airways to tie their database descriptions of me together, then that is my decision: what I don't want is for them to be able to do it behind my back.The technologies of identity are constantly developing. The evolution of smart cards, biometrics, cryptography, pervasive networks and other technologies means that society has a spectrum of choice: identity doesn't have to be a zillion cards and a huge database. For one thing, these technologies mean that people can have lots of identities if they want. This means lots of little sisters who, by themselves, are watching over your identity fragments but who, when coordinated, can reveal all.Suppose, for example, that your Nectar card had a computer chip on it and could do the same sort of clever things as an ID card but without giving away your real name. I might choose a Nectar card in the name of Zinedine Zidane. Suppose that I use that card to log on to sites on the internet or to get in to London Zoo: the fact that I am not really Zidane is irrelevant for most applications; however, the privacy of Dave Birch is protected.But now suppose I do something I shouldn't: post abusive messages in a chat room or feed crisps to the pandas. Law enforcement agencies might then ask my little sister (ie, Nectar, in this case) who I am and where I live, and little sister will tell them. In this architecture, government departments are just other little sisters.The key advantage of this approach is the combination of mathematics and economics. If it is technically possible to find out who has done what - when a crime has been committed, for example - but economically prohibitive (because of cryptography) to monitor people continuously on a large scale, then a reasonable privacy settlement can be achieved. Lots of little sisters might be better than one Big Brother.&#183;Dave Birch is a director of Consult Hyperion, which is organising the fifth annual Digital Identity Forum, to be held in London on November 10-11. Seewww.chyp.com/digid/
Rate your MPPolidex, taking some inspiration from Celebdaq, is a new online trading game based on the performance of our Westminster MPs. Registered players can trade in the popularity of MPs as if they were real commodities on a financial market.Prices are determined by how many people have bought shares in an individual, and players can buy and sell them with other players. The parliamentary ombudsman need not be too worried as only "pretend money" is involved. Rumours suggest there are already a handful of real MPs playing.www.polidex.co.ukwww.bbc.co.uk/celebdaqFawkes blogIf you like Polidex, then the new blog by Guido Fawkes might be a good place to visit for its "tittle tattle, gossip and rumours" about the mother of parliaments. The anonymous blogger claims that his blog is "written from the perspective of the only man to enter parliament with honest intention. The intention being to blow it up with gunpowder..." The views might be incendiary, but it has so far proved a jolly good read.5thnovember.blogspot.comDon't panic!The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy recently returned to BBC Radio 4 with a 20th anniversary edition, and to help celebrate, BBCi has reloaded the text-based computer game written by Douglas Adams back in 1984. (It sold more than 350,000 copies.) Now there is a competition to help finish illustrating the game, and the winner "will be invited to take part in a recording for the next series and receive a script signed by the cast". You could also win a boxed set of CDs of the new series, and see your illustration   featured in the game, or displayed on the BBC site.www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/hitchhikers/www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2Yellowing pagesHistorical Directories - a new genealogy resource for England and Wales, produced by a team at the University of Leicester - went online last week. It is, effectively, a digital library of local and trade directories for England and Wales dating from 1750 to 1919 - the forerunners to today's Yellow Pages. The site allows you to search the directories by county or by clicking on an old map of England and Wales. It should be a boon to the legions of amateur genealogists and professional scholars alike. Incidentally, the search engine uses the ZyLab database (as used by the FBI in the Enron investigation), which can scan thousands of paper documents extremely rapidly into a database format.www.historicaldirectories.orgwww.yell.comLondon Calling"London's a great city if you can cut out the grief," says the team behind Gumtree.com, a community-based website that is trying to do for London what Craig's List has done for San Francisco. Focusing on property and job ads, the site has grown into one of the biggest of its kind in a little over four years. Last month, it won a Sage business award for its simple but effective online strategy. The team has launched Gumtrees for a further nine UK cities, including Guildford. There are also Gumtrees in Dubai, Toronto and Johannesburg.www.gumtree.comwww.craigslist.orgBrought to bookNow you can check out a database of bookbindings in a searchable, high-resolution index of the British Library's collection of rare and historic books. You can search by binder, nation of origin, ownership mark, decorative techniques and much more. Alternatively, you can simply let the Library select 50 random books for you to browse online. At present, the web version is a work-in-progress, covering only books of western European origin from the 15th century onwards, but plans are being drawn to extend the service to other parts of the world soon.www.bl.uk/catalogues/book
Jim McClellan interviewed science fiction legend Neal Stephenson for this week'sTalk timecolumn ... but he's a pretty talkative chap, so we thought we'd give you the whole kit and caboodle.Neal Stephenson - the interview
What interests you about the late 17th/early 18th century?Its sheer gaudy complexity - its baroqueness. That makes it difficult to write about: one cannot really make sense of the wars and intrigues without a wall-sized family tree of the royal houses of Europe. I cheated by making the books long.You have said The Baroque Cycle is still science fiction - in what way exactly?That's like asking a jazz musician, "your latest album is jazz -   in what way exactly?" People in the habit of reading science fiction will pick up the novels and, I suspect, recognise them as having coming out of the same sensibility.Is the trilogy's history written from a hacker's perspective?History is a teeming midden of personalities and events. It's difficult to make out what's important and what deserves to be forgotten. That comes later, in retrospect. But retrospect changes over time. IT seemed to come out of nowhere in the past few decades. Science fiction authors had been predicting starships, but we never got them. They didn't predict ubiquitous computers - we did get those. So it's interesting to look at history now we know what a big deal IT turned out to be. If you want to call that a hacker's perspective, fine. But society has been transformed   by IT. So the hacker's perspective isn't just the point of view of a few geeks. It's everyone's perspective now.Do you think you'd have liked to live in the late 17th/early 18th century?I had an inguinal hernia at the age of three that had to be surgically repaired. That should settle the question of whether I would have liked to live 300 years ago. Don't even get me started about lice.Any idea what's next?Not yet. Some day, I might write more in the vein of The Baroque Cycle, but at the moment, I need to get away from these themes.You've contributed to a wiki about The Baroque Cycle - are you interested in blogging, or might it be a distraction from the novels?Blogging could be a distraction. That's why I have avoided it. The   interesting thing is the crossing of formerly well-defined lines between public and private. I know of instances where someone made a remark in what they thought was a private setting that got put on the internet by a blogger in the room. As that becomes more common, it's going to change the way people behave. My fear is, it will turn everyone into politicians, who speak in the most mealy mouthed style possible for fear that something they say will be taken out of context and made eternal in the media.Visit:www.cryptonomicon.com,www.metaweb.com/wiki/wiki.andwww.well.com/user/neal/Slashdotslashdot.orgMcMaster Carr Supplieswww.mcmaster.comMars Exploration Rover Missionmarsrovers.nasa.gov/home/I Love Beeswww.ilovebees.com
Neal Stephenson is still best known for science fiction novels like Snow Crash. He's just completed The Baroque Cycle, a trilogy of novels, set in the late 17th/early 18th Century. The last part, The System of the World, was published in October by William Heinemann. He did the following interview by email in the middle of October. For more information try his official website -www.nealstephenson.comor his home page atwww.well.com/user/nealOnline:You've commented before that this particular historical period - the late seventeenth/early eighteenth century - hasn't been covered so much in previous novels. Why is that, do you think, and what was it about it that interested you in particular?Neal Stephenson:This may simply be an American bias. In the 1770s we fought a war against a colonising power that shall go unnamed. Everyone knows about that. And we all learn about the early colonists at Plymouth Rock and Jamestown. But the long colonial period in between does not come in for much notice here. Maybe that is because it was fairly quiet. We had the Salem witch trials and the French and Indian War, but other than that, one gets the sense that nothing much happened during these almost 200 years. Obviously, there was a lot more happening during this era on your side of the pond, and so there are correspondingly more history books and works of fiction about it than here.Having said all of that, I think that the period is interesting because of its sheer gaudy complexity - its baroqueness --- and difficult to write about for the same reason. One cannot really make sense of all the wars and intrigues without a wall-sized family tree of the royal houses of Europe. I cheated by making the book long, which gave me space to explain at least some of these complexities. Other eras are simple by comparison; one can simply write "Napoleon had conquered most of Europe and wanted to invade Britain" and the stage is set. But trying to set up the War of the Spanish Succession is a nightmare of forensic genealogy.Setting those difficulties aside, this period is fascinating because so much was going on, and so much of it was brilliant and dramatic. The Turks at the gates of Vienna, the Barbary Corsairs and other sorts of pirates, gold-galleons on the Spanish Main, the court of Louis XIV at Versailles, the invention of modern science and finance, the Mogul Empire in Hindustan---all of this was happening at one time. I don't think there was any other period of history to compare with it.Online:Media profiles of you often mention your family background in engineering/science and your hands-on geeky tendencies - presumably in an attempt to suggest the ways you might differ from more traditional literary types. Do you think you approach writing fiction/novels in a different way to those who come from more conventional 'literary' backgrounds?NS:I doubt it. In those parts of novels where I have to explain something technical, it might save me a trip to the library. And perhaps it gives me an advantage in trying to see the world through the eyes of geeks. But I have to explain many other things besides science, and I need to see the world through other eyes besides geeks'. The way I actually produced the Baroque Cycle novels was markedly low-tech and disorderly: writing them with a pen on paper and keeping track of all of my notes in notebooks with no indexing system.My familiarity with technology helped me by opening my eyes to its failures and limitations, and thereby dissuading me from using any of it in this project.Online:One of the connecting threads between your different novels seems to be an interest in science and technology and the role they place in society/culture. The Baroque Cycle looks at the establishment of scientific method, the development of certain bits of technology and the development of economic systems... and you grapple with the intimate details of that period's various technologies and systems. So would it be accurate to describe BC as a kind of history seen/written from a hacker perspective?NS:That's a good start, but let's work with it a little. History is a huge teeming midden of personalities and events. There is no obvious way to make sense of it. It's difficult to make out what's important and what deserves to be forgotten. That comes later, in retrospect. But retrospect changes over time. Just to pick an example at random, consider the history of anti-semitism in Western culture. Historians of the 1930s probably didn't think it was nearly as important as did historians of the 1950s. And sometimes when one reads a pre-WW2 novel one will come across an anti-semitic passage that probably seemed funny and trivial to the person who wrote it. But seen in the light of what came later, it takes on different meanings to us.That's a pretty gruesome and serious example, but a similar principle applies to many other topics. I have been working the information technology beat for a while. Information technology seemed to come out of nowhere in the last few decades. All the SF authors who had been predicting starships and laser guns got it wrong. We never got those things. They didn't predict ubiquitous computers---and we did get those. And so it is an interesting exercise to go back and look at history now that we know just what a big deal information technology turned out to be. If you want to call that a hacker perspective, fine. But the fact is that you and I are doing this interview on e-mail. We're living in a society that's been transformed by information technology in too many ways to enumerate. So the hacker perspective isn't just the point of view of a few geeks. It is everyone's perspective now.Online:When you talk about writing The Baroque Cycle, it sometimes sounds as if you're talking about creating a kind of program (e.g. your references to data management problems, talk about the centrality of a yarn that holds together different data sets). Is this a way of distancing yourself from the kind of mystification indulged in by those writing 'serious lit' - perhaps even a way of gently winding them up? Or is there more to it? Do you see the BC as a kind of literary/historical hacking?NS:The technical jargon you cite above sounds like routine percolation of geek talk into modern slang. If I've used it somewhere to talk about how I wrote The Baroque Cycle, then, yes, it was probably me trying to explain what might otherwise seem a somewhat mysterious procedure.There's something appealing in your image of me winding up serious lit mystics, but, on consideration, I think it'd be too cheap and easy for me to say "yes, that's what I was doing." To begin with I don't know who these literary mystifiers are or what kind of language they are using to make their work seem mystical. Secondly, there really are some odd and hard-to-understand things going on in the head of someone who writes a novel. The more prosaic side of the job---the "data set management" and so on---is just a kind of busy work that I do in my spare time while waiting for the Muse to swoop down and thrust her tongue in my ear.I have said elsewhere that there are similarities between what computer programmers do and what novelists do. In both cases one is trying to build a great big system of words. It is highly structured. The structure has many layers of hierarchy. And there are many links that bind different parts of the structure together, and those links must all be sorted out. It all amounts to a quite elaborate thing. But one can't work directly on the structure itself; the only way actually to build it is by writing one letter at a time. Sort of like trying to construct a city by placing grains of sand, one at a time, with tweezers. All of this applies equally to novelists and computer programmers. Obviously the content and the intent are quite different between those two groups, but I believe that they do have to cultivate similar habits of work.Online:In 'Cryptonomicon', the computer/crypto geeks are searching for the kind of heroic purpose the world war two code breakers had. Recently various books about hacker ethics/politics have appeared, which argue that things like the Free Software movement actually have a wider political significance beyond the world of programming. They suggest hackers are radical figures with something to teach the rest of society. What do you make of this kind of thing? Do you see potential problems in attempts to apply ideas from open source/free software/hacking to culture/politics/society?NS:For a while I have been nursing the idea that open source software is just the extension of Common Law into the realm of executable code. I daren't think I'm the first person to have thought such a thing, so I did a Google search and found some references to the idea elsewhere. It appears that Michael Tiemann of Cygnus Support (an open source software company) has been thinking along similar lines, and perhaps there are others too. It's certainly the case that commonly used Internet protocols such as TCP/IP and HTTP have attained a status akin to that of common law.Assuming one is willing to buy that analogy, then your question boils down to whether the development of this new branch of common law amounts to a heroic purpose. I believe that it is a great purpose and that it can affect society in ways that are more important and far-reaching than heroism in the glorious, swashbuckling sense. It is not, however, glorious and swashbuckling, any more than were all the efforts made by lawyers and magistrates over many centuries to build Common Law. This comes out of the fact that the development of open source software is of necessity a collective enterprise. Unless many people all over the world buy into it, it doesn't get developed, it doesn't get maintained, and it will not be widely adopted. Solitary geniuses need not apply; social and organizational skills are of the essence.Online:You've mentioned that you're now a bit of a history buff but you weren't at school. Why is that? Is it that the kind of history being written now isn't just about great men but offers more materialist perspectives - e.g. the work of people like Braudel or Jared Diamond?NS:I enjoy reading both "great man" history and history of the Braudel/Diamond type.History is dull unless there's a yarn in it. A yarn by definition has to be about a small number of individuals who are in some kind of an interesting situation. It is, therefore, a rather fine-grained kind of history. But history teachers in schools are not allowed to teach that way. Instead they are told to teach a class called something like "The Ancient World" or (in this country) "American History." And this makes it impossible for them to teach at the fine-grained level of individual yarns; it filters out all the interesting content and leaves only the dull stuff. If I were running a school I would begin by chucking all of those courses into the dustbin. In place of "American History" I'd have the kids read Cabeza de Vaca, or a biography of Jim Bowie.Online:The books in The Baroque Cycle are incredibly detailed when it comes to conjuring up the minutiae of the period. Do you worry that it's overwhelming for some readers?NS:Anything one might put into a book will be objectionable to "some readers" and so if one were to take the approach of not writing anything that some readers might not like, one would never write a single word. Of course, some readers would object to that too.One must therefore commit a sort of leap of faith. I just sit down and write it as I see fit, and keep my fingers crossed that a sufficient number of people will read it that I can continue to put bread on the table.To put in fewer details does not necessarily make the book an easier read. Detail is what sells the story. I can write "This guy goes out on a whaling ship, the captain turns out to be a nut job obsessed with killing a big white whale, eventually he finds it and the whale kills everyone except for this one dude" and it might be an accurate summary of the story but it's not the story. What makes it engaging are the detailed descriptions of the ship and the people aboard, which pull you into the story and make you think you're there.Online:The novels in The Baroque Cycle are held together with strong story lines. But at the same time, there's much complex coverage of the different cultural/technical/religious debates of the time. Is entertainment your prime aim or do you want the books to do something more? Someone like Dickens set out to entertain but his books also had a campaigning/political purpose too. Critics in the past have talked about your novels promoting a more hands-on technological literacy? Do you agree with that?NS:Nothing makes me ditch a novel more swiftly and surely than the feeling that it's been written by someone with an axe to grind, so I strive to avoid that sort of thing. And to promote technological literacy sounds like an even more boring axe to grind than most. But if the author has a passion for the material --- if he finds it interesting and exciting --- then this comes through and, with a little bit of luck, infects the reader. And so the publishing industry is routinely surprised by extremely successful books about such topics as punctuation (Eats Shoots and Leaves) or old clocks (Longitude). So yes, I'm fascinated by (to name just one example) the ways in which Puritan thought shaped the modern world, but I wouldn't dream of consciously drawing up a screed that was intended to make other people see it my way. The proof is in the pudding---if it's really all that interesting, one ought to be able to write a yarn about it that will hold people's interest. I'm certainly not claiming that my books will hold everyone's interest, but I do from time to time hear from readers who liked my books in spite of a professed lack of interest in the subject matter.Online:Alongside the interest in science and technology, money, credit and the establishment of modern economic systems is an important theme in The Baroque Cycle - what interests you in particular about all that? Did it just flow from the characters?NS:About 10 years ago I became aware that many in the hacker/cypherpunk community were keenly interested in money---not just making money, but understanding it and implementing it on computers. To me this seemed to happen all of a sudden, and I found it interesting that they were so interested in it. Until then, most of the programmers I'd known had worked on very different sorts of projects, many of which were of a more abstract and academic nature. This was what led me down the road to writing 'Cryptonomicon', which has a lot in it about money. That led in turn to the BC. It might or might not be just a historical accident that 300 years ago Leibniz was thinking about computers while Newton and other Fellows of the Royal Society were thinking about money. But since I'd already written a novel ('Cryptonomicon') about the intersection of computers and money, it was too good to be true as far as I was concerned, and I couldn't not write about it.Online:I think you've said the books in The Baroque Cycle are still SF novels - in what way exactly?NS:It is a little like asking a jazz musician "your latest album is jazz---in what way exactly?" People who are in the habit of reading SF will pick up The Baroque Cycle novels and, I suspect, recognize them as having coming out of an SF sensibility. People who aren't will probably find them to be historical novels, albeit with some quirks and twists they might not have seen before.Online:Having immersed yourself so much in the late 17th/early 18th century, do you think you would have liked to live then? How would you have done back then? Would you have been more of a Daniel Waterhouse or do you have Jack Shaftoe tendencies? &#91;In The Baroque Cycle, Waterhouse is a man of science who gets caught up in the big intellectual debates between Newton and Leibniz and Shaftoe is a vagabond adventurer, who gets caught up in piracy and war&#93;NS:I had an inguinal hernia at the age of 3, which had to be surgically repaired. That should settle the question of whether I would have liked to live 300 years ago. And don't even get me started about lice.For those who won the infant mortality lottery, whether one ended up as a Waterhouse or a Shaftoe was, I'm sure, partly down to one's disposition and partly down to circumstance. In reading about Newton, Hooke, and Flamsteed we can easily recognize signs of what would today be diagnosed as anxiety, depression, Asperger's Syndrome, etc. Vagabonds were very free in some respects, terribly limited in others. These freedoms and limits were the complements of those that nobles had to live with.I like to work for long periods of time on tightly focused activities and so probably would have ended up as a horologist or something.Online:Some critics have suggested that in your books and The Baroque Cycle in particular, technology has a 'clear spiritual force', that in your fiction, there's a sense that understanding the world and how it works can bring people 'closer to god'. Is that something you recognise in your work? Is there a spiritual side to technology?NS:It's important to distinguish between what I think and what some of my characters think. There is a very old religious mindset called Gnosticism, and one way of summing it up is that humans can somehow get closer to God by acquiring knowledge. Until we had science, there was little to recommend this because there wasn't enough knowledge worth having, and so those who did adopt a Gnostic approach were liable to end up basing their religion on malarkey.Around the time that I'm writing about in The Baroque Cycle, people began to acquire genuine scientific knowledge and were awed by what they found. The two most eloquent expressions of this are Hooke's Micrographia and (much less accessibly) Newton's Principia Mathematica. Scientists began to feel that by probing the mysteries of creation they were gaining insights into the divine. Some took this to the conclusion that there was no divine at all---only nature. Others, like Newton and Leibniz, sought a way to reconcile science and religion.During the time of The Baroque Cycle, all of this was quite new, and very much in flux. No one knew what would be discovered next, or what it would all lead to. I don't think they could have predicted that 300 years in the future people would still be debating the same issues. And so in the BC books there are quite a few people who spend a lot of their time and mental energy pondering such matters. My writing about such characters is more a way of characterizing the era than of staking myself to a particular position.I do think that those who devote their lives to studying science or to building new technologies learn certain habits of thought. They derive satisfaction from finding new truths, or doing things in a way that is more elegant. Perhaps this could be considered spiritual. It is a way of confirming over and over again that the universe makes sense and follows orderly laws, which a religiously significant assertion.Online:Do you have any idea of what your next novel will be about? Have you started it? Will it be connected to The Baroque Cycle in the same way that there are links between those novels and Cryptonomicon?NS:No, no, and no. I have not settled on what my next project will be. Some day I might write more in the vein of Baroque Cycle/Cryptonomicon, but at the moment I need to get away from these characters and these themes and---to paraphrase Monty Python---do something completely different for some years.Online:Were you involved in the setting up of theMetaweb wikidevoted to Quicksilver. Has anything interesting come out of that?NS:The technical setting-up was done by some people at a company called Applied Minds, though heavily based on the open-source Wiki software and the Wikipedia project. I supplied content in the form of annotations of my books (and a couple of annotations of a Heinlein book). It is too early to deliver a verdict on the result.Online:Do wikis and the like interest you more than blogging? Have you been tempted to blog - or would it end up being a distraction? Is blogging part of the continuous partial attention culture? What areas of current online culture are you most interested in?NS:Blogging could certainly be a distraction. That's why I've avoided it in the past. But one thing I've learned from the metaweb project is that to answer questions on the Internet, where interested people can look those answers up, can actually be a time-saver in the long run. Hardly a revolutionary idea, I know, but it was a useful piece of information to me.Blogging needn't be a continuous partial attention sort of thing. Nothing prevents a blogger from writing in depth. To me the interesting thing about blogging is the crossing of formerly well-defined lines between public and private. I personally know of instances where someone made a remark in what they thought of as a private setting that got put on the Internet by a blogger who was in the room. As that kind of thing becomes more common, it's going to change the way people behave. My fear is that it will turn everyone into politicians, who speak in the most mealy-mouthed style possible for fear that something they say will be taken out of context and made eternal in the media.Online:How's the rocket business going? &#91;Stephenson has a part time position as an 'adviser' with Blue Origin, an aerospace company working on space travel/exploration - there's more information about this aton his website&#93;NS:Too early to say---it's not even a business yet!
The trouble with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth wireless connection systems is that they work on the same microwave frequency of 2.4 gigahertz. So interference between them can stop them working. Intel now has a way around the problem," reports today'sNew Scientist."Its new Wi-Fi card continually looks for Bluetooth's telltale signal bursts, which come every 625 microseconds. It then times its transmissions to fit neatly into the gaps between the Bluetooth bursts, so allowing the two systems to coexist peacefully."
Two biggies - GTA: San Andreas and Getaway 2 -slug it out this week, while Tribes Vengeance fiddles with its jetpack in the corner. San Andreas has already become the fastest selling PS2 game ever since release last Friday (our review was delayed due to lack of pre-release code from Rockstar - thanks guys). The latest GTA is a hugely ambitious game that has raised the bar. "The ultimate digital playground", is how I described it. The other bigreviewis Getaway: Black Monday. As violent as GTA, the game uses the same impressive London setting as the original, but improves the controls. The script is a cut above the gaming norm while the atmosphere is unique. Steve Boxer describes it as, "a meeting of The Bill and a Quentin Tarantino film.". Last, and to be honest, least is Tribes Vengeance - the latest in the multiplayer series. Actually, if you've got the time and skills, Tribes does offer some compelling online action. Mike Anderiesz offers a cautious recommendation: "If you didn't like Tribes before, this could be the game to convert you."
As an eternal child and owner of Hello Kitty wallets since year dot (that's the 30 years of the franchise's history, making the Kitty more of a Cat), I'm curious what Sanrio and Typhoon Games are planning on doing with the iconic figure in her new Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game,Hello Kitty Online World. Maybe she got the bug from her brief encounter inDoom?News comes from/.(viaGameGossip) that the new product, available at the end of the year in Asia only, will offer a similar style of play as other titles in the genre (EverQuest and others). Effectively it will feature co-operative gameplay and shopping for a monthly subscription fee.Proof that these types of interactive entertainments are viable for the tweenie age group comes from the continuing success of Disney'sToontown, whose design, security system and business plan was the focus of much consideration at September'sAustin Games Conference.The danger is less that unscrupulous adults will use the online environments as "grooming" grounds (if they follow Toontown's successful lead, of course), but that these virtual worlds may evolve into little more than merchandising opportunities for companies with existing Intellectual Property and a saturation of the more traditional means of promotion.Already the games industry relies too much upon externally generated IP, often resulting in mediocre products. Will a game like this belittle the exciting prospects possible in other virtual worlds?
In today's edition ofGuardian Online, we take a look at how Microsoft, consumer electronics firms and media companies are battling to take control of yourliving room.With some big game releases at the moment, we take a look at Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Getaway: Black Monday inGameswatch, as well as looking at the new selection ofhandheld console systems- the Nintendo DS, Sony PSP, Tapwave Zodiac and the Gizmondo.Not only that, but just in time for Guy Fawkes' night, we examine thetechnology behind firework displays- and also look at some amazing new technology being put to use in aFlorentine museum.In Inside IT there is an examination of Intel'sPlanetLab networkand a glance at the world ofextreme programming, plusJack Schofield reportson AMD's plans to bring low-cost computing to the developing world.All that and much, much more inthis week's edition...
Here's a story about success in cutting bureaucracy. Paul Boateng, chief secretary to the Treasury, told parliament last week that he had reduced the number of national population registers under construction by 50%.Yes, instead of setting up two databases - the citizen information project and the national identity register - the government is now to create just one. The decision makes such obvious sense that it raises the question of how we got into the position of planning two databases in the first place.Students of Machiavelli will assume that the citizen information project was a straw man, designed to get us used to the idea of being on Big Brother's list and then sacrificed to make us feel better.Nothing so organised. In fact, the project originated in empire-building at National Statistics (formerly the Office for National Statistics), best known as the census office. To the statistical mind, a continually updated population register is vastly more useful than a snapshot taken every 10 years. It would also be handy for rationalising public services: agencies no longer have to compile their own lists of "customers". As custodian of the resource, National Statistics would be a key partner in almost every scheme to modernise government.Boateng has now killed that ambition by announcing that the national identity register, the back- office system behind the identity card, will serve most of the citizen information project's functions. However, it will need to be designed from the outset as a register of the whole population, not just of adults. National Statistics will report on what else it wants from the database by next summer.A number of other agencies are also keen to have their say. As yet, apparently, nobody knows what data will go on the register. Last month, in reply to a critical report from the Commons home affairs committee, the government shed some light on current thinking, for example by rejecting the MPs' suggestions that the register contain information about immigration status.One item that seems set to cause a lot of grief is addresses. The government says that, like passports, identity cards won't display their holder's address. Addresses will, however, be stored on the identity register. The onus will be on individuals to keep their own details up to date, unlike in Germany and Sweden, where landlords are responsible for registering tenants.Even where citizens cooperate, the result may not be the clean data set that the government seems to imagine. Today, there is no single reference list of addresses in Britain. Millions of homes have multiple addresses, or none at all. A project to create a standard list fell apart last year because different agencies could not agree who should own the intellectual property.If the government is serious about creating a robust population register, it should revive it forthwith. If we can't get the address list right, what hope for more complex items such as biometrics and national ID numbers? Whoever ends up running the identity register will be in for a long haul.
Ultimate playgroundGrand Theft Auto: San AndreasPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Rockstar Games, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is one of the most ambitious and violent, videogames ever. It is an elaborate, extravagant and bloated undertaking that not only throws in the kitchen sink but the fire extinguisher, too.This time round, there are three cities to play in, complete with adjoining countryside. In this most urban of games, the fields and forests are a particular thrill, adding rednecks and tractors to the mix.The plot sees your character returning home to find himself set up by a crooked cop. Reclaiming your gang territory is the first challenge, but chances are that for the first few hours, it is unlikely players will notice the story. Instead, they will be too busy customising their character with hairstyles and tattoos, or getting fat by gorging on junk food.Or, of course, causing random   mayhem in the streets. This aspect is enthralling, with a host of new vehicles - trains, planes and bikes - ready for you to abuse. But when players finally get round to moving things forward, it gets tough.Perversely, for such a popular series of games, the GTA titles are among the most frustrating. The main hair-puller is the missions. Whereas most games allow an instant opportunity to retry failure, GTA forces you to trek back to the starting point each time.Faced with these barriers and difficulty spikes, players would normally give up. But this is GTA and the freedom to start a riot, or explore the cities, is too appealing. Persevere and you will find a story that, if not gripping, is at least well voice-acted by the likes of Samuel L Jackson.And when you throw in a pile of new features - two-player mode, dating sections - it is clear what a massive undertaking this is. Unfortunately, the graphics don't always play ball, with many buildings and trees "popping-up" into view far closer than expected.The PlayStation 2 is certainly stretched by San Andreas and it can only be hoped that the next instalment is reserved for PlayStation 3. Sadly, the music doesn't work as well as in the previous game, Vice City. The early 90s - all gangsta rap and Guns N' Roses - doesn't have the same scope for retro charm as the 80s did. Thankfully, the talk radio and adverts are as inventively amusing as ever.As a truly epic videogame, GTA: San Andreas is not without flaws, but it deserves huge acclaim for producing the ultimate digital playground.Rip-roaring rideThe Getaway: Black MondayPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Team Soho/Sony, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In the protracted absence of Gran Turismo 4, the second instalment of   London-cops-and-gangsters game The Getaway is Sony's biggest in-house game for Christmas. Like its predecessor, it was crafted at Sony's studio in Soho, London. But unlike its predecessor, it is as good to play as it is to watch.The original Getaway featured some of the most impressive cut-scenes seen in a game, put together from data generated by the first full cast of actors to be let loose in a motion-capture studio. But its control system was flawed, so that, whenever   your character was on foot, it was a lottery as to whether he would hide or roll commando-style across the floor (and into crossfire) whenever you pressed the X button, which fulfilled both functions.Happily, in The Getaway 2, the dual-function control system actually works, which at last allows you to enjoy the rip-roaring storyline, varied missions, glorious virtual reconstruction of modern-day London and general atmosphere, which resembles a meeting of The   Bill and a Quentin Tarantino film.This time around, The Getaway: Black Monday adds truly evil eastern European gangsters to the equation. You start playing gung-ho cop Sergeant "Mitch" Mitchell, and then former boxer Eddie O'Connor, an old-school Guy Ritchie-style gangster whose involvement in a bank job that goes wrong brings him and fellow gang member Sam into conflict with the criminals and the cops.Eddie's abilities with his fists and Sam's stealth abilities add dimensions to the game, which is better designed, longer and slicker than the original. The targeting system, which zeroes in on whichever enemy is nearest the centre of your character's cone of vision, also works much better.But there are still plenty of occasions when the fixed, generally close-in camera works against you.The cut-scenes are better than ever: the actors had five streams of data captured: optical and magnetic motion-capture, hand animation via gloves, sound and, with the aid of cameras mounted on stalks protruding from bicycle helmets, video of their faces.The ability to drive a black cab and participate in street chases outside the story mode adds Grand Theft Auto-style replay value, and confirms the suspicion that The Getaway, after a flawed start, has come into its own as a franchise. Beware, though: it is 18-rated. It may be the first game in which you hear the C-word.Tribal convertsTribes VengeancePC, &#163;34.99 Irrational/VU Games &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In the world of multiplayer shoot-'em-ups, Tribes has always been the professional's choice. Other first person shooters (FPS) would let you use a well-aimed rocket, but for maximum kudos in Tribes, you had to use a Spinfusor - an explosive disc, hurled slightly ahead of your unsuspecting foe. For real respect you had to do it while skiing, speeding forwards while shooting in a different direction.With such a reputation, giving Tribes a single player makeover sounds like dumbing down. Fortunately, Irrational has risen to the task. The time-jumping storyline takes you through six characters and a host of diverse challenges. In quick succession you are introduced to all three tribes and combinations of weapons and armour, taking you through just about everything a squad-based FPS has to offer.However, Tribes remains a resolutely multiplayer experience with bots merely simulating the foes you may encounter online. Strong AI and the storyline just about fool you into thinking there's more to it than a succession of multiplayer modes, but there isn't. Real fans will head for the 32-player online game, complete with a dozen new maps plus vehicles.If you didn't like Tribes before, this could be the game to convert you.&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atguardian.co.uk/gamesblogTop 5 games  All formats1 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2 Fifa 20053 Pro Evolution Soccer 44 Tony Hawk's Underground 25 Burnout 3: TakedownSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Video games are ready to escape the confines of the living room. For years, Nintendo's toy-like Game Boy has had the handheld gaming console market to itself, seeing off challengers that include Sega's Game Gear, Bandai's Wonder Swan and Atari's Lynx. But, fuelled by a conviction within the games industry that mobile gaming is beginning to explode, a new generation of portable consoles is about to go on sale.However, the likes of Sony's PlayStation Portable, the British-designed Tiger Telematics Gizmondo and Tapwave's Zodiac 2 will first have to contend with a new machine from Nintendo - the innovative, dual-screen DS.Every one of the new generation of handheld consoles boasts the ability to display 3D graphics and run games on a par with modern (if not the latest generation of) full-blown consoles. But can they all succeed in such a notoriously competitive marketplace?Time will tell, but there is no doubt about which of the contenders is the most fancied. Nintendo dominates the handheld market - over 14 years, the various incarnations of the Game Boy have collectively sold a staggering 160m units. The DS looks certain to carry on that success. Its clamshell design (hiding a screen in each half) resembles a Game Boy Advance SP with middle-age spread. But while it may be ugly, it is robust.The DS's bottom screen is touch-sensitive, which opens the door for innovative control systems. It has a proprietary version of Bluetooth for close-proximity wireless multiplay, a text-and-drawing chat program called PictoChat, which should be popular on the school bus, and is even Wi-Fi-ready.Unfortunately, at launch, its selection of games is a bit patchy - the highlight is a beautifully reworked take on Super Mario 64, backed up by a free demo version of Metroid Prime. But by the time it reaches the UK in March - it is launching on November 21 in the US and December 2 in Japan - a larger portfolio of games including the mighty WarioWare Inc should be available.While it is difficult to visualise the DS flopping, question marks remain, even at this late stage, over Sony's PSP. It is a sexy gadget with a huge,   impressive screen, and can play DVDs (albeit on a proprietary format called UMD). It also has a lot of number-crunching power. But it is delicate, doubts remain over its battery life (Sony is quoting a possibly optimistic four to six hours' gameplay), and its complexity means it will lack original titles for a long period after launch.It will go on sale in Japan on December 12, at around £100 - a price that surely represents a willingness to have a loss-leader to generate market share, and that may rise as the PSP crosses the Pacific. It will undoubtedly appeal to the sort of consumer who must have the latest iPod, though.Tiger Telematics' Gizmondo is an intriguing machine. It has a camera, GPS satellite tracking, GPRS mobile communications and is the first machine to use the new nVidia mobile 3D graphics chip. It is on sale now, for £229, in John Lewis and Toys R Us. It plays back MP3s and MPeg4 video, and Tiger Telematics promises that users will be able to use it to send ultracheap text messages or even use it as a car satellite navigation unit. But its initial selection of games is unconvincing. Tiger Telematics is, however, gaining support from publishers such as SCi and Electronic Arts, and claims that its innovative system of push advertising coupled with redeemable digital vouchers, enabled by the GPS and GPRS chips, will enable it to drop its price quickly. Gizmondo could prove a slow burner.Tapwave's Zodiac 2 is also available in the UK now, notably from Dixons. Essentially a Palm Pilot designed to play games (it runs the Palm OS), it has a great touch-sensitive screen and plenty of processing power, but lacks game support and is way too pricey at £329.99. But it shows how the next generation of handheld videogame consoles aim to be aspirational multimedia gadgets, rather than mere toys.
It is hard to understand why you allowed room for Steve Boxer's review of the latest computer "game" from Rockstar Games, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (A lot of violence but it's deliciously attractive, October 29).Boxer assures us that this game, in which it is acceptable to "get a prostitute to service you in her car then shoot her to get your money back", should be welcome recreation for those who "strive to do good in their day-to-day lives" and he includes himself among their number: "We deserve, more than anyone, the chance to pop a virtual cap in some virtual ass when we feel like relieving our pent-up frustration." It is hard to imagine what "good" this reviewer thinks he does, promoting such offensive and demeaning "entertainment".After emphasising the dissociative and escapist pleasures of computer games, surely we should then be invited to draw a direct comparison with the virtual technology that the armed forces are now trained with to equip them for battle. But this would hardly support the case for the violence in computer games being good clean fun divorced from the all-too-violent real world.Jo BatesonSaltdean, E SussexMany of my women friends, for whom this will make an ideal Christmas present, would probably prefer a male prostitute, or to use a knife rather than a gun. So much more satisfying. Do the game-makers provide for different sexual preferences and a choice of weapons?Rayner GarnerLondon
"The NHS will shave £330m from its software licensing costs following the signing of a nine-year deal with Microsoft, according to the Natinoal Programme for NHS IT (NPfIT)," reportsComputing."The deal includes a £40m commitment from Microsoft to develop an NHS-specific clincial interface that will be used across multiple health service systems. [cut] Development is already underway and the first version of the interface is expected next year."NHS IT director general Richard Granger says: "It could also benefit the NHS financially as we have an agreement that exploitation of the interface around the world by Microsoft would result in the NHS receiving a share of the licensing fees."TheNHS press releasesays: "Under the agreement Microsoft will supply code based on the full shipping versions of its desktop software that can be used by independent software vendors (ISVs) such as IDX, iSOFT and others to bring uniformity to the various clinical systems that are used across the NHS. Microsoft will also supply customised versions of Office and Windows to deliver a consistent look and feel to NHS computer users."Comment:if the back of my envelope is right, the ball-park cost to the NHS is a little over £1 per computer per week.
1.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas(Rockstar/Take 2)2.Fifa 2005(Electronic Arts)3.Pro Evolution Soccer 4(Konami)4.Tony Hawk's Underground 2(Activision)5.Burnout 3: Takedown(Electronic Arts)6.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005(Electronic Arts)7.LMA Manager 2005(Codemasters)8.Star Wars Battlefront(LucasArts)9.The Sims 2(Electronic Arts)10.Shark Tale(Activision)Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
This just in...NHS AND MICROSOFT ANNOUNCE USER INTERFACE AGREEMENT"NHS to benefit from a £40 million development effort by Microsoft and other vendors""The National Health Service and Microsoft Ltd today announced a Memorandum of Understanding which will see Microsoft and other healthcare software providers develop guidelines for independent software vendors to enable them to deliver a consistent clinical user interface (UI) for the NHS.""Richard Granger, Director General NHS IT said: "This is a major investment by Microsoft to help develop a common look and feel of all clinical applications to improve patient care and safety across the NHS. This will speed up the process of dealing with patients and reduce the risks of unfamiliarity of different systems.""'This single interface for health could benefit the NHS financially as we have an agreement that exploitation of the interface around the world by Microsoft would result in the NHS receiving a share of the licensing fees.'"Our public sector IT guru, Michael Cross, just sent this information over, saying "it's a significant coup for Microsoft: it now owns the look and feel of the NHS."So much for last week's intimation by government that it mightnod towards open sourceand away from Microsoft - less than a week later, MS is more or less handed the keys to one of the biggest prizes in British politics.
I went along to have a look at the new iPod Photo and U2 iPod yesterday, and very interesting it was too. Both bits of kit work fine (well, the U2 iPod is just a different colour, really) and the colour screen on the Photo makes a big difference.However, I can't help feeling a little underwhelmed. Sure, it's nice to be able to store and show photos on your pod, and it's great to be able to show them on a slideshow on your TV. But it just felt a bit, well, rushed.Why not roll out colour screens on all iPods? And if you can show stills on your TV, wouldn't it be great to show video? Shouldn't the battery be able to cope with a couple of hours of video play?I understand that these are things that Apple are most likely working on; but iPod Photo really felt like a halfway house between the current models and an upcoming, fully functional multimedia unit. I wonder how quickly the Photo is going to date once video is an option. Getting a new product out for Christmas is great, but perhaps we'd rather hold on for the bigger shift.Elsewhere, Apple's getting some flak for its decision to disable the iPod Download application that let you get music off your player and onto your computer - and the campaign is being led by Boing Boing'sCoryDoctorow:"The point is that Apple is devoting time, money, and lawyer- and engineer-hours to breaking your iPod and selling it to you as a "fix." ... The music industry has concluded that it can maximize its profits by restricting what you do with your music, and it's signed Apple up to see to it that even if you figure out how to do more that Apple will do its best to take that feature away from you. "CNethas joined the crusade: "With the latest version of iTunes, Apple Computer has disabled an add-on program that let people transfer songs off of their iPod. Apple introduced iTunes 4.7 last week, announcing new features such as support for the iPod Photo and the ability to find and delete duplicate tracks in a music library. But this week, Apple confirmed that version 4.7 does break compatibility withiPodDownload. The iTunes plug-in is designed to enable iPod owners to copy songs from the music player to an iTunes library, a feature that Apple has not supported."An Apple representative did not say why the company had disabled support for iPod Download. The program's creator had already stopped distributing the software after Apple's lawyers contacted the company that housed its Web hosting."Come on Apple, we want to use our pods how we like. We want them to support our files, we want them to let us move the data we own how we want. We've bought 6 million units - surely you can give us something in return?
"Polese, founder of Marimba and formerly the public face of Java for Sun Microsystems, is now back in the limelight -- this time as CEO of SpikeSource, an open-source services company catering to corporate customers. And just like during the early days of the Web, Polese believes she's at the front of something big," reports CNet. The interview includes this:Is the idea of SpikeSource to make it look like there's a commercial outfit like an IBM or Microsoft behind a set of open-source products?Yeah. What is sort of interesting right now is that IT developers, architects and chief information officers are aggressively adopting open source. The problem has become how to manage the abundance. There are more than 85,000 different open-source projects today.All the things that IT is used to, like support documentation, reliability, road maps--none of that exists for open source when you start moving beyond a single component. When you start talking about actually integrating the components into applications, there is no sort of product management for open source. That is where we see an opportunity.Comment:SourceLabs is another company set up recently to do the same sort of thing, asCNetreports. SourceLab is backed by Brad Silverberg, the ex-Microsoftie who took Windows from a $50 million business to a $3.5 billion business in five years. However, Bradsi isn't as good looking as Kim....
