We don't haveroom to printall your letters and blog pingbacks - so here's what we chose from.ADAPTING FOR THE ELDERLYI read Guy Clapperton's article with interest. He may well be aware that adaptations and 'gadgets' are designed for a range of people with disabilities young and old. A point not raised in his article is the 'look' of many of these aids and adaptations. Anyone like myself who has a physical disability is only too aware just how stigmatising these adaptations are. Baths, showers, rails, raised toilet seats, handrails - you name it and what is provided for disabled people are clunky, extremely obvious and 'shout' disabled at whosoever comes into contact with them. Stylish adaptations seem to be an oxymoron unless you've got lots of private capital and a hot-shot designer. I'd like to ask Guy Clapperton to do a little market test: try and get a raised toilet seat for a modern style toilet, you know the sort I mean, that most people have now. While he's at it could I ask him to drop by 'Keep Able' and report back on what items he would like to have in his home and mark them out of ten for style and taste. Yeh yeh get an accessible tin opener, but great big thick grab rails outside the front of your house - you might as well have a neon light flashing 'disabled person within'. Why should disability or being old be analogous with clunkiness? Methinks the subtext is if you require adaptations then pragmatism rules and style, design, even beauty is considered irrelevant by occupational therapists, designers and fitters. No wonder older people duck the issue of adaptations in the home and as the 'new' older population become used to a lot more choice and quality in home fittings, it's not surprising people are reluctant to go for the stigma brand. Please ask some designers to respond to your article by coming up with some new attractive examples, have a competition but do something to improve the visuality of these 'things'; put yourself into the shoes of those you are prescribing for and ask yourself 'would I like this?'. Jane Nation, LondonTV DOWNLOADSA boxed set of DVDs doesn't set the price of a single downloaded episode (How much should we pay to download a TV episode? Sep 6) because it isn't available while the show is running, and so can't be used to fill a missed episode. The price for a single episode of a series, without any limit on replays, is defined by the cost of recording it on a VCR and is essentially zero. You might argue that this only works if you remember to set the timer, but PVRs are rapidly making that irrelevant. Adrian Godwin, Bedford.GADGETSI'm no technophobe, but I am lazy and the Polaroid Media gadget that automatically backups photos sounded worth a look. First off though your link was hopeless (if Boots sell it they couldn't sell it to me). A wider search revealed that it doesn't actually work on quite a lot of computers - actually all those that aren't running Windows. Now what sort of review is that? Hopeless actually. Peter Cox, CardiffSITESEEING The Siteseeing section has a graph and I point out one error and raise one query. 1. Error - The labelling of the vertical axis scale must be badly wrong with equal divisions labelled 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 0.8 and 1.0. It is not even a logarithmic scale. 2. Query - The title of the vertical axis is "% of online traffic" and something [I cannot be sure how much, see 1 above] just below 1% goes to M&amp;S. Is this really true of the whole of the internet traffic that includes Google, eBay, BBC, Facebook, and email generally. I smell a rat. John Broughton, BelperIt is OK to suppress the origin, and it is OK to use a logarithmic scale (so long as clearly so marked) but is not OK to just leave bits out, as in the y-axis of your graph of Marks &amp; Spencer web shoppers. (Technology Guardian, page 4, 6th Sept 2007) Don Simpson, Rochdale[It was a production error: the (linear) scale should have read 0.0, 0.2, 0.4... - Tech Ed.]CROWN COPYRIGHTCopyright law is a minefield and it looks like there are some major misconceptions in this article. The problem is not whether Crown Copyright exists but whether and how the Crown chooses to assert its copyright. Incidentally you also need to distinguish between copyright and the right to reuse "public" data - they are different. The basic principle of copyright is to protect the right of the author or the owner of the copyright if not the author to control how a work is used. It's in fact perfectly reasonable that the Government on behalf of the Crown should hold copyright to protect the documents it produces just as the Guardian does over its articles and for exactly the same reason. The US Government - and the UK government for that matter - usually offers a general licence to use its documents under certain terms, notably that the text is not rewritten and the source is credited. (Copyright btw doesn't have to be claimed; it's an automatic right in any created work.) What you are campaigning for is the right to reuse data collected by Government which is not inherently a copyright issue. The issue is really the terms under which Government chooses to make data it has collected available. Your argument is that the "public" has paid for its collection, therefore its "public" property and the "public" should have free access to it to use it in whatever way it chooses. It's an attractive argument. The counter argument used by Government is that it's a commercially exploitable resource, so why shouldn't they be the ones to exploit it for the benefit of Government and the taxpayer? Actually, that, too, is an attractive argument! Robert Ward, LeedsPOST OFFICE VS FIREFOXI closed my Post Office credit card recently, the main reason being, as Paul Godier has mentioned it does not support firefox. The strange thing is the bank of Ireland do the credit card for Post Office and the login screens appear very similar, yet I have no problem using firefox for my Bank of Ireland online banking. Tom Corcoran, AndoverREPLACING MUSIC (CONT'D)Getting a TV known to be stolen is not entirely analogous to downloading music illegally (Dave Stewart, Letters, August 30). Lumping the two together used to be a common argument by the Federation Against Copyright Theft. However, digital music costs nothing to reproduce so the seller loses no stock, only hypothetical sales. Darrell Whitehead, WirralI just would like to share a frustration that I'm sure several internet and music lovers go through every day. I never bought an MP3 in my life but now that I'm working and have money I decided to give it a try and installed iTunes in my computer since I wanted to buy an MP3 song and copy it to my player (not an ipod). Everything went smoothly and it was easy to find the song and pay using PayPal. Then I copied it to my MP3 player and was very surprised to find out that it doesn't play since it's in a weird m4p format... Conclusion of the story? I Googled the song and downloaded the MP3 for free and 'illegally' from someone's website... So much for DRM... Tiago Alves, San FranciscoCARD READERS CONT'DSurely the underlying point about computer-based credit card readers and other "security measures" is that they have little to do with customer protection and far more to do with banks' and credit card companies' profits? The introduction of chip-and-pin technology was accompanied by drastic changes to banking conditions which transferred risk for fraudulent transactions from banks to retailers; similarly, forcing ever more complex security measures onto consumers is a strategy to prevent financial companies having to take responsibility for fraud. Banks have consistently refused to accept that their own security can be breached and routinely blame customers even when their own equipment (such as ATMs) malfunctions; the more hoops customers have to jump through to get access to their own money, the easier it is for banks and card issuers to blame them if something goes wrong. Don Keller, LondonI completely agree with Anne Wollenberg (Technobile 30/08/2007) over her dislike/distrust of additional security hardware for banking. Surely the plan was to make online banking more secure, WITHOUT making the process more difficult? Providing millions of customers with additional hardware strikes me as being somewhat counter-productive. With mobile phones, iPods, wallets, keys etc. etc. already weighing us down - do we really need yet another device to literally stretch our pockets? What happens if you misplace the card reader? Suddenly you have no access to your money. And what if you've been daft enough to write down your PIN and your whole bag or jacket is stolen? Now in possession of the reader, card and PIN, the thief has even easier access to your money. As highlighted in your article, sleeve readers will need a substantial amount of support, whether it is replacing a damaged device or a dead battery. Not only is this more hassle than it is worth, the negative impact on the environment is unquestionable. When and if these are rolled out, we're presumably going to be sent multiple units - one for every bank or card account. Perhaps worst of all, every would-be fraudster/hacker will receive lots of new 'toys' to experiment with. Surely what we need is something simpler but more secure than the current methods of authentication? Jonathan Craymer, PeterboroughNDIYO"...Lots of companies had tried, and largely failed, to make successful thin clients - computers without hard disks that would get their operating systems and their programs from a server. But even the smallest of these was bulky and expensive: they all looked like small computers..." I'm afraid, the above isn't quite true. Product Line:http://www.sun.com/software/index.jsp?cat=Desktop&amp;tab=3&amp;subcat=Sun%20Ray%20ClientsTechnical specs:http://www.sun.com/sunray/sunray2/specs.xmlSize: Width: 28 mm (1.09 in.) Depth: 122 mm (4.80 in.) Height: 205 mm (8.07 in.) Weight: 0.37 kg (0.82 lb.) Interesting Wiki entry:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_RayKwok Ng, FleetQUIET THE PRIUSHi - I have a 2005 Prius and suffered beeper irritation, below is method to disable it, Join the club. Seatbelt Beep On/Off: 1. Power on the car to IG-ON or READY. IG-ON will do for this purpose. 2. Using the Trip/ODO button, set the Trip/ODO display to ODO (not Trip A or Trip 3. Power off the car. 4. Now power the car to READY (brake on). This is required so that step 6 works correctly. 5. Within 6 seconds of powering on, press and hold the Trip/ODO button for 10 seconds or more. 6. WHILE STILL HOLDING ODO *after* the 10 seconds, buckle then unbuckle the appropriate seatbelt while continuing to depress the Trip/ODO button. Now release the Trip/ODO button. 7. If the last step was successful, "b on" or "b off" should be displayed in the location where the Trip Odometer or Odometer is normally displayed. "b on" is beep on, and "b off" is beep off. 8. Press Trip/ODO to toggle the mode. 9. Now power the car off to exit the toggle mode. 10. Power the car on to READY and confirm the seatbelt beep status. The beep should not be audible if "b off" was selected, and should be audible if "b on" was selected.. Mike Dolby (no post town given)
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Games are developed in a "moral vacuum"declaredITV boss Michael Grade last week in response toa commentmade by EA CEO John Riccitiello at the Royal Television Society's annual convention. Grade had taken umbrage with the EA boss when he suggested that games were no more violent than television, claiming that teevee could claim the moral high ground, "because it enjoyed the 'framework of a dramatic narrative,'" reported Broadcast andMCV.Not bridging any misunderstandings now, are we boys?So rather than have a go at Grade for his seeming ignorance about the hoover in which our developers live, let's instead provide some evidence to the contrary. Here are a few examples of my own:Abe's Oddyssee/Exoddus/etcThis series of adventure games from the now-defunct games development company Oddworld Enterprise had all kinds of morality, including some explicit messages about worker's rights, labour exploitation and disability. The company didn't go under because of poor sales either, they were integrated into the animation studio Pixar to create even larger and more impressive content. Just not interactive, that's all.SporeOK, it's problematic to comment on a game that's not out yet, but by all accounts, Spore is a pretty neat game which challenges the player to develop a society of creatures from the microbe to the sentient level so they can go explore space. Developer Will Wright has incorporated consequence into the process, and choices will ultimately have an effect on whether your little tribe of creatures is benevolent or Machiavellian.CreaturesWhat's immoral about taking care of a cute little creature? Eh? Eh?Black &amp; WhiteA moral vacuum doesn't provide the option to be good or evil, like this game did. Lionhead Studios' first release from god game mastermind Peter Molyneux forced players to consider their actions towards a state of benevolence or outright violence. The most effective part of it was that consequence was represented visually, and not just via play mechanics (which was ground-breaking too).GTA San Andreasyes, I did mean thatSure, beneath its code was a scandal waiting to boil over, but (as we've said before) this GTA game was helmed by a guy who was trying to get rid of the bad guys who were selling drugs and ruining lives. OK, so he did it using slightly psychotic, over-the-top,Chopper-style methods, but the point is that he was just trying to clean up his neighbourhood. Is that so wrong?
From the Department of Easy Enough To Predict: LucasArts has announced that the "next-generation action adventure" of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed will be coming to the Wii, as well as the PS3 and Xbox 360 (and Nintendo DS and PSP and PS2).Difference is with the Wii version that yes, next year when it's released, you'll be able to wave the Wiimote around and get that authentic yeum-yeum noise of a lightsaber. (Light saber? Sabre?) The nunchuk, meanwhile, will let you enact your character's force powers. In the case of Yoda, this would presumably mean spinning high in the air and sentences backwards speaking in.Apparently the game will be set in the period between Star Wars III and IV (so, after the creation of Darth Vader - when the whole galaxy has for years sort-of ruled by Jedi masters using Da Force - but before the period when Han Solo, certainly 20 years older than Luke Skywalker, can say he's flown the length and breadth of the galaxy and never heard people talk about a "Force". That make any sense to you?) and you will play Darth Vader's "apprentice".The idea of the Wiimote as a lightsaber has been obvious since the box came out - and as Iwrote in January:If I were at Sony, I'd be rather worried, and have a crash team working on lending the PS3 some Wii-ness, to go on sale right away. And if there isn't someone out there writing a Star Wars game for the Wii, complete with light sabre duels, I'd just like to say: start now and you'll make a killing next Christmas.I still think all of that is true - though the killing at Christmas has been delayed; originally due in November, The Force Unleashed has been delayed to next spring. Gah.Read more on thegame's website. There's also anifty video traileron its front page.
If you've ever been interested in what keeps you coming back to your console/PC/mobile/handheld for more more more,Lost Gardenhas a pretty comprehensive list of the game mechanics he's implemented in the products he's created for Epic and other studios. Among them are Feedback Loops, Systems Linking Systems, Our Infovore Habits, Avoiding Burnout, Drop-Kicking Milking, Introducing Red Herrings and The Human Factors That Make (or Break) Games. If you are so inclined, you may recognise many of them from Raph Koster'sTheory of Fun- a must for any designers out there.Well worth a read, for any aspiring developers (and perhaps veterans too?).It's pretty easy to apply Web 2.0 applications to these categories. They're becoming much more astute to how we like to play.ViaMusings of a Social Architect
September has been a momentous month for Carphone Warehouse. On Monday it will join the hallowed ranks of the FTSE 100 - the top echelon of British business - and by way of celebration co-founder Charles Dunstone spent yesterday in the company of Apple boss Steve Jobs, as his high street chain was named as the sole independent outlet that will stock this year's must-have gadget, the iPhone, on behalf of O2.No sooner had the ranks of technology journalists left the launch event at Apple's leading London store than Carphone Warehouse's American joint venture partner, Best Buy, gave Dunstone a resounding vote of confidence. The group has spent $183m (&pound;92m) to acquire a near 3% stake in his firm.From its 1989 beginnings in a faceless mansion block off London's Marylebone Road with &pound;6,000 of Dunstone's savings, Carphone Warehouse has become Europe's largest independent retailer of mobile phones and the UK's third largest provider of broadband internet access, with more than 2.4 million customers.For the 42-year-old Dunstone it has been a meteroric rise. Leaving his public school - Uppingham in Rutland - with a clutch of poor A-level grades, he spent his gap year working in a computer firm in Cambridge. He always seems to have had entrepreneurial flair. At school he sold cigarette lighters and pens to the other students, employing fellow student Johnny Vaughan. Having got a taste for commerce in Cambridge, he declined his place on a business degree course and ended up at NEC who moved him from selling computers to mobile phones. Initially irritated by the decision he quickly realised how popular they were becoming and the idea of Carphone Warehouse was born. He drafted in fellow Uppingham alumnus David "Rosso" Ross - who remains non-executive deputy chairman - and set up shop in London. In the early days he was advised by Ernest Saunders after bumping into the daughter of the disgraced former Guinness boss on a skiing holiday.It took four years to grow Carphone from the first store to 20. Now the company opens one every working day across 11 markets including the US and sells more than 13 million phones a year. Revenues in that first year were &pound;1.2m - mainly because the price of the early brick-like mobile phones was upwards of &pound;800. Last year Carphone Warehouse made nearly &pound;4bn."I know everyone likes to have humble stories but genuinely we had no possible idea it would get this big," admits the genial Dunstone. "I can remember nail-biting moments when we were thinking how are we going to make the payroll next week - but we always found a way."It has not - to use a term from one of workaholic Dunstone's few hobbies, yachting - been plain sailing. And now, as the company looks forward to the appearance of the major pension funds and top-notch investors on its share register that come with a place at the City's highest table, there may be storm clouds on the horizon.Needing to cut costs as their core European markets become saturated - with everyone already owning a phone - the mobile phone operators are increasingly looking to deal directly with customers. Carphone Warehouse's first ever customer - Vodafone - has already taken its contract business to rival Phones4U. O2 has stayed fiercely loyal to Dunstone.That relationship undoubtedly gave him an edge in the fight to stock the iPhone, a gadget he believes will shake-up the mobile market when it goes on sale on November 9."It's an amazing product and Apple uniquely have a way of being able to change markets for ever," he said. "For us and O2 not only is it an amazing business opportunity but fantastic for our brands to play a part in it."Meanwhile competition in the broadband and home telephony market, which Carphone Warehouse did so much to shake-up with the launch of the TalkTalk brand in February 2003, and its "free" broadband offer three years later, is becoming ever fiercer. While there has been consolidation - not least with Carphone Warehouse buying out One.Tel, Tele2 and AOL to give itself scale - new entrants have emerged. In the past year Vodafone has joined Orange in offering residential broadband to its customers while O2 will follow suit next month. Sky, from a standing start a year ago, has already snatched well over 700,000 broadband users.After Carphone's rocky start in broadband, when its call centre and website were overwhelmed by demand, and the bad publicity, the key is what happens next month when those first TalkTalk "free" broadband customers are released from their 18-month contracts.As for the stores, Dunstone wants them to become a one-stop shop for the multimedia home of the future. He has even imported the Geek Squad from America, a band of socially adept techies who will visit a customer's home to get them rolling on the digital superhighway. The move begs the question how impartial can the advice be from a company that also supplies broadband.O2 boss Peter Erskine admits that while the outward appearance of Dunstone and his team is affable, they obviously drive a hard bargain. "You don't get to be as successful as they are by being a soft touch," he said. "And once they agree something, by God do they deliver."Carphone Warehouse has also been able to adapt to changes in one of the fastest moving markets in the world, sometimes leaving the City to play catch up. When Carphone listed back in July 2000, traders balked at the &pound;1.6bn valuation on what they thought was a pure retail play and when the shares floated at 200p they sank over the following months. In fact Carphone commanded a higher valuation because of the substantial recurring revenue stream it generates by being paid a slice of ongoing revenues by operators on to whose networks it places contract customers.SlowdownSensing a slowdown in the mobile market in early 2002, the business started looking for new sources of recurring revenues and brought former Orange boss Hans Snook on board as chairman for help and advice. The following February TalkTalk was born and the market has never been the same since.And these are markets that Dunstone still clearly loves with almost boyish enthusiasm. "The mobile phone marketplace, even though it is maturing, keeps changing - we have the iPhone coming for instance. We are now right in the centre of a new, fast growing pioneering marketplace and truth be told no one really knows where it is going to go and where it will end up. That's fun."But he remains characteristically understated about the fact that success in this market has elevated Carphone Warehouse into the FTSE 100. "It sneaked up on me actually so I have not got any great plans to celebrate but I'll have a glass of wine. Until it happened I had not realised the significance of it."It cannot have escaped him now.Sharing a birthdayOther brands born in 1989Miss SixtyThe denim specialist Energie and the Sixty company were established in 1989, and Miss Sixty - the Italian high street label associated withfashionable  20-somethings- was launched in 1991. Since then Miss Sixty has opened380 stores worldwideand last year addeda hotelin Riccione, Italy, to its long list of businesses.CobraShortly after finishing university and &pound;20,000 in debt,Karan Bilimori, then a 24-year-old Cambridge graduate, launched Cobra because he foundBritish beer too gassyto accompany Indian food. Cobra now has a retail turnover of&pound;126mand is sold in 6,000 bars, pubs and clubs in the UK.The Sunday CorrespondentBilled as the UK's first new quality Sunday broadsheet in 28 years, it rolled off the presses in 1989,relaunched as a tabloidin August 1990 and shut down three months later. Founder editor Peter Cole is nowhead of journalismat Sheffield University, while its sports editor,Simon Kelner, is the Independent's editor-in-chief.Sky TVThe UK's largestdigital pay-TV platformwas launched with only four channels and a rival called BSB. However, BSB failed and Sky took over, becoming BSkyB. It now has 28 channels and 8 million subscribers in the UK and Ireland - equivalentto one in three householdsFirst DirectThe UK's first mass market telephone bank was set up by Midland - then one of the big four banks - and became part of theHSBCgroup when Midland was acquired in 1992. It began piloting internet banking in the late 90s. It has1.2 millioncustomers.
Apple finally took the wraps off the British iPhone yesterday, as experts warned that customers in some parts of the country could find themselves short-changed.The handset - which has a finger-sensitive touchscreen as well as iPod and internet capabilities - will go on sale in the UK on November 9, four months after it was launched in America. Fans keen to get their hands on the gadget will have to pay handsomely for the privilege: the phone itself costs &pound;269, and customers will also have to sign up for at least 18 months of service with mobile phone network O2, at a minimum of &pound;35 a month. "We can't wait to let people here get their hands on it and see if they love it as much as we do," said Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, at the announcement in London yesterday.The British iPhone will be the same as the model launched in America this summer, which has already been bought by more than 1 million customers. It combines the iPod's music and video-playing functions with a camera, touchscreen and wireless internet access. Customers signing up to O2 will also get the benefit of free net access at more than 7,000 Wi-Fi hotspots around the country.But experts said they were concerned that buyers in rural areas could be paying over the odds, since the higher-speed network that the iPhone uses to surf the web will cover only a third of Britain by the time the gadget goes on sale. "We think that this is simply inadequate and will frustrate a lot of users," said Martin Garner, of industry analyst Ovum. "It could be problematic for O2." Users outside major urban areas could be forced to pay large sums for "unlimited internet access" but only be able to use slower, older web connections. Some potential customers said it had put them off the idea of buying an iPhone altogether. "I really want to combine my iPod and mobile internet access," said Iain Wright, a nursing assistant from Inverness. "But since it uses a network that isn't available where I live, it's basically something I can never use."Mr Jobs defended Apple's decision not to incorporate faster 3G mobile capabilities into the European iPhone, saying that the inclusion of higher-speed access would reduce battery life too much. But it is believed that the lack of support for 3G services - which British networks paid &pound;22bn to use seven years ago - was one stumbling block in negotiations.Rival operators who were spurned by Apple have since been critical of the deal with O2, but Mr Jobs said that he was courted by all the major companies before making a decision. Apple also confirmed that the high street retailer Carphone Warehouse will sell the gadget, in an attempt to help it reach its target of selling 10m iPhones by the end of 2008.
Almost half of children in some parts of Britain think that not having a mobile phone means a child is poor, according to a poll commissioned by Dare to Care, a new volunteering campaign aimed at tackling child poverty. Not being able to afford to go on a school trip is the next most telling indicator of poverty for 44% of children across Britain, and a similar proportion think that not having the correct school uniform makes you poor.The survey, based on interviews with more than 700 children aged from seven to 16, suggests they are acutely conscious of everyday indications that they or their peers do not have enough money. They are also generally more aware of obvious signs of wealth such as a new uniform and school trips, or owning a mobile, than of the more hidden trappings of poverty, such as going to school without breakfast and not having a safe place to play nearby - both cited by just under a quarter of respondents.Hilary Fisher of the Campaign to End Child Poverty, a coalition of 90 organisations which sponsored the research with the volunteering charity CSV, said it seemed the visible indicators of poverty were the ones children were most sensitive about. "Not being able to afford school trips or the correct uniform leads to uncomfortable questions from their peers and in some cases can lead to bullying."The poll follows research by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation indicating that missing out on trips and after-school activities can hold back poorer children despite a government focus on improving their education.
Google's new presentation application - blogged by Jackearlier- isn't the only piece of free office software announced today: IBM has also decided to join the fray, with a suite of software it is callingLotus Symphony.Symphony (which re-uses the name of an earlier Lotus product) is a desktop product based on the OpenOffice code, and offers free documents, spreadsheets and presentations. Sounds familiar, eh?IBM blogger Ed Brillsayswe should be able to predict where we're headed: "Tie this in with last week's announcement of IBM joining the OpenOffice.org community, and you can logically see where this is going".(More at theNew York TimesandWSJ)
At midnight tonight, the New York Times will stop charging $49.95 a year or $7.95 a month for access to some of its content.The newspaper says:In addition to opening the entire site to all readers, The Times will also make available its archives from 1987 to the present without charge, as well as those from 1851 to 1922, which are in the public domain. There will be charges for some material from the period 1923 to 1986, and some will be free.So why didn't it work out?What changed, The Times said, was that many more readers started coming to the site from search engines and links on other sites instead of coming directly to NYTimes.com. These indirect readers, unable to get access to articles behind the pay wall and less likely to pay subscription fees than the more loyal direct users, were seen as opportunities for more page views and increased advertising revenue."What wasn't anticipated was the explosion in how much of our traffic would be generated by Google, by Yahoo and some others," Ms. Schiller said.Hm, well, search engine traffic brings people with little interest in and no loyalty to the paper. As visitors they are more or less worthless, so you might as well try to get something from advertising.The story points out that the LA Times has already dropped a similar scheme, though the Financial Times persists.Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis pours scorn on the effort on his blog,BuzzMachine, saying:The bottom line is that the staff of the Times online did the best it could with TimesSelect, creating the richest service they could and probably garnering the largest paying clientèle possible -- but still, it was a bad idea from the start. It turned out to be one expensive experiment, one bad investment.But now everyone else in the content business can learn from the Times' mistake. Rupert Murdoch has publicly toyed with the idea of taking down the pay wall around the Wall Street Journal online; I'd bet the odds of that just increased. If the Times and the Journal stop charging -- and the Economist just took down its wall -- then I'd have to imagine that the Financial Times will have to follow suit.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google has now added the long-awaited Presentations feature to Google Docs, as announced with a video on Google'sofficial blog. It looks even more underpowered than what used to be Writely, being little more than a simple slide editor. However, it's probably more than enough for most Google Docs users, it allows for collaboration, it's claimed to be PowerPoint-compatible, and it's free.
The Apple chief executive, Steve Jobs, today confirmed that the company's much-hyped mobile handset, the iPhone, will go on sale to British customers in November.At a press conference held at the company's flagship London store, Mr Jobs announced that the iPhone - a mobile with built-in iPod and internet capabilities - would be available for £269, plus the cost of a contract.He also confirmed, as expected, that the sole operator in the UK will be O2."We're coming to the UK and we wanted to pick the best carrier for the iPhone," Mr Jobs told assembled journalists."We were fortunate that we could talk to all of them. Today we're announcing that we're going with O2 and we're really excited about it."The handset will be available on a number of tariffs from O2, starting for £35 per month and including unlimited internet access. It will be on sale in O2 and Apple stores as well as through independent retailer Carphone Warehouse. The 18-month contracts will also include free access to more than 7,000 Wi-Fi hotspots around Britain operated by The Cloud."For customers it's an 18-month deal, and there's a fair usage policy on the unlimited internet access," said Matthew Key, the chief executive of O2 in the UK.But Mr Key added that very few users would manage to break the terms and conditions. "You need to be using more than 1,400 internet pages per day to break that," he said.The iPhone first went on sale in America in July for between $499 (£250) and $599, and two weeks ago Apple slashed the prices to $399 (£197) before tax.Mr Jobs said he could not guarantee that further price cuts would not happen, but reassured potential buyers that they would be getting the best value for their money.O2 is believed to have signed an agreement passing as much as 40% of all revenues from the iPhone to Apple, a high price for victory over other mobile networks.But fans hoping that the European iPhone would be an enhanced version of the American model, in order to make use of the continent's higher-speed third generation mobile networks, were disappointed. The UK iPhone operates only on the 2.5 generation EDGE system, like its US counterpart.Critics have said that European customers will demand 3G access on their handsets in order to use higher-speed internet browsing.However, Mr Jobs said the company had decided against incorporating 3G because it drained battery life."The 3G chipsets work well apart from power. They're real power hogs. Most phones now have battery lives of two to three hours," he added."Our phone has eight hours of talktime life. That's really important when you start to use the internet and want to use the phone to listen to music. We've got to see the battery lives for 3G get back up into the five-plus hour range. Hopefully we'll see that late next year."
Since the 1970s, pundits have predicted a transition to an "information economy". The vision of an economy based on information seized the imaginations of the world's governments. For decades now, they have been creating policies to "protect" information — stronger copyright laws, international treaties on patents and trademarks, treaties to protect anti-copying technology.The thinking is simple: an information economy must be based on buying and selling information. Therefore, we need policies to make it harder to get access to information unless you've paid for it.That means that we have to make it harder for you to share information, even after you've paid for it. Without the ability to fence off your information property, you can't have an information market to fuel the information economy.But this is a tragic case of misunderstanding a metaphor. Just as theindustrial economy wasn't based on making it harder to get access to machines, the information economy won't be based on making it harder to get access to information. Indeed, the opposite seems to be true: the more IT we have, the easier it is to access any given piece of information — for better or for worse.It used to be that copy-prevention companies' strategies went like this:"We'll make it easier to buy a copy of this data than to make anunauthorised copy of it. That way, only the uber-nerds and thecash-poor/time-rich classes will bother to copy instead of buy."But every time a PC is connected to the internet and its owner is taught to use search tools like Google (or The Pirate Bay), a third option appears: you can just download a copy from the internet. Every techno-literate participant in the information economy can choose to access any data, without having to break the anti-copying technology, just by searching for the cracked copy on the public internet. If there's one thing we can be sure of, it's that an information economy will increase the technological literacy of its participants.As I write this, I am sitting in a hotel room in Shanghai, behind theGreat Firewall of China. Theoretically, I can't access blogging services that carry negative accounts of Beijing's doings, like Wordpress, Blogspot and Livejournal, nor the image-sharing site Flickr, nor Wikipedia. The (theoretically) omnipotent bureaucrats of the local Minitrue have deployed their finest engineering talent to stop me.Well, these cats may be able to order political prisoners executed and their organs harvested for Party members, but they've totally failed to keep Chinese people (and big-nose tourists like me) off the world's internet.The WTO is rattling its sabers at China today, demanding that theyfigure out how to stop Chinese people from looking at Bruce Willismovies without permission — but the Chinese government can't even figure out how to stop Chinese people from looking at seditious revolutionary tracts online.And, of course, as Paris Hilton, the Church of Scientology and the King of Thailand have discovered, taking a piece of information off the internet is like getting food colouring out of a swimming pool.Good luck with that.To see the evidence of the real information economy, look to all theeconomic activity that the internet enables — not the stuff that itimpedes. Look to all the commerce conducted by salarymen who can book their own flights with Expedia instead of playing blind man's bluff with a travel agent ("Got any flights after 4PM to Frankfurt?"). Look to all the garage crafters selling their goods on Etsy.com; the publishers selling obscure books through Amazon that no physical bookstore was willing to carry.Look to all the salwar kameez tailors in India selling bespoke clothes to westerners via eBay, without intervention by a series of skimming intermediaries. Look to the internet-era musicians who use the net to pack venues all over the world by giving away their recordings on social services like MySpace.Hell, look at my last barber, in Los Angeles: the man doesn't use a PC, but I found him by googling for "barbers" with my postcode. The information economy is driving his cost of customer acquisition to zero, and he doesn't even have to actively participate in it.Better access to more information is the hallmark of the informationeconomy. The more IT we have, the more skill we have, the faster our networks get and the better our search tools get, the more economic activity the information economy generates.Many of us sell information in the information economy — I sell my printed books by giving away electronic books, lawyers and architects and consultants are in the information business and they drum up trade with Google ads, and Google is nothing but an info-broker — but none of us rely on curtailing access to information.Like a bottled water company, we compete with free by supplying a superior service, not by eliminating the competition.The world's governments might have bought into the old myth of the information economy, but not so much that they're willing to ban the PC and the internet.&middot;Cory Doctorow is an activist,science fiction authorand co-editor of the blogBoing Boing.
Headline news:It's with O2 from November the 9th, at a cost of £269 for the phone and from £35 per month with an unlimited data plan.So, after the launch of iPod touchtwo weeks ago, this morning looks set to be another morning of news from Jobs and co, as Apple holdanotherpress conference.This time it's a smaller affair in London, however, and - as weindicated in our report yesterday- likely to be the announcement of a launch date for the UK iPhone, and final confirmation of the news that O2 is going to have exclusive network rights.It's the final step in a dance between Apple and the British networks, which has been a complicated affair. The terms of the deal look pretty drastic - handing over a 40% share of the revenues to Cupertino - and, Richard Wray reported, has left the other networks feeling a little bruised.Throughout discussions over marketing the iPhone in Europe, Apple has played off the UK's four main networks - O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - against each other. All of them, at one stage, believed they had an exclusive deal for the British market.As a result, many mobile phone company executives are unimpressed with the way the Californian computer group has conducted businesses this side of the Atlantic, although similar tactics were used in the US.So, with O2 - which has little 3G network coverage - as the chosen operator, the implication must be that the UK iPhone won't be an upgraded version of its American sibling. Given that factor, what would be the price you'd be happy with?I'm just schlepping to Apple's Regent Street store for the announcement. Updates to follow.Sorry for the slow updates: I'm having issues with the internet (aren't we all?).9.50:A few minutes before things kick off here and I'm sitting a couple of rows behind Big Phil Schiller, the Apple vice president. Rumours were that Steve Jobs might be here too; I've seen some of his retinue but no sign of the man himself yet. There are probably 150 or so people here, a bunch of cameras and the requisite 17 people from the Guardian.9.55:First sighting of Jobs, lurking behind a doorway around the corner. I suppose that confirms that this is pretty big news, in Apple terms at least.10.00:Jobs walks out on stage - ripple of applause. "Got something fun to talk about - we're bringing the iPhone to the UK today."The Regent's Street store, he says, is the largest in terms of square footage that Apple has and the second-largest in terms of revenue."1 million iPhones sold in first 74 days. We've gotten our own market research back and it says that customer satisfaction is higher on iPhone than any other product in Apple's history."10.04:SHOCK!"We're coming to the UK and we wanted to pick the best carrier for the iPhone. We were fortunate that we could talk to all of them. Today we're announcing that we're going with O2 and we're really excited about it."OK, it wasn't really a shock. The only shock was that he's announced the news within about 3 minutes of taking the stage.What about price and launch date?"As you know, our US customers paid $499 or $599 and since then we've brought the price down substantially and focused on the 8GB model. So in the UK the price for the iPhone is going to be£269and that includes all VAT. And we're going to be with O2, bringing the iPhone on sale onNovember 9."10.06:Jobs runs the British iPhone ads, which include - I contractually have point this out, I think - some extended use of Guardian Unlimited. I raise my arms in corporate joy... nobody else joins me.10.08:Matthew Key, the CEO of O2, takes the stage. He says the first time he saw the iPhone he knew it was a breakthrough product. Sales pitch continues ("Why did we want to bring the iPhone to O2?"... well, about 500,000 customers, I expect - certainly nothuge revenues).O2 has partnered with Carphone Warehouse, so now there are 1,300 points of sale for the iPhone.Now he starts discussing the tariffs - starting with a£35 tariffthat includes an unlimited data plan. "Customers don't have to worry about how much they're using, both on Wi-Fi, Edge and GPRS." Offering to ensure number portability from other providers, and saying there will be a team of 1,000 customer services personnel dedicated to iPhone service.Key gives a little story about how he used the iPhone to find directions. "That's the power of iPhone," he says. Nobody shouts "Praise the Lord-ah!" which, to be honest, I was sort of expecting.The O2 package includes free access to a large number of O2 Wi-Fi hotspot. The Edge network, he says, offers a "perfectly acceptable" experience. Damning with faint praise?10.12:John-Henry Barac, our designer who happens to be sitting next to me, spots an iTunes button the screen logo.10.15:Floor opens for questions.Why no 3G?It's pretty simple, says Jobs. "The chipsets work well apart from power. They're real power hogs. Most phones now have battery lives of 2-3 hours and that's due to these very power-hungry 3G chipsets. Our phone has 8 hours of talktime life. That's really important when you start to use the internet and want to use the phone to listen to music. We've got to see the battery lives for 3G get back up into the 5+ hour range. Hopefully we'll see that late next year. Rather than cut the battery life, we've included Wi-Fi and sandwiched 3G between Edge and a more efficient Wi-Fi."Will customers have to pay for the 7,500 hotspots?No. Turns out we're talking about The Cloud hotspots (both O2 and The Cloud are offshoots of BT) and access is included in the tariff. Key says he believes 2 out of 3 usage will be over Wi-Fi.Any plans to expand the Starbucks deal to the UK?Jobs: You'll have to ask Starbucks.How does? And what's the iTunes button about?Jobs: The way we're going to activate the phone is the same way as we've done in the US. The purple button is the iTunes Music Store isn't launched yet but will come in a software update - it lets you browse the iTunes Store from the handset and download (Jobs seems slightly surprised, perhaps they didn't mean to launch this today).What's the contract length and usage restrictions?Key: For customers it's an 18-month deal, and there's a fair usage policy. You need to be using more than 1,400 internet pages per day to break that.What's the revenue share?Jobs: Unfortunately, we're not going to go into that. But good question.Will consumers be happy to pay for a handset like this? UK users are used to getting phones free with a contract.Key: This isn't just a mobile phone. The other thing I'd say is to look at it as an overall package. What you'll do with it is leagues different to what you'd do with other phones today.Jobs: Sometimes you get what you pay for.How much of a concern is it to you that the phone can be unlocked?Jobs: This is constant cat-and-mouse game. We play it on iPods with our digital rights management and when somebody hacks it we have to go... and stay a step ahead. Are we the cat or the mouse? It's the same way here, people are going to try and break in and it's our job to try and stop them.With direct purchases from the iTunes Store, will Apple share revenue with the operator?Jobs: We're not going to go into it, but if it's using the network you can conceptually imagine that it might make sense.What did O2 have to do to prepare for the iPhone? Will there be Edge nationwide?Key: We've invested in Edge. By launch we'll be north of 30% and we'll build from there. It won't just be iPhone users who'll benefit from the deal, it will be 5.5m users.Were you aware that the iPod Touch was coming out when you were negotiating with Apple?Key: One of the things that's great about Apple is that you know they're ahead of the game. We're confident we'll sell a lot of iPhones.Jobs: I think they're different product. The iPod touch could be training wheels for the iPhone.I think that's a "no".How many do you want to sell?Key: We've done some research and about 80% of our high-value customers have said they'd love an iPhone and 40% of other network's customers' would love it.Is the price higher in the UK?Jobs: Well, most of it is VAT and the US price doesn't include sales tax. And then there's a little bit more because it's a little more expensive to do business here. We try to be as aggressive as we can.What about the rest of Europe - and do you care that you upset the other operators because you played them off each other?Jobs: We're announcing the UK today, and we'll be in a few countries in Europe in the next quarter.The other carriers? We took the approach of wanting to get to know the different partners and the different possibilities and to see where there was the best fit. Partnerships take a lot of work - you want to go out on a few dates before you get married. Yes, we dated a few people but didn't get married... and so there were a few unhappy girlfriends out there. The choice wasn't an economic choice, it was a customer choice.Why does O2 fit with Apple in the UK, but not in other countries?I'm really here to talk about the UK today. This is good enough for us.Hopefully we made the right decisions.[This is the question he appears to have been most uncomfortable with so far]Will the iPhone open up to more applications?Jobs: We're already starting to see a lot of good applications. Some people are wanting to add apps that don't need an internet connection to run. We're looking at that. He says that PCs are fine with a "strange combination" of applications that might not be compatible with each other, but that people hold their phones to a higher standard: the more open you are, by definition the less predictable you're going to be.The minimum spend over 18 months is about £900. Can you give any assurances to customers who buy it on November 9 that you won't slash the price by a third in two months?Jobs: I don't think that's going to happen, but in technology there are no guarantees. There are always new products on the horizon. Our goal, and what serves the customer best, is to work on the best product.Will European customers be disappointed with a 2 megapixel cameraJobs: It turns out the camera's great. You can get into these megapixel wars. The real issue is light levels on all cellphones.Will the unlimited data package be available for other users?Key: We'll roll them out on October 1 to our other tariffs.That's it. Now people are being asked to and try one out in the main store.
Things are moving forward in theWikigameand development regulars DennisChow and MichaelBruntonSpall have inspired the process towards something very exciting. By all accounts, we should have a finalisedChapter 1of the text adventure in the next four weeks. Almost all of the locations have been written, but there are a few places which still need some input. Check theChapter 1 Working Designpage for a list of rooms and add your two penneth to the design. I just had a go at theChurch Graveyardand discovered that the process is surprisingly easy to get into thanks to the template laid out by our active contributors. With a smattering ofDisney's Haunted Mansion-style inspiration, I've managed to give thanks to the folks who've already given their time and (perhaps by proxy) their energies. If I've forgotten you or you'd like to suggest some more headstones, add 'emthereor below.We currently need descriptions for the following rooms:Train Station(the location which represents your only hope in getting away from this madness)Train Station Ticket Office(it stands in the way between you and freedom)Descriptions include a few sentences about what the place looks like, what the objects are in the location (and what you can do with them), any actions that you can do in the place (e.g., pick up Sisters of Mercy cassette tape) and any visible or invisible exits from the location to another.A bit more description work needs done on thePub(a crucial location in the development of the plot in this chapter) and thePub Cellar(hidden secrets lie beneath the floorboards...) before the coders can do their things. Take a look at thePuzzlesto see what's to go on in these locations and add your suggestions.Further, for those as lost as I was in my previous forays into the mysterious village, a basic Hints system has been implemented in the playable demo which offers some vague suggestions for advance through the game. If you'd like a sneak peek at what's to come when the coders have the chance to build the designers' dreams, theChapter 1 Working Designhas all the details.And the wiki's been re-organised too, to make it much easier to dive in and get to grips with what's going on. Wander over and have a go. We march irrevocably on.
I've not tried the new "slim and lite" PSP yet but anecdotally I'm hearing good things. One person not convinced is veteran developer Dave Perry, whoarguesthat the PSP should become a download-only handheld with iTunes-style authentication.."They (Sony) really need to restart the PSP programme in my book. They really need to bring out the PSP 3.0 and start again and try to get a lot of units out by reducing the manufacturing costs, by taking out all the motors and drives and stuff they have in there."UMD - the PSP's proprietary disc format - was a typical Sony attempt to force a new format on consumers. It flopped with movies - why pay more for portability than you pay for convenience (DVD) - but I still don't see the average PSP owner being ready for a download-only service. Yes, plenty of PSP owners are in their 20s and 30s and are and happy ripping films and watching last night's telly on their commute. But teenage boys make up a sizeable part of the PSP's audience - perhaps the DS is too feminine? - who are unlikely to want to pay 30 quid for a download.In many ways the PSP has been unfairly maligned, mainly due to comparison with the DS. Nintendo's handheld has sold far more, primarily by appealing to a wide audience of from kids to grans. But the PSP has quietly gone about mopping up most of the core gaming audience and could finally start fulfilling its potential when the PS3 connectivity properly kicks in. Yes, it could do with a wider range of games but the PSP is still a serious player.
Microsoft faces a crucial court decision today in Luxembourg that will define its future as the world's biggest software group as well as that of the European commission as a global antitrust authority.The verdict of Europe's second highest court on an appeal by Microsoft against Brussels' ruling that it had abused its dominance of the PC market, marks the culmination of a nine-year dispute that could reshape EU competition law.Bo Vesterdorf, the court's Danish president, will this morning deliver the ruling on Microsoft's appeal against the commission's March 2004 decision to find it guilty of abusing its dominance of the PC market through its Windows operating system. Brussels imposed a record &euro;497m (&pound;344m) fine and a further &euro;280.5m in July last year for failing to comply.Lawyers say the judgment is a watershed for EU competition law and the commission's remit. Brussels sees the case as a David versus Goliath battle, pitting its relatively small team of economists and lawyers against the  software empire which has earnings of $1.5bn (&pound;750m) a month and margins of 85% on its products."It's their entire super-dominant business model that's at stake here: the ability to milk monopoly profits in a market in which they have held 95% share for 15 years," an insider said. "Its about a company deliberately excluding competitors from the software market, imposing products and services on consumers rather than allowing them to choose more innovative products and keener prices. It's about encouraging Microsoft to be even more innovative by allowing others to compete."Microsoft turns the EU argument on its head. For its founder, Bill Gates, and his hundreds of engineers and lawyers, the court battle revolves around the ability of a creative hi-tech firm not only to innovate but also to protect its innovations through intellectual property rights such as patents. Microsoft believes the case is an attempt by an overweening regulator to "reconfigure how the marketplace works by handicapping the leading player". Ian Forrester QC at White &amp; Case, part of Microsoft's legal team, said a ruling in favour of the company being forced to divulge sophisticated technology, would be a first in global competition law.Last night, the outcome was still seen as a cliffhanger, with most lawyers pointing to a score draw on the two "remedies" imposed on the software group by the 2004 decision - and a possible reduction in the original fine. Lawyers believe the commission could "lose" one of its demands - trying to stop Microsoft tying or bundling Media Player, used for viewing multimedia files online, into Windows OS to the detriment of rivals such as Real Player. It could "win" one - the demand that Microsoft ensure inter-operability that enables rivals such as Sun or Linux to interface seamlessly with Windows-based servers.Rony Gerrits, managing partner at lawyers Morrison &amp; Foerster in Brussels, is not involved in the legal battle, but said: "The court is both legal and political, and to come out and shoot down the commission's high-profile work over a decade would be a serious step politically and very damaging ... The inter-operability case may even be so complex it's impossible to solve, and the EU will take comfort from the fact that Microsoft today is not what it was nine years ago."But Mr Vesterdorf and his colleagues could award the entire game to the commission or Microsoft. If the EU wins, there would be a rash of new legal cases in Europe and the US brought mainly by American companies. It would give the commission more clout than any other antitrust authority in the world.But if it loses it will be a blow to Brussels and officials will think twice about taking on more cases of the Microsoft scale.Becket McGrath, competition lawyer at Berwin Leighton Paisner, said of the original decision: "[It] arguably represents the commission's best work and a loss would severely damage its reputation."Microsoft would be free to devote even more resources to tackling its innovative and often smarter rivals in new markets - and conclude even more deals with its original complainants such as Sun, Novell and AOL who it has already bought off with $4bn compensation."Remedies" imposed by the EU:&#183; Microsoft was forced to sell a version of Windows without its Media Player - the video and audio streaming software - after being accused of significantly weakening competition by including it in Windows operating system packages for free. The European commission said this discouraged consumers from buying rival programmes such as Real Player. But the "unbundled" version has sold fewer than 2,000 copies.&#183; Microsoft was required to provide "complete and accurate" information to rivals so they could develop competing programmes for workgroup servers (such as banks of printers) that would work with the Windows software. Microsoft lawyers argued that involved the expropriation of valuable intellectual property.David Gow
It's another confusing day in the rollercoaster world of videogame hardware.According to Reuters, US sales of videogames and hardware were up 46 percent in August, compared to the same month last year. Xbox 360 performed particularly well, with Madden 08 shifting 897,000 units on the system, while the hardware sales were up 63 percent on July.Shockingly, Wii salesfellby 5 percent, but don't worry - Nintendo still shifted 404,000 units, "almost as much as the Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3 combined," added Reuters just in case any Sony or Microsoft execs were getting too excited. And just to add insult to injury, the report points out that PS3 sales were down 16 percent in August to 131,000 units.So when I wrote 'confusing day' I actually meant, 'absolutely in line with industry trends'. Apart from the Wii hardware sales dip, which is bound to reverse now that Nintendo has actually released some new games for the system.In other industry-esque news, Intel has bought physics middleware companyHavokandsome news sourcesare questioning the motives. Plus, Sony is selling its advanced semiconductor manufacturing facilities to Toshiba, a move that effectively represents, 'a retreat from high-end semiconductor fabrication'according to the Financial Times:The move would be in line with Sony's strategy of slimming down its non-core assets. Sir Howard Stringer, Sony chief executive, indicated this year that Sony, which has invested more than Y200bn in developing the "Cell" chip, would cut back on chip spending.There are few high-profile plans to extend the Cell technology beyond PS3 - Toshiba has talked about using the technology in hi-def TV sets and IBM will beimplementing it into MMORPG servers, but that's about it. The Y100bn Toshiba is expected to pay for the facility will certainly come in useful - if only to fund the next two years of development on Gran Turismo 5...
I seem to have spent the entire history of personal computing "subverting" IT departments, so I'm pleased to hear I'm still doing it. Not that there's anything shocking to report, since this is both extremely easy and extremely common: we're (almost) all doing it to some extent.Crimes againsthumanityIT include using USB thumbdrives, stray Wi-Fi, Web-based mail systems with gigabytes of storage, file-sharing, personal smartphones, and instant messaging. TechRepublic has the details in:The six consumer technologies that are destroying traditional IT.Gartner Analyst Jeff Comport, said, "There's a reason people are trying to use this kind of technology and very often it's to do their jobs better... We have IT very often coming from a world of budgets, controls, and projects, and they have spent their lives keeping this kind of stuff out." As a result, "It's almost become a sport for users to vilify IT," said Comport.Sure, but it's not really a technology issue, is it? In the days when IT provided mainframe teminals, it was rebellious to use PCs. When IT provided PCs, we bought laptops. When IT provided laptops, we bought smartphones. Slow-moving and cost-constrained IT departments are always going to lag behind what their small minority of more innovative users want -- and, of course, can do at home. The technology changes but the song remains the same.The mistake is trying to block those more innovative users, instead of trying to co-opt them as unpaid R&amp;D testers.
Hugh MacLeod, a British cartoonist who has become famous for drawing on the back of business cards, has been scooped by the Financial Times, which reports:Microsoft launches a tipple for techies.However, asMacLeod points outon his blog, Stormhoek Monster Reserve "is not a commercially available product, just a wee 'social object' for geek dinners and people inside the Microsoft ecosystem." It's only available to "people who belong to theFriends of Blue Monster Facebookgroup, and geek dinners we're attending and/or sponsoring".TheBlue Monsteris a cartoon/poster (above) that MacLeod says he designed "for my buddies over at Microsoft". You can get the background from Microsoft UK's Steve Clayton onYouTube.As MacLeod also says: "my main gig is Marketing Strategist forStormhoek, a small South African vineyard, whose Web 2.0 approach to wine making is currently getting a lot of international attention in the wine trade."Now we need a media magazine to tell the real story: "Small South African vineyard scores huge marketing coup when its marketing strategist sticks neat cartoons on bottles".
Mobile operator O2 is preparing to unveil Apple's much anticipated iPhone in the UK tomorrow. But serious questions are being raised in the City about how much ground it has had to give away to Apple in order to clinch the deal.The UK's largest mobile operator came from behind at the last minute to seal an agreement with Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, to market the iPhone in the UK, but  one other operator described the deal as "madly money-losing".O2 is understood to have agreed a margin on the retail price - to be confirmed tomorrow - but will return to Apple as much as 40% of any revenues it makes from customers' use of the device.The price of the combined phone and iPod can be changed by Apple at any time, as happened recently in the US. Out of O2's share also comes a commission and further revenue share with Carphone Warehouse, which is understood to have secured the right to be the sole independent retailer of the device on behalf of O2.Carphone appears to have been drafted in because of Apple's fears that O2 did not have a big enough presence in the UK even with its sizeable store portfolio which was enlarged by last year's acquisition of The Link stores. The rush to secure an exclusive iPhone deal has also been called into question by the arrival of the iPod Touch device, which does everything the iPhone does except make phone calls. This was not expected by any of the operators involved in negotiations with Apple over the phone.The current generation iPhone cannot receive music from the iTunes store over the air and is expected to appeal mostly to existing iPod users who want to upgrade their device and have been "wowed" by the touch screen on the iPhone. The iPod Touch, however, has that touch screen and twice the capacity of the iPhone. It can also connect to the internet using short-range Wi-Fi technology.Throughout discussions over marketing the iPhone in Europe, Apple has played off the UK's four main networks - O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - against each other. All of them, at one stage, believed they had an exclusive deal for the British market.As a result, many mobile phone company executives are unimpressed with the way the Californian computer group has conducted businesses this side of the Atlantic, although similar tactics were used in the US.Vodafone is understood to have dropped out of the race relatively early as Apple pursued a "divide and conquer" strategy and decided against having just one operator stock the phone across the three initial territories of France, Germany and the UK.The plan is believed to have switched to T-Mobile providing the device in Germany, which will be confirmed on Wednesday, and Orange in France, to be announced on Thursday. In the UK, the idea initially was for both operators to share the device because the British market is much more fragmented than in either continental country.Orange and T-Mobile are understood to have signed contracts and at least one had Apple employees helping to implement the device on their networks. But at the 11th hour O2 snatched the UK deal with an offer that gave such a high proportion of revenues to Apple that none of its competitors could see any way of making any return on the phone, even over three years. They believed that even if it was treated as purely a loss-leading marketing product, a better return could be had by spending the money elsewhere.The iPhone contract was apparently signed after Mr Jobs received a visit from C&eacute;sar Alierta, the boss of Telefonica, which bought O2 more than two years ago.O2 will also have to spend a considerable amount of money installing the Edge technology which the iPhone needs to operate on its network, in the run-up to the device's launch this year.Neither O2, Orange, T-Mobile nor Vodafone would comment. During the long-running negotiations over the iPhone, all signed non-disclosure agreements.&#183;The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday September 26 2007. We said that the iPod Touch device does everything that the iPhone does except make phone calls; it doesn't take photographs either.
Blogger's main claim to fame is that you can get a blog up and running in 10 minutes, and it's all free. This makes it the ideal place for beginners to experiment. However, this doesn't mean it can't be used to produce great blogs. Blogspot is home to two of my favourites:PostSecretandThe Secret Diary of Steve Jobs.Blogger was launched by Ev Williams of Pyra Labs in 1999, and bought by Google in 2003. Google eventually started to improve it, and a few months ago it finally moved to Google servers. New users can sign in with any Google account, such as a Gmail address.To set up a blog, you need three things: a title, a unique web address, and an idea. Since your first attempt will be a sandbox for experimentation, don't try too hard. The web address is created by putting any word in front of blogspot.com. For example, using the Netbytes title, I could go for netbytes.blogspot.com address - but it has already been taken. That's a common problem.The next step is to choose a template: that creates the basic appearance of your new blog. Minima - the default choice - is the one used by Fake Steve Jobs. Click Continue and you're done: you can start posting.A blog post is like an email, except that instead of sending it to a person, you save it to a web page. Type in a title and some text, then click the button that says: Publish Post. That's it.You can post as many items as you like. They will appear in reverse chronological order, with the latest at the top.Blogger lets you edit the articles you have posted, in case you spot any mistakes. If you go to Settings, you can change the title of your blog and add a description. You can also edit the template, or switch the whole blog to a different template.The things you can easily add to Blogger posts now include photos and YouTube videos, news headlines, polls, and Google Adsense advertisements. If you create a popular blog on Blogger, it can now earn money.Once you've got the hang of blogging, you can delete your first attempt and tackle something that you really want to do. For example, you could set up a blog around a business interest or hobby or family activities. A blog could be a good way to collect and discuss recipes, organise a society, report the games played by a youth team, tell everyone about a gap-year trip, or publish your poetry.It's OK to cater for friends rather than aim for world domination.Other popular topics include writing anonymously about the annoying tendencies of whoever you live with, the sexual   peccadilloes of your boss, or how the organisation you work for is ripping off its clients/customers.These can certainly attract readers, but you could also end up in the divorce court, law courts, or local job centre. Consider yourself warned!
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Guardian's David Gow reports from Brusselshere. The EC secured "a comprehensive victory," even winning the patently stupid bits of its case:the [Court of First Instance] ruled that the commission was right to force the company to sell a version of Windows without Media Player, its video and audio streaming software, already embedded -- or tied. The commission and most lawyers thought Brussels might lose this part of the appeal.As the story says:Brussels is now free to pursue other high-profile cases against hi-tech companies such as Intel and has emerged as the world's leading antitrust authority.
World in Conflictis supposedly the Real Time Strategy game for those who don't like them - me, and I guess a few others then. But what I've seen so far suggests they may be on to something. WiC is very pretty, very violent and may yet persuade me to finally cross the RTS divide. I spoke to Magnus Jansén, the Lead Game Designer from the developers Massive Entertainment, about the first strategy game inspired by the 80s film Red Dawn.PC gaming is awash with RTS games - what makes WiC stand out?World in Conflict is essentially a very fast-paced, action-oriented game with some of the greatest graphics the RTS genre has ever seen. Unlike most other strategy games, World in Conflict takes a step away from conventional base-building and resource management, putting more focus on the fight itself. The tactical depth of the game lies in teamplay, and at the heart of teamplay lies the role system that lets you pick one of 4 military specializations before you enter a team of 8. To get these huge 16 player matches flowing smoothly we allow the player to drop-in and join any server at any time. World in Conflict borrows ideas from both the FPS genre and the RTS genre, and combines them in a pretty unique way.RTS games have never really worked on the Xbox 360 - how did you get round the control and cultural (console vs PC) issues?The 360 version is being developed alongside the PC version by Swordfish Studios in Manchester. I think they're secure with the whole idea. It's very console-friendly because of the free camera and the small number of units that you have to handle. It's coming along very nicely. It's too early to talk about specific control solutions and so on, but it will definitely be able to hold its own compared to the PC version.Did you have to "dumb down" the game for 360 or will it be the same game as the PC?It's not dumbed down in any way, but tailored for the platform. Basically, both versions have the same content, but Swordfish have had to make some adaptations for the console. Besides the obvious control change, they've also tweaked the graphics for the hardware and remade the online interface to support Xbox Live.Did the recent Russian air incidents (4 UK planes scrambled) have any implications for your storyline?No. We've tried to keep a very respectful approach towards the game and the setting without any influences from contemporary news stories. So any similarities between our game and real-life events are purely coincidental.How important is storyline and characterisation to the game.It was very important, because we wanted something that really captured the player and kept the player hooked throughout the entire campaign. We already had the major storyline set, i.e. how the Soviets invade Europe and the United States, but we wanted to tell this story through our characters. We're very happy with the end result, and expect that many players will want to play through the single-player campaign.How do you get the balance between multiplayer and single-player? Do you treat them as separate games?Single player and multiplayer share pretty much everything when it comes to maps and units and balancing. There are some small changes to some explosions and units to fit a certain story point, but expect units and weapon systems to behave the same. In multiplayer you can pick any role (specialization) you want, but in the single player maps we often dictate (via story) what you can order in to give the player a taste of all branches of the military.Red Dawn is obviously an influence but what else was an inspiration when making the game?The entire team is influenced by many things, various movies and books and so on. Massive invasions of modern day USA are for instance covered in various sci-fi movies like "War of the Worlds" and "Independence Day". Modern war-movies have been an inspiration when in comes to character development in single player, in the way they focus more on the micro-cosmos of the people and the friction between them than they do on the war effort as a whole.Do you see any educational benefit to your game - ie like the Total War series - or is WiC simply about blowing stuff up?Well, it's not something that we set out to do - we just want to make entertaining and captivating games. But I guess that, in our effort to make the game realistic in regards of weapons, vehicles and locations, that you can perhaps find some informative value in it, even though we've of course used these different aspects in a very free-minded way, in order to make the gameplay as fast-paced and enjoyable as possible. But in general, no.The Wii and DS have blown the gaming audience wide open. Do you see WiC as a traditional "hardcore" game or are you hoping to capture some of this new audience? If so, what impact does that have on development?We wanted to make World in Conflict appealing to a crowd that's not necessarily hardcore strategy gamers, so it definitely might attract a new audience. It's not just a game for gamers who consume strategy games on a daily basis. But to what extent it will reach out beyond this core community is still unsure. We're all waiting anxiously for the release, so we'll see!World in Conflict is released on PC on the 21st Sept. Xbox 360 version coming soon.
It's a London games-related event kind of week! I thought I'd fallen off the01zero-one InSyncmailing list when I'd not heard from them for a while, but great joy of joys, they've found me again just in time for a really cool sounding event this Thursday, happening in the centre of Soho:For October's London Games Festival, the Fringe has commissioned an original and experimental augmented reality game, Soho Stories. Built around a fictional event affecting the area, the game will incorporate stories and player-generated content from the different communities that make up Soho.InSync's Augmenting Reality event will explore possible futures for games and interactive storytelling in a creative forum focused on the development of Soho Stories. What are the boundaries between narrative and game? Is there a real future for hybrid forms of entertainment combining broadcast and online elements with live events and player-generated content?Yes yes and a thousand times yes. The evening is structured more like a hands-on workshop with some top-flight people in the augmented reality/play-is-for-grown-ups-too world, including Adrian Hon, formerly of Mind Candy and currently of Sixtostart and Alex Fleetwood from Hide and Seek. If you weren't able to get toBrighton BarCamp(or London's, for that matter) and want to play, it should be a good time.You can RSVP by emailing insync+at+01zero-oneDOTcoDOTuk. More info ishere.
The "$100 laptop" or OLPC keeps getting more expensive. According toAP:Leaders of the nonprofit One Laptop Per Child that was spun out of MIT acknowledged Friday that the devices are now slated to cost $188 when mass production begins this fall. The last price the nonprofit announced was $176; it described $100 as a long-term goal.What happens if they become as expensive as ordinary Windows laptops?
So, it's finally happened. Unhappy with other media players being better than iTunes, Apple have apparently decided to stop them from working with the new range of iPodsbegins the post at iPodminustunes.What's happened? Apple has updated the way that the music database works on the new iPods.The iPod keeps track of the songs and playlists in your iPod with a database file - the iTunesDB, found in the iPod_Control/iTunes/ hidden folder on the iPod.That used to be easy to reverse engineer. And many people did to create media players which could load iPods from Windows (before iTunes appeared on it) and Linux (which still doesn't have iTunes, but had other programs that could do the same function.)Now though...At the very start of the database, a couple of what appear to be SHA1 hashes have been inserted which appear to lock the iTunes database to one particular iPod and prevent any modification of the database file. If you try to do either of these, the hashes will not match and the iPod will report that it contains "0 songs" when the iTunesDB would otherwise be perfectly adequate.The result is that you can't install Linux onto these iPods, and you can't use any media program other than iTunes to put stuff onto the iPods.A dastardly plan by Apple to prevent people using something other than iTunes? Weeellll, maybe, but another possibility suggests itself: if the database is encrypted, that presumably locks out programs which read the iPod database and pull the music tracks from it. That is, programs which let someone plug your iPod into their computer and suck up the music (and video) from them. Which in theory you Ought Not To Do.My own take on this - very personally - is that it's been driven by labels bugging Apple about the possibility of people taking content from others' iPods, even if it's just a theoretical loophole. It seems reasonable to assume that on older iPods, content from the iTunes Store is not encrypted, because the decryption process would take too much CPU. That would mean it could be sucked up onto another machine. (Correct me if I'm wrong.)On the newer machines, with faster CPUs (again, I'm presuming; haven't checked) there's enough to do some sort of hashing on the fly to produce the music. And so they could implement this step.(Via regular Technology section contributor Tim Anderson, who has also blogged it onhis personal blog.)There's aSlashdot discussionwhich adds no light, and not even useful heat. What's your take?
Fred08is currently the top site, in terms of Web visitors, andbarackobama.com(36.59%) is ahead ofhillaryclinton.com(28.15%) among the Democrat contenders. All the details are in theHitwise Election 2008 Data Center. .
Here are The Simpsons' opening titles redone byRich Candoin the style of Star Wars atCollegehumor.com. Alternatively, it's atYouTube.
What's your favourite piece of technology and why?I have a BlackBerry 8800 - I don't know if I love it or hate it, but it's undoubtedly useful. It means that I don't have to be stuck in front of a computer waiting to get an email, but emails can find me wherever I am... even when I'm on holiday in Brazil.Is it good for your art?It's good for my art and my legs. Sitting in front of a computer is the least inspiring thing I can think of. I need to be out to get ideas - to meet people, see what's happening in the world, and go to museums, libraries and events.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I was on holiday in Ibiza last week with friends. As soon as I got there a project came through, which meant that while all my friends were having fun at the beach I was sitting in the car in 40 degrees, sweating, writing a treatment, having conference calls, not being able to open the windows because some guys where smoking a joint just outside. I felt like an idiot and my BlackBerry ruined my holiday.What additional features would you add if you could?A camera.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?No, it would be better and look different from my iPod, which is also black. At the moment I'm always mistaking one for the other.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?Avoid reading or reply to your emails when you are out with friends.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I've checked "luddite" on Wikipedia, so I guess I'm a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably the MacBook Pro 17 inch 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo. I bought it last month and it broke after a week.Mac or PC?Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?Don't mention my iPod. I left it in a hotel in Italy …Will robots rule the world?Let's hope so.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I saw an electric toothbrush by Sonicare that is about £130. I don't know what it does but it must do something if it costs that much.&middot; Carolina Melis is ananimatorand illustrator.
Occasionally in the TV series The Sopranos, the mobster Tony Soprano's children are shown using a computer. Idly, I'd watch and wonder what they'd say if they got pharmaceutical spam (since trucking illicit pharma is one of their father's sidelines) or secured their machines against bank detail-stealing Trojan programs. If they did, would they say "Oh, it's Dad's guys again," with a sigh?If Meadow Soprano had a blog, would she need to fight off the comment spam? Or would they, like everyone else, struggle furiously against the onslaught on their inbox and comments section?What we take to be the nice, safe internet actually makes the world that Tony Soprano in particular inhabits look a bit tame. In his world, don't forget, everyone is on the take from someone else, cadging a "point" - a percentage of profit - from people, loaning money with weekly interest rates (the "vig") that credit card companies would hesitate to charge per month. People get killed with frightening regularity, and the threat of death is always there.OK, so nobody ever got killed by receiving spam email, but you still can't relax when you're online. If you're using Windows, it's increasingly hard to be sure that any page you're visiting isn't loaded with some sort of malware that wants to insinuate itself onto your machine: theBank of India's webpageand the still-ongoingStorm wormand, oh, downloads of things thatpretend just to be new Messenger "smileys".Even computers in California's Marin County are, as Alex Eckelberry of Sunbelt Software puts it, "hacked up the ying-yang" so that it's serving pornography. (Don't all rush off, now.)Spam, meanwhile, is generated in colossal amounts. And as for comment spam? Drop byAkismet, which provides comment spam protection for a growing number of blogs: its statistics page, which goes back less than two years, shows that comment spam has grown so that it's now 97% of all the comments arriving on Akismet-protected blogs.Postini, meanwhile, says 84% of all email it sees is spam. How do you stop that?Shutting off, or repairing, all the millions of infected Windows PCs would be a really good start. The trouble is that the people using those machines are often not aware that anything's wrong.The idea of creating a virus that would get rid of the viruses and other things has been tried before - that was theWelchia (or Nachia) worm, intended to beat the Blaster worm by forcing the installation of patches. Unfortunately, the author(s) did a less good job than the Blaster worm's writer, creating excessive internet traffic. It was a good idea ruined by bad execution - which meant that the antivirus companies issued a patch to get rid of Welchia as well.Of course, you can see that the online security companies might not have liked the idea of a free worm that would fix systems. It would threaten a lot of their business – although, even if every Windows PC were magically updated to include all the latest security patches, there would still be a thriving security software business because people would keep on clicking infected attachments and going to phishing sites.Even so, if I were able to pose a single question to the smartest person at Microsoft, it would be this: can you think of a way to get back all the machines running Windows that have been conquered by people using them to send spam and carry out attacks?That would cut the amount of general online problems in half, if not more, at a stroke. And it would leave the bad guys where they should be, as they are in real life: a minority who are only just holding it together by their fear of having to go legit.It would be like things should be, as illustrated by probably my favourite scene from the whole of the Sopranos, in which two hoods go into a newly opened coffee shop and tell the manager that it would be a shame if anything, you know,happenedto it. Or him."Guys," the manager replies, "You can threaten me all you want, but every last bean is in the computer, and they can see everything in head office. If I take anything out for you, I'm gone and another guy comes in and it's the same story." Damage to the store? Head office won't care.The hoods exit empty-handed. As they stand outside, one spits: "It's over for the little guy!"Well, we can hope. Anyone working on that anti-worm worm?
MondayBBC on XBLFeeling blueWikiGame Week 8: more locations and puzzles emergeZapping ZeldaTuesdayWarcraft wins South Park an EmmyGetting serious about virtual worldsCasuals force store changesWednesdayCoD 4 beta. WowiPod gamingXbox 360 - final Japanese pushOmega goodnessThursdayHow cool?Parental gamingMMORPG visits Oktober FestFridayGame store updateGames are backHalfway to heavenIGDA meet-up next TuesdayWii outsells Xbox 360
Google has launched a $20m competition to send a robotic mission to the moon. To claim the prize, a team of researchers will need to send a rover  to the moon, make it roam for a minimum of 500 metres and send video, images and data back to Earth, all  before December 31 2012.The competition is being run in association with the X Prize Foundation, best known for its $10m award to Burt Rutan, designer of SpaceShipOne, which in 2004 made the first private sub-orbital spaceflight. His design is being developed by Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic in the hope of sending people on short trips into space."The Google Lunar X prize calls on entrepreneurs, engineers and visionaries from around the world to return us to the lunar surface and explore this environment for the benefit of all humanity," said Peter Diamandis, chief executive of the X Prize Foundation.Google's billionaire founders are also paying $1.3m for a space connection of a different kind.Sergey Brin and Larry Page have struck a deal to park their personal "party plane" on a restricted Nasa airfield near the internet company's headquarters in California. In return, they will allow the US space agency to put scientific instruments and researchers aboard their Boeing 767 and two other Google aircraft.The arrangement has upset residents in Google's home town of Mountain View, who fear it could set a precedent for corporate use of a hitherto quiet federal facility.
Here's how the system works: J Random Journalist gets a steady stream of emails saying how wonderful the latest XYZ Linux distro is, possibly adding that the only reason he doesn't recommend it is that he's a brain-challenged capitalist running dog who is rolling in payola from Apple or Microsoft. The browbeaten journalist dutifully installs XYZ Linux and finds it unusably user hostile. Report is duly published saying Linux is still "a little rough around the edges," along with numerous pleas not to beat him up too badly.The Wall Street Journal'sWalt Mossberg(orhere) is the latest to go through the routine. He's been trying a Dell laptop pre-installed with Ubuntu. He says, as defensively as possible:My verdict: Even in the relatively slick Ubuntu variation, Linux is still too rough around the edges for the vast majority of computer users. While Ubuntu looks a lot like Windows or Mac OS X, it is full of little complications and hassles that will quickly frustrate most people who just want to use their computers, not maintain or tweak them.Before every passionate Linux fan attacks that conclusion, let me note that even the folks who make and sell Ubuntu agree with it. Mark Shuttleworth, the South African-born founder of the Ubuntu project, told me this week that "it would be reasonable to say that this is not ready for the mass market." And Dell's Web site for its Ubuntu computers warns that these machines are for "for advanced users and tech enthusiasts."Still, things have improved dramatically in the past decade. Mossberg's quibbles are relatively minor, and you get the impression Dell could have provided a better out-of-box experience. When a now-defunct UK magazine tried Linux in (I think) 1999, it sent copies to four journalists, none of whom could actually install it.....
As you may have seenover on the Technology Blog, several news sources as well as a couple of the hardware comparison sites (VGChartzfor example), are showing that Wii has now outsold Xbox 360. In less than a year.I'm not really that surprised. The combination of excitable hype from the mainstream press as well as overwhelmingly positive word-of-mouth has seen demand for the console far outstrip supply - you wonder what would have happened if Nintendo had manufactured twice or even four times as many units.Tech writers have been wallowing in the rise of Wii, seemingly happy to see the Sony hegemony threatened, and the old order of powerful graphics workhorses toppled in favour of cute family fun (yeah, yeah, I know about Resi 4, but don't even think about mentioning Red Steel). While Wii has indeed provided a much-needed whoosh of fresh air through the industry proving that innovation can rule over cutting edge visuals and media hub aspirations, the notion of a games market subjugated under Nintendo certainly doesn't put a wry smile onmyface.The brightest scenario is one in which all three console platforms prosper. But is that an impossible dream?
If you happen to be in London next Tuesday evening and are at a loss for what to do, the International Game Developers Association's London chapter are hosting a talk by game lawyersAlex ChapmanandVincent Scheurerabout, "Rules of the Game: Legal Issues in Game Development". Having just returned from the State of Play conference in Singapore, I can assure you that there's a lot more to this legal malarky than you might think. The legals have a lot to say about the content and the realisation of our interactive entertainment. You might even be able to press them on issues of personal privacy. More informationhere.
As Keith mentions below the games are back! Although with stuff like Bioshock, Forza and Overlord released recently this summer was far less barren than they used to be.Heavenly Swordis probably the biggest release, if only because it's the first game to give an indication of what the PS3 can do. The cut-scenes, story and acting are all top-notch - far better than the gaming norm - and it is generally lovely to look at. Sadly the game itself is more solid than spectacular and I got fairly bored fairly quickly, persevering only to find out what happens. But don't knock it for being "short" - it felt about right to me. Far too many games pad out the action or pander to a shrinking hardcore who demand 25-hour long epics. Heavenly Sword is worth getting if you have a PS3 - heck, what else you going to buy? - but it's the non-interactive elements, rather than the hack n' slash action, that really stands out.
You can tell it's Autumn - there are some actual new games in the shops. Hitting the highstreet this weekend are Midway's John Woo-supervised shooter, Stranglehold for Xbox 360, Ninja Theory's visually awe-inspiring PS3 battler Heavenly Sword and lovingly stylised adventure Super Paper Mario for Wii. All have reviewed reasonably well, although Strangehold has been called simplistic and repetitive, while Heavenly Sword is considered too brief by some reviewers (although youhaveto see the cut-scenes). Super Paper Mario, though, is pretty much unmissable for game-starved Wii-ers.Handheld gamers might want to check out Dungeons and Dragons Tactics on PSP or Heroes of Mana and Sonic Rush Adventure on DS.Any of those tempt you? If the CoD4 beta is still running I know whereI'llbe over the weekend.
An ICM survey for the HSBC bank reveals that UK users have 1.6 mobile phones each. There are, apparently, 70 million mobile SIM cards (phone numbers) and more than 71 million handsets among 45 million adults.Men have more mobiles than women, and marrieds have more phones than singles.Alison Leonard, from First Direct, says:the days when we kept just one handset are fast fading, as many of us have different phones for different purposes. With one phone for work, one for friends and potentially a personal organiser or BlackBerry as well, mobilemania has swept the nation.The bank seems surprised that "an extraordinary one in ten (9%) have more than four mobile numbers and handsets". I think it's cute that people actually know how many handsets they've got... or perhaps they're just forgetting about the old ones lost in the bottom of drawers.Hmm, 70 million lines at a guesstimated £20 a month comes to £16,800,000,000 a year.....
You may remember on Wednesday I posted about US retail chain GameStop, and its decision to make stores more approachable for casual gamers. I suggested similar initiatives for shops in this country, including calming down the presentation and creating a more relaxed atmophere.In case you missed this, the business section of the Guardian hasjust featureda story on HMV's first 'next generation' store in the West Midlands. According to the report:Out will go old-style promotions using posters and cardboard cut-outs, and crammed racks of DVDs, and in will come digital download hubs, sleeker shelves, gaming stations and smoothie bars.Maybe Game will be the next for re-invention. Elsewhere, there's agreat storyon the Dallas/Forthworh news site, WFAA.com about a GameStop store manager in Texas who refuses to sell games to children unless they show him their school grades card. If they're doing well in classes, they can have their copy of Madden 08. On the plus side he's promised to buy a game for every kid that comes in with proof of attaining straight As.The Victorian values do not extend merely to school performance - the manager, Brandon Scott, is a stickler for good manners too. As he explains, "They know when they come in here, they do not curse, they do not use the N-word, pull your clothes up..."Does he mean Nintendo?
Spotting malware Web sites is becoming increasingly difficult and there's a grey area between good and evil. In this entertaining Google Tech Talk,Searching For Evil, ProfessorRoss Andersonfrom the University of Cambridge challenges his audience -- and you -- to spot the scams.Some of the things that emerge are that "The top Google ad is about twice as likely as the top free search result to be malicious," and "Web sites that display trust certifications are twice as likely to be wicked". Also, take extra care when sites ask for payment by Western Union: "irrevocable payments seem to be almost always a dead giveaway," says Anderson.There are lots more Google Tech Talkshere.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google, the world's leading search engine, is calling on the United Nations to help protect the privacy of web surfers around the world before the internet faces a crisis of confidence.The dotcom company's privacy chief, Peter Fleischer, will address a conference in Strasbourg of the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) today and ask for governments and businesses to agree on international privacy standards.Mr Fleischer said the rise of the internet meant that vast amounts of information were being shipped around the globe, often to countries with no official data protection. Without a new set of rules to apply worldwide, surfers could lose confidence in the internet and hamper its development, he told the Guardian."Three quarters of the countries in the world have no privacy regimes at all and among those that do have laws, many of them were largely adopted before the rise of the internet," he said."It's said that every time you use a credit card, your details are passed through six different countries. We're talking about this to help set the framework for the internet of the future."Mr Fleischer will address the problem at the Unesco meeting, which is focused on the ethics of working in an information-based society. The danger of failing to address privacy on a worldwide basis, he is expected to say, is that the internet's progress will be undermined by the rise in online crimes."A lot of data is being outsourced from Europe and the US to India, for example, but India doesn't have any privacy regulation. Europeans and Americans want to know their privacy is protected, and Indians themselves, as they come online, will also want these protections."The company said it had already held discussions with some European privacy regulators, including those in Spain and France, and is encouraging either the United Nations or the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to take an active role in promoting global privacy standards.Mr Fleischer said Google's aim was to improve the benchmark of regulation around the world, rather than reduce the level of privacy law in highly regulated environments such as Europe. But, he added, western officials needed to recognise the increasing importance of the internet if they were to protect their citizens properly.Google has made several public moves with regard to its own privacy practices in recent months, including a reduction in the length of time that it keeps personal information on its customers. The shift comes as the web firm attempts to reconcile its mantra of "don't be evil" with its increasingly powerful business, and reposition itself as a champion of the ordinary internet user.But despite such moves, the Silicon Valley company, which was started in a garage only nine years ago, has not managed to escape criticism of its own practices. Earlier this year the campaign group Privacy International said Google was "hostile to privacy" thanks to the large stores of information it holds on its users.And just this week the company had a warning from Canadian privacy regulators over the street-level photography that it is adding to its popular mapping service.Google Street View, which is currently only available for some American cities, is created by taking a sequence of urban photographs and then creating a virtual street-level image. Some of the pictures have included identifiable individuals, and the service has been attacked over its potential to invade personal privacy.Canada's privacy commissioner, Jennifer Stoddart, said this week that she had written to Google over concerns that the system may be illegal in Canada. "I am concerned that, if the Street View application were deployed in Canada, it might not comply with our federal privacy legislation," she said in the letter.
He has spent his career challenging the establishment, even changing his name to try to get out of a recording contract. But Prince's latest argument has seen him take on a different entity altogether - the internet.The 49-year-old musician said yesterday he is considering legal action against a number of websites - including eBay and YouTube - which he says encourage piracy of his music and videos.He has asked for more than 2,000 illegally uploaded videos to be removed from YouTube, and is also considering action against eBay and Swedish piracy search engine The Pirate Bay."Very few artists have ever taken this kind of action over their rights," said a spokesman. "Yet Prince has shown time and time again he is ready to challenge the system in new ways to put artists and music first."The move is part of an anti-piracy campaign by Web Sheriff, which patrols the internet for breaches of copyright. The company says it hopes other major stars will join the movement.YouTube has said it will introduce "video fingerprinting" to try to cut down on the number of copyright-infringing films on its site.
Websites fighting for attention online could soon open a second front on your desktop. At least, that's what Adobe is hoping will happen with Air, the Adobe Integrated Runtime. I'm already using one of the first examples available in beta test form: an Air application codenamed San Dimas, written for eBay by Effective UI. San Dimas is, says Forrester Research, "ushering in a new era in rich internet applications".Websites value regular users, but the problem is, you might forget they are there. Worse, when you are offline, you can't get to them. If only they could put a mini application on your desktop, you'd be able to do some useful things while not connected, and the sites' brand image would always be in your face.Familiar toolsThat's what Air does: it enables websites to break out of the browser. These applets don't have the full power of a traditional desktop application, but Adobe reckons they are much quicker and easier to write. Also, web developers create them using the tools with which they are already familiar. These include both HTML (JavaScript, CSS, XML) and Adobe Flash (ActionScript, Flex, XML). The Flash support means Air can also run audio and video.Another advantage is that applets can be cross-platform. So far that means Windows and Mac OS X, but versions for Linux and mobile phones are expected: the aim is to make Air ubiquitous. Adobe's chief software architect Kevin Lynch says: "You can view a web page from any machine. We're trying to make that same promise come true for applications."Funnily enough, that's close to what Sun promised with its Java language and "virtual machine" in 1995. Despite a huge amount of hype, the number of website applets currently decorating users' desktops is pretty close to zero. If it didn't work before, so why should it work now?I put the point to Jeffrey Hammond, a senior analyst with Forrester Research in Boston, and co-author of a research note, Rich Internet Apps Move Beyond The Browser. Hammond's response: "For a large part of that decade, the Java widgets developers had to work with did not look or act like the native desktop, and the download sizes were large so Java apps took a while to start up. RIA technologies have the quick startup time of normal web apps because their download sizes are much smaller, and the eye candy [means they're] simply better looking."And, as with Sun and Java, you have to wonder where Adobe makes money from it. Pam Deziel, a product manager in Adobe's Platform Business Unit in San Francisco, says Air actually has two aims. One is to deliver applets, while the other is to "change the character of application development". The sort of people who develop interactive websites will now be able to create desktop apps using Air, without having to learn Microsoft's Visual Studio development system. (Meanwhile, Microsoft is targeting the same web developers with a new program called Expression, which creates code to import into Visual Studio.)Lynch says you can start developing for Air without buying any Adobe tools, but "as you become more sophisticated, you can buy Flex Builder, or whatever". In other words, ultimately Adobe has the same aim as Microsoft - to sell lots of high-priced software development tools.Otherwise, Lynch reckons Air doesn't really have any competition. "There isn't anything equivalent from Microsoft to do what Air does," he says. "Silverlight and Air are completely different: Silverlight runs in the browser, so Silverlight and Flash are more of a comparison." As forGears, which is Google's attempt to support web-based apps offline, "we see it as complementary to what Air does". Lynch says Adobe and Google are trying to work together, "but unfortunately we took completely different approaches to the API [application programming interfaces]".Forrester Research sees the different options as forming a spectrum from pure HTML through browser-based apps (Ajax) to player-based apps (Flash and Silverlight) to client-based apps (AIR, JavaFX). Hammond reckons "they can co-exist successfully" while competing with different technical architectures. It boils down to which you choose for a particular task.Hammond says: "I expect companies to use Ajax for maximum reach, Flash and Silverlight for maximum oomph, and Air to move the internet outside the browser's chrome entirely. We're going to see developers use all these technologies to create a lot of cool, innovative applications that push the boundaries of what the web can do."It sounds exciting, but it's not going to make everyone happy. Some of the Flash sites responsible for the worst excesses on the web, with their pointless animated graphics and ludicrously cumbersome user interfaces, will now try to perpetrate the same horrors on your desktop. They certainly aren't going to follow operating system conventions, because applets don't care which operating system they're running on.Web technologiesIndeed, the obvious trend towards using of web technologies and web-based applications such as ThinkFree, Gmail and Flickr is tending to make the choice of operating system seem less important. So will Air change the world? "Air won't be the only thing that changes the world," says Bola Rotibi, a principal analyst at the Ovum consultancy in London, "but if you look at Microsoft and Cisco, Google, Yahoo! and Amazon, Air is part of the same trend. They all recognise the usage patterns, and they are changing the way we see applications".&#183;With other journalists, Jack Schofield spent two days as a guest at Adobe facilities in California as part of Adobe's UK Developers Study Tour&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A diamond is forever, and will certainly outlast you. Many people think software is forever, too, but how long is that? In theory, if you buy a program to do a specific job, then it should do it forever, or at least until the hardware fails. More often, it's just the start of a long series of bug fixes and patches. Sometimes users want a new feature, so they buy a new version. Sometimes they buy new hardware, which comes with or requires new software. The users who really don't change anything risk getting left behind.Very few programs are ever "finished" in the sense that development stops. The programmers are always working to fix old problems and add new capabilities to encourage new sales and upgrades. Ultimately, this is how commercial programmers get paid, but even free/open source software is usually developed on a continuous basis. Old versions are therefore being abandoned on an equally regular basis.The fact that computing is in a continuous state of flux underlies many of the queries sent to Ask Jack. It used to be that someone had saved their life's work on a Canon Starwriter or BBC Micro and they wanted to move to a PC. After more than a decade of relative hardware stability, it's about rescuing data created with a program that is either obsolete or dead, such as Quicken 98.Data takes ages to produce, and while it may not last forever, we often want to keep it longer than any particular bit of software or hardware. Whether it's old email or a novel, years of accounting data or a database of family photos, it may be irreplaceable.If that's the case, you have to make sure that your data isn't locked up in an old file format. Remember Schofield's First Law: never put data into a program unless you know exactly how you're going to get it out.So why don't we move with the times? Well, we like what we know. Even after I bought Microsoft Word, I wrote hundreds of articles using a text-based PC DOS program called XyWrite, which had one main claim to fame: it worked just like the Atex word processing software then used on the Guardian's antique minicomputers. More recently, I used Word 2003 for weeks after upgrading the rest of Office to the latest version.If you have a job to do, you want to do it with tools you know so well that their use is transparent. And I'm by no means the worst. Plenty of companies pay for new versions of software but use "downgrade rights" to run old versions that are no longer on sale. Sometimes they want to put off having to upgrade hundreds or thousands of PCs. Sometimes they have developed complex interconnecting systems where bad design, bad programming or just bad luck means they require a specific version of a utility, and even a minor upgrade could bring the whole company to a halt.One possible solution is an old idea with a new abbreviation: SaaS, or "software as a service". That says: "Don't pay for software packages, just rent the use of a program that lives on a server." The SaaS approach isn't restricted to large corporations: web-based games and applications such as Hotmail work the same way.It certainly has advantages, because you're always using the latest version. But what if you have gigabytes of data online and the supplier goes bust, or is taken over by a rival that switches you to its own system? In theory, a SaaS provider can change the user interface every week, or whenever it likes. Once the software on the server has changed, you no longer have access to the old version. That's usually gone forever, in the literal meaning of the word.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For the past month or so, Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust has been dealing with a problem that should not have happened - all because a computer hard drive containing sensitive patient information from a trust hospital was sold on the auction site eBay.Losing disks loaded with confidential data is not a new thing; BT and Glamorgan University's forensics computing laboratory have been finding such hard drives every year as part of their annual survey designed to highlight the problem of people disposing of disks without destroying the data on them.Red facesWhat is unusual about this incident, which came to light in the latest survey, is that no-one knew that the computer was on the hospital network in the first place.Tracking down the origin of the disk, which contained data on cancer patients at the hospital, has led to an inquiry at the trust headquarters - and red faces, because the Dudley trust is a group of new hospitals operating under the Private Finance Initiative (PFI), all of whose computer assets are managed by Siemens Medical. It is understood that the computer that the disk came from was not part of the Siemens network.The trust says: "There is an ongoing investigation into this incident involving very senior people and we are looking at possible loopholes in the system. There is no record of this machine going through the systems that Siemens has in place for disposing of equipment. We cannot have something like this happening again." It added that the computer could have been stolen from the hospital.And Dudley is not alone. Once again BT and Glamorgan, which obtained 350 hard disks from around the world, have added more significant names to the corporate casualties which have found that the data so jealously guarded at the front door slips unnoticed out via the back."This is the third time we have done this," says Dr Andy Jones, head of security technology research at BT's  Security Research Centre. "What's clear is that despite the publicity, nothing much has changed. All organisations lose equipment, but if they contain sensitive data they should look to using something like encryption to make sure it's better protected."Marathon Oil, based in Texas, found out that two disks dealing with corporate data from its North Sea drilling operations were in this year's haul. "The policy at Marathon is that all disks are destroyed. We do not know how this got out there," says the company.Police investigationOf the 133 disks obtained in the UK, which were all analysed using techniques available to anyone, only 75 were working but the Glamorgan team found data on 62% of those - including company records, personal information, financial data and paedophile material which has resulted in a police investigation in Wales."The figures are slightly down on the years before," said Dr Andrew Blyth, principal lecturer at Glamorgan's School of Computing, "but we are still in a situation where over 50% of the disks contain sensitive corporate and personal data and a significant amount contained names, CVs, addresses and phone numbers. With some, the information was so detailed that they could have had their identities stolen."According to Jon Godfrey of Lifecycle Services, which ensures that disks are properly wiped, the Glamorgan study is only the tip of an iceberg."If you think about how much data is being stored up every day, and that that data keeps on increasing and that the size of the drives holding that data is also increasing, it is inevitable that something significant is going to slip. At the moment people are just relying on luck that their data does not fall into the wrong hands."Clear out your dataThe destruction of data about individuals by companies is a legal requirement in disposing of a computer. But just deleting a file or reformatting the drive does not remove the data; it removes the file entry from the index, marking the space as available for reuse, and the data can be restored. To prevent that, overwrite the data. Encrypting a disk is a good first measure: Windows XP and Vista, Mac OSX and Linux all offer this facility. Then get a disk-wiping program: there's a list including free ones and instructions athowtowipeyourdrive.com. Some erase the entire disk while others can select files or folders to erase. Ensure you erase free space.For really important data, destroy the disk with an electric drill or a nail. It's considered environmentally unsound and technologically inelegant - but might make you feel better.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
